How we engage with our stakeholders / Environmental continued

Biodiversity 
protection

Biodiversity protection is part of our 
long-term sustainability approach and 
policy. In accordance with our 
Biodiversity Standard and aligned with 
the ICMM’s position statement on Mining 
and Protected Areas, we seek to protect 
wildlife around our mining sites. We 
ensure a net zero loss of biodiversity by 
minimising our impact and mitigating and 
compensating for any potential negative 
effects. We operate in accordance with 
the mitigation hierarchy established by 
The Copper Mark.

Both Centinela and Los Pelambres monitor the marine 
environment near their port facilities, regularly analysing the 
water column, sediments and marine fauna. Los Pelambres 
supports R&D projects to repopulate the area near its marine 
facilities with sea urchins, abalones, red kingklip and other 
species. In addition, we periodically implement programmes 
to protect animal, bird and plant species. 

Centinela operates an initiative to safeguard the Gaviotín 
Chico, a species endemic to Chile and Peru and classified as 
endangered. Zaldívar is developing the Desierto Verde project 
to increase knowledge of species that might be adaptable to 
desert living conditions. 

Our Climate Change Strategy’s fourth pillar defines two 
priorities in relation to biodiversity: nature-based solutions for 
CO2 capture and to address adaptation to acute and chronic 
physical risks. Nature-based solutions seek to use nature’s 
own resources to address environmental challenges such as 
the protection and replanting of woodland and the restoration 
of wetlands.

In 2023, we began to implement the first stage of our 
biodiversity standard. Its primary objective is to provide the 
necessary guidelines for the proper management of 
biodiversity throughout the different phases of the mining 
cycle (exploration, projects, operations and closure) and in 
relation to transport.

68

Antofagasta plc  Annual Report 2023

Los Pelambres

27,440 
hectares

Los Pelambres protected area  
in the Coquimbo Region

6

times larger than the area  
used by the mine

4

nature sanctuaries
Laguna Conchalí

Monte Aranda

Quebrada Llau-Llau

Cerro Santa Inés

STRATEGIC REPORTAs part of our initial implementation efforts, we conducted a 
comprehensive site coverage analysis, along with spatial 
mapping to delineate operational zones and identify areas of 
high biodiversity value, along with their principal conservation 
attributes. To safeguard this vital biodiversity value, we are 
committed to specific courses of action, including ongoing 
monitoring, verification and reporting activities.

We focused on the analysis of a base line across the Group as a whole, 
in order to make the necessary adjustments and move forward in 
2024. We also continued to define our conceptual nature-based 
solution framework, in addition to identifying potential tests to be 
implemented in the short and medium term.

Only Los Pelambres has mining operations near nature sanctuaries. 
Laguna Conchalí and Quebrada Llau-Llau have specific management 
plans in place. The sustainable closure plan for the Los Quillayes 

1.  Phytostabilisation is the use of plant species that help to immobilise contaminants in soil, 
sediments and sludge; prevent and reduce the mobility and migration of contaminants 
through erosion; and reduce the bioavailability of metals.

tailings dam at Los Pelambres includes a process of phytostabilisation1 
through the planting of native trees and shrubs over an area of  
300 hectares. 

120 hectares are already planted with more than 20 native species, 
which are closely monitored to review their behaviour and survival. In 
2023, we planted 96,000 individual shrubs and native trees. The 
phytostabilisation process is a pioneering initiative in the large-scale 
mining industry in Chile. We plan to continue planting different species 
on the tailings wall during 2024.

In addition to our work on species and ecosystem protection, we 
conduct research and provide education. In northern Chile, we have 
worked on the educational potential of the Morro Moreno National Park 
near Mejillones, in a joint initiative with Universidad Católica del Norte 
(UCN) and the National Forest Corporation (CONAF). 

Antofagasta plc  Annual Report 2023

69

How we engage with our stakeholders / Governance

Governments  
and regulators

Mining is a long-term business in which 
timescales can run into decades. Political 
cycles are typically far shorter and material 
developments and changes to policy, 
legislation or regulations can have a major 
impact on our business.

View of our operations at Centinela.

Our operations, projects and exploration are mainly located in Chile, 
where we interact with both the central government and the 
governments of the Antofagasta and Coquimbo Regions, as well as 
with the municipalities that are part of our areas of direct influence.

The relationship with governments and regulators is subject to their 
strict engagement mechanisms, which in Chile are clearly defined 
under Lobby Law No. 20.730. This law seeks to regulate the activity of 
lobbying and other efforts to represent particular interests, in order to 
strengthen transparency and honesty. It applies to the officials of 
central and local administrations who regulate activities such as the 
issue, modification and repeal of administrative acts and laws, and the 
decisions of the authorities and officials.

Outside Chile, we comply with our own policies and with the laws and 
regulations of the host countries, at all times maintaining high 
standards of engagement.

Payments to governments
Antofagasta makes payments to governments relating to our activities 
involving the exploration, discovery, development and extraction of 
minerals, and our Transport division. These payments are primarily 
taxes paid to the Chilean government and mineral licence fees, which 
in 2023 totalled $538 million, of which over 99% was paid in Chile.

Chilean law allows political donations to be made subject to certain 
requirements, but Antofagasta made no political donations in 2023. 
However, we often contribute towards the financing of projects 
benefitting local communities, in alliance with local municipalities and 
the government. These contributions are regulated by specific laws 
and are reviewed by the Chilean Internal Revenue Service (SII).

Public-private alliances
Since mining is a long-term business, we seek to contribute to Chile’s 
development and prosperity, including through public-private alliances 
with local government. Examples include our active participation in a 
workshop jointly organised by the Mining Ministry and the Women and 
Gender Equality Ministry to encourage female participation in the 
mining industry, and our commitment to the Mining Cluster in northern 
Chile, a public-private alliance to promote local employment, 
technology and skills development.

70

Antofagasta plc  Annual Report 2023

Another example of our active participation in a public-private alliance 
is the Provincial Water Working Group, organised by the Coquimbo 
Region government to identify and implement collective solutions that 
can contribute to the area’s water security in the short, medium and 
long term.

Chilean constitutional reform process
In December 2023, Chileans voted to reject a proposed constitution, 
and as a result the country will now continue with the existing 
constitution, which has been in place for several decades.

Mining royalty
In May 2023, both the Chilean Senate and lower house of Congress 
approved the proposed revision to Chile’s mining royalty bill, with 
Presidential approval confirmed in August 2023. The terms include a 
1% ad valorem royalty on copper sales, and a royalty ranging from 8% 
to 26% on operating profits depending on each mining operation’s 
level of profitability, combined with a provision establishing that total 
taxation (including corporate income, the new royalty tax and tax on 
dividends) should not exceed 46.5% of profitability.

This new law came into effect at the beginning of 2024. Since 
Centinela and Antucoya have tax stability agreements, the new royalty 
rates will only apply from 2030. As a result of the approval of the new 
mining royalty, a one-off adjustment has been recognised to the 
deferred tax balances of the Group’s mining operations, resulting in an 
increase in the deferred tax liability balance of $34.3 million, with a 
corresponding deferred tax expense.

STRATEGIC REPORTShareholders

The Company is listed on the main 
market of the London Stock Exchange 
and is included in the FTSE100 and 
FTSE4Good indexes.

As explained on page 179 of the Directors’ Report, the controlling 
shareholder of the Company holds approximately 65% of the 
Company’s total capital. The majority of the Company’s ordinary 
shares not held by the controlling shareholder are held by institutional 
investors based in the UK, Continental Europe and North America.

We actively engage with the investment community as a key 
stakeholder in our business, including institutional investors, sell-side 
analysts and retail investors. As a modern business, engagement is 
conducted via a range of activities. At the Company’s Annual General 
Meeting, the Board of Directors can engage directly with shareholders. 
During financial roadshows related to the reporting of financial results, 
senior management conduct a series of face-to-face meetings and 
calls with investors and sell-side analysts. Investor engagement 

2023 Shareholder engagement calendar

Q1

Presentation of full-year 2022 results by the CEO, CFO and Vice 
President of Corporate Affairs and Sustainability (VPACS), 
followed by a question and answer session open to all investors, 
and a roadshow with investors in the UK and the US.

Publication of our Annual Report and Accounts and  
Sustainability Report.

Attendance at a mining-focused investor conference  
in North America by the CEO, CFO and VPACS.

Additional attendance at investor conferences in London.

Numerous direct engagement meetings (in person and virtual) 
with investors, prospective investors and sell-side analysts.

Q2 Annual General Meeting held in London. 

CEO presented at an industry conference for institutional 
investors.

Attendance of a mining-focused investor conference in Continental 
Europe, including the CEO, CFO and VPACS, with a presentation 
by the CEO to delegates.

Additional attendance by the CFO at an investor conference in 
Miami.

Q3 Virtual presentation of half-year 2023 results by the CEO, CFO 
and VPACS, followed by a question and answer session. 

Results roadshows hosted with investors and other stakeholders 
in London (CEO) and North America (CFO).

Roadshow hosted in London to discuss sustainability topics with 
our VPACS.

Publication of the Company’s latest standalone reports on Tax and 
Social Value Generation.

Q4 Corporate Governance roadshow with the Company’s Senior 

Independent Director (Francisca Castro).

Publication of Second Climate Change Report

The Investor relations team attended one investor conference  
in London

Centinela Second Concentrator announcement: Presentation 
hosted by the CEO and CFO.

activities are conducted principally in London, North America and 
Santiago, reflecting the Company’s shareholder base.

Engagement with shareholders is increasingly conducted via a more 
diverse and proactive range of channels, ranging from direct 
engagement through calls and meetings, to engagement via the 
Company’s suite of reporting, website and social media platforms. 

Through an active engagement programme, the Company’s 
management team can liaise directly with existing shareholders and 
broader engagement is conducted through industry conferences and 
other events that help to improve the profile of our business within the 
investor community. 

In addition, roadshows were held with the investment community on 
topics other than our financial results: our Vice President of Corporate 
Affairs and Sustainability hosted a series of meetings with investors 
and ratings agencies to discuss the Company’s recent progress on 
issues of sustainability. In line with previous years, the Board’s Senior 
Independent Director (SID), Francisca Castro, hosted a series of 
meetings with the Company’s largest shareholders to provide an 
update on corporate governance and to facilitate direct engagement 
between the Board of Directors and shareholders.

As a modern business, we understand the need for detailed 
engagement on a broad range of topics, ranging from financial results 
to sustainability topics and corporate governance. Our annual reporting 
suite includes standalone reports on sustainability, climate change, our 
tax contribution, and activities supporting local communities. These are 
available in both English (www.antofagasta.co.uk) and Spanish (www.
aminerals.cl), enabling a broad level engagement across our investor 
base and with other stakeholder groups.

What did investors focus on most in 2023?
•  Production levels and cash costs at each of our operations.
•  The construction and ramp-up of our Phase 1 Expansion at Los 

Pelambres, which includes a 400 l/s desalination plant and fourth 
concentrator line.

•  The Second Concentrator Project at Centinela.
•  The progress and potential impact of the planned revisions to the 
Chilean mining royalty and tax legislation, and proposals to amend 
the Chilean constitution.

•  The Company’s capital allocation framework and plans following the 
receipt of funds relating to our exit from the Reko Diq project in 
Pakistan.

•  Sustainability topics, including water availability and greenhouse gas 

emissions.

•  Our pipeline of growth projects, with a particular focus on the 

Company’s suite of exploration projects in Chile.

Antofagasta plc  Annual Report 2023

71

Customers

Successful management of our relationships 
with our customers contributes to our long-
term success

Most copper and molybdenum sales are made under annual contracts 
or longer-term framework agreements, with sales volumes agreed  
for the coming year. Gold and silver are contained in the copper 
concentrates and are therefore part of copper concentrates sales.

In the case of copper cathode transactions, a premium, or in some 
cases a discount, on the LME price is negotiated to reflect differences 
in quality, logistics and financing compared with the metal exchange’s 
standard copper contract specifications.

Most sales are to industrial customers who further process the 
copper into more value-added products – smelters, in the case of 
copper concentrate production, and copper fabricators and trading 
companies in the case of cathode production. We build long-term 
relationships with these key smelters and fabricators, while ensuring 
customer diversification. We also maintain relationships with trading 
companies that participate in shorter-term sales agreements, or in the 
spot market.

About 70% of our mining sales are under contracts of a year or longer 
and metals sales pricing is generally based on prevailing market prices. 

Structure of sales contracts
Typically, our sales contracts set out the annual volumes to be supplied 
and the main terms for the sale of each payable metal, with the pricing 
of the contained copper in line with LME prices. In the case of 
concentrates, a deduction is made from LME prices to reflect TC/RCs, 
the smelting and refining costs to process the concentrate into refined 
copper. These TC/RCs are typically determined annually, in line with 
market developments and the parties’ assessments of the copper 
concentrate market at the time of the negotiation of the terms.

Similarly, our molybdenum contracts are made under medium- and 
long-term framework agreements, with pricing usually based on Platts’ 
average prices for Technical Molybdenum Oxide, with a deduction to 
reflect the cost of converting molybdenum sulphide concentrate into 
molybdenum oxide.

Across the industry, neither copper producers nor consumers tend to 
make annual commitments for 100% of their respective sales or 
purchases, and normally retain a portion to be sold or purchased on 
the spot market during the year.

In line with industry practice, our sales agreements generally provide 
for provisional pricing at the time of shipment, with final pricing based 
on the average market price in the month in which settlement takes 
place.

For copper concentrates, the final price remains open until settlement 
occurs, on average four months from the shipment month. Settlement 
for the gold and silver contained in the copper concentrates occurs 
approximately one month after shipment. Copper cathode sales remain 
open for an average of one month from the month of shipment.

Settlement for copper in concentrate sales is later than for copper 
cathode sales, as copper in concentrate requires more processing to 
produce refined copper for sale. Molybdenum sales generally remain 
open for two or three months after the month of shipment.

Revenue by product and customer location

EUROPE

11%

NORTH  
AMERICA

7%

SOUTH  
AMERICA

8%

JAPAN

31%

REST OF  
ASIA PACIFIC

42%

Note: Percentages shown here in the chart and map above are rounded.

Copper

Molybdenum

Gold

Transport

Silver

81%

8%

6%

3%

1%

72

Antofagasta plc  Annual Report 2023

STRATEGIC REPORTNon-financial and sustainability 
information statement

At Antofagasta, we have been working to prepare for the 
implementation of the UK Corporate Governance Code, a set of 
principles of good corporate governance aimed at companies listed 
on the London Stock Exchange.

The Code is divided into five sections: 

•  Board Leadership and Company Purpose
•  Division of Responsibilities
•  Composition, Succession and Evaluation
•  Audit, Risk and Internal Control
•  Remuneration

The table below classifies non-financial information in this Strategic 
Report as required by the Non-Financial Reporting Directive. As 
indicated in this report, the effective application of these Policies and 
Standards underpins the Group’s management of the risks and 
opportunities associated with these matters.

Climate-related financial disclosures

•  Our TCFD disclosures can be found on page 62
•  Our Sustainability framework and governance can be found 

on page 151

•  Our Sustainability and Stakeholder Management Committee has 

Terms of Reference which have been approved by the Board and 
are reviewed annually

Relevant policies and 
standards

Content

Page

Occupational Health and 
Safety Strategy

Occupational Health 
and Safety Strategy

Special Corporate Health 
and Safety

Occupational health risk 
management

Regulation for 
Contractors and 
Subcontractors (RECCS)

Safety risk 
management

Performance

Sustainability

Local suppliers

Local partnerships

Supplier development

Respectful, diverse and 
inclusive work culture

Business integrity and 
compliance

Code of Ethics

Compliance 
management

Reporting 
requirement

Relevant policies and 
standards

Content

Sustainability

Value Chart

Letter from the Chair

Sustainability Policy

Letter from the CEO

ICMM Guidelines

Environmental matters

Environmental 
matters

Environmental 
Management Model

Climate change standard

Water management 
standard

Our approach to 
sustainability

How we engage 
with our stakeholders

Sustainability 
and Stakeholder 
Management 
Committee

Environmental 
management

Environmental 
compliance

Sustainable production

Biodiversity standard

Circular economy

Tailings policy

Global Industry Standard 
on Tailings Management

Biodiversity

Air quality

Climate change

Carbon footprint

Energy management

Water management

TCFD

Social and employee issues

Our people

People Strategy

Employee wellbeing

Social matters

Social Management 
Model

Engagement Standard

Management of 
Initiatives Standard

Building human capital

Labour relations

Social Management 
Model

Addressing social 
concerns

Flagship programmes

Impact measurement

Open social innovation

Culture and heritage

Local jobs

Engagement 
mechanisms

Page

8

11

32 

38 

151 

54 

54 

54

56

68

56

57

61

59

65

62

41

42

42

48 

49 

50

49

50

49

40

49

Reporting 
requirement

Health and 
Safety

Suppliers

Fatal Risk Standard 
(ERFT)

Occupational Health 
Standard (ESO)

Purchase and contracts 
guidelines

Direct award procedure

Material management 
policy

Anti-bribery and anti-corruption issues

Code of Ethics

Compliance Model

Anti-Corruption Model

Antitrust Protocol

Risk Management 
Framework

Principal risks

The mining lifecycle

2023 performance

Key Performance 
Indicators

Total economic 
contribution

Anti-
corruption and 
anti-bribery

Description of 
principal risks 
and impact on 
business 
activity

Description of 
the business 
model

Non-financial 
Key 
Performance 
Indicators

Diversity

Our people

45 

45 

79

47 

52

52

53

53

53

86 

86

86

74 

76

20

2

26 

32

41 

41

Diversity and Inclusion 
Strategy

Women in the workforce

Inclusive culture

Respect for human rights

Human Rights

Code of Ethics

Modern Slavery Act

86

Human Rights Policy

Antofagasta plc  Annual Report 2023

73

 
 
Risk management

Risk management framework

Effective risk management is an essential part of our culture and strategy.

The accurate and timely identification, assessment and management of principal risks give 
us a clear understanding of the actions required to achieve our objectives.

Key elements of integrated risk management 

We recognise that risks are inherent to our business 

Only through adequate risk management can internal stakeholders be 
supported in making key decisions and implementing our strategy. 

Exposure to risks must be consistent with our risk appetite 

The Board defines and regularly reviews the acceptable level of exposure 
to emerging and principal risks. Risks are aligned with our risk appetite, 
taking into consideration the balance between threats and opportunities. 

We are all responsible for managing risks 

Each business activity carries out risk evaluations, to ensure the sound 
identification, management, monitoring and reporting of risks that 
could impact the achievement of our goals. 

Risk is analysed using a consistent framework 

Our risk management methodology is applied to all of our operating 
companies, projects, exploration activities and support areas, so that 
we have a comprehensive view of the uncertainties that could affect 
the achievement of our strategic goals. The framework is based on 
ISO 31000 and COSO ERM.1 

•  Continuation of on-site risk reviews of selected risk areas whilst 

accompanied by senior management, increasing the Company’s risk 
maturity level.

•  Co-coordinated Contingency Committees in line with our risk 

management process.

•  Updated the Company’s risk appetite statement, including the sections 

relating to Environmental Management, Corruption and Political, Legal and 
Regulatory. The updated statement was approved by the Board in November, 
with the level of risk appetite for all risk areas remaining unchanged.
•  Reported monthly to both the Company’s Executive Committee and 
individual risk owners, in order to identify and manage any deviation 
from expected performance.

•  Updated the Business Continuity Plan for each operating company, 

with considerations made for any new challenges encountered during 
2023, and ensuring the incorporation of the lessons learned.

•  Continued monitoring of controls identified during the assessment of 
the impact of the conflict in Ukraine, with additional monitoring of the 
conflict in the Middle East. 

•  Participated in the review of the FQAR (Functional Quality Assurance 

Review) project.

We are committed to continuous improvement 

Lessons learned and best practices are incorporated into our 
procedures to protect and unlock value sustainably. 

•  Continued training of risk owners and main users. 
•  Updated and monitored critical controls and action plans.
•  Prepared new action plans to maintain risk exposure within 

Areas of focus and development during 2023 

Our main focus in 2023 was on the sociopolitical environment, 
monitoring conflicts in Europe and the Middle East, as well as the 
political situation in Chile. Following the rejection of the proposed draft 
constitution in December 2023, it is understood that the Government 
of Chile will not seek a third process to draft a revised Constitution, 
providing a greater degree of certainty in the short term.

The war in Ukraine has affected the sourcing of some of our strategic 
supplies, which remains a concern, although our risk analysis of the 
war allowed us to mitigate the impact of this factor on our business.

During the year, the Chilean mining royalty bill was approved; through 
continuous monitoring of this process, we have been sufficiently 
informed to be able to make strategic decisions.

In August, the “Ley de Delitos Económicos” (Economic Crimes Law) 
was published in Chile. This new legislation, which will come into force 
in September 2024, establishes a new legal regime applicable to natural 
persons (individuals) and another to legal entities (companies). Although 
we are confident that we have robust controls in place, we have reassessed 
and are updating our risk matrix in order to identify any improvement 
in our controls with a greater focus on the environmental areas whereby 
new offences have been included in the updated legislation. 

We have maintained our commitment to review and update our principal 
risks according to our risk methodology. The following represent 
a number of the actions that our Risk and Compliance Management 
Department undertook during 2023:

•  Defined the methodology for identifying and updating our emerging 
risks, which will assist with the continuous monitoring process.

acceptable limits.

•  Embedded timely and comprehensive risk analysis into each relevant 

decision-making process.

•  Shared best practices across our operating companies.

Governance 

The Board has overall responsibility for risk management and 
determines the nature and extent of the principal and emerging risks 
that we will accept to achieve our strategic objectives.

The Board receives a detailed analysis of each key matter in advance of 
Board meetings. This includes reports on our operating performance 
including health and safety, financial, environmental, legal and social 
matters; key developments in our exploration, project and business 
development activities; and information on the commodity markets, 
updates on talent management and analysis of financial investments.

The provision of this information allows for the early identification of 
potential issues and the assessment of any necessary preventive and 
mitigating actions.

The Audit and Risk Committee assists the Board by reviewing the 
effectiveness of the risk management process and monitoring principal 
and emerging risks, preventive and mitigation procedures, and action 
plans. The Chair of the Committee reports to the Board following each 
Committee meeting and, if necessary, the Board discusses the matters 
raised in more detail.

These processes allow the Board to effectively monitor Antofagasta’s major 
risks, any preventive and mitigating procedures, and to assess whether the 
level of actual risk exposure is consistent with the Company’s defined risk 
appetite. If a gap is identified, an action plan is prepared to fill it.

1.  The Committee of Sponsoring Organisations of the Treadway Commission Enterprise Risk Management framework.

74

Antofagasta plc  Annual Report 2023

STRATEGIC REPORTThe Risk and Compliance Management Department is responsible 
for the Company’s risk management systems. It implements the 
Company’s risk management policy, vision and purpose, to ensure 
there is a strong risk management culture at all levels of the 
organisation. 

The Risk and Compliance Management Department supports business 
areas in analysing their risks, identifying existing preventive and 
mitigating controls and defining further action plans. It maintains and 
regularly updates the Company’s risk register.

The General Manager, with the Risk and Compliance Management 
Department support, reports twice a year to the Audit and Risk 
Committee on the overall risk management process, with detailed 
updates on principal risks, mitigation activities and actions taken in 
each subsidiary of the Company.

The General Manager of each operation has overall responsibility for 
leading and supporting risk management. Risk owners within each 
operation have direct responsibility for the risk management processes 
and for regularly updating individual business risk registers, including 
relevant mitigation activities. The individual owners of the risks and 
controls at each business unit are identified, in order to provide 
effective and direct risk management. 

Each operation holds an annual workshop on risk, at which the 
business unit’s risks and mitigation activities are reviewed in detail and 
updated as necessary. Workshops are used to assess principal risks 
that may affect relationships with stakeholders, limit resources, 
interrupt operations and/or negatively affect potential future growth.

Mitigation techniques for significant strategic and business unit risks 
are reviewed quarterly by the Risk and Compliance Management 
Department.

We promote a consistent risk management process across our 
different business units, ensuring risk is considered at all levels of the 
organisation. Risk information flows from the business units to the 
centre and from the Board back to the business units. 

Risk Management Cycle 

Risk appetite is the expression of the acceptable exposure to 
uncertainties that the organisation is willing to assume in the pursuit 
of its objectives. Our risk management cycle has four stages, and 
is designed to identify, assess, manage and follow up our risks.

R i s k  Appetite

1. Identify

2. Assess

3. Treat

4. Follow Up

Our risk management structure 

Board of Directors 

•  Has overall responsibility for risk management and its alignment with Antofagasta’s strategy.
•  Approves the Risk Management Policy.
•  Defines risk appetite.
•  Reviews, challenges and monitors principal risks. 

Board Committees 

•  Support the Board in monitoring principal risks and exposure relative to our risk appetite.
•  Make recommendations to the Board on the risk management system.
•  Review the effectiveness and implementation of the risk management system. 

Executive Committee 

•  Assesses risks and their potential impact on the achievement of our strategic goals.
•  Promotes our risk management culture in each of the business areas.
•  Ensures there is transparent and satisfactory dialogue with stakeholders. 

Third line of defence 
The Internal Audit Department provides assurance on the risk management process, including the 
effectiveness of the performance of the first and second lines of defence.

Second line of defence 
The Risk and Compliance Management Department is accountable for monitoring our overall risk profile  
and risk management performance, registering risks and issuing alerts if any deviation is detected. 

First line of defence 
Each person is responsible for identifying, preventing and mitigating risks in their business area and escalating 
their concerns to the appropriate level if required. 

Antofagasta plc  Annual Report 2023

75

Risk management continued

Principal risks

We maintain a risk register through a robust assessment of the potential principal risks that 
could affect the Company’s performance. This register ensures that principal risks are identified 
in a thorough and systematic way and that agreed definitions of risk are used. 

Risk 
level

Change in 
risk level  
vs 2022

Appetite

Outlook

Risk appetite

Risk level

Risk management 

We are aware that not all risks can be eliminated and that exposure 
to some risk is necessary in the pursuit of our corporate objectives.

Mining is a long-term business and, as part of the principal risks 
update and evaluation process, we identify new or emerging risks 
which could impact the Company’s sustainability in the long run, even 
if there is only limited information available at the time of the 
evaluation.

Any identified new or emerging risks that could impact our long-term 
strategic objectives are included in the principal risk analysis and are 
reviewed and monitored periodically by the Board. As new information 
becomes available, based on research, expert analysis and internal 
investigations, suitable controls and action plans are defined and 
incorporated into the Company’s risk matrix. 

We identify, assess and manage the risks critical to the Company’s 
success. Overseeing such risks protects our business, people and 
reputation. The risk management process provides reasonable 
assurance that the relevant risks are recognised and monitored, 
allowing the Company to achieve its strategic objectives and create 
value.

Because risks are periodically re-evaluated, the risk map shown here 
represents the position and controls in place at a specific point in time, 
as well as showing the changes that have taken place since 2022.

Throughout the year, the Board carried out an assessment of the 
Company’s emerging and principal risks, which are set out on the 
following pages with related preventive and mitigation measures.

During 2023, the probability of the Health and Safety principal risk (3) 
was lowered from “Likely” to “Possible” following the decrease in the 
probability of occurrence of a fatal event in relation to the history of 
the last five years. The impact of the Strategic Resources principal risk 
(11) was reduced from “Severe” to “Significant” following the 
commissioning of the Los Pelambres desalination plant, which came 
into operation in 2023. The probability of the Political, Legal and 
Regulatory principal risk (7) was reduced from “Likely” to “Unlikely” 
following reduced uncertainty of the constitutional process, compared 
to last year. Furthermore, the impact of this risk was increased in 
2023 from “Moderate” to “Significant” following significant adverse 
effects that could result from decisions by administrative or judicial 
authorities due to the new “Ley de Delitos Económicos” (Economic 
Crimes Law).

Risk area

People

1. Talent management

2. Labour relations

Safety and sustainability

3. Health and safety

4. Environmental management

5. Climate change

6. Community relations 

7. Political, legal and regulatory 

8. Corruption 

Competitiveness

9. Operations

10. Tailings storage

11. Strategic resources

12. Cyber security

13. Liquidity

14. Commodity prices and 
exchange rate

Growth

15. Growth of mineral resource 
base and opportunities

16. Project development and 
execution

Innovation

17. Innovation and digitalisation

Transversal

18. External risks

Key

Low

Medium

High

Very high

Strategic pillars

Safety and Sustainability

People and culture

Competitiveness

Innovation

Growth

76

Antofagasta plc  Annual Report 2023

STRATEGIC REPORTLegend

Risk level 
 Low 
 Medium 
 High 
 Very high

Risk Heat Map

T
C
A
P
M

I

e
r
e
v
e
S

t
n
a
c
i
f
i
n
g
S

i

e
t
a
r
e
d
o
M

w
o
L

w
o

l

y
r
e
V

10

8

9

14

7

12

13

18

11

15

1

17

6

3

4

16

2

5

Movement since 
previous year

Very unlikely

Unlikely

Possible

PROBABILITY

Likely

Almost certain

The risk impact scale rating has five levels of Probability and Impact:

Probability

Level

Quantitative

Almost certain

Once a week

Qualitative

Happens often

Likely

Possible

Unlikely

Once a month or more

Could happen easily and has occurred under similar conditions

Once or twice a year

Could happen and has happened in similar conditions

Once or twice every 10 years

Has not happened yet, but could happen

Very unlikely

Once or twice every 50 years

Only in extreme circumstances

Impact

Level

Severe

Significant

Moderate

Low

Very low

EBITDA / Health and Safety / Environment / Communities / Legal / Reputation

•  Any incident with an impact of more than 50% of EBITDA.
•  Accident that causes multiple fatalities or permanent disabilities.

• 

Irreversible environmental damage or serious incident that impacts a community, with long-term effects.

•  Regulatory breaches which may lead to a revocation of operating permits or a financial impact exceeding 20% of EBITDA.
•  Severe impact on Company’s international reputation with long-term effects.

•  Any incident with an impact of between 20% and 50% of EBITDA.
•  Accident that causes a single fatality or permanent disability.
•  Reversible environmental damage or major incident affecting a community, with medium-term effects.
•  Regulatory breaches which may lead to a criminal conviction or a financial impact of more than 20% of EBITDA.
•  High impact on the Company’s national reputation with medium-term effects.

•  Any incident with an impact of between 10% and 20% of EBITDA.
•  Accident resulting in lost time.
•  Moderate environmental impact or small incident that affects a community, with short-term effects.
•  Regulatory breaches which may lead to criminal charges or a financial impact of between 0.05% and 3% of EBITDA.
•  Moderate adverse claims and in the national news for a medium-term period.

•  Any incident with an impact of between 5% and 10% of EBITDA.
•  Accident without lost time. 
•  Minor environmental or community impact.
•  Regulatory breaches that may result in a financial impact of less than 0.05% of EBITDA.
•  Moderate claims and in national news for a short-term period.

•  Any incident with an impact of less than 5% of EBITDA.
•  Minor occupational accident.
•  Very minor environmental or community impact, easily resolved.
•  Regulatory breaches that will not result in a financial penalty.
•  Claims that do not reach the formal media.

Antofagasta plc  Annual Report 2023

77

 
Risk management continued

Defining risk appetite is key in embedding the risk management system into our organisational 
culture. 

The Company’s risk appetite statement helps to align our strategy with the objectives of each 
business unit, clarifying which risk levels are, or are not, acceptable. It promotes consistent 
decision-making on risk, allied to the strategic focus and risk/reward balance approved by  
the Board.

The principal risks, together with related prevention and mitigation 
measures, have been presented to the Board and are grouped in line 
with our strategic pillars: People and Culture, Safety and Sustainability, 
Competitiveness, Growth and Innovation. These pillars are supported  
by our corporate governance structures. 

The principal risks are outlined in the risk heat map and table on 
the previous two pages, and in more detail below.

Description

Preventive and mitigation measures

Highlights

1. TALENT MANAGEMENT

Managing talent and 
maintaining a high-quality 
labour force in a fast-
changing technological  
and cultural environment 
is a key priority for us.  
Any failures could have  
a negative impact on the 
performance of our 
existing operations and 
prospects for growth.

We develop the talents of our employees through 
training and career development, invest in initiatives  
to widen the talent pool and are committed to our 
diversity and inclusion policy. 

Through these actions we aim to increase employee 
retention and add to the number of women, people with 
disabilities and employees with international experience 
in the workplace.

Our Employee Performance Management System  
is designed to attract and retain key employees by 
creating suitable and competitive reward and 
remuneration structures and providing personal 
development opportunities. We have a talent 
management system to identify and develop internal 
candidates for key management positions, as well as 
selecting suitable external candidates when 
appropriate.

2. LABOUR RELATIONS

Our highly-skilled workforce 
and experienced 
management team are 
critical to our current 
operations, implementing 
development projects and 
achieving long-term growth 
without major disruption.

We maintain good relations with our employees and 
unions, founded on trust, regular dialogue and good 
working conditions. We are committed to safety, 
non-discrimination, diversity and inclusion, and comply 
with Chile’s strict labour regulations. There are 
long-term labour agreements (usually three years) in 
place with all the unions at our operations, which helps 
ensure labour stability. We seek to identify and address 
any labour issues that may arise during the period 
covered by the labour agreements and to anticipate any 
potential issues in good time. Employees of our 
contractor companies are an important part of our 
workforce, and under Chilean law fulfil the same duties 
and are subject to the same responsibilities as our own 
employees. We treat contractors as strategic associates 
and build long-term, mutually beneficial relationships 
with them. We maintain constructive relationships with 
our employees and their unions through regular 
communication and consultation. Union representatives 
are regularly involved in discussions about the future  
of the workforce.

78

Antofagasta plc  Annual Report 2023

Risk appetite 

Risk level 

Outlook 

Difficulties in finding and retaining talent have 
become a challenge and a cross-cutting risk, which 
is increasing as companies adopt new technologies 
and growth strategies are affected by these new 
competencies, as is the case of Antofagasta.

Therefore, our strategic talent identification and 
management methodology is designed to identify the 
key competencies essential for ensuring the 
sustainability of our business. By identifying and 
developing people, we are empowered to fortify our 
workforce, ensuring they are well-equipped to meet 
and exceed our business goals.

Due to the “40 hours” approval, to understand the 
effect of the reduced working hours on the 
organisation, a pilot was launched to evaluate the 
effectiveness of tasks and processes, team 
experience, workload and work dynamics. Based on 
the lessons learned from the pilot, change 
management will be defined for the organisation.

This year, our Diversity and Inclusion Strategy has 
increased the proportion of our female employees to 
23.6%, 3.2 percentage points higher than in 2022.

Risk appetite 

Risk level 

Outlook 

Three-year labour agreements were successfully 
negotiated with a supervisor union at Centinela,  
a workers union at Zaldívar, two workers unions at 
Los Pelambres and two workers unions at 
Centinela, all of them in a climate of mutual respect. 
In the case of contractor companies, the settlement 
of collective bargaining agreements were also 
carried out within the expected agreements and 
without conflict or impact for the Antofagasta 
Minerals companies, except for a contractor 
company in Antucoya who held a brief strike but it 
had no impact on operational continuity. In 2023, 
the psychosocial risks survey was carried out in all 
the companies, which is a legal obligation and is 
applied by the Superintendency of Social Security 
of the Ministry of Health. In all companies the 
survey result was “low risk”, which corresponds to 
the best evaluation category of  
the survey.

STRATEGIC REPORT 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Description

Preventive and mitigation measures

Highlights

Risk appetite 

Risk level 

Outlook 

We had no fatalities during 2023. 

Our lagging indicators continue to fall and were 
below our targets for the year.

This year we began the implementation of the 
"Leadership Programme for Supervisors" with the 
objective of strengthening leadership 
competencies, emphasising the planning process 
and standardisation of critical tasks.

We developed more than 500 Planned Job Safety 
Analyses for our main high risk activities.

Based on our Occupational Health Strategy, we 
strengthened our medical surveillance programme 
with a rigorous follow-up of workers exposed to 
health risk agents and also implemented 
engineering projects to reduce the exposure of 
workers to these agents.

Risk appetite 

Risk level 

Outlook 

We have continued to strengthen the environmental 
management model, with a deployment plan that 
considers engagement, learning and recognition 
activities for prominent workers or groups within 
the organisation, highlighting the execution of 
three cycles of cross-visible leadership. They 
review the strategic environmental risk among 
operations and the learning cycles established after 
environmental operational events, in order to 
articulate preventive environmental management.

3. HEALTH AND SAFETY

Health and safety incidents 
could result in harm to our 
employees, contractors and 
local communities. Ensuring 
their safety and wellbeing is 
our ethical obligation, and 
one of our core values. 

A poor safety record or a 
serious accident could have 
a long-term impact on 
morale and on our 
reputation and productivity.

Our Safety and Occupational Health Strategy is based 
on four pillars: 

1.  Health and safety risk management: workers at all 

levels are trained to identify hazards and controls, so 
that all jobs are carried out safely.

2. Leadership: all employees and contractors are health 

and safety leaders and we demonstrate our 
commitment through each individual’s responsible 
behaviour.

3. Contractor management: our contractors are an 

integral part of our safety team and safety culture, 
which we work together to improve.

4. Reporting, research and learning from our accidents: 

we share good practices and learn from our 
mistakes.

The Strategy strives to achieve our four main goals: 
zero fatalities, zero occupational illnesses, the 
development of a resilient culture; and the automation 
of hazardous processes.

Leadership visibility and strong use of Job Safety 
Analysis and Yo Digo No (I Say No) tools are part of 
our safety performance.

Critical controls and verification tools are constantly 
strengthened through the verification programme and 
regular audits of critical controls for potential high-risk 
activities.

4. ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT

An operating incident that 
impacts the environment 
could affect our relationship 
with local stakeholders and 
our reputation, reducing the 
social value we generate. 
We operate in challenging 
environments, including the 
largely agricultural Choapa 
Valley and the Atacama 
Desert, where water 
scarcity is a key issue. 
Environmental issues 
directly related to climate 
change are considered 
under our specific Climate 
Change principal risk.

We have a comprehensive approach to incident 
prevention, aligned with the environmental 
management model applied by our operations and 
projects in progress. Risks are assessed, monitored 
and controlled to achieve our goal of zero events with 
significant environmental impact. We work to raise 
awareness in our employees and contractors by 
providing training to promote operating excellence 
related to the environment in which we operate.  
The potential environmental impact of a project is a 
key consideration when assessing its viability, and we 
encourage the integration of innovative technology  
in the project design to mitigate such impacts.

We prioritise the efficient use of natural resources  
by using sea water, favouring the use of renewable 
power, and achieving higher rates of reuse and 
recovery of water by using thickened tailings 
technology. 

We recognise that environmental performance is key 
to our ability to generate social value and we perform 
regular risk assessments to identify our potential 
impact and develop preventive and mitigating 
strategies. 

Each site regularly updates their environmental 
emergency preparedness and detailed closure plans, 
complying with current legislation and applicable 
international guidelines. In the event of an 
environmental operational event, all appropriate 
control, containment or corrective measures shall  
be taken immediately.

Antofagasta plc  Annual Report 2023

79

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Risk management continued

Description

Preventive and mitigation measures

Highlights

5. CLIMATE CHANGE

The effects of climate 
change have had an 
increasing impact on our 
operations. The drought in 
central Chile is affecting 
water availability at Los 
Pelambres, while higher 
than expected rainfall in the 
northern part of the country 
is impacting the 
infrastructure in the region. 
In addition, the increasing 
severity of sea swells leads 
to delays in the delivery of 
key supply materials and 
the export of our 
concentrates and cathodes.

The Chilean government’s 
increased climate ambitions 
may result in higher 
requirements for 
compliance and operating 
costs.

We are committed to 
contributing to the reduction 
of greenhouse gas 
emissions and water 
scarcity. We do this by 
increasing the amount of 
power and water we obtain 
from renewable and 
sustainable sources.

We recognise that climate change is a threat to human 
life and the planet as we know it today.

We measure and report our Scope 1, 2 and 3 
greenhouse gas emissions and have committed to 
realistic reduction targets through a cost-effective 
decarbonisation roadmap. We continue to seek ways to 
decarbonise our operations and this requires greater 
investment in innovative solutions, including developing 
low-carbon technology, which can increase operating 
costs.

Recognising water scarcity, we are reducing our 
dependence on continental water through more 
efficient water use and the increased use of sea water 
as a proportion of our total water consumption. As 
each phase of the Los Pelambres desalination plant 
construction is completed, the proportion of continental 
water used will decrease, particularly after Phase 2 of 
the project, significantly lowering the potential impact of 
water scarcity on the Group while freeing up water for 
local communities.

We constantly seek to identify risks associated with 
climate change and to implement actions to adapt to 
and mitigate their potential impact, such as increasing 
our stocks of strategic resources. For each risk 
evaluated as “High” or “Extreme” we produce specific 
action plans and strategies.

As part of our regular communication with local 
stakeholders, we discuss the material risks and our 
controls, action plans and related strategies.

6. COMMUNITY RELATIONS

Failure to identify and 
manage local concerns and 
expectations could 
negatively impact the 
Company. Relations with 
local communities and 
stakeholders affect our 
reputation and impede our 
ability to grow and generate 
social value.

We have a dedicated team that establishes and 
maintains relations with local communities. These 
relationships are based on trust and mutual benefit 
throughout the mining lifecycle, from exploration to final 
remediation on closure. We seek to anticipate any 
potentially negative operating impacts and minimise 
these through responsible behaviour. This means 
acting transparently and ethically, prioritising the health 
and safety of our employees and contractors, avoiding 
environmental incidents, promoting dialogue, complying 
with our commitments to stakeholders and establishing 
mechanisms to prevent or address a crisis. These 
steps are undertaken in the early stages of each project 
and continue throughout the life of each operation.

We contribute to the development of communities in 
the areas in which we operate, starting with an 
assessment, undertaken together with the 
communities, of the existing situation and their specific 
needs, while looking to develop long-term, sustainable 
relations and evaluating the impact of our 
contributions. We also focus on developing the 
potential of members of local communities through 
education, training and employment.

We work to communicate clearly and transparently 
with local communities in line with our Community 
Relations Plan. This includes a grievance management 
process, local perception surveys, and local media and 
community engagement.

80

Antofagasta plc  Annual Report 2023

Risk appetite 

Risk level 

Outlook 

Our Climate Change Strategy seeks to strengthen 
our capacity to adapt to and mitigate climate 
change. This enables us to take early action to 
manage the resulting risks and opportunities in 
such a way as to mitigate the effects of climate 
change and adapt to new scenarios.

Since April 2022, all our power supply contracts for 
our mining operations are from renewable sources. 
This allowed us to meet the target early of reducing 
Scope 1 and 2 emissions by 30% by 2025 
compared with 2020, equivalent to 730,000 tCO2e.
We also have an ambition of achieving carbon 
neutrality by 2050, or sooner if technology permits. 

In 2023, we established new targets: reducing 
Scope 1 and 2 emissions by 50% by 2035 
compared with 2020, and engaging with the 
industry to achieve a 10% reduction in Scope 3 
emissions by 2030.

Risk appetite 

Risk level 

Outlook 

We reinforced community programmes related to 
water for human consumption and irrigation to 
mitigate the impact of the drought in the Province 
of Choapa. We seek to stimulate the generation of 
economic, social and human capital in the regions 
where we operate by promoting local employment, 
fostering local suppliers and offering education and 
training opportunities. We run various programmes 
to support local entrepreneurs and micro and small 
businesses. We have launched a community 
grievance mechanism management system to 
report any issues caused by our operations on 
neighbouring communities. Concerns can be made 
confidentially and are tracked to monitor their 
progress. We made progress in measuring the 
impact of our social programmes deployed in the 
territory. With the measurements carried out, we 
have addressed the most relevant projects and 
programmes of all the Group's companies, which 
has allowed us to develop improvement plans 
aimed at optimising the performance of the 
initiatives and the social value of our operations  
in the territory.

STRATEGIC REPORT 
 
 
 
Description

Preventive and mitigation measures

Highlights

7. POLITICAL, LEGAL AND REGULATORY

Political instability could 
affect our operations, 
projects and exploration 
activities in the countries in 
which we operate. Issues 
regarding the granting of 
permits, or amendments to 
permits already granted, 
and changes to the legal 
environment or regulations, 
could also adversely affect 
our operations and 
development projects.

We constantly monitor political, legal and regulatory 
developments affecting our operations and projects. 

We comply fully with existing laws, regulations, 
licences, permits and rights in each of the countries  
in which we operate.

We assess political risk as part of our evaluation of 
potential projects, including the nature of any foreign 
investment agreements.

We monitor proposed changes in government policies 
and regulations, particularly in Chile, and belong to 
several associations that engage with governments  
on these matters. This helps to improve our internal 
processes and means that we are prepared to meet 
any new regulatory requirements.

8. CORRUPTION

Our operations or projects 
around the world could be 
affected by risks related to 
corruption or bribery, 
including operating 
disruptions or delays 
resulting from a refusal to 
make “facilitation 
payments”. The level of 
such risks depends, in part, 
on the economic or political 
stability of the country in 
which we are operating.

We have zero tolerance for any activity that would 
contravene anti-bribery and corruption legislation.  
We maintain a robust governance regime, open 
channels of communication, Group-wide training 
programmes, and multiple layers of controls at all our 
operations, projects and exploration activities, as well 
as in our third-party relationships using enhanced due 
diligence procedures. 

A strong, appropriate culture is one of the key aspects 
of the Group’s strategic framework. This is 
emphasised by messaging from the Board downwards 
that inappropriate, corrupt, illegal or unethical 
behaviour is totally unacceptable. The Group’s Code 
of Ethics sets out the Group’s commitment to 
conducting business in a responsible and sustainable 
manner. The Code requires honesty, integrity and 
accountability from all employees and contractors.  
Our Compliance Model is set to prevent actions which 
may involve us directly or indirectly in any potential 
irregularities (including any kind of bribery), detect 
possible risks in a timely fashion and respond to any 
misconduct in an adequate manner. Internal policies, 
procedures and controls have been implemented 
to prevent corruption. 

An anonymous whistleblowing hotline is available 
to employees and external parties to report 
compliance-related concerns, which are investigated 
and followed-up by an expert team and reviewed 
by a senior management Ethics Committee.

Risk appetite 

Risk level 

Outlook 

We see a lower degree of political uncertainty in 
Chile. After the rejection of the new constitution 
draft proposed last December, the current 
constitution will remain in force. Government has 
announced that it will not pursue new constitutional 
reform within its term.

During 2023, the new Chilean mining royalty bill 
was enacted, providing certainty on the new royalty 
tax framework. Companies without tax stability 
agreements start their new royalty payments 
during 2024. Those payments will increase the 
Group’s consolidated effective tax rate by c.5 
percentage points.

In August, a new “Ley de Delitos Económicos” 
(Economic Crimes Law) was enacted in Chile. This 
new law establishes a new legal regime applicable 
to individuals and legal entities (companies); 
however, changes applicable to legal entities will 
come into force in September 2024. Although we 
are confident that we have robust controls in place 
we have reassessed and are updating our risk 
matrix, in order to identify any improvement we 
can make in our controls, with the main focus 
being on new environmental crimes.

The Group continues supporting some Chilean 
industry associations, particularly the Consejo 
Minero (Mining Council) and SONAMI in its 
representation of the mining industry and its 
responses to proposed new regulations. 

Risk appetite 

Risk level 

Outlook 

The Group’s Compliance Model applies to both 
employees and contractors. It is clearly defined and 
is communicated regularly through internal 
channels, as well as being available on the Group’s 
website. New employees are trained in the 
Compliance Model as part of their induction 
programme. The Group’s Crime Prevention Model 
ensures compliance with anti-bribery and 
anti-corruption laws in the United Kingdom and 
Chile and is certified by an external entity. In 
August, a new "Ley de Delitos Económicos" 
(Economic Crimes Law) was enacted and will 
come into force in September 2024. Although we 
are confident that we have effective controls in 
place, we have reassessed our risk matrix and the 
Compliance Model and they are being updated 
considering the new risk matrix.

Antofagasta plc  Annual Report 2023

81

 
 
 
 
 
 
Risk management continued

Description

Preventive and mitigation measures

Highlights

9. OPERATIONS

Our operations are subject 
to a number of 
circumstances not wholly 
within our control. These 
include damage to or 
breakdown of equipment 
or infrastructure, 
unexpected geological 
variations, or technical 
issues, any of which could 
adversely affect production 
and/or costs.

10. TAILINGS STORAGE

Ensuring the stability of our 
tailings storage facilities 
(TSFs) during their entire 
lifecycle is central to how 
we operate. A failure or 
collapse of any of our TSFs 
could result in fatalities, 
damage to the environment, 
regulatory violations, 
reputational damage and 
disruption of the quality of 
life of neighbouring 
communities, as well as the 
running of our operations.

Principal risks relating to each operation are identified as 
part of the regular risk review processes they undertake. 
This process also identifies mitigation measures for such 
risks. Monthly reports to the Board provide variance 
analysis of operating and financial performance, allowing 
potential issues to be identified in good time and any 
necessary monitoring or control activities to be 
implemented to prevent unplanned downtime. Our focus is 
on maximising the availability of equipment and 
infrastructure and ensuring the effective use of our assets 
in line with their design capability and technical limits. We 
keep the variation of processes within defined tolerance 
limits, and we have Business Continuity and Disaster 
Recovery Plans for all key processes within our operations 
to mitigate the consequences of a crisis or natural disaster. 
We also have property damage and business interruption 
insurance to provide protection from some, although not 
all, of the costs that may arise from such events.

We manage our TSFs to allow the effectiveness of their 
design, operation and closure to be monitored at the 
highest level of the Company. All our TSFs are built using 
the downstream construction method and are designed 
to withstand earthquakes and extreme weather.

Catastrophic failures of TSFs are unacceptable. Their 
potential for failure is evaluated and addressed 
throughout the life of each facility. Our TSFs are 
constantly monitored, and all relevant information is 
provided to the authorities, regulating bodies and the 
communities that could be affected. We manage our TSFs 
using data, modelling, and construction and operating 
methods validated and recorded by qualified technical 
teams and reviewed by independent international experts, 
whose recommendations we implement to strengthen the 
control environment. Risk management includes timely 
risk identification, control definition and verification. Our 
controls are based on the consequences of the potential 
failure of the tailings facilities.

11. STRATEGIC RESOURCES

Disruption or restriction  
of the supply of any of our 
key strategic inputs, such 
as electricity, water, fuel, 
sulphuric acid or mining 
equipment, could 
negatively impact 
production. 

In the longer term, 
restrictions to the 
availability of key strategic 
resources, such as water 
and electricity could also 
affect our growth 
opportunities.

Contingency plans are in place to address any short-term 
disruptions to strategic resources and maintain our 
security of supply. We negotiate early with suppliers of 
key inputs to ensure continuity. Certain key supplies are 
purchased from several sources to mitigate potential 
disruption arising from exposure to a single supplier.

To achieve cost competitiveness, we endeavour to buy 
the highest possible proportion of our key inputs, such as 
fuel and tyres, on as variable a price basis as possible and 
to link costs to underlying commodity indices where this 
option exists.

We maintain a rigorous, risk-based supplier management 
framework to ensure that we engage solely with 
reputable product and service providers, keeping in place 
the controls necessary to ensure the traceability of all 
supplies (including the avoidance of any conduct related 
to modern slavery).

We are committed to incorporating sustainable 
technological and innovative solutions, such as the use of 
sea water and renewable power when economically 
viable, to mitigate exposure to potentially scarce 
resources.

82

Antofagasta plc  Annual Report 2023

Risk appetite 

Risk level 

Outlook 

Lessons learned from previous cases of community 
concern have improved the resilience of our 
operations and minimised the impact of incidents this 
year. Many years of drought at Los Pelambres has 
reduced production in recent years. This climate 
change impact is being mitigated with the 
desalination plant in Los Pelambres, which came into 
operation with its commissioning during 2023. The 
fourth concentrator line at Los Pelambres is 
successfully completing its commissioning phase, 
with an additional two million tonnes of ore 
processed as of the end of the year. 

Risk appetite 

Risk level 

Outlook 

The Global Industry Standard on Tailings 
Management (GISTM) was published in 2020. We 
are implementing this standard at all our 
operations. Our El Mauro and Centinela TSFs are 
in compliance with this standard (based on 
self-assessment) since August 2023. Our 2021 
tailings policy sets out the guiding principles for 
the management of our TSFs and any potential or 
actual impact on the environment, using sound 
governance and open communication with 
stakeholders. In accordance with this standard, we 
continue to update our risk assessment methods, 
focusing on more detailed risk identification, 
failure modes and controls, in order to avoid 
catastrophic failures.

Risk appetite 

Risk level 

Outlook 

The war in Ukraine is an issue that currently has 
no material impact on the supply of our key inputs, 
however, it is something that must continue to be 
monitored.

Thanks to our stock policy and that of our suppliers, 
the impact of the issues in the navigation channels 
(“Canal de Panamá” and “Canal de Suez”) was 
prevented or mitigated, resulting in almost no impact.

The exposure related to water scarcity at Los 
Pelambres due to the drought is being mitigated with 
the desalination plant that came into operation with 
its commissioning during 2023.

We worked closely with the Vigilance Board for the 
Choapa River to establish a water redistribution 
agreement that is now awaiting approval by the 
General Directorate of Water of the Ministry of Public 
Works. Our joint approach has focused on avoiding 
disputes and conflicts around this vital resource.

Minera Zaldívar submitted an EIA application that 
includes a plan to change the mine’s water source 
from the local aquifer to either sea water or water 
provided by third parties by 2028.

STRATEGIC REPORT 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Description

Preventive and mitigation measures

Highlights

Our Information Security Management Model provides 
defensive structural controls to prevent cyber risks and 
mitigate their effects. It employs a set of rules and 
procedures, including a Disaster Recovery Plan, to 
restore critical IT functions in the event of an attack. 

Our systems are regularly audited to identify any 
potential weaknesses or threats to our assets, and 
specific systems are in place to protect them and our 
data.

Risk appetite 

Risk level 

Outlook 

We have further strengthened our protective 
controls and regularly communicate with users to 
prevent cyber attacks. 

To reinforce our controls we organised “ethical 
phishing” and “ethical hacking” exercises during 
the year. A cyber security e-learning was launched 
for all employees, and some prevention activities 
were also implemented in operating companies.

12. CYBER SECURITY

Breaches in, or failures of, 
our information security 
management could 
adversely impact our 
business activities. 
Malicious interventions 
(hacking) of our information 
or operations’ networks 
could affect our reputation 
and/or operational 
continuity.

13. LIQUIDITY

Restrictions in financing 
sources available for future 
growth could prevent us 
from taking advantage of 
growth or other 
opportunities in the market.

Security, liquidity and return are the order of priorities 
for our treasury investment strategy. We maintain a 
strong and flexible balance sheet, consistently returning 
capital to shareholders while leaving sufficient funds to 
progress our short-, medium- and long-term growth 
plans. This gives us the financial flexibility to take 
advantage of opportunities as they may arise.

We have a risk-averse investment strategy, managing 
our liquidity by maintaining adequate cash reserves and 
a revolving credit facilities through the periodic review 
of forecast and actual cash flows. We choose to hold 
surplus cash in demand or term deposits or highly 
liquid investments.

14. COMMODITY PRICES AND EXCHANGE RATES

Our results are heavily 
dependent on commodity 
prices – principally those of 
copper and, to a lesser 
extent, gold and 
molybdenum. The prices of 
these commodities are 
influenced by many external 
factors, including world 
economic growth, inventory 
balances, industry supply 
and demand, possible 
substitution, etc. Our sales 
are mainly denominated in 
US dollars, although some 
of our operating costs are 
in Chilean pesos, and any 
strengthening of the Chilean 
peso may negatively affect 
our financial results.

We consider exposure to commodity price fluctuations 
an integral part of our business and our usual policy is 
to sell our products at prevailing market prices. We 
monitor commodity markets closely to determine the 
effect of price fluctuations on earnings, capital 
expenditure and cash flows. Very occasionally, when 
we feel it is appropriate, we use derivative instruments 
to manage our exposure to commodity price 
fluctuations. 

We run our business plans under various commodity 
price scenarios and develop contingency plans as 
required. As copper exports account for near 50% of 
Chile’s exports, there is a strong correlation between 
the copper price and the US dollar/Chilean peso 
exchange rate. This natural hedge partly mitigates our 
foreign exchange exposure. However, we monitor the 
foreign exchange markets and the macroeconomic 
variables that affect them and occasionally implement a 
focused currency-hedging programme to reduce short-
term exposure to fluctuations in the US dollar against 
the Chilean peso.

Risk appetite 

Risk level 

Outlook 

We maintained our solid balance sheet and 
financing ratios, safeguarding our capability to raise 
debt. 

We have focused on diversifying our sources of 
funding, retaining a high level of interest from 
financial institutions offering to provide finance on 
competitive terms. 

During 2023, we executed debt transactions and 
included new lenders, diversifying the sources and 
term of our debt financing.

Risk appetite 

Risk level 

Outlook 

The divergence in the management of monetary 
policies between Chile and the US during the year, 
as well as the expectation of interest rate 
differentials between the two countries, often 
outweighed the typical correlation between the 
copper price and the US dollar/Chilean peso 
exchange rate. 

No new hedging positions were entered into during 
2023. 

Antofagasta plc  Annual Report 2023

83

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Risk management continued

Description

Preventive and mitigation measures

Highlights

15. GROWTH OF MINERAL RESOURCE BASE AND OPPORTUNITIES

Risk appetite 

Risk level 

Outlook 

Our exploration activities continued to be focused 
on the Americas and our risk exposure level was 
unchanged. During 2023, three new exploration 
joint ventures with companies with interests 
in Peru were signed. 

The Company announced in December 2023 that, 
through a wholly owned subsidiary, it had entered 
into transactions in the secondary market to 
acquire beneficial ownership of approximately 19% 
of the outstanding shares of Compañía de Minas 
Buenaventura S.A.A. (“Buenaventura”). 
Buenaventura is Peru’s largest, publicly traded 
precious and base metals company and a major 
holder of mining rights in Peru.

Twin Metals’ exploration plan obtained all 
necessary state approvals in October 2023. 
The goal of this exploration activity is to better 
understand our mineral resources and our 
potential to contribute critical minerals to support 
the transition to a clean energy future. For further 
information on Twin Metals, please see page 101 
of this report.

Risk appetite 

Risk level 

Outlook 

Our projects are developed in accordance with 
the practices set out in our Asset Delivery 
System (ADS), including the Functional Quality 
Assurance Review (FQAR), and are reviewed by 
external experts.

Project risks are proactively managed and 
frequently evaluated to minimise their impact on 
costs. 

Project estimates include a contingency provision, 
calculated using a probability-based method that 
considers the systemic and specific risks of each 
project.

The risks associated with converting mineral 
resources to reserves are properly identified and 
managed by the teams to ensure accurate 
conversion.

Our exploration and investment strategy prioritises 
exploration and investment in the Americas. To reduce 
our risk exposure, we focus on growth opportunities 
in stable and secure countries. 

Our rigorous assessment processes evaluate and 
determine the risks associated with all potential 
business acquisitions and exploration opportunities, 
including stress-test scenarios conducted for sensitivity 
analysis. Each assessment includes a country risk 
analysis (including corruption) and analysis of our 
ability to operate in a new jurisdiction. 

At the very least, all joint ventures must operate in line 
with, or to the equivalent level of, our policies and 
technical standards. 

Our Business Development Committee reviews 
potential opportunities and transactions, approving or 
recommending them within authority levels set by the 
Board.

We need to identify new 
mineral resources to 
ensure continued future 
growth. We do this through 
exploration and acquisition.
We may fail to identify 
attractive acquisition 
opportunities or select 
inappropriate targets. The 
long-term commodity price 
forecast, and other 
assumptions used when 
assessing potential projects 
and other investment 
opportunities, will influence 
the forecast return of 
investments. Incorrect 
estimates could cause poor 
decision-making. Regarding 
exploration, there is a risk 
that we may not identify 
sufficient viable mineral 
resources.

16. PROJECT DEVELOPMENT AND EXECUTION

Failure to effectively 
manage our development 
projects or transform our 
resources into reserves 
could result in delays to the 
start of production and cost 
overruns. 

Delays on information 
capture and/or not 
achieving required enablers 
could limit the conversion of 
resources into reserves.

We have a project management system to ensure that 
best practices are applied at each phase of a project’s 
development. The project management system 
provides a common language and standards to support 
the decision-making process by balancing risk with the 
benefits of growth. In addition, all geometallurgical 
models are reviewed by independent experts.

During the project development lifecycle, quality checks 
for each of the standards applied are carried out by a 
panel of experts from within the Company. This panel 
reviews each completed feasibility study to assess the 
technical and commercial viability of the project. It also 
assesses how the project can be developed safely and 
considers any relevant risks or opportunities that could 
potentially impact the schedule, cost or future 
performance of the project.

Detailed progress reports on current projects are 
regularly reviewed and include assessments of 
progress against key project milestones and 
performance against budget.

Project robustness is stress-tested under a range of 
copper price scenarios. Joint project/operation teams 
are established early in a project’s development to 
ensure a smooth transition into the operating phase 
once construction is completed.

All new reserves and growth projects must comply 
with our internal procedures and all applicable 
environmental and social laws and regulations.

84

Antofagasta plc  Annual Report 2023

STRATEGIC REPORT 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Description

Preventive and mitigation measures

Highlights

17. INNOVATION AND DIGITALISATION

Our ability to deliver on our 
strategy and our 
performance targets may 
be undermined by missed 
opportunities or delays in 
adopting new technologies 
or innovations.

We seek value-capturing innovations that realise cost 
savings and/or improve the efficiency, reliability and 
safety of our processes while supporting our corporate 
strategic pillars. We evaluate the potential of all ideas 
using our stage-gate approval process and Innovation 
Board. 

We maintain partnerships with academic institutions 
and companies specialising in technology and 
engineering – including peers, when there is no 
competitive barrier – to maximise the potential for 
improvements in our processes and systems. A 
dedicated team monitors, identifies and analyses 
external innovation trends that have potential 
applications in our business, including those in 
non-operational areas such as product sales and 
purchasing. The team also maintains and manages a 
portfolio of ongoing innovation projects. 

We have a recognition and incentives programme to 
encourage all staff to suggest innovative improvements 
to our day-to-day operating systems. We also dedicate 
resources to evaluating and implementing innovations 
which have the potential to positively impact our 
business and growth options.

18. EXTERNAL RISKS

We must develop the ability 
to manage external threats 
that are complex to predict 
and can significantly impact 
the Group’s strategic 
objectives and its 
operational continuity.

Changes in the global or Chilean economic or political 
environment can impact the Group’s strategy.

We maintain good practices and adopt lessons learned 
during periods of crisis.

We recognise the volatility of the markets and proactively 
seek new business models and work to expand our 
client base.

We regularly review our Business Continuity Plan.

We use scenario analysis to challenge the principles on 
which we base our financial planning, identifying 
potential risks, costs and benefits of feasible action plans.

Risk appetite 

Risk level 

Outlook 

As part of our Remote Operating and Autonomy 
Roadmap, Antucoya has successfully concluded the 
execution phase and deployed into production the 
remote operation of their spreader, currently 
operating the system. In Zaldívar, the last testing 
stage was concluded for the teleoperation in Line of 
Sight mode of their drilling rigs, and we are 
currently processing the permit to operate with 
Sernageomin. Los Pelambres will deploy a robotic 
solution in performing the liner replacement of their 
SAG mill, with the corresponding equipment 
expected to be on site by March next year.

Centinela's Integrated Remote Operations Centre 
(IROC) in the city of Antofagasta has run effectively 
in its second year of operation. It enables 
management of the plant and the mine remotely, 
with real-time information and optimisation of all 
processes. Los Pelambres' IROC is located in 
Santiago and has been operating for one year, 
completing critical milestones for remote and 
integrated operation along the entire value chain.

A successful heap heating pilot was conducted 
during 2023 in Zaldívar, enhancing the operational 
readiness of our Cuprochlor®-T technology.

We are currently engaged in a range of operational 
recommendation and optimisation initiatives, 
complementing previously developed and 
successfully deployed solutions across the 
production value chain, as part of our SIRO 
programme, to enable better and data driven 
automated decision making. Some of the tools 
developed to date cover Flotation Optimisers, Milling 
Recommendations, Mineral Tracking and Advanced 
Maintenance.

Risk appetite 

Risk level 

Outlook 

The controls for this risk were updated to 
incorporate lessons learned during the year, such as 
the geographical diversification of our suppliers, and 
the increase in our stocks of strategic resources, 
where the contingencies we had during 2023 were 
mitigated without having major impacts on the 
operation.

During 2023, our Business Continuity Plan was 
updated in the Mining and Transport division.

Emerging Risks
In addition to our principal risks, we are constantly on the lookout for emerging risks that may become new principal risks in the future. 
Current emerging risks are:

Emerging risk

Geoeconomic confrontation

Commodity substitution

Widespread cyber crime and cyber security

Impact

Geoeconomic confrontation with impact on the logistics chain and Commodities market.

Lower demand for copper producing sustained oversupply in the medium-long term 
due, to a substitute product impacting the business strategy to date.

Global or regional cyber crime with critical infrastructure breakdown impacting 
operational continuity.

The above risks are closely monitored and actively managed to minimise their threat.

Antofagasta plc  Annual Report 2023

85

 
 
 
 
 
 
Risk management continued

Compliance and 
internal controls

How we achieve our objectives is crucial 
to the sustainable long-term development 
of the Company. We have zero tolerance 
for bribery and corruption, and are 
committed to working with integrity and 
transparency. We comply with all 
applicable anti-corruption and anti-
bribery legislation, and ensure that 
necessary controls are in place to 
prevent any unethical behaviour.

Accommodation units at Antucoya.

Areas of focus and development during 2023

• 

In August, the “Ley de Delitos Económicos” (Economic Crimes Law) 
was published. This legislation, which establishes a new legal 
regime applicable to natural persons (individuals) and another to 
legal entities (companies), will come into force in September 2024. 
Although we have robust controls in place, we will reassess the 
group risk matrix in order to identify the need for any new controls 
or adjustments in current controls, with more focus on 
environmental areas.

•  A proven due diligence process is in place, based on a risk analysis 

approach.

•  The Company’s Crime Prevention Model was recertified by an 

independent expert. 

•  As part of the “Suppliers for a Better Future” initiative, the 
Compliance team trained 150+ supplier representatives on 
respectful workplaces and sound compliance practices.

•  Whistleblowing investigations, undertaken by a group of experts, 
were centralised and standardised, guaranteeing an independent 
process.

•  The consultation process for revisions to the UK Corporate 

Governance Code was closely monitored. The updated Code, which 
was published in January 2024, introduces a new requirement 
(applicable from 2026 onwards) for the Board to make an annual 
declaration as to the effectiveness of the Group’s material internal 
controls. A readiness assessment was undertaken and action plans 
were established in respect of the anticipated changes.

•  Employees in high-risk areas completed additional in-depth training 

Code of Ethics

on ethics and compliance.

•  New employees were trained in the Compliance Model and Code of 

Ethics as part of their induction programme.

•  All employees updated their conflict-of-interest disclosures.
•  A campaign “let’s talk about integrity” was launched with a 

large-scale communication related to respect, health and safety, and 
environmental management.

•  Anti-corruption events took place at all our operations to reinforce 

compliance with our integrity values.

•  The Compliance team have been part of the approval process for 
social contributions, to strengthen monitoring and governance. 
•  The Compliance and Supply teams have started to invite their 
vendors to self-assess on the external platform and identify 
improvement opportunities from a sustainability perspective.

•  A communication campaign was carried out as part of our focus on 

Prevention in our Compliance Model.

This sets out our commitment to conducting business in a responsible 
and sustainable manner. The Code requires honesty, integrity and 
accountability from all employees and contractors, and includes 
guidelines for identifying and managing potential conflicts of interest. 
It is at the core of our Compliance Model and supports the 
implementation of all related activities.

Our Code of Ethics is available on our website.

Compliance Model

The Compliance Model applies to both our employees and our 
contractors. It is clearly defined and is communicated regularly 
through internal channels as well as being available on our website. All 
contracts include clauses relating to ethics, modern slavery and crime 
prevention to ensure contractors’ adherence to our Compliance Model.

We actively promote open communication with all our employees, 
contractors and local communities. This helps ensure that our 
corporate and value creation objectives are achieved in an ethical and 
honest way.

86

Antofagasta plc  Annual Report 2023

STRATEGIC REPORTThe Compliance Model is reviewed regularly, both internally and by 
third parties, and on corruption-related matters it is certified in 
accordance with Chilean anti-corruption legislation.

The Model has three pillars:

Prevention: Its main focus is to prevent the occurrence of any 
irregular or illegal situations. We provide a series of tools and training 
opportunities to all employees and contractors to support appropriate 
behaviour through:

• 

Internal policies and procedures

•  Anti-trust guidelines
•  The management and update of our Compliance Risk Matrix
•  Our robust due diligence processes
•  Anti-corruption clauses in suppliers’ and employees’ contracts
•  Compliance training and communication
•  Access Control and Governance, Risk and Compliance (GRC) tools 

are used as part of our segregation of duties controls

Detection: Detection of any potentially irregular or illegal situation is 
boosted by:

•  Robust and open whistleblowing channels where individuals can 

present complaints and grievances anonymously in a context of our 
non-retaliation policy

•  Data analysis
•  Anti-corruption internal controls
•  Normative instruments, such as internal policies, procedures or 

guidelines, which are continually reviewed
Internal audit

• 

Action: Immediate action is taken if an irregular or illegal situation is 
detected, and we investigate according to our internal procedures 
using fact-based, objective and professional standards. An Ethics 
Committee, which includes members of the senior management team, 
reviews the findings of every investigation and suggests remediation 
plans. The performance of the compliance programme is reported 
twice a year to the Audit and Risk Committee and to the Board. The 
anonymity of the whistleblowing channels is guaranteed to safeguard 
individuals and so achieve greater transparency and bolster our 
non-retaliation policy.

During the year, we received 609 allegations. Of these, 186 (31%) 
were ethics related and 423 (69%) were non-ethical concerns. The 
ethical allegations were classified as: 77.5% (144) fraud; conflicts of 
interest, and other misconduct; 22% (41) workplace and sexual 
harassment; 0.5% (1) regulatory non-compliance; and 0% (0) modern 
slavery. Remediation actions were defined and implemented for all 
substantiated allegations.

Our Crime Prevention Model ensures compliance with anti-bribery 
and anti-corruption laws in the United Kingdom and Chile, and is 
certified by an external entity.

Due diligence highlights

During the year, 6,110 suppliers were reviewed, of which 1.3% were 
rejected. Of these 97% were Chilean suppliers and 3% were 
international. The reasons for rejection were mainly due to high 
financial or tax risk, non-compliance with Group guidelines or 
non-compliance with Law 20.393 (Criminal Responsibility 
of Legal Entities).

Antofagasta plc  Annual Report 2023

87

Risk management continued

Viability statement

To address the requirements of provision 31 of the 2018 UK Corporate Governance Code, 
the Directors have assessed the prospects of the Group over a period of five years. 

Mining is a long-term business and timescales can run into decades. 
The Group maintains Life-of-Mine models covering the full 
remaining mine life for each mining operation. More detailed 
medium-term planning is completed for a five-year time horizon 
(as well as very detailed annual budgets). Accordingly, five years 
has been selected as the appropriate period over which to assess 
the prospects of  the Group. 

The Directors have assessed the principal risks which could impact 
the prospects of the Group over this period, and consider the most 
relevant to be risks to the copper price outlook, as this is the factor 
most likely to result in significant volatility in earnings and cash 
generation. Robust down-side sensitivity analyses have been 
performed in relation to the scenarios described above, assessing 
the standalone impact of each of:

When taking account of the impact of the Group’s current position 
on this viability assessment, the Directors have considered in particular 
its financial position, including its significant balance of cash, cash 
equivalents and liquid investments and the terms and remaining 
durations of the borrowing facilities in place. The Group had a strong 
financial position as at 31 December 2023, with combined cash, cash 
equivalents and liquid investments of $2,919.4 million. Total borrowings 
were $4,079.2 million, resulting in a net debt position of $1,159.8 
million. Of the total borrowings, only 22% is repayable within one year, 
and 16% repayable between one and two years. 25% of the 
borrowings are repayable after more than five years, beyond the 
viability review period.

When assessing the prospects of the Group, the Directors have 
considered the Group’s copper price forecasts, the Group’s expected 
production levels, operating cost profile and capital expenditure. These 
forecasts are based on the Group’s budgets and Life-of-Mine models, 
which are also used when assessing relevant accounting estimates, 
including depreciation, deferred stripping and closure provisions, and 
accounting judgements including potential indicators of impairment. 
The copper price forecasts are based on consensus analyst forecasts, 
and include a long-term copper price forecast of $3.70/lb.

One scenario analysed as part of this assessment has only considered 
existing committed borrowing facilities in place as of 31 December 
2023, and has not assumed that any new borrowing facilities will be 
put in place. Given the planned financing for the Centinela Second 
Concentrator project was not in place as at 31 December 2023, we 
have not included the planned development of that project within this 
scenario. As an additional scenario, we have forecast the impact of the 
development of this project, which assumes a typical financing 
environment which allows us to put in place our planned financing for 
the project. In addition, we have also modelled sensitivities reflecting 
the impact of potential overruns in the project costs.

The forecasts have assumed distributions in line with the Group’s 
policy that the total annual dividend for each year would represent 
a payout ratio based on underlying net earnings (as defined in the 
Alternative Performance Measures section) for that year of at 
least 35%.

•  A significant deterioration in the future copper price forecasts by  
an average of approximately 15% throughout the five-year period.

•  An even more pronounced short-term reduction of 50 c/lb in  
the copper price for a period of three months, in addition to the 
above general deterioration in the copper price throughout the 
review period.

•  The potential impact of the Group’s most significant individual 

operational risks materialising.

•  A shutdown of any one of the Group’s operations for a period of 
three months, or a shutdown of all of the Group’s operations for  
a period of one month.

The stability of tailings storage facilities represents a potentially 
significant operational risk for mining operations globally. The Group’s 
tailings storage facilities are designed to international standards, 
constructed using downstream methods, subject to rigorous 
monitoring and reporting, and reviewed regularly by an international 
panel of independent experts. Given these standards of design, 
development, operations and review, the impact of a potential tailings 
dam failure has not been included in the sensitivity analysis.

The above downside sensitivity analyses indicated results which could 
be managed in the normal course of business, including the aggregate 
impact of a number of the above sensitivities occurring at the same 
time. The analysis indicated that the Group is expected to remain in 
compliance with all of the covenant requirements of its borrowings 
throughout the review period and retain sufficient liquidity. Based on 
their assessment of the Group’s prospects and viability, the Directors 
confirm that they have a reasonable expectation that the Group will be 
able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over 
the next five years.

88

Antofagasta plc  Annual Report 2023

STRATEGIC REPORTDrill rig at Centinela.

Antofagasta plc  Annual Report 2023

89

Operating review

Mining division

Antofagasta owns and operates four mines. Los Pelambres is located in 
the Coquimbo Region of central Chile and Centinela, Antucoya and 
Zaldívar are in the Antofagasta Region of northern Chile.

“ Our operations delivered strong operational performance 
in 2023. Copper production rose by 2% to 660,600 
tonnes, with increasing water availability and throughput 
rates at Los Pelambres, and costs remaining in line year-
on-year despite industry-wide cost inflation.”

OCTAVIO ARANEDA
Chief Operating Officer

Production highlights
660.6kt
of copper produced

209.1k oz
of gold produced

770.0

733.9

721.5

670-710

282.3

646.2

660.6

252.2

195-215

204.1

209.1

176.8

2019

2020

2021

2022

2023

2024
Forecast

2019

2020

2021

2022

2023

2024
Forecast

11.0kt
of molybdenum produced

$1.61/lb
Net cash costs

12.6

11.6

10.5

9.7

11.0

11.0-12.5

1.61

1.61

1.60

1.22

1.14

1.20

2019

2020

2021

2022

2023

2024
Forecast

2019

2020

2021

2022

2023

2024
Forecast

90

Antofagasta plc  Annual Report 2023

STRATEGIC REPORTBOLIVIA

PERU

BOLIVIA

ANTOFAGASTA 
REGION

SANTIAGO

COQUIMBO  
REGION

ARGENTINA

ARGENTINA

ARGENTINA

Antofagasta plc  Annual Report 2023

91

CENTINELA

ANTUCOYA

CENTINELA PORT
MEJILLONES

ANTOFAGASTA

ZALDÍVAR

LA SERENA

ILLAPEL

PUNTA  
CHUNGO PORT
LOS VILOS

LOS  
PELAMBRES

  Mines

  Capital city

  Cities and town centres

  Ports

Governance

Applying the Code in 2023
Board leadership and Company purpose 

Chairman’s introduction 
Senior Independent Director’s 
introduction 
Group corporate governance overview
Board activities 
Stakeholder engagement 
Workforce engagement
Division of responsibilities 
Directors’ biographies 
Board balance and skills 
Roles in the boardroom 
Executive Committee biographies 
Introduction to the Committees

Composition, succession and evaluation 

Nomination and Governance 
Committee report 
Board effectiveness 

Audit, risk and internal control 

Audit and Risk Committee report 
Sustainability and Stakeholder 
Management Committee report
Projects Committee report 

Remuneration

Remuneration and Talent Management 
Committee Chair’s introduction 
Remuneration at a glance
2023 Directors’ and CEO’s 
Remuneration Policy Summary
2023 Directors’ and CEO’s 
Remuneration Report
Remuneration and Talent Management 
Committee Report
Implementation of the Directors’ and 
CEO’s Remuneration Policy in 2024

Directors’ Report 
Statement of Directors’ 
responsibilities

118

120

122
124
126
128
130

132
134
135
136
138

140
143

144

151
154

156
160

162

166

174

176
179

181

“Reflecting on our 40th year of 
operating copper mines, we are 
proud of our strong performance 
during the year, which included 
record safety performance and the 
successful delivery of key 
development projects and key 
investment decisions that will secure 
the long-term future of our business.”

JEAN-PAUL LUKSIC
Chairman

116

Antofagasta plc  Annual Report 2023

Copper cathodes ready for shipment.

CORPORATE GOVERNANCEAntofagasta plc  Annual Report 2023

117

Applying the Code in 2023

How we apply the Code

UK Corporate Governance Code compliance 
statement
The UK Corporate Governance Code issued by the Financial Reporting 
Council in July 2018 sets out the governance principles and provisions 
that applied to the Company during 2023.

The Code is not a rigid set of rules, it consists of principles and 
provisions. The Listing Rules require companies to apply the principles 
and report to shareholders on how they have done so. This Corporate 
Governance Report shows how these principles have been considered 
and applied to the Company’s specific circumstances.

The Company complied with all the principles and detailed provisions 
of the Code in 2023 except for Code Provisions 9 and 19. Code 
Provision 9 recommends that the Chairman should be independent on 
appointment when assessed against the circumstances set out in 
Provision 10 and Code Provision 19 recommends that the Chairman 
should not remain in post beyond nine years from the date of first 
appointment to the Board. 

The Company’s Chairman, Jean-Paul Luksic, was appointed to the 
Board in 1990. He served as CEO of the Group’s Mining division from 
1998 until 2004 and was appointed Executive Chairman in 2004. In 
2014, he stepped back from executive responsibilities to become 
Non-Executive Chairman, a role he has continued to hold since then. 
Mr Luksic’s longstanding UK corporate governance and Chilean mining 
and business experience, coupled with his knowledge of the Group’s 
businesses have been for many years, and continue to be, a 
cornerstone of the Company’s continuing growth and success. 

Mr Luksic is also a member of the family that is interested in the 
E. Abaroa Foundation, a controlling shareholder of the Company for the 
purposes of the UK Listing Rules and is therefore uniquely positioned 
to ensure that the interests of shareholders, together with the interests 
of other stakeholders (many of whom are based in Chile), are taken 
into account to promote the long-term sustainable success of the 
Company and to promote governance that the Board is convinced 
is best for the Company’s particular circumstances in the long term. 

Mr Luksic is committed to wider succession and diversity planning and, 
in his roles as Chairman of the Board and Chair of the Nomination and 
Governance Committee, he has overseen the design and 
implementation of succession plans to increase diversity, including 
gender, and continually refresh the Board. The Board and its 
Committees meet or exceed the Code’s recommendations for 
independent composition and the Company complies with the new 
UK Listing Rules regarding diversity with 45% of the Board comprising 
women and a female Senior Independent Director. There is a Board 
approved succession plan for the Chairman in the event of an 
unforeseen departure.

The Board considers that Mr Luksic continues to demonstrate 
objective judgement and provide constructive challenge and leadership, 
and believes that his continued appointment is appropriate without 
fixing a limit to his length of service. The Company’s major 
shareholders are regularly consulted on this subject, and in meetings 
with the Senior Independent Director in November 2023, continued to 
unanimously express their support for Mr Luksic’s continued service 
as Chairman of the Board. 

The composition of the Board and its Committees is entirely in line 
with the Code provisions and the Chairman is fully supported by the 
Board, the Nomination and Governance Committee and the Senior 
Independent Director in ensuring that, despite non-compliance with 
Code Provisions 9 and 19, good governance is maintained.

118

Antofagasta plc  Annual Report 2023

Further details on the composition of the Board and its Committees 
are set out on page 132 and further details of the role of the Senior 
Independent Director are set out on pages 122 and 135.

The UK Corporate Governance Code is available on the Financial 
Reporting Council website at www.frc.org.uk.

The Board has been monitoring developments culminating in the 
revised UK Corporate Governance Code issued by the Financial 
Reporting Council in January 2024, and plans to report against the 
relevant Principles and Provisions of this new version of the Code 
from 1 January 2025.

How the Code principles were applied in 2023

Board leadership and Company purpose

The role of the Board

•  The Company is led by an effective and entrepreneurial Board, 
which is collectively responsible for promoting the Company’s 
long-term sustainable success, generating value for shareholders 
and contributing to wider society as shown throughout this 
Corporate Governance Report.

•  The Board has adopted and actively promotes the Group’s purpose, 
vision, values and strategy, and has satisfied itself that they are 
aligned with its culture – pages 22-25 and 126.

•  The Board has ensured that the necessary resources are in place 
for the Company to meet its objectives and measure performance 
against them. It has established both its risk appetite and a 
framework of prudent and effective controls, which enable risk  
to be appropriately assessed and managed – pages 74-85.

•  The Board ensures effective engagement with, and encourages 

participation from, shareholders and other stakeholders to ensure 
that its responsibilities are met – pages 30-73, 120, 122, 128-129, 
135, 157 and 174.

•  The Board ensures that workforce policies and practices are consistent 

with the Company’s purpose, vision and values and supports its 
long-term sustainable success. The workforce can raise any matters  
of concern anonymously through the Group’s whistleblowing channels 
– pages 40-42, 86, 130, 149, 156-178.

•  The Board considers the matters set out in section 172 of the 

Companies Act 2006 in Board discussions and decision-making – 
pages 40-73. Detailed examples can be found on pages 128-129.

Division of responsibilities

•  The Board is structured to ensure that no one individual or small 

group of individuals dominates its decision-making, as demonstrated 
throughout this Corporate Governance Report.

•  The CEO is not a Director of the Company and is therefore not  

a member of the Board – page 135.

•  There is a clear division of responsibilities between the Board and the 
executive leadership of the Company’s business – pages 124, 134-135.

•  The division of responsibilities between the Chairman, the CEO and 

the Senior Independent Director is recorded in writing, and is 
available on the Company’s website at antofagasta.co.uk.

•  The roles of the Board and the Board Committees are recorded in the 

Schedule of Matters Reserved for the Board and the Terms of 
Reference for each of the Board’s Committees, all of which are 
available on the Company’s website at antofagasta.co.uk.

•  The Board, supported by the Company Secretary, has the policies, 
processes, information, time and resources it needs in order to 
function effectively and efficiently – pages 125 and 141.

CORPORATE GOVERNANCEThe Chairman

•  The Chairman leads the Board and is responsible for its overall 

effectiveness in directing the Company. His responsibilities are set 
out on page 135.

•  Directors are regularly updated with information and training and, 
as a minimum, receive an annual briefing on legal, regulatory, 
market and other developments relevant to Directors of UK-listed 
companies – page 141.

•  The Board considers that the Chairman demonstrates objective 

Evaluation

judgements and promotes a culture of openness, healthy challenge 
and debate – pages 118 and 122.

•  The Chairman facilitates constructive Board relations and the 

effective contribution of all Directors. He is responsible for setting 
the Board’s agenda and ensuring that Directors receive accurate, 
timely, relevant and clear information – pages 125, 135 and 141.

Non-Executive Directors

•  The Non-Executive Directors provide constructive challenge and 
strategic guidance, offer perspectives across various specialisms 
and hold management to account – pages 132-134.

Commitment

•  All Directors have confirmed that they are able to allocate enough 

time to meet the expectations of their role – page 132.

•  Directors do not undertake additional external appointments without 

the Board’s prior approval – page 132.

•  Time commitment is considered during Board effectiveness reviews 

and when electing and re-electing Directors – pages 140-143.

•  An annual evaluation of the Board considers composition, diversity 
and how effectively members work together to achieve objectives 
– page 143.
Individual evaluation is part of the annual Board evaluation and 
assesses whether each Director continues to contribute effectively 
– page 143.

• 

•  An internal Board and Committee effectiveness review was 

conducted in 2023 – page 143.

Re-election

•  All Directors stand for re-election by shareholders annually.

Audit, risk and internal control

Governance

•  The Board has established formal and transparent policies and 
procedures to ensure the independence and effectiveness of 
internal and external audit functions and to satisfy itself on the 
integrity of financial and narrative statements – page 144-149.

•  A review of Directors’ external directorships is carried out annually 

Financial and business reporting

– pages 123 and 180.

Information and support

•  The Board is provided with appropriate information in a form and 

•  The Board considers that the Annual Report presents a fair, 

balanced and understandable assessment of the Company’s position 
and prospects – page 181.

of a quality to discharge its duties – page 125.

Risk and internal control

•  The Board has access to independent professional advice and to the 
advice and services of the Company Secretary – pages 135 and 141.

•  The Board is regularly updated on the Group’s performance 

between scheduled Board meetings – page 125.

•  The Board has established procedures to manage risk, oversee the 
internal control framework and determine the nature and extent of 
the principal risks the Company is willing to take in order to achieve 
its long-term strategic objectives – pages 74-85 and 148-149.

Composition, succession and evaluation

Composition of the Board and Committees

•  The Board has 11 Directors, comprising a Non-Executive Chairman 

and ten other Non-Executive Directors, six of whom are 
independent – page 132-135.

•  All members of the Audit and Risk and Remuneration and Talent 
Management Committees are independent and two of the three 
Nomination and Governance Committee members are independent 
– page 132-133.

•  The Board and its Committees comprise Directors with the requisite 
combination of skills, experience and knowledge to fulfil their roles 
– page 132-135.

•  There is a diverse pipeline for succession. Consideration is given to 
the length of service of the Board as a whole and membership is 
regularly refreshed – page 134 and 140-143.

Appointments to the Board and succession planning

Experience and competence

•  All Audit and Risk Committee members are considered to have 
recent and relevant financial experience and have competence 
relevant to the mining industry and one member is a Chartered 
Accountant – page 132-134.

Remuneration

Policy

•  The Company has no executive Directors; however, the CEO’s 

remuneration is disclosed as if he were a director.

•  The Directors’ and CEO’s Remuneration Policy, which was approved  

by shareholders at the 2023 AGM, is aligned to the Company’s purpose, 
vision and values and is clearly linked to the successful delivery of 
the Company’s long-term strategy – pages 162-165 and 172.
•  The Remuneration and Talent Management Committee Chair, 

Francisca Castro, served as a member of the Committee for more 
than 12 months before being appointed as Chair.

•  There is a formal, rigorous and transparent process, led by the 

•  The CEO’s remuneration includes transparent, stretching and 

Nomination and Governance Committee, to identify and appoint new 
Directors – page 140-142.
Independent external search consultancies are used for 
appointments to the Board – pages 141-142.

• 

•  An effective succession plan is maintained for Board and senior 

management appointments – pages 142-143 and 175.

•  Appointments and succession plans are based on merit and objective 

criteria and promote diversity of gender, social and ethnic backgrounds, 
cognitive and personal strengths and experience – page 141.

Development

•  New Directors receive a thorough induction upon joining the Board 

– pages 140-143.

rigorously applied performance-related elements designed to promote 
the Company’s long-term sustainable success – pages 156-177.

Procedure

•  The Board has a formal and transparent procedure for developing 
policy on executive remuneration and determining Director and 
senior management remuneration – pages 156-178.

•  No Director, nor the CEO, is involved in deciding his or her own 

remuneration.

•  Directors exercise independent judgement and discretion when 

authorising remuneration outcomes, taking account of Company and 
individual performance and wider circumstances including internal 
and external factors – pages 156-165.

Antofagasta plc  Annual Report 2023

119

Chairman’s introduction 

Effective Board 
leadership

Dear shareholders

Welcome to the Corporate Governance section of our 2023 Annual 
Report. 

My introductory letter on pages 8-10 of this Annual Report sets out 
some of the Group’s key challenges and achievements in 2023 and my 
reflections on the outlook for 2024 and illustrates the Board’s ability to 
navigate these scenarios supported by our strong and effective 
governance framework. 

Reflecting on our 40th year of operating copper mines, we are proud 
of our strong performance during the year, which included record 
safety performance and the successful delivery of key development 
projects and key investment decisions that will secure the long-term 
future of our business.

Shareholder engagement

We were pleased to engage with shareholders at our AGM in 2023, 
with a return to normality following the pandemic years. 

As the year progressed, our Senior Independent Director and Chair of 
the Remuneration and Talent Management Committee, Francisca 
Castro, met with shareholders and proxy advisers in a mix of 
in-person and virtual meetings. In the meetings, discussions centred 
on our approach to corporate governance and provided an opportunity 
for shareholders and proxy advisers to share their perspectives on the 
Company, with a particular focus on corporate governance. 

Details of these meetings can be found in the Senior Independent 
Director’s introduction on page 122 and the Remuneration and Talent 
Management Committee Chair’s introduction on page 156.

Diversity and Inclusion

An issue that was discussed with shareholders, which is important to 
our Board, was diversity – particularly gender diversity. Since 2014, 
more than half of our appointments to the Board have been female and 
women now make up 45% of our Board. We were delighted that 
Francisca Castro took on the role of Senior Independent Director 
during the year. Francisca has been a Director since 2016 and has 
Chaired the Remuneration and Talent Management Committee since 
2017. She has a strong understanding of shareholder corporate 
governance expectations and close connection with the Group’s 
businesses in Chile. We aim to continue to meet the UK’s targets on 
gender diversity, while also continuing to build a pipeline of female 
talent across the organisation, particularly at the Group’s mining 
operations where the recruitment of female talent has historically been 
particularly difficult. 

Further information on the Board’s diversity policy can be found in the 
Nomination and Governance Committee Report on page 140.

Audit and Risk Management

Deloitte will take over the external audit from PwC for the 2024 financial 
year onwards and shareholders will be asked to confirm this 
appointment at the 2024 AGM. The Board, led by the Audit and Risk 
Committee, conducted a tender process for the appointment of the 
Group’s auditor in 2022 and has continued to oversee the transition 
plans and progress during 2023. I would like to thank Simon Morley and 
the PwC teams in the UK and Chile for their excellent performance over 
the last nine years and we look forward to working with Chris Thomas 
and the Deloitte teams in the UK and Chile in the coming years. 

120

Antofagasta plc  Annual Report 2023

JEAN-PAUL LUKSIC
Chairman

Our Commitment to Sustainability Issues 

Our efforts on climate change are an integral part of our Sustainability 
strategy, but far from the only ones. The copper we produce has a key role to 
play in a net-zero world: our responsibility is to produce it sustainably, 
efficiently, and with respect for local communities and the environment. 

Having achieved our emissions reduction target in 2022, efforts in 2023 
were focused on developing a detailed decarbonisation strategy and 
associated emissions reduction targets that would guide the next phase of 
our development. Following this work, we were able to publish updated 
targets covering Scope 1, 2 and 3 emissions in early 2024. 

Stakeholder engagement

Our Directors visited our operations, including the desalination plant and 
concentrator plant expansion projects throughout the year. The insights 
from these visits were shared at Board and Committee meetings, deepening 
the Directors’ understanding of our activities and providing direct feedback 
to the Board from our stakeholders at site. These insights were particularly 
important in monitoring progress towards completion of the Los 
Pelambres expansion project and the integration between project and 
operations teams and relations with our stakeholders in the Choapa Valley. 

Board evaluation

We always seek continuous improvement in all that we do, and the Board 
and its governance are no exception. During 2023, we carried out an 
internal evaluation of the Board and Committees which followed on from 
the 2022 external comprehensive independent Board evaluation.

Further details regarding the evaluation and our progress can be found 
on page 143. 

Board changes and succession planning

Jorge Bande reached nine years of service in December 2023 and has 
retired from the Board. We appreciate Jorge’s contribution to the Company 
over these years and thank him for his continued support of our vision. 
Heather Lawrence and Tracey Kerr joined the Board in April 2023 and 
January 2024, respectively. We are delighted with the skills, experience and 
additional diversity of perspective that they bring to the Board. Heather is a 
qualified chartered accountant with corporate finance and investment banking 
experience and Tracey brings extensive experience in safety, sustainability, 
operations and exploration in global mining businesses. Both Heather 
and Tracey have strong governance experience in UK listed companies.

At its core, Antofagasta is a long-term business. Our mines operate on 
decades-long timelines, and our governance structures and processes 
are designed to help us achieve long-term sustainable success. 

Thank you for your ongoing engagement. I look forward to having 
the opportunity to meet with you at our AGM.

JEAN-PAUL LUKSIC
Chairman

CORPORATE GOVERNANCEWinter at Los Pelambres.

Board oversight of climate-related risks 
and opportunities
The Board has ultimate responsibility for the Group’s climate-
related objectives and strategy. The Board’s oversight of climate-
related risks and opportunities is fully integrated within our 
governance structures. This responsibility and oversight includes 
specific climate related activities such as approving the Group’s 
Climate Change Strategy, approving emission reduction targets, 
monitoring implementation of the Climate Change Strategy and 
approving the Company’s TCFD disclosures. This also includes 
more general approval and oversight responsibilities which 
incorporate climate-related risks and opportunities such as 
reviewing and approving the Group’s capital allocation framework 
which includes criteria relating to climate resilience and an internal 
carbon price, reviewing and approving the Group’s base and 
development case models which include adjustments for physical 
and transition risks associated with climate change, approving the 
Group’s annual budget, reviewing the Group’s principal and 
emerging risks which include climate change and approving KPIs in 
the Group’s remuneration structures that reward our employees 
for progress in achieving the Group’s climate-related objectives.

In 2023, the Board allocated time to specifically review the financial 
implications of climate change on the Group using the TCFD 
framework, considering a detailed and updated evaluation of the 
costs of mitigation and adaptation as well as opportunities. Further 
details are set out on page 144.

During 2023, the Board approved the Company’s second climate 
change report which provided a detailed overview of the 
Company’s efforts and progress in addressing climate change and 
reducing its environmental footprint. The report includes the 
Company’s inaugural summary of Scope 3 emissions which was 
reviewed by the Board and which followed a two-year process to 
improve the understanding of the emissions that relate to the 
Company’s value chain. The report is available on the Company’s 
website at www.antofagasta.co.uk. 

The Board also approved new carbon emissions reduction targets 
to: (1) reduce the Group’s Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions by 50% 
by 2035 considering 2020 emissions as a baseline; and (2) engage 

with the industry to achieve a 10% reduction in Scope 3 emissions 
by 2030. The Board also agreed that decarbonisation targets will 
be revisited in 2025.

The Board is supported by all of the Board’s committees in 
ensuring that climate-related considerations are fully integrated into 
the Board’s governance structures. For example:

•  As shown on pages 140-143, the Nomination and Governance 
Committee considers the Board’s skills matrix when making 
appointments to the Board. This matrix includes sustainability 
experience (which includes competence on climate-related 
issues) as a key skill and the Board ensures that there is an 
adequate depth of climate change knowledge and awareness on 
the Board when making new appointments. 

•  As shown on pages 144-149, the Audit and Risk Committee 

assists the Board in overseeing the Group’s risk management 
framework, including climate change risk and the financial 
implications of climate change.

•  As shown on pages 151-153, the Sustainability and Stakeholder 

Management Committee considers climate change when 
reviewing and monitoring relevant strategy, policies and 
performance matters. In 2023, this included reviewing a 
progress report on the development of an inventory of Scope 3 
emissions and next steps and reviewing a proposal that was 
approved by the Board to incorporate all of the Group’s operating 
companies to the UN Global Compact, reviewing the Group’s 
environmental Management Model and Organisation, including in 
relation to climate change and reviewing the water situation in 
the Choapa Valley after 14 years of lower-than-normal rainfall 
and Los Pelambres’ water strategy.

•  As shown on page 154-155, the Projects Committee considers 
climate change when reviewing and monitoring the Group’s 
major capital projects. 

•  As shown on page 156-177, the Remuneration and Talent 

Management Committee monitors executives and managers’ 
short- and long-term incentive plans which include KPIs relating 
to climate change such as the implementation of the Company’s 
Decarbonisation Plan, which was created following studies 
completed during 2023.

Antofagasta plc  Annual Report 2023

121

Senior Independent Director’s introduction 

Board balance

“The feedback I received from 
shareholders was reported to the 
Board and is reflected in the 
decisions that have been made in 
the preparation of this Corporate 
Governance report.”

Q. What are your responsibilities as Senior Independent 
Director?

I am delighted to have taken on the role of Senior Independent Director 
following my appointment in August 2023. 

I have three main responsibilities as Senior Independent Director. First, 
I must be available to shareholders to ensure that the Board considers 
their views, interests and concerns. Second, I provide support to the 
Chairman, ranging from advice on corporate governance matters to 
presiding over potential conflict of interest decisions by the Board, and 
making sure that the views of the other Directors are conveyed to him 
and reflected in Board discussions. Third, I lead the annual review of 
the Chairman’s performance and oversee the closure of any gaps 
identified by internal and externally facilitated reviews of the Board’s 
and the Committees’ performance.

I discharge these responsibilities through close co-ordination with the 
Chairman, Directors, Company Secretary and the management team. I 
met with various shareholders and proxy advisers during the year to 
understand their views of the Company. This has helped me ensure 
that the Chairman, the Board and the management team receive a 
balanced view of issues that are relevant and important for our 
shareholders. 

Q. Why did you meet with shareholders and proxy advisers 
during the year and what issues were discussed?

As Senior Independent Director and Chair of the Remuneration and 
Talent Management Committee, I aim to meet with shareholders every 
year to gain a first-hand understanding of the subjects that matter to 
them. This year I invited the Company’s 20 largest investors as well as 
the Investment Association, Glass Lewis and Institutional Shareholder 
Services to meet to discuss Corporate Governance matters and to 
allow shareholders to raise any concerns that they would like to 
discuss without the presence of the senior management team. The 
feedback I received was very positive and no major concerns were 
raised. We engaged in discussions relating to the Board’s 
independence and the role of the controlling shareholder in the 
Board’s governance arrangements, the key issues and risks 
considered by the Board to be relevant, the Board’s diversity policy 
and progress towards achieving the new targets set out in the Listing 
Rules, and the Board’s oversight of other sustainability matters, such 
as carbon emission reduction targets. The feedback I received from 

122

Antofagasta plc  Annual Report 2023

FRANCISCA CASTRO
Senior Independent Director

shareholders was reported to the Board and is reflected in the 
decisions that have been made in the preparation of this Corporate 
Governance report. 

Q. What impact does the controlling shareholding have on 
Company decisions?

Members of the Luksic family have been involved in the Company for 
over 40 years. During this time, the Company has demonstrated an 
excellent track record in terms of safety, operational performance and 
financial strength.

I have discussed the role of the controlling shareholders with 
shareholders. The widely held view is that the substantial controlling 
interest is positive, with shareholders satisfied that the interests of the 
controlling shareholders are aligned with theirs, many having invested 
based on this interest. They have expressed their appreciation of the 
members of the Luksic family who serve on the Board, commending 
their long-term vision, which has contributed to the Company’s 
prudent operating, financial and growth strategy, as well as its stability.

Shareholder support is, of course, conditional on the strength of the 
current corporate governance framework, which rigorously protects 
the interests of all shareholders equally.

I, and all the other Independent Directors, guard our independence and 
place a strong emphasis on maintaining this governance and protection 
regime. We are supported and encouraged by the other Directors who 
– like the Independent Directors – bring their own perspectives and 
opinions and are committed to the long-term sustainable success of 
the Company.

The controlling shareholders and the members of the Luksic family 
who serve on the Board (including the Chairman), actively support this 
framework and encourage the Independent Directors to provide the 
independent input and challenge that, we are convinced, proves 
invaluable in Board decision-making.

FRANCISCA CASTRO
Senior Independent Director

CORPORATE GOVERNANCERelationship agreement

The E. Abaroa Foundation is a controlling shareholder of the Company 
for the purposes of the Listing Rules and certain other shareholders of 
the Company (including Aureberg Establishment) are also treated as 
controlling shareholders. Details of the Company’s substantial 
shareholders are set out on page 180.

In 2014, the Company entered into relationship agreements with each 
controlling shareholder, which contain the mandatory independence 
provisions required by the Listing Rules. The Company complied with 
and, so far as the Directors are aware, each controlling shareholder 
and its associates (including Metalinvest Establishment and Kupferberg 
Establishment) also complied with the mandatory independence 
provisions throughout 2023.

Related party transactions

Certain related party transactions outside the ordinary course of 
business must be subject to independent assessment and approval. 
The Company has for many years presented all such related party 

transactions between the Company and the controlling shareholders or 
their related entities to a committee of Directors independent from the 
controlling shareholders, to assess whether the Company should enter 
into such transactions and, if so, to oversee the negotiation process. In 
most cases, transactions of this nature will also be subject to 
independent review by third-party shareholders in each of the Group’s 
mining operations.

Any proposed related party transaction over $40 million, whether or 
not in the ordinary course of business, is also tabled for Board 
approval. Any Director with a potential conflict or connection with the 
related party does not take part in the decision on that transaction.

Related party governance in practice

There are several checks and balances to ensure that there is full 
transparency in the handling of related party transactions by the 
Board. The following table summarises the approach taken to identify 
and manage related party transactions and actual or potential conflicts 
of interest.

Identifying Directors’ interests

Process

How this is managed

Monitoring  
of directors’ interests

If a Director has an interest in any other entity, the Board will normally 
consider that interest under its arrangements for authorising potential 
conflicts of interest under section 175 of the Companies Act. See page 180 
for more information.

Responsibility

Directors

Managing related party transactions

Process

How this is managed

Responsibility

Proposed transaction

Contract negotiation  
and verification

Approval  
by independent directors

Ongoing monitoring of Directors’ interests and the Company’s related parties 
provides information to determine whether a related party approval is 
required for a proposed transaction.

Company Secretary, senior 
management and the 
Executive Committee

Senior management and 
the Executive Committee 
and, if involving a 
controlling shareholder, 
Independent Directors

Independent Directors

The Executive Committee seeks to ensure that the best possible terms are 
achieved for a proposed transaction and that, where appropriate or 
necessary, they are verified by industry benchmarking reports or 
independent third-party valuation or assessment.

If the potential transaction is between the Group and a controlling 
shareholder or its associates and is a transaction to which the UK Listing 
Rules related party transaction rules apply, a committee of Directors 
independent from the controlling shareholder and its associates is formed to 
oversee and support management with this process and to ensure 
compliance with the corresponding Relationship Agreement.

Potential related party transactions outside the ordinary course of business 
that involve a controlling shareholder, or its associates, are reviewed and if 
appropriate, approved by Directors independent from the controlling 
shareholders.

All potential related party transactions over $40 million, whether or not in the 
ordinary course of business, are approved by the Board. Any Director with a 
potential conflict or connection with the related party will not take part in that 
decision. Transactions within the ordinary course of business that are below 
$40 million require approval by the relevant operating Company Board. All 
the operating company boards in the Mining division have Directors 
representing third-party shareholders.

Antofagasta plc  Annual Report 2023

123

Group corporate governance overview

Our governance framework

Antofagasta plc Board
The Board’s role is to promote the long-term, sustainable success of 
the Company, generating value for shareholders and contributing to 
wider society. The Board has established the Company’s purpose, 
values, strategy and risk appetite and monitors the culture of the 
Group as well as its performance against defined measures.

The schedule of matters reserved for the Board is available on the 
Company’s website at antofagasta.co.uk.

Key responsibilities

•  Culture
•  Strategy and management
•  Governance
•  Shareholder engagement

• 

Internal controls, risk management and compliance

•  Financial and performance reporting
•  Structure and capital
•  Approving material transactions

Board Committees 
The Board is assisted in discharging its responsibilities by five Board 
Committees.

The Board has delegated authority to these Committees to perform 
certain activities as set out in their terms of reference, which are 
available on the Company’s website at antofagasta.co.uk.

The Chair of each Committee reports to the Board following each 
Committee meeting, allowing the Board to understand and, if 
necessary, discuss matters in detail and to consider the Committee’s 
recommendations.

Key responsibilities

The key responsibilities of each Committee and their focus areas for 
2023 are set out on page 138.

Nomination  
and Governance

Audit  
and Risk

Sustainability  
and Stakeholder 
Management

Projects

Remuneration and Talent 
Management

CEO and Executive Committee 
The Board has delegated day-to-day responsibility for implementing 
the Group’s strategy and fostering the corresponding organisational 
culture to the Company’s CEO, Iván Arriagada.

Mr Arriagada is not a Director of the Company but attends all Board 
meetings and Board Committee meetings, and is supported by the 
members of the Executive Committee, each of whom has executive 
responsibility for his or her respective function.

Mr Arriagada chairs the Executive Committee.

The Executive Committee reviews significant matters and approves 
expenditure within designated authority levels.

The Executive Committee leads the annual budgeting and planning 
processes, monitors the performance of the Group’s operations and 
investments, evaluates risk and establishes internal controls, promoting 
the sharing of best practices across the Group.

Subcommittees of the Executive Committee
Members of the Executive Committee also sit on the boards of the 
Group’s operating companies and report on the activities of those 
companies to the Board, Mr Arriagada and the Executive Committee.

The Board has delegated to the Disclosure Committee primary internal 
responsibility for identifying information that may need to be disclosed 

to the market and for managing its disclosure in line with the Group’s 
current Disclosure Procedures Manual.

The Executive Committee is assisted in its responsibilities by the 
following Subcommittees:

Business 
development

Climate change

Disclosure

Ethics

Operating 
performance 
review

Project steering

Water, energy & 
emissions 
management

124

Antofagasta plc  Annual Report 2023

CORPORATE GOVERNANCEBoard and Board Committee information flows

06

Further information 
provided between 
meetings

01

Chairman and Senior 
Independent Director 
agree agenda with the 
CEO

05

Action lists prepared and 
updated as key actions are 
implemented

02

Papers circulated 
in advance of 
meetings

04

03

Minutes prepared, 
circulated and approved

Board and Committee 
meetings

01  
Chairman and Senior Independent Director agree agenda  
with the CEO and the Company Secretary

The Chairman and Senior Independent Director, in consultation with 
the CEO and the Company Secretary, maintain an agenda of standing 
topics to be considered by the Board and Committees each year, 
which is then supplemented, during the year, with agreed key topics 
and events requiring consideration.

Ad hoc Board and Committee meetings are also called, as appropriate.

02  
Papers circulated in advance of meetings

Materials are sent to Board and Committee members a week in 
advance of each meeting.

Presentations include a summary of the objective, background, 
proposal, justification, risk analysis and next steps associated with that 
topic. Materials include the CEO’s report, which is an open and candid 
summary of his views on evolving strategic challenges, changes in risk 
assessments and emerging issues, as well as the management report 
which includes detailed information on the Group’s performance 
against key safety, health, environmental, community, financial, 
workforce, project development and organisational culture indicators.

03  
Board and Committee meetings

Board and Committee meetings include regular in-camera sessions 
without management present to allow Directors to set expectations for 
the meeting and to reflect on and evaluate the meeting’s progress. The 
CEO provides timely updates to the Board on emerging issues, while 
executives present to the Board and its Committees on operating and 
development matters, allowing close interaction between Directors and 
a wide range of executive management.

04  
Minutes prepared, circulated and approved

The Company Secretary minutes all Board and Committee meetings, 
which are circulated and reviewed by the Board and management, 
updated as necessary and tabled for approval at the following meeting.

05  
Action lists prepared and updated as key actions are implemented

The Board and each Committee maintain an action list that is reviewed 
at the beginning of each meeting to ensure that Directors’ enquiries 
and concerns are clearly identified and timely addressed.

06  
Further information provided between meetings

Between Board meetings, Directors receive flash reports with monthly 
and year-to-date production and financial results, ensuring that the 
Board is regularly updated on the Group’s progress. The Board also 
receives a detailed operations report every six months which provides 
a detailed explanation of the Group’s health and safety and operational 
performance in the different areas within the business. 

Where appropriate, Directors may receive general information on the 
commodity markets and additional reports highlighting key 
developments in the Group’s exploration, projects, business 
development and innovation activities.

The Group’s management team, led by Iván Arriagada, performs an 
essential role in ensuring that the Board has the information required 
to make effective decisions, reporting in real time on the 
implementation of the Group’s strategy and the Company’s 
performance.

Antofagasta plc  Annual Report 2023

125

Board activities

Board oversight in 2023

During 2023, the Board provided oversight on the pursuit of the Group’s strategy, addressed 
critical issues in a timely manner and advised management on the development of strategic 
priorities and plans, while seeking to align these with the values of the Group and stakeholders’ 
best interests.

Our strategic framework
The Board has strengthened our commitment to Developing Mining for a Better Future as the purpose that mobilises us and gives meaning to 
everything we do.

We are an international mining Company focused on copper and its by-products, known for our operating efficiency, creation of sustainable value, 
high profitability and as a preferred partner in the global mining industry.

We want to generate a diverse and inclusive culture, with key values shared by all. We have a Code of Ethics and our own way of doing things, 
while responsibly managing our risks. To achieve this, we rely on the talent and capabilities of our workforce. Our flexible and resilient 
organisation allows us to overcome current and future challenges.

Below are examples of how the Board’s activities in 2023 have furthered the Group’s strategy.

Read more about our strategic 
framework on page 22.

Culture

Internal controls, risk management and compliance

•  Monitored operational and projects performance and its link with the 

Group’s culture, particularly concerning health and safety.

•  Oversaw the continued implementation of the Group’s strategic 
framework, including the Group’s purpose, vision, values and 
culture.

•  Reviewed the Group’s principal and emerging risks; conducted the 
annual review of the Group’s risk appetite statements, which are 
aligned with the Group’s strategic pillars and approved amendments 
to risk appetite declarations.

•  Reviewed and updated the Group’s risk matrix, materialised risks 

•  Monitored progress on the implementation of the Group’s Diversity 

and risk mitigation activities.

and Inclusion Strategy. 

•  Reviewed budgets for initiatives designed to mitigate material 

•  Reviewed workforce engagement survey results. 
•  Received feedback on meetings with representatives of the Group’s 

labour unions.

Governance and engagement

identified risks.

•  Reviewed physical and transition risks associated with climate 

change and incorporated their impact as a sensitivity to the Group’s 
Base Case and Development Case.

•  Attested to the effectiveness of the Group’s risk management and 

•  Reviewed Board and Executive Committee succession plans. 

internal control systems. 

• 

Interviewed potential future Board candidates.

•  Reviewed Directors’ independence and skills on the Board.
•  Reviewed Directors’ conflict of interest declarations.
•  Oversaw the 2023 Board and Committees internal effectiveness 

review.

•  Reviewed actions planned for 2024 to prepare for the UK 

Government’s corporate governance reforms.

•  Reviewed half-yearly compliance reports.
•  Reviewed results of the Group’s whistleblowing processes.
•  Reviewed Internal Audit’s progress on audits planned for 2023 and 

•  Monitored feedback from investors and proxy agencies regarding 

approved the 2024 audit plan. 

the Group’s corporate governance arrangements.

•  Reviewed and approved the Company’s Modern Slavery Act 

statement. 

•  Oversaw plans designed to ensure a smooth transition from PwC to 
Deloitte as the new external auditor for the 2024 financial year 
onwards. 

Financial and performance reporting

•  Approved the Group’s 2022 full-year and 2023 half-year results 

and corresponding announcements.

•  Recommended and declared dividends paid to shareholders during 

2023.

•  Reviewed and approved going concern and viability statements, 

including stress tests.

Further information relating to these matters and how the Board had regard to the stakeholders and matters set out in s. 172(1) of the Companies 
Act 2006 are set out on pages 128-129.

126

Antofagasta plc  Annual Report 2023

CORPORATE GOVERNANCEOur strategy is designed to enable us to achieve our purpose. It is supported by five pillars: safety 
and sustainability, people, competitiveness, innovation and growth and each has defined short- 
and medium-term goals.

 Safety and Sustainability

The health and safety of our employees and contractors is our first priority. We are committed to achieving zero fatalities at our operations 
and continuing to reduce the number and seriousness of accidents and occupational health issues. We view sustainability as a source of value 
creation that is central to our decision-making processes.

•  Reviewed and monitored the Group’s health and safety performance.
•  Reviewed the Group’s compliance with its environmental commitments.
•  Monitored the Group’s implementation of its Climate Change Strategy.
•  Reviewed the implementation of water conservation and efficiency measures at 
Los Pelambres, addressing the water shortage generated by a 14-year drought.

•  Continued to monitor independent reviews of the safety of the Group’s tailings 
storage facilities and assessed it versus industry best practice and the ICMM’s 
GISTM standard.

•  Continued to monitor the Group’s community engagement model including the 

Somos Choapa programme at Los Pelambres.

•  Assessed progress in the renewal of key water extraction and mining permits at 

Zaldívar.

 People

People are central to our business. We want our employees to feel recognised and to maximise their opportunities for personal and 
professional growth. We seek to generate a culture of diversity and inclusion which allows our employees to achieve their full potential. Our 
goal is to be the best employer in the Chilean mining industry. To achieve this, we understand the importance of creating an environment of 
trust and collaboration focused on the long-term.

•  Continued to oversee the implementation of the “New Ways of Working” 
initiatives to facilitate flexible on-site, home-based and hybrid working 
arrangements, with the goal of creating a more flexible, adaptable and resilient 
organisation.

•  Reviewed the results of employee engagement surveys.
•  Reviewed the annual talent management exercise, including succession plans for 

Directors, the CEO and the Executive Committee.

•  Reviewed employee performance, including the Company’s short-term and 

long-term incentive scorecards.

•  Monitored progress on the implementation of the Group’s Diversity and Inclusion 
Strategy with the goal for women to represent 30% of the workforce by the end 
of 2025.

•  Monitored labour relations at the Group’s mining and transport operations and 

reviewed results of collective bargaining negotiations, which were completed in 
an atmosphere of respect and trust.

•  Monitored progress of the annual Human Resources plan.
•  Reviewed development of the 2023 Directors’ and CEO’s Remuneration Policy, 

which was approved by shareholders at the 2023 AGM.

 Competitiveness

Competitiveness is based on productivity gains, controlling costs and streamlining our processes.

•  Monitored results of the Group’s Cost and Competitiveness Programme, 

including estimated future savings.

•  Approved key procurement and sales contracts.
•  Reviewed and monitored the Group’s operating and financial performance.

•  Reviewed the impact of the new mining royalty in Chile.
•  Monitored the impact of the new Chilean law on economic and environmental 

crimes. 

•  Reviewed actions taken to enhance cyber security. 
•  Reviewed and approved the Group’s 2024 budget.

 Innovation

We innovate as a means of improving social, environmental and economic performance while delivering strong returns for our shareholders. 
Innovation is key to improving productivity and efficiency and promoting growth, especially in the medium and longer term.

•  Oversaw progress on the Group’s innovation portfolio, including operational and 

•  Reviewed and approved Centinela’s in-pit tailings deposition project which aims 

data analytics initiatives.

to allow for tailings deposition in pits no longer in use.

•  Reviewed progress on the implementation of the Group’s digital transformation 

•  Reviewed the potential application of the Group’s proprietary Cuprochlor®-T 

programme.

primary sulphide leach technology.

•  Monitored progress on Centinela’s and Los Pelambres’ integrated remote 

•  Reviewed an independent assessment of the Group’s innovation maturity, 

operations centres.

 Growth

evaluating strategy, governance, impact, innovation and visibility. 

We have a portfolio of growth projects that allows us to remain competitive by developing sustainable operations over the long term.

•  Approved the acquisition of a 19% interest in Compañía de Minas Buenaventura 

S.A.A., Peru’s largest publicly traded precious and base metals company.

•  Reviewed progress on the Los Pelambres Expansion project.
•  Reviewed progress on Phase 2 of the Los Pelambres Expansion project.
•  Approved the execution of the Centinela Second Concentrator project. 
•  Reviewed Zaldívar’s permitting strategy to extend its water extraction permit 

beyond 2025. 

•  Monitored actions to advance alternatives at the Twin Metals project in 

Minnesota. 

•  Reviewed business development and exploration opportunities and activities. 
•  Reviewed progress on the Group’s material Environmental Impact Assessments.
•  Reviewed and approved the divestment of mining properties in Chile that are not 

considered sufficiently prospective for future exploitation by the Company.

•  Reviewed and approved the Group’s long-term price assumptions and 

commercial parameters.

•  Reviewed and approved the base case and development case for the Group’s 

assets, including a sensitivity for climate change effects.

•  Reviewed the Group’s mineral resources and ore reserves statement.

Antofagasta plc  Annual Report 2023

127

Stakeholder engagement

Stakeholder engagement to 
ensure delivery of our purpose

The Group maintains ongoing dialogue with stakeholders to understand their expectations and 
concerns, and their views are carefully considered in the Board’s deliberations. A description of 
the Group’s key stakeholders, their importance to the Group’s long-term sustainable success and 
the key initiatives that are in place to recognise their interests and concerns, is set out in detail 
within the Strategic Report on pages 1-117.

Further details on the Board’s workforce engagement mechanisms are set out on pages 130-131.

Examples of key Board decisions in 2023 are provided here as 
examples of how stakeholder considerations, and the factors set out  
in section 172(1) of the Companies Act 2006, were central to the 
decision-making processes. The Board took into account the different 
interests of stakeholders but with an overarching focus, as required by 
section 172(1), on acting in a way that would be most likely to promote 
the success of the Company for the benefit of its members as a whole. 
The likely long-term consequences of each decision were, among 
other things, key considerations for the Board.

•  The Board also had regard to the impact of the project on the 
community and the environment, securing a long term power 
contract that ensures 100% electricity supply from renewable 
sources, committing to the use of raw sea water and overseeing 
the decision to use high-pressure grinding rolls which are 
expected to reduce energy consumption. The project will leverage 
more than 20 years of operational experience, utilizing existing 
infrastructure and building on long-established relationships with 
Centinela’s local communities.

Centinela Second Concentrator Project
The Board has ultimate responsibility for the Group’s growth strategy 
and objectives. The pursuit of robust economic growth options 
embedded in the large mineral resources of our first-tier sites is a key 
pillar of this strategy. In December 2023, after extensive review, the 
Board approved the Company’s investment in the Centinela Second 
Concentrator Project.

This brownfield expansion project is an investment of $4.4 billion to 
construct an additional concentrator at Centinela, which will effectively 
double the sulphide ore processing capacity at this operation, adding 
an average of 170,000 tonnes of copper-equivalent production to the 
Company’s portfolio.1 It is envisaged that construction will take 
approximately three years, and the Board has overseen the 
arrangement of a financing package that comprises a direct funding 
component from the project’s shareholders (being Antofagasta plc  
and Marubeni Corporation) and project finance provided by lenders.

Critical path activities commenced following the project’s approval, 
with full construction commencing after the execution of definitive 
project finance documents during Q1 2024.

How the Board considered, and had regard to, the interests  
of key stakeholders and the requirements of section 172(1)

The Board has monitored closely the advancement of this project, 
considering the likely consequences of this decision on the long-term 
interests of the Company’s shareholders and the Group’s employees 
and contractors, suppliers, customers and other business partners.

• 

In making this decision, the Board had regard to the need to foster 
the Group’s business relationships with the workforce that will work 
to construct the project, the local and international suppliers from 
who will deliver the products required for construction, customers, 
including off-takers who have committed to acquire the copper 
concentrate that will be produced once the project has been 
completed and the group of international lenders who have signed 
a $2.5bn term loan to facilitate the construction of this project.

1.  Average over the first ten years of production.

128

Antofagasta plc  Annual Report 2023

Updated decarbonisation strategy and emissions 
reduction targets
The Company met its previous emissions reduction target in 2022. 
This was predominantly achieved by contracting renewable power  
at all of the Group’s operations and facilitating a material reduction  
in Scope 2 emissions. Following this achievement, the Board oversaw 
work to develop a detailed decarbonisation pathway in 2023.  
This work included the establishment of the relevant team within  
the organisation, to review the Group’s existing emissions footprint, 
understand modern technologies that may be relevant in reducing 
emissions, and mapping a pathway to carbon neutrality.

As a result of the work carried out in 2023, the Board approved new 
carbon emission reduction targets that were published in February 
2024, with the Company’s detailed decarbonisation plan expected to 
be announced in the first half of 2024.

The new targets set cover Scope 1, 2 and 3 emissions of greenhouse 
gases, and the publication of updated targets follows the publication of 
the Company’s inaugural Scope 3 emissions estimate in 2023. For 
Scope 1 and 2 emissions combined, the Company is targeting a 50% 
reduction in its absolute emissions by 2035, which factor into account 
the Company’s planned increase in production during this time and 
using 2020 as the baseline year. In relation to Scope 3 emissions, the 
Company has set a target of a 10% reduction by 2030, with this 
reduction on a projected basis.

How the Board considered, and had regard to, the interests of key 
stakeholders and the requirements of section 172(1)

Combatting climate change is an integrated part of Antofagasta’s 
strategy and the decision to approve new emissions reduction targets 
considered the broad impact that climate change could have on the 
long-term success of the Company. The effects of climate change on 
the environment in Chile are clear, with changing environmental 
conditions and water availability key concerns, and therefore the Board 
understands the need to continue to build climate resilience into its 
business model and activities.

CORPORATE GOVERNANCEInvestment in Compañía de Minas Buenaventura 
S.A.A. (“Buenaventura”)
During 2023, the Board oversaw the approval by a wholly owned 
subsidiary of the acquisition of a 19% interest in Compañía de Minas 
Buenaventura S.A.A. (“Buenaventura”). Buenaventura is Peru’s 
largest, publicly traded precious and base metals company and a major 
holder of mining rights in Peru. 

This investment, which complements the Group’s exploration 
activities in recent years and significantly increases the Company’s 
exposure to Peru’s highly prospective geology, was made in line with 
the Company’s strategy of prioritising exploration and investment in 
the Americas.

How the Board considered, and had regard to, the interests  
of key stakeholders and the requirements of section 172(1)

The Board has ultimate responsibility for the Group’s growth strategy 
and objectives. This strategy considers both organic and inorganic 
growth opportunities. Growth is understood to be a key priority of  
a number of stakeholders, with value accretive growth an enabler  
for the Company to achieve its purpose.

Inorganic growth, which is growth in the Company’s asset base through 
investments outside of the existing portfolio of assets, is considered on 
a case by case basis as to whether it would provide additional value, 
either financial or strategic, over the cost of acquisition.

The Company’s strategy has been to consider opportunities focused 
on copper (and its by-products) in the Americas, with a particular 
focus on Chile, Peru, the United States and Canada, as these are 
locations that are highly attractive due to their geological potential, 
mining activity, relative proximity, political and administrative 
similarities, culture and language. The Board’s oversight of this 
decision involved a close consideration of the likely consequences in 
the long term. It was considered that this investment would help 
deliver value to the Company’s stakeholders through geographical 
diversification, an increase in the Company’s footprint in Peru’s 
prospective geology, and exposure to a range of prospective projects 
at different development stages.

The Board will continue to evaluate opportunities to deliver value  
to all stakeholders.

• 

In developing these targets, the Board was regularly updated on the 
views, expectations and challenges facing the local communities 
near our operations, suppliers and customers to understand the 
current and future impact of climate change on these stakeholders 
and their own capabilities, objectives, capacity and and ambitions  
to address this global challenge.

•  The Board considered the specific actions that would allow these 
emissions reduction targets to be achieved and the impact on 
stakeholders including suppliers. 

• 

•  The Senior Independent Director (SID) of the Company hosts a 
roadshow on an annual basis to understand the key concerns 
relating to the governance and strategy of the Company. In 2023, 
the Company’s SID, Francisca Castro, hosted a series of meetings  
in both the United Kingdom and the Republic of Ireland, with 
shareholders and proxy advisers. Feedback from these meetings 
included a clear interest in the Company’s decarbonisation strategy 
and future emissions targets, which was duly reported to the Board.
In setting the strategy of the Company relating to climate change, 
and therefore the scale and scope of emissions targets that are 
selected, the Board considers the expectations of different 
stakeholder groups, with different levels of ambition shown by 
individuals and groups. This is assessed against the practical 
aspects of delivering emissions reduction targets, such as the 
associated costs, availability (and affordability) of relevant 
technologies and relevance in the settings where the Company’s 
operations are located, with a suitable balance required to ensure 
that the Company is responding appropriately to climate change,  
but while also setting itself deliverable goals.

Board oversight of mining royalty and tax reform 
bills in Chile
The Board continued to monitor government proposals relating to the 
mining royalty in Chile, which concluded in August 2023 following 
Presidential approval.

As announced by the Company in August 2023, the terms of the 
revised royalty include a 1% ad valorem royalty on copper sales, and  
a royalty ranging from 8% to 26% on operating profits depending on 
each mining operation’s level of profitability, combined with a provision 
establishing that total taxation (including corporate income, the new 
royalty tax and tax on dividends) should not exceed 46.5% of 
profitability. This new law came into effect at the beginning of 2024. 
Since Centinela and Antucoya have tax stability agreements, the new 
royalty rates will only apply to those operations from 2030.

How the Board considered, and had regard to, the interests  
of key stakeholders and the requirements of section 172(1)

Throughout the process to review and amend the mining royalty  
in Chile, the Board has closely monitored the progress of each 
legislative proposal, with consideration of the likely consequences  
of each proposal on the decisions that the Board makes for the  
long term on the interests of the Company’s shareholders and the 
Group’s employees and contractors, suppliers, customers and other 
business partners.

Following the implementation of the new mining royalty in 2024, and 
the associated increase in the financial burden imposed on mining 
companies in Chile, the Board is continuing to review the fiscal impacts 
of this legislation on the business environment in Chile.

The Board will continue to take the potential impacts on stakeholders 
into account in its broader decision-making.

Antofagasta plc  Annual Report 2023

129

Workforce engagement 

Fostering a positive culture

Mining is a long-term business with decades-long timescales. Our relationships with our 
stakeholders are central to our long-term success and to our purpose of developing mining for 
a better future. The Group’s governance structures ensure that the views and interests of 
stakeholders, including our employees and contractors, are discussed in the boardroom and 
considered as part of the Board’s deliberations.

•  The CEO, the Chief Operations Officer, Vice President of Los 

Pelambres, Vice President of Human Resources, and the General 
Managers and HR Managers of each relevant operation meet with 
union representatives during the year to share relevant information 
and listen to concerns and suggestions, the results of which are 
shared with the Remuneration and Talent Management Committee 
and the Board. 

•  The CEO met with union representatives during 2023, enabling the 
CEO to share business performance and challenges associated with 
the Group’s strategic framework, reinforce shared culture and 
values and listen to concerns and ideas. The purpose of these 
meetings is to foster a collaborative dialogue and working 
environment.

•  Group-wide employee engagement surveys are conducted every 
two or three years. These surveys are conducted by independent 
third parties on behalf of the Group, and the results are reported to 
the Remuneration and Talent Management Committee and the 
Board. Engagement surveys were conducted across the Mining 
Division in 2022, and the results were reviewed with the 
Remuneration and Talent Management Committee and the Board. 
During 2023, the Group conducted a psychosocial survey for all 
employees and the results were reviewed with the Remuneration 
and Talent Management Committee, and in general the risks 
reported for Group employees were considered to be low. The 
results of these activities are overseen by the Executive Committee 
and reported to the Remuneration and Talent Management 
Committee and the Board.

•  The Group’s workforce is encouraged to report any concerns to the 
Ethics Committee through the confidential whistleblowing hotline. 
Reports may be made anonymously. All reports are investigated and 
reported to the Audit and Risk Committee and the Board.

During 2023, the Board applied feedback received from the workforce 
to decisions related to talent retention initiatives, the oversight of 
labour negotiations and the development of the Group’s Diversity and 
Inclusion Strategy.

The Group maintains strong relations with its workforce, based on 
trust, continuous dialogue and favourable working conditions. The 
Board has carefully considered and reviewed the mechanisms in place 
to allow the Board to understand the views of the Group’s workforce. 
Ultimately, the Board has decided not to adopt any of the three 
workforce engagement mechanisms recommended in the UK 
Corporate Governance Code (a Director appointed from the workforce, 
a formal workforce advisory panel or a designated non-executive 
director). The Board considers that adopting any of these mechanisms 
would interfere with the effective, structured and formal combination 
of mechanisms already in place with a highly unionised workforce.

The Group’s workforce comprises 29,705 people, including employees, 
permanent contractors and temporary contractors associated with 
projects. Approximately 25% of the workforce are Group employees 
and 75% are employees of contractor companies. More than 99% of 
the Group’s employees are in Chile, and approximately 61% are based 
in the Antofagasta and Coquimbo Regions of Chile, where the Group’s 
operating companies are located.

Approximately 79% of the Group’s employees are unionised. This 
number is close to 100% at the operator level. The Group maintains 
ongoing dialogue with labour unions and key issues are raised with, 
and discussed by, the Remuneration and Talent Management 
Committee and the Board.

The Group has established control mechanisms to ensure that 
contractor companies’, whose employees are often members of their 
own labour unions, meet the Group’s standards and guidelines on 
labour, environmental and social and ethical matters and adopt good 
practices with regard to safe workplaces and the quality of 
employment. Contractors’ employees receive the same minimum 
protections as the Group’s employees under Chilean labour law and 
the Group requires contractors to pay their employees ethical wages 
– which as of December 2023 were 35% higher than the Chilean 
legal minimum – and to provide other basic benefits, including life 
and health insurance. These protections are subject to regular audits 
by independent third parties to ensure full compliance with these 
standards.

Below is a selection of the workforce engagement mechanisms that 
the Board currently has in place:

•  Directors regularly visit the Group’s operations either individually or 
in small groups throughout the year and engage informally with the 
workforce and other parties to gauge overall workforce culture. 
Impressions and views arising from these visits are reported to the 
Board and its Committees, and related questions are raised with the 
management team. 

•  Labour relations matters, proposed labour negotiation limits and 
feedback from labour negotiations are reported directly to the 
Remuneration and Talent Management Committee and the Board 
throughout the year as a key part of the CEO’s general updates to 
the Board.

130

Antofagasta plc  Annual Report 2023

CORPORATE GOVERNANCE29,705

Total workforce

99%

Live in Chile

61%

Live in the Antofagasta  
and Coquimbo Regions

Antofagasta plc  Annual Report 2023

131

Directors’ biographies

Board of Directors

Biographical details for each Director are set out on the following pages. All Directors have 
confirmed that their other commitments do not prevent them from devoting sufficient time to their 
roles and the Board acknowledges that the skills and experience gained by the Directors from 
these external appointments are of benefit to the Group. Additional external appointments cannot 
be undertaken without the prior approval of the Board. The Directors’ attendance at regular and 
ad hoc meetings held throughout the year demonstrated their commitment.

KEY TO COMMITTEES

ANTOFAGASTA PLC DIRECTORS’ BOARD MEETING ATTENDANCE

  Nomination and Governance

  Audit and Risk

   Sustainability and Stakeholder 
Management

  Projects
  Remuneration and Talent Management

  Committee Chair

  Chairman of the Board

Jean-Paul Luksic

Francisca Castro

Ramón Jara

Juan Claro

Andrónico Luksic C

Vivianne Blanlot

Jorge Bande

Number attended

Number attended

10/10

10/10

10/10

10/10

7/10

10/10

10/10

Michael Anglin

Tony Jensen
Eugenia Parot
Heather Lawrence

10/10

10/10
10/10
6/6

Heather Lawrence joined the Board on 18 April 2023.
Jorge Bande retired from the Board on 31 December 2023. 
Tracey Kerr joined the Board on 29 January 2024.

1

5

2

6

3

7

4

8

9

10

11

132

Antofagasta plc  Annual Report 2023

CORPORATE GOVERNANCE1 Jean-Paul Luksic 

Chairman

Independent: No

Appointed to the Board: 1990

Appointed Chairman: 2004 
(Non-Executive since 2014)

Over 30 years’ experience with 
Antofagasta, including responsibility for 
overseeing development of the Los 
Pelambres and El Tesoro (Centinela 
Cathodes) mines

Current positions

•  Member of the Board of Consejo 

Minero

•  Non-Executive Director of Quiñenco 

SA and Quiñenco group listed 
companies Banco de Chile and 
Sociedad Matriz SAAM SA

•  Member of the Board of Centro de 
Estudios Públicos, a not-for-profit 
academic foundation in Chile

Previous roles

•  Chairman of Consejo Minero, the 

industry body representing the largest 
mining companies in Chile

•  CEO of the Group’s Mining division

2 Francisca Castro 

Non-Executive Director

Independent: Yes

Appointed to the Board: 2016

Commercial engineer with over 25 
years’ experience in industry, including 
mining, energy, finance and public/
private infrastructure projects in the 
United States and Chile

Current positions

•  Member of the Chilean Pension Funds 

Risk Classification Committee

•  Director of SalfaCorp SA
•  Director of the Fraunhofer Chile 

• 

Research Foundation
Independent Director of Conexión 
Kimal-Lo Aguirre S.A., a power 
transmission Company in Chile

Previous roles

•  Executive Vice-President of Business 

and Subsidiaries at Codelco

•  General Co-ordinator of Concessions 
at Chile’s Ministry of Public Works
•  Various roles within Chile’s Finance 

Ministry and the World Bank, 
Washington DC

•  Member of the independent Technical 

Panel of Chile’s Public Works 
Concessions

3 Ramón Jara

Non-Executive Director

Independent: No

Appointed to the Board: 2003

Lawyer with considerable legal and 
commercial experience in Chile

Current positions

•  Chairman of Fundación Minera Los 
Pelambres (charitable foundation)
•  Director of Fundación Educacional 

Luksic (charitable foundation)

•  Member of the Advisory Council of 
Centro de Estudios Públicos, a 
not-for-profit academic foundation in 
Chile

•  Member of the Board of the Centre of 
Arbitration of the Chilean Chamber of 
Commerce

•  Chairman of the Chile Australia 
Business Committee and Vice 
Chairman of the Chile Japan Business 
Committee of Sociedad de Fomento 
Fabril (Chilean Industrial Council)

•  Member of the APEC Business 

Advisory Council (ABAC)

Previous roles

•  Partner, Jara del Favero Abogados
•  Director of Empresa Nacional del 

Petróleo (ENAP)

•  Vice President, SONAMI (National 

Mining Association)

4 Juan Claro

Non-Executive Director

Independent: No

Appointed to the Board: 2005

Extensive industrial experience in Chile, 
including an active role representing 
Chilean industrial interests nationally 
and internationally

Current positions

•  Chairman of Coca-Cola Andina SA 
•  Director of Melón SA and 

Agrosuper SA

•  Member of the Board of Centro de 
Estudios Públicos, a not-for-profit 
academic foundation in Chile
•  Country Adviser, Goldman Sachs

Previous roles

•  Chairman of Energía Coyanco SA
•  Chairman of the Sociedad de 

Fomento Fabril (Chilean Industrial 
Council)

•  Chairman of the Confederación de la 
Producción y del Comercio (Chilean 
Business Confederation)

•  Chairman of the Consejo Binacional 
de Negocios Chile-China (Council for 
Bilateral Chile-China Business)

5 Andrónico Luksic C 

Non-Executive Director

Independent: No

Appointed to the Board: 2013

Extensive experience across a range of 
business sectors throughout Chile, 
Latin America and Europe

Current positions

•  Member of the International Business 
Leaders’ Advisory Council for the 
Mayor of Shanghai; the Chairman’s 
International Advisory Council at the 
Council of the Americas; the Global 
Board of Advisors at the Council of 
Foreign Relations; and the Brookings 
Institution’s International Advisory 
Council

Previous roles

•  Director of Nexans SA, a Company 
listed on Euronext Paris and part 
owned by Quiñenco SA

•  Chairman of Quiñenco SA and 

Compañía Cervecerías Unidas SA, 
and Vice Chairman of Banco de Chile 
and Compañía Sudamericana de 
Vapores SA, all of which are listed 
companies in the Quiñenco group

6 Vivianne Blanlot 

Non-Executive Director

Independent: No (since 27 March 
2023)

Appointed to the Board: 2014

Economist with extensive experience 
in public and private energy, mining, 
water and environmental sectors in 
Chile

Current position

•  Director of Colbún SA, an energy 

company listed in Chile

Previous roles

•  Executive Director of the Comisión 

Nacional de Medio Ambiente (Chile’s 
Environmental Agency)

•  Undersecretary of the Comisión 

Nacional de Energía (Chile’s National 
Energy Commission)

•  Chile’s Minister of Defence
•  Director of Scotiabank Chile 
•  Director of Empresas CMPC SA, a 

pulp, paper and packaging Company 
listed in Chile

•  Director of Instituto Chileno de 

Administración Racional de Empresas 
(ICARE), a business think tank in Chile

•  Member of Consejo para la 

Transparencia (Transparency 
Council), the Chilean body responsible 
for enforcing transparency in the 
public sector

7 Michael Anglin

Non-Executive Director

Independent: Yes

Appointed to the Board: 2019

Mining engineer with over 30 years’ 
experience in base metals, including 
the development, construction and 
operation of large-scale mining 
operations in the Americas.

Current positions

•  Lead Independent Director of 

SSR Mining Inc

•  Adviser to IntelliSense.io

Previous roles

•  Vice President Operations and Chief 
Operating Officer of BHP Base Metals

•  Director of EmberClear Corp
•  Director of Tulla Resources, Australia

8 Tony Jensen

Non-Executive Director

Independent: Yes

Appointed to the Board: 2020

Mining engineer with over 35 years’ 
mining experience in the United States 
and Chile in operational, financial, 
business development and 
management roles.

Current positions

•  Director of Black Hills Corporation

Previous roles

•  Director of Golden Star Resources 

Limited

•  President, CEO and Director of Royal 

Gold Inc

•  Mine General Manager of the Cortez 

joint venture in Nevada and in 

treasury, business development and a 
wide range of other operating roles 
with Placer Dome in the USA and 
Chile

•  Member of the University Advisory 

Board for the South Dakota School of 
Mines and Technology

9 Eugenia Parot

Non-Executive Director

Independent: Yes

Appointed to the Board: 2021

Civil biochemical engineer with over 35 
years’ experience, working for leading 
engineering and consulting companies 
providing services to some of the 
largest mining projects in Latin 
America in the areas of environment, 
sustainability and mine waste 
management. 

Previous roles

•  Vice President of Latin America, 

Regional President for South America 
and Managing Director for Chile, 
Golder Associates

•  Director on Golder’s holding Company 
board and member of the Audit and 
Finance and Investments Committees. 

•  Member of the Boards of Golder 
South America, Chile, Peru and 
Argentina.

10 Heather Lawrence

Non-Executive Director

Independent: Yes

Appointed to the Board: 2023

Qualified chartered accountant with 
over a decade working in senior roles 
within corporate finance and 
investment banking, with particular 
experience across industrial and 
transportation businesses.

Current positions

•  Non-executive director and audit 
committee chair of Melrose 
Industries plc

Previous roles

•  Non-executive director of Wizz Air 

Holdings

•  Non-executive director and audit 

committee chair of FlyBe Group plc

11 Tracey Kerr

Non-Executive Director

Independent: Yes

Appointed to the Board: 2024

Geophysicist with extensive experience 
in safety, sustainability, operations and 
exploration in global mining businesses.

Current positions

•  Non-executive director at Hochschild 

Mining plc

•  Non-executive director at Jubilee 

Metals Group plc

•  Non-executive director at Weir 

Group plc

Previous roles

•  Non-executive director at Polymetal 

International Plc

•  Senior Executive at major mining 

companies including Anglo American, 
Vale and BHP

Antofagasta plc  Annual Report 2023

133

 
 
Board balance and skills

A balance of skills 
and experience

The Board comprises 11 Directors with a broad and complementary set of technical skills, 
educational and professional experience, nationalities, personalities, cultures and perspectives.

Board balance

Independence1

Gender diversity2

Tenure

Nationality3

Chairman 

Independent

Non-Independent

Male 

Female

1

6

4

6

5

0-5 years

6-10 years

11+ years

5

3

3

UK

Australia

USA

Chile

1

1

2

7

1.  The Board reviews the independence of Directors annually. The Board has carefully 
considered the independence of all Directors and is satisfied that Francisca Castro, 
Michael Anglin, Tony Jensen, Eugenia Parot, Heather Lawrence and Tracey Kerr 
continue to be independent in character and judgement and that there are no 
relationships or circumstances that are likely to affect, or could appear to affect, their 
judgement. Further details are provided on page 135.

2.  Further details on the Board’s diversity policy can be found on pages 141-143.

3.  The Company has met the Parker Review target and in 2023 more than half the Board 
identified as being from an ethnic minority background according to the criteria in the 
Parker Review survey, as shown on page 143. As noted throughout this Annual Report, 
the Group’s footprint is primarily in Chile, where ethnicity profiles and representation in 
society differ significantly from those in the UK. Nevertheless, the Board recognises that 
the mining industry is international, and therefore the Board includes several Directors 
from outside Chile in support of its vision and strategy.

Board skills matrix

Director1

Jean-Paul Luksic

Francisca Castro

Ramón Jara

Juan Claro

Andrónico Luksic C

Vivianne Blanlot

Michael Anglin 

Tony Jensen 

Eugenia Parot

Heather Lawrence

Tracey Kerr

e
c
n
e
i
r
e
p
x
e
O
E
C













e
c
n
e
d
n
e
p
e
d
n
I













s
n
o
i
t
a
r
e
p
o

i

g
n
n
M

i

e
c
n
e
i
r
e
p
x
e

y
r
t
s
u
d
n

i

i

g
n
n
M

i

















e
c
n
a
n
r
e
v
o
g

d
r
a
o
B























l

a
i
c
n
a
n
F

i

















2
g
n
i
t
n
u
o
c
c
A

r
o

l

a
g
e
L

n
o
i
t
a
s
n
e
p
m
o
c

e
v
i
t
u
c
e
x
E

n
a
c
i
r
e
m
A
n
i
t
a
L

e
c
n
e
i
r
e
p
x
e













































t
n
e
m
e
g
a
n
a
m

t
c
e
j
o
r
P













t
e
k
r
a
m
K
U







3
y
t
i
l
i
b
a
n
i
a
t
s
u
S















e
c
n
e
i
r
e
p
x
e

y
g
r
e
n
E











t
n
e
m
n
r
e
v
o
G

s
n
o
i
t
a
e
r

l



















n
o
i
t
a
c
i
n
u
m
m
o
C

















1.  Heather Lawrence joined the Board in April 2023, Jorge Bande retired from the Board in December 2023 and Tracey Kerr joined the Board in January 2024.
2.  Ramón Jara is a Lawyer. Heather Lawrence is a Chartered Accountant.
3.  Directors considered to have sustainability skills have self-certified that they are, or have been, responsible for sustainability as an executive or as a member of a sustainability committee 

of a board. This includes competence on climate-related issues.

134

Antofagasta plc  Annual Report 2023

CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Roles in the boardroom

Board and senior management’s 
roles and responsibilities

The Group’s CEO, Iván Arriagada, is not a Director, reflecting the law and practice in Chile.1 Despite this, interaction between the 
Board and executive management is as you would expect between Non-Executive Directors and management in a typical UK-listed 
Company. The Board considers that there are considerable benefits associated with having a Board of exclusively Non-Executive 
Directors; it provides a broad range of perspectives and encourages robust debate with, and independent oversight of, the Group’s 
executive management.

Non-Executive Chairman

Jean-Paul Luksic

Leads the Board and ensures its 
effectiveness overall.

•  Promotes the highest standards of integrity, 

probity and corporate governance.
•  Sets the agenda for Board meetings in 

consultation with the Senior Independent 
Director, CEO and the Company Secretary.
•  Chairs meetings and ensures that there is 
adequate time for discussion of all agenda 
items, focusing on strategic, rather than 
routine, issues.

•  Promotes a culture of openness and debate 
within the Board by facilitating constructive 
Board relations and the effective 
contribution of all Directors.

•  Oversees Director induction, development 

and performance reviews.

•  Leads relations with shareholders, including 

the Group’s controlling shareholders.

Ramón Jara
Juan Claro
Andrónico Luksic C
Vivianne Blanlot4

Provide a range of outside perspectives to 
the Group and encourage robust debate 
with, and challenge of, the Group’s 
executive management.

•  The Board does not consider these 

Directors to be independent because they 
do not meet one or more of the 
independence criteria set out in the UK 
Corporate Governance Code.

•  Ensure that no individual or small group of 

individuals can dominate the Board’s 
decision-making.

Independent Non-Executive 
Directors2

CEO

Iván Arriagada

Francisca Castro 
Michael Anglin
Tony Jensen
Eugenia Parot
Heather Lawrence
Tracey Kerr

Ensure that no individual or small group of 
individuals can dominate the Board’s 
decision-making.

•  Meet the independence criteria set out in 
the UK Corporate Governance Code.2 
•  Have no connection with the Group or any 
other Director which could be perceived to 
compromise independence.

•  Provide a range of outside perspectives to 
the Group and encourage robust debate 
with, and challenge of, the Group’s 
executive management.

Leads the implementation of the Group’s 
strategy set by the Board.

•  Manages the overall operations and 

resources of the Group.

•  Leads the Executive Committee and 

ensures its effectiveness in all aspects 
of its duties.

•  Provides information and makes 

recommendations to the Board regarding 
the Group’s day-to-day activities and 
long-term plans.

Executive Committee members
Present proposals, recommendations and 
information to the Board within their areas 
of responsibility.

•  Support the CEO in the implementation of 
the Group’s strategy set by the Board.

Company Secretary

Julian Anderson

Provides a sounding Board for the Chairman 
and supports the Chairman in the delivery of 
his objectives as required.

Ensures that Directors have access to the 
information they need to perform their 
roles.

•  Where necessary, acts as an intermediary 
between the Chairman and the other 
members of the Board or the CEO.

•  Acts as an additional point of contact for 
shareholders, focusing on the Group’s 
governance and strategy, and gives 
shareholders an alternative means of 
raising concerns other than with the 
Chairman or senior management. 

•  Provides a conduit between Board and its 
Committees and a link between the Board 
and management.

•  Advises the Board on corporate 

governance and supports the Board in 
applying the UK Corporate Governance 
Code and complying with the UK listing 
regime and obligations.

Non-Executive Directors3

Senior Independent Director

Francisca Castro

The division of responsibilities between the Chairman, the CEO, and the Senior Independent Director is available on the Company’s website at antofagasta.co.uk.

1.  Chilean law prohibits CEOs of listed companies from being Directors of those companies. 
The CEO and CFO attend all Board meetings. The CEO also attends all Board Committee 
meetings and there is regular formal and informal dialogue between management and 
the Board.

2.  The Board reviews the independence of Directors annually. The Board has carefully 
considered the independence of all Directors and is satisfied that Francisca Castro, 
Mike Anglin, Tony Jensen, Eugenia Parot, Heather Lawrence and Tracey Kerr continue 
to be independent in character and judgement and that there are no relationships 
or circumstances that are likely to affect, or could appear to affect, their judgement.

3.  Ramón Jara provides advisory services to the Group. Andrónico Luksic C is the brother 
of Jean-Paul Luksic, the Chairman of the Company, and until 31 December 2023 served 
as Chairman of Quiñenco SA and Chairman or Director of certain of Quiñenco’s other 
listed subsidiaries. Jean-Paul Luksic is a Non-Executive Director of Quiñenco and some 
of its listed subsidiaries. Like Antofagasta plc, Quiñenco is controlled by a foundation in 
which members of the Luksic family are interested. Ramón Jara, Juan Claro and Vivianne 
Blanlot have served on the Board for more than nine years from the date of their first 
election. 

4.  Vivianne Blanlot was an independent Non-Executive Director until 27 March 2023, the 

ninth anniversary of her appointment to the Board.

Antofagasta plc  Annual Report 2023

135

Executive Committee biographies

Members of the Executive 
Committee

IVÁN ARRIAGADA
CEO appointed in 2016

OCTAVIO ARANEDA
COO appointed in 2023

MAURICIO ORTIZ
CFO appointed in 2020

Joined the Group in 2015

Joined the Group in 2023

Joined the Group in 2015

•  Commercial engineer and 

•  Mining engineer with a Master’s 

Degree in Minerals Economics with 
more than 30 years’ experience in 
the mining industry

Previous roles

•  CEO of Codelco
•  Operations Vice President 

(Center-South and North) at 
Codelco, General Manager El 
Teniente Division of Codelco

economist with more than 30 
years’ international experience in 
the mining and oil and gas 
industries

Previous roles

•  Chief Financial Officer of Codelco
•  Various positions over six years at 

BHP Base Metals, including 
President of Pampa Norte (Spence 
and Cerro Colorado), Vice President 
Operations and Chief Financial 
Officer of the Base Metals division
•  Almost 15 years’ experience with 
Shell in Chile, the United Kingdom, 
Argentina and the United States

•  Electrical engineer with two Master 
of Sciences degrees (Metals and 
Energy Finance and Electrical 
Engineering) and 15 years’ 
experience in the energy, mining 
and railway industries

Previous roles

•  General Manager of FCAB 

(Transport division)

•  Business Development Manager 

of Antofagasta Minerals

GEORGEANNE BARCELÓ
Vice President of People and 
Organisation appointed in 2022

Joined the Group in 2021

•  Human resources specialist with a 
degree in Law and a Master’s 
degree in Strategic Human 
Resources Management and more 
than 20 years’ experience in 
international and national companies 
across a range of sectors, including 
insurance and industry

Previous roles

•  Labour Relations Manager of 

•  Finance Manager at Codelco – 

Antofagasta Minerals

Chuquicamata

•  Corporate Director of People at 

•  Business Development Principal 

Bupa Chile

at Rio Tinto plc, London

•  Human Resources Vice President 

•  Various operating project roles at BHP

at Komatsu Latin America

GONZALO SÁNCHEZ
Vice President of Sales 
appointed in 2004

JORGE BERMÚDEZ
Vice President of Projects 
appointed in 2024

Joined the Group in 1996

Joined the Group in 2024

KATHARINA JENNY
General Manager – FCAB 
(Transport division) appointed 
in 2019

MAURICIO LARRAÍN
Vice President of Planning and 
Technical Services appointed in 
2023

•  Civil engineer with over 25 years’ 

•  Mining engineer with over 40 

Joined the Group in 2016

Joined the Group in 2017

experience in marketing and metals 
hedging

Previous roles

•  Deputy Commercial Director of 

Antofagasta Minerals
•  Copper sales at Codelco

years’ experience in open pit and 
underground mining and 
engineering 

Previous roles

•  COO Latin America & Caribbean at 
Canadian consulting firm WSP 
Global

•  VP & GM M&M Americas at 

American international technical 
professional services firm Jacobs 
•  Numerous roles over 20 years at 

Fluor Corporation

•  Mining engineer and MBA, with 

over 15 years’ experience in mining

Previous roles

•  Civil mining engineer and Master of 
Sciences (Mineral Economics) with 
over 25 years’ experience in mining

•  Health and safety Manager at 

Previous roles

Antofagasta Minerals

•  Vice President of Northern 

•  Productivity and Costs Manager, 
and Safety Manager at Codelco
•  Various roles at BHP, including 
mine planning, health and safety 
and environment 

Operations

•  General Manager of Los Pelambres
•  General Manager at Codelco’s El 

Teniente Division

•  Operations Manager at El Teniente
•  Mine Planning Corporate Manager 

of Codelco

•  Various positions at Codelco and 

Los Pelambres

136

Antofagasta plc  Annual Report 2023

CORPORATE GOVERNANCEMembers of the Executive Committee that do not report directly to the CEO

PATRICIO ENEI
Vice President of Legal 
appointed in 2014

ANDRÓNICO LUKSIC L
Vice President of Development 
appointed in 2015

ALAN MUCHNIK
Vice President of Strategy and 
Innovation appointed in 2021

Joined the Group in 2014

Joined the Group in 2006

Joined the Group in 2016

•  Lawyer and MBA, with over 20 
years’ experience in mining

Previous roles

•  General Counsel at Codelco
•  Corporate Affairs Manager at 

Escondida

•  Business administrator with broad 

•  Civil engineer, Master’s degree in 

mining experience in sales, 
exploration, business development 
and general management

Previous roles

•  Corporate Manager in the Mining 

engineering and MBA

Previous roles

•  Group Innovation and Energy 
Manager, and Growth Assets, 
Energy and Innovation Portfolio 
Manager of Antofagasta Minerals

•  Senior lawyer at BHP Billiton in 

division

RENÉ AGUILAR
Vice President of Corporate 
Affairs and Sustainability 
appointed in 2017

Joined the Group in 2017

• 

Industrial psychologist with 20 
years’ experience in mining, 
including in sustainability, safety, 
human resources and corporate 
affairs

Previous roles

•  Group Head of Safety at Anglo 

Chile

•  Director, Antofagasta Minerals, 

•  Several positions in strategy, 

American, London

•  Vice President of Corporate Affairs 

and Sustainability at Codelco
•  Health and Safety Director of the 

International Council on Mining and 
Metals (ICMM), London

•  Chief Legal Counsel at Collahuasi
•  Lawyer at the Instituto de 

Normalización Previsional and in 
private practice

Toronto Office

•  Various positions at Banco de Chile

planning, studies and business 
development over 10 years at BHP 
(Chile and the USA)

ALEJANDRO VÁSQUEZ
Vice President of Los 
Pelambres Operations 
appointed in 2022

Joined the Group in 2022

•  Civil mining engineer with over  
30 years’ experience in mining

CARLOS ESPINOZA
General Manager – Centinela 
appointed in 2020

IVO FADIC
General Manager – Antucoya 
appointed in 2023

LEONARDO GONZÁLEZ
General Manager – Zaldívar 
appointed in 2023

Joined the Group in 2010

Joined the Group in 2016

Joined the Group in 2015

•  Civil mining engineer and MBA, 

•  Mechanical engineer and Master in 

with over 25 years’ experience in 
mining

Previous roles

Previous roles

•  Vice President, South America at 

Teck Resources

•  President of Pampa Norte (BHP’s 

Spence and Cerro Colorado 
operations)

•  General Manager of the Yandi iron 

ore operation in Australia

•  Vice President of Operations at 

Escondida

•  Planning and Development 

Manager at Centinela

•  Head of Mining Operations at 

Centinela

•  Operations Manager at Michilla
•  Planning positions at Minera 

Escondida and Minera Spence

Asset Management and 
Maintenance, with nearly 20 years’ 
experience in mining

Previous roles

•  Operations Manager at Los 

Pelambres

•  Maintenance Manager at Los 

Pelambres

•  Maintenance Manager – 

Concentrator Plants at Minera 
Escondida

•  Engineering Manager – 

Concentrador Plants at Minera 
Escondida

•  Civil mining engineer and MBA, 
with 25 years’ experience in 
mining

Previous roles

•  General Manager at Antucoya
•  General Manager at Zaldívar
•  Operations Manager at Zaldívar
•  Mining Superintendent at Minera 

Doña Inés de Collahuasi

Antofagasta plc  Annual Report 2023

137

Introduction to the Committees

Board committees

The Board’s Committees ensure that Board deliberations are focused on key issues and that 
proposals are submitted after thorough debate and rigorous challenge.
Each Committee provides a forum to allow the views and perspectives of stakeholders to be discussed so that they are represented in the 
Board’s deliberations.

Nomination and Governance Committee
Key responsibilities

Focus areas for 2023

•  Corporate governance framework
•  Succession planning for the CEO and the Board
•  Board and Committee composition
•  Board nominations
•  Board effectiveness reviews

•  Monitoring shareholder and proxy adviser feedback on Governance
•  Reviewing succession planning for Board and Committee roles
•  Reviewing Board and Committee composition
•  Reviewing Directors’ conflict of interest disclosures
•  Reviewing Board and Committee evaluations
•  Reviewing Governance reporting

Audit and Risk Committee
Key responsibilities

Focus areas for 2023

•  Financial reporting
•  External audit
Internal audit

• 

•  Risk management 
Internal control

• 

•  Compliance

•  Monitoring proposed regulatory changes relating to internal controls
•  Reviewing the Company’s half-year and year-end financial results
•  Reviewing accounting and tax matters
•  Assessing financial controls and reporting
•  Monitoring risk management and compliance
•  Assisting the Board with updates to the Group’s risk appetite assessment
•  Monitoring Internal Audit and the external auditor
•  Overseeing plans for a smooth transition from PwC to Deloitte as external auditor 

for the 2024 financial year

Sustainability and Stakeholder Management Committee
Key responsibilities

Focus areas for 2023

•  Policies and commitments
•  Health and safety
•  Community relations
•  Environmental and social matters
•  Stakeholder engagement

•  Reviewing key policies for the Group’s long-term sustainable success 
•  Monitoring overall environmental compliance 
•  Reviewing social and territorial strategies
•  Overseeing measures to protect the health and safety of the Group’s workforce
•  Reviewing climate change strategy implementation
•  Reviewing the Group’s water strategy
•  Reviewing the Group’s implementation of the Global Tailings Standard and reports 

on the Group’s tailings storage facilities

•  Reviewing sustainability reporting

Projects Committee
Key responsibilities

Focus areas for 2023

•  Oversight of project standards, guidelines and best 

•  Monitoring preparations for the Centinela Second Concentrator project investment 

practices

decision, including the final investment proposal

•  Project development lifecycle matters
•  Project reviews
•  Lessons learned from completed projects

•  Monitoring progress in the execution of the Los Pelambres Expansion Project and 

lessons learned 

•  Reviewing Centinela’s in-pit tailings project
•  Reviewing projects for the future growth of Los Pelambres

Find out more online at antofagasta.co.uk/bc

138

Antofagasta plc  Annual Report 2023

CORPORATE GOVERNANCEMaintenance workshops at Los Pelambres.

Remuneration and Talent Management Committee
Key responsibilities

Focus areas for 2023

•  Remuneration governance
•  Directors’ remuneration
•  Executive remuneration
•  Group pay structures
•  Talent management and succession planning for the 

Executive Committee
•  Employee engagement
•  Talent retention
•  Diversity and inclusion
•  HR Planning

•  Monitoring remuneration-related regulatory changes 
•  Reviewing and approving the 2023 Directors’ and CEO’s Remuneration Policy and 

2022 Directors’ and CEO’s Remuneration Report

•  Monitoring Directors’ and CEO’s remuneration and reviewing proposed changes
•  Applying the Group’s executive remuneration framework including reviewing 
short-term and long-term incentive plans and market benchmark surveys

•  Reviewing employee engagement survey results
•  Reviewing talent management, retention mechanisms and Executive Committee 

succession plans 

•  Reviewing performance appraisals for the CEO and Executive Committee 
•  Reviewing the 2023 HR Plan 
•  Reviewing gender pay gap and CEO pay ratio

Antofagasta plc  Annual Report 2023

139

Nomination and Governance Committee report

Maintaining an 
effective Board

We are committed to promoting 
the participation of women on our 
Board, as well as in senior 
management positions and, just 
as importantly, in the Group’s 
workforce. We believe that such 
an increase will benefit the 
Group, the industry and Chile.

2023 membership and meeting attendance

Jean-Paul Luksic (Chair)

Vivianne Blanlot

Tony Jensen 

Francisca Castro

Number attended

4/4

2/2

4/4

2/2

Vivianne Blanlot rotated off the Committee and Francisca Castro joined the 
Committee on 14 March 2023.
Other regular attendees included the Company Secretary.
The Committee meets as necessary and at least twice per year.
Except for the Chairman, all Committee members were independent while serving 
on the Committee in 2023.

Key responsibilities

The Nomination and Governance Committee supports the Board in 
ensuring that the Group has effective governance structures in place, 
and that the Board and its Committees are appropriately staffed and 
operate effectively. The Committee identifies qualified individuals to join 
the Board, recommends any changes to the composition of the Board 
and its Committees and monitors an annual process to assess Board 
effectiveness.

This involves:

•  monitoring trends, initiatives and proposals in relation to corporate 

governance

•  overseeing and facilitating annual reviews of the Chairman, the 

Board, its Committees and individual Directors, including externally 
facilitated reviews

•  evaluating and overseeing the balance of skills, knowledge and 

experience on the Board and its Committees

•  monitoring the independence of Directors
•  overseeing Board succession plans and leading the process to 
identify suitable candidates to fill vacancies, nominating such 
candidates for approval by the Board and ensuring that 
appointments are made on merit and against objective criteria, 
including gender

140

Antofagasta plc  Annual Report 2023

JEAN-PAUL LUKSIC
Chair of the Nomination 
and Governance Committee

•  overseeing the induction of new Directors and the development  

of all Directors

•  overseeing CEO succession plans
•  reviewing the Group’s governance reporting

Key activities in 2023

Corporate governance

•  Monitored the fulfilment of the UK Corporate Governance Code (the 

Code) requirements.

•  Monitored potential changes to the UK Corporate Governance Code.
•  Reviewed Directors’ declarations on potential conflicts of interest.
•  Reviewed the Governance section of the 2022 Annual Report and 

recommended it to the Board for approval.

•  Reviewed arrangements for the 2023 AGM and publication of the 

2023 AGM Notice.

•  Reviewed feedback from investors and proxy advisers on the 

shareholder resolutions tabled at the 2023 AGM.

•  Reviewed shareholder and proxy adviser feedback on governance.

Succession planning

•  Reviewed and endorsed detailed succession plans for the Board,  
the Senior Independent Director, the Committees, and the CEO.

•  Continued to provide input to the Remuneration and Talent 
Management Committee in relation to succession plans for 
the Executive Committee (excluding the CEO).

Board and Committee composition

•  Reviewed the independence of all Directors, making 

recommendations to the Board.

•  Managed the global search carried out for two independent 

• 

Non-Executive Directors.
Interviewed and considered potential Board candidates and 
proposed the appointment of Heather Lawrence.

•  Reviewed and proposed changes to Committees’ composition.
•  Reviewed and proposed the nomination of Francisca Castro  

as Senior Independent Director. 

•  Reviewed and endorsed updates to the Board’s skills matrix.

Board effectiveness reviews

•  Oversaw the implementation of recommendations arising from the 

2022 external evaluation of Board and Committees’ performance by 
Clare Chalmers Limited, an external Board evaluation consultancy.
•  Oversaw the 2023 internal evaluation of the Board and Committees. 
•  Requested a performance review of the Chairman by Directors,  

led by the Senior Independent Director, and of individual Directors, 
led by the Chairman.

CORPORATE GOVERNANCEDiversity, inclusion and succession 
planning

Q.What is the Committee’s role in relation to succession planning?

The Committee oversees and develops succession plans for the 
Board and the CEO. Succession planning for the Executive 
Committee (excluding the CEO) and broader employee talent 
management is overseen by the Remuneration and Talent 
Management Committee.

The activities of the Remuneration and Talent Management 
Committee are set out on page 156-178.

During 2023, the Committee reviewed the Board’s succession plan 
and recommended changes to Committee memberships, the 
appointment of independent Non-Executive Director Heather 
Lawrence, the appointment of Francisca Castro to the position of 
Senior Independent Director and advanced with the process for the 
selection of Tracey Kerr to be appointed as an independent 
Non-Executive Director in 2024. 

Q.How does the Committee address the process of CEO 

succession?

The Committee regularly reviews succession plans for the CEO in 
the case of either a planned or unplanned departure. This involves 
defining the character, skills, experience and expertise required to 
fulfil the role, as well as the assessment of potential internal 
candidates and their development needs. The consideration of both 
external and internal candidates for the role of CEO ensures a clear 
assessment of relative strengths and weaknesses and provides a 
useful international benchmark.

Q.What is the scope of the Board’s succession planning?

The Board’s succession plan is reviewed formally at least once a 
year and addresses Board size, Committee structure and 
composition, skills on the Board, Board and Committee members’ 
tenure, independence of Directors, diversity (including gender), 
Board roles, Board policies and individual succession plans for all 
Board and Committee positions. Succession plans include 
contingency plans in the event of an unexpected departure, medium-
term plans for orderly replacement of current Board members and 
long-term plans linking strategy with the skills needed on the Board 
in the future.

There is a Board approved succession plan for my Board roles in 
the event of an unexpected departure.

Q.How does the Board identify the appropriate skills for new Board 

candidates?

The Board maintains a Board skills matrix and the Committee 
reviews the balance of skills, experience and expertise on the Board 
at least annually. This process enables the Board and the Committee 
to identify the skills required when making new appointments to the 
Board and to instruct search firms to identify candidates who fit 
these criteria.

Q.What steps does the Committee take to identify and appoint new 

Directors?

The Committee discusses relevant profiles for future appointments 
and potential candidates, taking into account the results of Board 
effectiveness reviews, as shown on page 143, the Group’s purpose, 
vision, values and strategy, as shown on page 126-127, the Board’s 
diversity policy (below) and the core competencies and areas of 
expertise on the Board, as shown on page 134.

To assist with making new appointments to the Board, the 
Committee appoints independent external search consultancies with 
no connection to the Group. In 2023, the Committee appointed 
Spencer Stuart, a signatory to the voluntary code of conduct for 
executive search firms to address gender diversity on corporate 
practices for related search processes, to assist with the searches 
that resulted in the appointment of independent Non-Executive 
Directors Heather Lawrence and Tracey Kerr.

Spencer Stuart were briefed on the skills and experience of the 
existing Directors and asked to identify potential candidates who 
would best meet the required criteria including their relevant 
experience, skills, leadership capabilities, contribution to Board 
diversity and whether they had sufficient time to devote to the role. 
Also important for overall Board effectiveness is that potential 
candidates are proficient in Spanish and, preferably, have relevant 
mining or extractive industry experience. 

The searches that resulted in these appointments aimed to identify 
candidates with UK market experience, recent and relevant financial 
experience, mining experience and sustainability experience. The 
external search consultancy was instructed to access the widest 
possible talent pool and, as has been the case for many years, to 
specifically identify potential female candidates. 

Q.What support does the Company provide to facilitate induction 

and assist with professional development?

Induction 
New Directors receive a thorough induction on joining the Board. 
This includes meetings with the Chairman, other Directors, the CEO 
and Executive Committee members; briefings on the Group’s 
strategy, UK corporate governance, operations, projects and 
exploration activities; and visits to the Group’s operations.

Continuing personal development 
Directors receive an annual briefing on governance, legal, regulatory 
and market developments that are relevant to Directors of UK-listed 
companies, complemented by discussions on Board-related matters.

Directors have access to, and are encouraged to regularly attend, 
round-table discussions, seminars and other events that cover 
topics relevant to the Group and their roles.

Resources 
The Company provides Directors with the necessary resources to 
maintain and enhance their knowledge and capabilities.

All Directors have access to management and to such information 
as they need to discharge their duties and responsibilities fully and 
effectively.

Directors are also entitled to seek independent professional advice 
concerning the affairs of the Group at the Company’s expense.

Q.What is the Board’s position in relation to diversity?

The Company’s Diversity and Inclusion Policy reflects the Board’s 
belief in the benefits of diversity and its conviction that more diverse 
companies attract and maintain the best talent and achieve stronger 
overall performance. The Board considers a broad definition of 
diversity when setting policies, and appointing Directors and staffing 
its Committees (including the Nomination and Governance, Audit and 
Risk and Remuneration and Talent Management Committees), 
including gender, disability, nationality, educational and professional 
experience, personality type, culture and perspective.

Antofagasta plc  Annual Report 2023

141

Nomination and Governance Committee report continued

>40%

of Board members 
are women

100%

of our operating companies  
have female Board members

>50%

of our Board members identify as being  
from an ethnic minority background

The Committee has worked hard to ensure that the Board and its 
Committees are suitably diverse according to these criteria. The 
Board reviews its effectiveness in meeting diversity goals each year 
as part of the annual Board and Committees’ evaluation process.

The Company has met the Parker Review target and more than half 
the Board members identify as being from an ethnic minority 
background according to the Parker Review and UK Listing Rules 
criteria as shown in the diversity tables on page 143. As noted 
throughout this Annual Report, the Group’s activities are focused in 
Chile where ethnicity profiles and representation in society differ 
significantly from those in the UK. Nevertheless, the Board 
recognises that the mining industry is international, and in support of 
its vision and strategy also includes Directors from the United 
Kingdom, United States and Australia.

Gender diversity is a pillar of the Group’s diversity and inclusion 
strategy. The Board supports the important work performed by the 
FTSE Women Leaders’ Review in pursuing a 40% target for women 
on FTSE 350 boards and on executive committees and their direct 
reports and has met the Listing Rule targets for at least 40% of 
women on the Board and of at least one woman in the Chair, Senior 
Independent Director, CEO or CFO roles, as shown in the diversity 
tables on page 143.

Since 2014, five of the eight Board appointees (63%) have been women, 
while ensuring that appointments continue to be made on merit.

At the date of this report, there are five women on our Board of 11 
Directors (45%).

Each of the Nomination and Governance, Audit and Risk and 
Remuneration and Talent Management Committees include female 
Directors and Directors from ethnic minority backgrounds and more 
than 50% of the members of the Audit and Risk and Remuneration 
and Talent Management Committees are female. 

We are committed to promoting the participation of women on our 
Board, as well as in senior management positions and, just as 
importantly, in the Group’s workforce. We believe that such an 
increase will benefit the Group, the industry and Chile. 

Q.What policies are in place to promote a diverse pipeline of talent 

for the future?

The Group is committed to developing a diverse pipeline of talent 
that will widen the pool of female and other diverse candidates for 
Board and leadership positions in the future. In this, the Group is 
leading the way in Chile, particularly with female participation in the 
workforce, where Chile remains behind more developed economies 
despite considerable progress in recent years.

In 2019, we sponsored the creation of a Chilean chapter of the 30% 
Club, the campaign launched in the UK in 2010 to foster gender 
balance on companies’ boards and in senior management positions. 
To further promote diversity at the Executive Committee level and 
below, the current Diversity and Inclusion Policy was approved 
following an in-depth exercise to assess whether the Group’s 
existing diversity and inclusion model was appropriate. This included 
interviews with stakeholders, a benchmarking exercise and a 

142

Antofagasta plc  Annual Report 2023

comprehensive review of the Group’s policies and processes.  
The review identified structural impediments that needed to be 
addressed to achieve a sustained improvement in the Group’s 
diversity and inclusion model and these issues were addressed in 
the first years following approval of the new policy. A Diversity and 
Inclusion roadmap was developed to provide guidelines, best 
practices and objectives, seeking to integrate diversity and inclusion 
principles and values into the Company’s practices. The roadmap 
includes alliances with relevant educational institutions and 
organisations that promote diversity and inclusion. 

Metrics associated with the development of the Diversity and Inclusion 
Policy form part of the Group’s Annual Bonus Plan and formal talent 
management and succession planning exercise, and performance 
is assessed by the Remuneration and Talent Management Committee 
at the end of each year. In 2023, Management recommended, 
the Committee endorsed, and the Board approved that the 
short-term incentive include a key performance indicator on the 
number of women in leadership positions versus a baseline. 

The Remuneration and Talent Management Committee is also 
responsible for succession planning for the Executive Committee, 
which allows for ongoing monitoring of the impact of the Diversity 
and Inclusion Policy on new appointments and their progress within 
the Company, including at the level of those who report to the 
Executive Committee.

As part of the Policy, female members of senior management have 
served on the boards of all our operating companies for many years 
and we have two women on the Executive Committee, the General 
Manager of our Transport division and the Vice President of Human 
Resources.

It is important to acknowledge that culture plays a key role in this 
and we have therefore implemented actions and programmes to 
strengthen an inclusive culture, encompassing unconscious bias 
training, work-life balance measures, sexual harassment and 
domestic violence prevention, and information campaigns. Human 
resources processes, such as recruitment and the individual 
performance management system, have been reviewed and 
adjusted to ensure their inclusiveness and lack of bias.

Since 2017, we have more than doubled female participation to over 
20% and recently set ourselves a goal of reaching 30% female 
participation by 2025. The gender balance at each level of the Group 
is monitored and reported monthly to the Executive Committee.

In 2023, women represent 29% of the executive and supervisory 
workforce; 56% of them are in operational roles. 

The Suppliers for a Better Future Programme, which seeks to align 
contractor companies’ practices with Antofagasta, includes targets 
on hiring women. Currently, only 13% of contractor employees are 
women, with 80% of them concentrated in 25 specific roles within 
the supplier network. 

More detail on programmes we have introduced and the gender 
balance within the Group is given in the Our People section on page 40.

The Board will continue to monitor developments in 2024.

CORPORATE GOVERNANCEBoard effectiveness

Board effectiveness review
In accordance with the Code, the Board undertakes an annual effectiveness 
review which is externally facilitated at least once every three years. 

In 2022, the effectiveness review was facilitated by an external 
consultant, led by Clare Chalmers of Clare Chalmers Ltd, who is 
independent and, apart from also conducting the 2019 effectiveness 
review, has no other connection with the Group.

Ms Chalmers highlighted the Board’s strengths in skills, coverage of 
mining and a good mix of other relevant experience and backgrounds; 
strong engagement from the CEO and good access to the senior team, 
who get airtime in meetings; thorough NED site visits, with high-quality 
feedback to the Board.

In 2023, an internal evaluation of the Board and its Committees was carried 
out to monitor progress against recommendations made in the external 
review and to identify further opportunities for improvement, using thorough 
anonymous questionnaires that were completed by the Directors. The survey 
results demonstrated how recommendations made in the 2022 external 
review had been addressed. Strengths that were highlighted included the 
Chairman’s commitment to the Board, the Board’s effective leadership and 
strong support framework and the effectiveness of, and value added by, the 
Board’s Committees. Further opportunities for improvement centred on 
continuing to focus on balancing strategy and core business oversight 
discussions and continuing to improve presentations and pre-reading materials.

The annual effectiveness review is designed to recognise and raise key 
themes identified collectively by the Directors, along with suggestions 
for improvement and of good practice, and for the Directors to reflect 
on how these themes should be addressed going forward. Based on 
this review, the Directors were satisfied that the Board and its 
Committees operated effectively in 2023. 

JEAN-PAUL LUKSIC
Chair of the Nomination and Governance Committee

Our review process

2022

The external review was a comprehensive assessment of how 
the Board is working, focused on evaluating the following key 
areas:

•  Board composition and culture (composition, succession 

planning, training and inductions, leadership, dynamics and 
decision-making)

•  Board oversight (strategy, performance, risk, people and 
executive succession and purpose, values and culture)
•  Stakeholders (workforce engagement, shareholders, 

customers and suppliers, sustainability)

•  Board efficiency (Board meetings, agendas and minutes and 

secretariat)
•  The Committees
•  Board and Committee papers 

2023

The internal review was based on a thorough anonymous 
questionnaire completed by Directors that included specific 
questions relating to improvement opportunities identified in the 
2022 external review to measure progress as well as 
fundamental questions to assure Directors’ perceptions of the 
Board and Committee’s culture, governance and performance. 

• 

• 

Internal evaluation of the Board and its Committees
Individual evaluation of Directors

•  Closure of gaps identified in the 2022 external evaluation
Identification of further opportunities to improve in 2024

• 

Diversity tables1
as at 31 December 20232

Ethnic group

White British or other White (including minority-white groups)

Mixed/Multiple Ethnic Groups

Asian/Asian British

Black/African/Caribbean/Black British

Other ethnic group, including Arab

Not specified/prefer not to say

Gender

Men

Women

Non-binary

Not specified/prefer not to say

Number of 
board 
members

Percentage 
of the board

Number of senior positions 
on the board (CEO, CFO, 
SID and Chair)3

Number in 
executive 
management

Percentage 
of executive 
management

3

5

–

–

1

1

30%

50%

–

–

10%

10%

–

2

–

–

–

–

5

5

–

–

1

–

45.5%

45.5%

–

–

9.1%

–

Number of 
board 
members

Percentage 
of the board

Number of senior positions 
on the board (CEO, CFO, 
SID and Chair)2

Number in 
executive 
management

Percentage 
of executive 
management

6

4

–

–

60%

40%

–

–

1

1

–

–

9

2

–

–

81.8%

18.2%

–

–

1.  Data collected via questionnaire.
2.  Jorge Bande retired from the Board on 31 December 2023 and Tracey Kerr joined the Board in January 2024, and therefore neither of these directors are considered for the purposes of these tables.
3.  The CEO and CFO are not Directors and therefore are also not considered for the purposes of this category.

Antofagasta plc  Annual Report 2023

143

Audit and Risk Committee report

Robust monitoring 
of financial 
processes and 
risks

The Committee assists the Board 
in undertaking its assessment 
that the Annual Report is, when 
taken as a whole, fair, balanced 
and understandable and that it 
provides the necessary 
information to allow shareholders 
to assess the Group’s position 
and performance, business model 
and strategy.

2023 membership and meeting attendance

Tony Jensen (Chair) 

Jorge Bande

Francisca Castro

Heather Lawrence

Number attended

6/6

6/6

6/6

4/4

Heather Lawrence joined the Board and the Committee on 18 April 2023.
Jorge Bande retired from the Board on 31 December 2023.
Other regular attendees included representatives from PricewaterhouseCoopers 
(PwC), the Group’s external auditor, the CEO, the CFO, the Group Financial 
Controller, the Head of Internal Audit, the Head of Risk, Compliance and Internal 
Control and the Company Secretary. 
The Committee meets as necessary and at least twice a year. It works within the 
framework of a detailed annual work plan. Committee members participate in all 
other Board Committees, allowing the Committee to consider the full spectrum of 
risks faced by the Group.
All Committee members are independent and are considered to have recent and 
relevant financial experience; a majority of Committee members have significant 
experience relevant to the mining sector.

Key responsibilities

The Audit and Risk Committee assists the Board in meeting its 
responsibilities relating to financial reporting and control, and to risk 
management. 

The Committee’s main responsibilities include:

•  monitoring the overall financial reporting process, which includes 
responsibility for reviewing the year-end and half-year financial 
reports,

144

Antofagasta plc  Annual Report 2023

TONY JENSEN
Chair of the Audit  
and Risk Committee

•  overseeing the external audit process and managing the relationship 

with PwC, the Group’s external auditor,

•  reviewing and monitoring PwC’s independence and objectivity,
•  overseeing internal audit, including monitoring and reviewing the 

effectiveness of the Group’s internal audit function, plans, processes 
and findings,

•  assisting the Board with its responsibilities in respect of risk 

management, including reviews of the Group’s risk appetite and key 
risks, and

•  monitoring the performance of the Group’s compliance and crime 

prevention models.

Key activities in 2023

Financial reporting

•  Reviewed the 2022 year-end and 2023 half-year financial reports, 
focusing on significant accounting matters relating to the Group’s 
results. 

•  Reviewed accounting matters likely to impact the 2023 year-end 

results. 

•  Reviewed the Group’s 2022 Reserves and Resources Statement 

and highlights of the 2023 statement. 

•  Assisted the Board in ensuring that the 2022 Annual Report 

was fair, balanced and understandable.

•  Reviewed analysis for the 2023 going concern and long-term 

viability statements.

•  Reviewed reporting under the Task Force on Climate-related 
Financial Disclosures (TCFD) framework, with disclosures 
appropriately reflecting the Group’s position.

•  Reviewed the Group’s tax strategy and tax position, including the 

effective tax rate, and the impact of the new mining royalty in Chile.
•  Reviewed regulatory changes including FRC guidance on accounting 

and reporting matters. 

External audit

•  Reviewed and approved the 2023 audit plan, including fees. 
Validated that PricewaterhouseCoopers (PwC) incorporated 
feedback from both the Committee and management on the 2022 
audit and engaged extensively with management to align on critical 
success factors.

•  Assessed the effectiveness of the external audit process, reviewed 

PwC’s independence and performance. Reviewed non-audit 
services provided by PwC.

CORPORATE GOVERNANCE•  Reviewed the key audit findings in respect of the 2022 audit and 
reviewed PwC’s progress reports in respect of the 2023 audit.
•  Monitored Deloitte’s audit transition activities, to ensure a smooth 
transition from PwC to Deloitte as external auditor for the 2024 
financial year. 

•  Reviewed the results of the FRC’s Audit Quality Review. PwC’s audit of 
Antofagasta plc for the year ended 31 December 2022 was selected for 
review by the FRC’s Audit Quality Review Team. 

•  Reviewed training on the Group’s compliance model, crime 

prevention model and Modern Slavery Policy. Reviewed activities 
undertaken during the year to develop their maturity.

•  Monitored the functioning of the Group’s crime prevention model, 
considering upcoming changes in the UK Corporate Governance 
Code and the new Chilean law on economic and environmental 
crimes.

Q.What were the key areas of focus for the Committee in 2023?

Internal audit

•  Reviewed key findings from the internal audit reviews conducted 

during 2023.

•  Reviewed the quality, experience and expertise of the internal audit 

function, confirming its suitability for the business.

•  Reviewed actions to co-ordinate audit scope with PwC to avoid 

duplication or double testing.

•  Agreed the scope and focus areas for the 2024 internal audit plan 
including new audit methodologies such as cross-organisational 
audits to test internal controls over all relevant entities 
simultaneously and continuous audits of capital projects.

Risk and internal control

•  Monitored the consultation process for the revisions to the UK 

Corporate Governance Code. 

•  Reviewed a readiness assessment and action plans to prepare 

for the future requirement for the Board to confirm the 
effectiveness of internal controls.

•  Assisted the Board with its assessment of the Group’s key risks and 
its review of the effectiveness of the risk management and internal 
control processes. 

•  Assisted the Board in conducting the annual review of risk appetite 

statements. 

•  Conducted detailed reviews with the General Managers of each of 
the Group’s operations, covering the operations’ key risks, risk 
matrix and residual risks. Reviewed climate change and the financial 
impact of physical and transition risks and opportunities. 
•  Reviewed the potential impact of the proposed new Chilean 

constitution on key risks. In December 2023, Chile voted to reject 
the proposed constitution, and as a result the country will now 
continue with the existing constitution, which has been in place for 
several decades. 

•  Reviewed the latest developments in cyber security and updated 
action plans to enhance the Group’s risk management maturity in 
this key area. 

•  Reviewed the activities undertaken during the year to further 

develop the maturity of the Group’s risk management processes.

•  Reviewed the steps taken to ensure that slavery and human 

trafficking are not occurring in any part of the Group’s business, 
including in its supply chains.

Compliance

•  Reviewed the Group’s whistleblowing arrangements, including 

details of the most significant reports and actions taken, along with 
plans to strengthen the function.

•  Reviewed the process to identify and manage Group employees’ 

potential conflicts of interest.

•  Reviewed the due diligence process conducted in respect of the 

Group’s suppliers.

The Committee focused its work on internal controls, risk 
management and financial reporting. In preparation for changes in 
the UK Corporate Governance Code and following the 
implementation of a new law in Chile on economic and 
environmental crimes, the Committee reviewed a high-level 
readiness assessment on risk management and internal control 
processes. At the same time, the Committee reviewed plans 
designed to ensure a smooth transition from PwC to Deloitte as 
external auditor. 

Financial reporting

Q.What were the Committee’s main activities in respect of the 

Group’s financial reporting?

The Committee reviews the year-end financial statements and 
half-year financial reports and ensures that the key accounting 
policies, estimates and judgements applied in those financial 
statements are reasonable. We also monitor the overall financial 
reporting process to ensure that it is robust and well-controlled. 
This includes ensuring that the Group’s accounting and finance 
function is adequately resourced, with the appropriate segregation 
of duties and internal review processes, that the Group’s accounting 
policies and procedures are appropriate and clearly communicated, 
and that the Group’s accounting and consolidation systems operate 
effectively.

The 2023 Annual Report includes the third report under the Task 
Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD) framework, 
with disclosures appropriately reflecting the Group’s position. 

We continued building our capability to prepare for new potential 
regulations regarding the Board’s confirmation of the effectiveness 
of internal controls over financial reporting.

The Committee assists the Board in undertaking its assessment that 
the Annual Report is, when taken as a whole, fair, balanced and 
understandable and that it provides the necessary information to 
allow shareholders to assess the Group’s position and performance, 
business model and strategy. As part of this assessment, we used 
our detailed knowledge of the Company, its financial results and the 
key accounting judgements applied in the financial statements to 
ensure that the tone and content of the narrative fairly reflected the 
financial results for the year.

We also reviewed the ore reserves and mineral resources statement 
included in the Annual Report and the corresponding reserve and 
resource independent audits. 

The Committee reviewed the going concern basis adopted in the 
financial statements, as well as the detailed long-term viability 
statement in the Annual Report. 

The Committee reviewed the Group’s tax strategy and tax position, 
including the effective tax rate, tax claims, the status of the recovery 
of tax refunds, tax-disallowed expenses and the impact of the new 
mining royalty in Chile.

Antofagasta plc  Annual Report 2023

145

Audit and Risk Committee report continued

Q.What significant accounting issues in relation to the financial 
statements were considered by the Committee during 2023?

External audit

Q.What are the Committee’s responsibilities in respect of the 

The main accounting issues we considered were:

external audit process?

•  Asset valuations: The Committee’s analysis did not identify indicators 

of a potential impairment at the 2023 year-end at the Group’s 
operations. Accordingly, we have not performed any impairment 
reviews. Particular focus was placed on Zaldívar, given the 
importance of the ongoing permits renewal process, and the 
operational challenges in 2023. An indicative valuation and 
sensitivity analysis was performed in order to assess the 
sensitivities of the Group’s mining operations to key assumptions 
such as the copper price and the Chilean peso exchange rate, and to 
make appropriate disclosures within the financial statements. As 
part of this analysis, we considered the appropriate copper price 
forecasts to use, with reference to consensus analyst forecasts of 
the long-term copper price. We have also reviewed the key 
operating assumptions in the indicative valuation models. In the case 
of Zaldívar, we considered the importance of the renewal of the 
permits for water extraction and general mining activities to the 
indicative valuation, and the disclosures in respect of these aspects. 
We also reviewed the additional sensitivity disclosures included in 
the financial statements, including in relation to operational 
performance.

The Committee is responsible for overseeing the Company’s 
relationship with PwC, the Group’s external auditor. As the Chair of 
the Audit and Risk Committee, I have established an effective direct 
relationship with Simon Morley, PwC’s lead audit partner.

The Committee reviews and approves the scope of the external 
audit, terms of engagement and fees. The Committee monitors the 
effectiveness of the audit process and is responsible for ensuring 
the independence of the external auditor. The Committee informs 
the Board of the outcome of the external audit and explains how the 
external audit contributes to the integrity of the Group’s financial 
reporting. The Committee formally meets with PwC without 
management present at least once a year. We oversee the 
performance of the external auditor. The Committee makes 
recommendations to the Board in respect of the appointment, 
reappointment, or removal of the external auditor.

Following a tender process, the Committee recommended to the 
Board that, in respect of the 2024 financial year audit, Deloitte 
becomes the external auditor. Plans are well progressed to enable a 
smooth transition from PwC to Deloitte. 

•  Accounting for transactions in the secondary market to acquire 

Q.How do you assess the effectiveness of the external audit 

beneficial ownership of approximately 19% of the outstanding shares 
of Compañía de Minas Buenaventura S.A.A. 

• 

•  Reviewing the position in respect of the claims and queries with 
Minera Centinela in respect of approximately $85 million of tax 
deductions recognised in relation to the amortisation of start-up 
costs relating to the Encuentro pit. 
Impact of new mining royalty: the new mining royalty was approved 
in August 2023. Los Pelambres and Zaldívar’s tax invariability 
agreements expire in 2023, so the new royalty will apply from 2024 
onwards. The new royalty will apply to Antucoya from 2030 
onwards. Centinela has a number of tax invariability agreements, 
most expiring in 2029, and the Encuentro invariability agreement 
expires in 2031. Accounting regulations require that deferred tax 
balances be calculated using the tax rates which are expected to 
apply in the period in which the temporary differences are expected 
to reverse. This has resulted in an overall increase in the Group’s 
consolidated deferred tax liabilities as at 31 December 2023, with a 
corresponding deferred tax expense reflected in the 2023 results. 
•  Distributable reserves and related withholding tax provisioning: the 
withholding tax charge in the current period reflected a one-off 
adjustment of $34.7 million to the provision for deferred withholding 
tax, as a result of an intra-group restructuring of intercompany 
balances, essentially offsetting the increase in deferred tax liabilities 
resulting from the approval of the new royalty.

•  Going concern and viability: we reviewed the going concern and 
viability assessments and related disclosures. In particular, we 
considered the Group’s current strong financial position, its forecast 
future performance, the key risks which could impact the future 
results and reviewed robust down-side sensitivity analyses which all 
indicated outcomes that could be managed in the normal course of 
business.

process?

We work closely with PwC to ensure that external audit quality is 
maintained throughout the year. PwC incorporates feedback from 
both the Committee and management on the prior audit and 
engages extensively with management to align on critical success 
factors.

The Committee considers the following factors as part of its review 
of the effectiveness of the external audit process during the year:

•  the appropriateness of the proposed audit plan, the significant risk 
areas and areas of focus, and the effective performance of the 
audit

•  the technical skills and industry experience of the audit 

engagement partner and the wider audit team

•  the quality of the external auditor’s reporting to the Committee
•  the effectiveness of the co-ordination between the UK and 

Chilean audit teams

•  the effectiveness of the interaction and relationship between 

the Group’s management and the external auditor

•  feedback from management in respect of the effectiveness 
of the audit processes for the individual operations and the 
Group overall

•  the review of reports from the external auditor detailing its own 

internal quality control procedures, as well as its annual 
transparency report, and

•  the review of the FRC’s annual Quality Inspection Report on PwC.

In light of this assessment, the Committee considered it appropriate 
that PwC be reappointed as external auditor for 2023. However, 
as noted on page 120, Deloitte will take over the external audit from 
PwC for the 2024 financial year onwards and shareholders will 
be asked to confirm this appointment at the 2024 AGM.

146

Antofagasta plc  Annual Report 2023

CORPORATE GOVERNANCEQ.How do you assess the independence and objectivity of the 

external auditor?

The Committee regularly monitors the external auditor’s 
independence and objectivity in line with the Group’s policy in 
respect of auditor independence and non-audit services.

New regulatory requirements have applied since 2020 in respect of 
non-audit services. The FRC issued a “white list” of specifically-
permitted services, with all other services prohibited. Permitted 
services relate to specific activities required by law or regulation 
and a limited number of types of review or verification work, such 
as half-year reviews, verification of additional information contained 
within the Annual Report or cross-referenced from the Annual 
Report, and work as a reporting accountant on transactions or debt 
issuances. The provision of non-audit services is also subject to a 
cap, so that the total annual fees from non-audit services may not 
exceed 70% of the average audit fee over the prior three years.

A breakdown of the audit and non-audit fees is disclosed in Note 8 
to the financial statements. PwC did not provide any non-audit 
services (excluding audit-related services) during 2023. 

In general, where the external auditor is selected to provide 
non-audit services, it is because it has specific expertise or 
experience in the relevant area and is considered the most suitable 
provider. Pre-approval from the Committee is required before 
non-audit services can be performed by the external auditor, other 
than for services which are considered to be clearly trivial. The 
Committee has reviewed the level of these services over the year 
and is confident that the objectivity and independence of the auditor 
are not impaired by such non-audit work.

The external auditor provides a report to the Committee at least 
once a year, setting out its firm’s policies and procedures for 
maintaining its independence.

The Committee considers that PwC remained independent and 
objective throughout 2023.

The UK regulatory requirements in respect of competitive audit 
tendering and other related audit committee responsibilities in 
respect of the external auditor are set out in the Competition & 
Markets Authority´s “The Statutory Audit Services for Large 
Companies Market Investigation (Mandatory Use of Competitive 
Tender Processes and Audit Committee Responsibilities) Order 
2014” (“the Order”). The Company complied with the provisions of 
the Order during 2023.

Q.How long has PwC been the Group’s auditor?

We carried out a tender process during 2014, which resulted in 
PwC replacing Deloitte, the previous auditor, and being appointed 
with effect from 2015 onwards. Jason Burkitt was the lead audit 
partner at PwC for five years from 2015 to 2019 and, in line with 
normal regulatory requirements rotated off the engagement, with 
Simon Morley assuming the role as lead audit partner from 2020 
onwards.

Q.What are the plans for external auditor rotation?

Under UK regulations the Company’s next mandatory tender would 
have been in respect of the 2025 audit, marking the 10-year 
anniversary of the original audit rotation regulations. Other FTSE 
100 companies are facing similar anniversaries, which could result 
in an increased demand for audit tenders over the coming years. As 
previously disclosed, it was therefore determined that the optimum 
approach was to conduct an audit tender process during the second 

“In 2023, we assisted the Board 
with its annual update of the 
Group’s risk appetite assessment 
and evaluation of emerging and 
principal risks.”

half of 2022 in respect of the 2024 audit to allow for a “cooling-in” 
period during 2023 and to provide a significant transition period. 

PwC, Deloitte, EY and BDO participated in the tender process. 
KPMG declined our invitation to participate. BDO met the mid-tier 
“challenger” criteria that UK regulators are seeking to promote. 
Tendering firms held over 50 meetings with management and in my 
role as Chair of the Audit and Risk Committee, I participated in 
meetings with all tendering firms in advance of their formal tender 
presentations. 

The Committee reviewed proposals and recommended Deloitte to 
the Board as first choice, along with a second-choice 
recommendation. The Board selected Deloitte as the next external 
audit firm for the 2024 audit onwards.

Internal audit

Q.What are the Committee’s main activities in relation to internal 

audit?

The Committee monitors and reviews the effectiveness of the 
Group’s internal audit function. The Head of Internal Audit reports 
directly to the Committee and a meeting is held without management 
present at least once a year.

We also monitor succession planning and the resources available to 
the Internal Audit team so that it has an appropriate mix of skills and 
experience for the Group’s businesses. Internal Audit utilises a mix 
of permanent team members, temporary secondees from elsewhere 
in the Group and third parties, particularly for areas such as 
IT-related reviews. The permanent team includes members with 
specific expertise in some of the most relevant areas for the Group, 
including technical mining experience, IT, risk, compliance, internal 
control, sustainability and cyber security.

The Committee reviews and approves Internal Audit’s work plan for 
the coming year, including its focus areas as well as budget, 
headcount, methodology and other resources. Internal Audit takes a 
risk-focused approach when planning its work, using the risk 
registers maintained by each business to monitor and control their 
key risks. We ensure the plan is flexible and has sufficient resources 
to allow for special reviews that may be required during the year. 
During 2023, the Committee stewarded the completion of planned 
audits and approved the 2024 internal audit plan. 

Internal Audit presents to the Committee summaries of the key 
findings from the reviews conducted during the year and any 
actions that have been taken or proposed. All Internal Audit reports, 
when finalised, are distributed to Committee members.

The Committee reviewed actions to co-ordinate internal audit scope 
with PwC to avoid duplication or double testing, to ensure an 
efficient relationship between the internal and external audit 
processes, and achieve the effective and timely sharing of findings.

Antofagasta plc  Annual Report 2023

147

Audit and Risk Committee report continued

Risk management, compliance and internal control

Q.What are the Committee’s responsibilities in relation to risk 

management and internal control?

The Committee plays an important role in assisting the Board with 
its responsibilities regarding risk management and related controls. 
The Board has ultimate responsibility for overseeing the Group’s 
emerging and principal risks and its risk appetite, as well as 
maintaining adequate control systems which were in place 
throughout the year and up to the date of this report. The 
Committee’s terms of reference incorporate the FRC’s Guidance on 
Risk Management, Internal Control and Related Financial and 
Business Reporting and the Board is satisfied that the Company’s 
risk management and internal control systems accord with this 
guidance. In order to achieve our business objectives, internal 
control systems are designed to identify and manage, rather than 
eliminate, the risk of failure, but can only provide reasonable, not 
absolute, assurance against material misstatement or loss.

Q.What were the Committee’s main activities in 2023 relating to 

risk management?

We continued to monitor actions designed to enhance the maturity 
of our risk management processes. 

We assisted the Board with its annual update of the Group’s risk 
appetite assessment and evaluation of emerging and principal risks. 
Emerging risks are identified through the reporting of events that 
have had an impact on the Group’s operations and budgets during 
the year and whether and by how much the risk has impeded the 
budget for each risk mitigation objective, complemented by a 
benchmarking review of emerging and principal risks that have been 
identified by our peers. During 2023, the Committee and the Board 
reviewed the Group’s 18 key risks, sub-risks, preventative controls 
and action plans. While risk appetite levels have not changed, the 
Committee reviewed and the Board approved updates to the risk 
appetite statements for the principal environmental; political, legal 
and regulatory; and corruption risks and approved a wording 
change on tailings risk.

Active risk identification and management took place. Actions were 
taken during 2023 to strengthen the Group’s risk management 
culture including simplifying the risk management methodology, 
carrying out on-site verification, identifying new risks, updating 
business continuity plans, and implementing a methodology to 
monitor emerging risks. The focus in 2024 will be on the 
effectiveness of critical controls, in partnership with Internal Audit.

The risk, compliance and internal control function presented to the 
Committee several times during the year on developments in the 
Group’s risk management processes and Group-level strategic risks. 
The General Managers of the Group’s operations presented to the 
Committee their assessments of their respective operations’ top 
three risks, risk matrix and residual risks. The meeting served as a 
forum for sharing experiences and action steps. 

The analysis of emerging and principal risks includes an assessment 
of the significance of the risks based on the probability of the risk 
materialising and the potential impact of the risk, as well as an 
evaluation of the quality of the controls in place in respect of those 
specific risks. The evaluation of the potential impact is not limited to 
economic factors but includes issues such as safety, health, 
environmental, regulatory, community and reputational issues. We 
also examine whether those risks have been increasing or 
decreasing in significance and the budget for each risk mitigation 
objective to assist with the identification of emerging risks. The 

148

Antofagasta plc  Annual Report 2023

General Managers present their forecasts of any expected change in 
principal risks over the coming 12 months. If there is a specific issue 
at one of the operations that requires more detailed understanding, 
we ask the General Manager to attend the next meeting to discuss 
that issue. This direct interaction between the Committee and the 
General Managers is extremely valuable – not just in terms of the 
direct insight into each operation it affords the Committee, but in 
allowing us to emphasise the importance we attach to strong risk 
management processes. 

The Committee reviewed climate change and the financial impact of 
physical and transition risks and opportunities.

We reviewed steps taken to ensure that slavery and human 
trafficking are not occurring in any part of the Group’s business 
including its supply chains.

The Committee held a specific review of the latest developments in 
cyber security and updated action plans to enhance the Group’s 
maturity in this key risk area.

Q.How does the Committee interact with the Board and other 

Committees on risk-related matters?

I report to the Board following each Committee meeting, 
summarising the main matters reviewed. These regular reports 
allow Directors to understand the main issues under consideration 
and, when relevant, to discuss them in more detail with the Board.

The Risk Management function presents directly to the Board, 
providing updates of the analysis of the Group’s principal risks and 
mitigating actions. 

We try to ensure that the review of risk by the Board is not 
compartmentalised into isolated sessions but is integrated into 
everything considered by the Board. To this end, the overall report 
provided by the CEO to the Board at each meeting covers any 
significant materialised risks. Each proposal presented to the Board 
incorporates an analysis of its impact on the principal risks.

These processes have assisted the Board in carrying out a robust 
assessment of the emerging and principal risks facing the Company, 
including those that could threaten its business model, future 
performance, solvency, or liquidity and to assess the acceptability of 
the level of risks that arise from the Group’s operations and 
development activities.

The Board, with the support of the Committee, reviews the 
effectiveness of the Group’s risk management and internal control 
systems each year. The review covers all material controls, including 
financial, operating and compliance controls. The 2023 review 
considered a readiness assessment in preparation for changes in the 
UK Corporate Governance Code in respect of risk management and 
internal control processes which included: (1) the control framework 
and systems in place across the Group; (2) the nature of risk and 
control documentation currently in place and the processes for their 
regular review and update; (3) internal testing of the effectiveness of 
the relevant internal controls; and (4) integration of Internal Audit with 
risk management processes. The review concluded that there is a 
robust three line of defence model implemented which ensures 
several layers of internal responsibility and verification; there are 
standardised frameworks and systems used consistently across the 
Group’s operations; there is an appropriate analysis and 
documentation of key risks and controls, with regular reviews and 
updates; internal verification is performed across all areas on a 
regular basis; and Internal Audit is highly integrated into the Group’s 
risk management and internal control processes. Nevertheless, the 
Committee will continue to oversee specific areas of focus so that the 

CORPORATE GOVERNANCEBoard is in a strong position to consider the effectiveness of the 
Group's management and internal control systems in relation to the 
new Code requirements that will apply in 2026.

on the Group’s compliance model, crime prevention model and 
Modern Slavery Policy. We reviewed activities undertaken during the 
year to develop compliance maturity.

Members of the Audit and Risk Committee participate on all the 
other Board Committees, allowing the Committee a good 
understanding of risks being considered by these Committees and 
the full spectrum of risks faced by the Group.

Compliance

Q.What are the Committee’s main responsibilities relating to 

compliance?

The Committee ensures that appropriate compliance policies and 
procedures are observed throughout the Group. The risk, 
compliance and internal control function makes regular 
presentations to the Committee covering developments in the 
Group’s compliance processes and significant compliance issues. 
Chilean law requires the Mining division’s holding Company, 
Antofagasta Minerals SA, and each of the operations, to appoint a 
Crime Prevention Officer. The Committee makes recommendations 
regarding these appointments as well as monitoring and overseeing 
the performance of these roles. The Crime Prevention Officer for 
Antofagasta Minerals SA is currently Patricio Enei, the Vice 
President of Legal. As the compliance function reports to the CFO, 
this arrangement provides for the appropriate segregation of duties.

The Committee receives reports from the risk, compliance and 
internal control function in respect of the Group’s crime prevention 
model, in accordance with Chilean and UK anti-corruption legislation.

The Crime Prevention Officer presents a report directly to the Board 
every six months.

Q.What were the Committee’s main activities in 2023 relating to 

compliance?

The Committee monitored the functioning of the Group’s crime 
prevention model, in accordance with Chilean and UK anti-
corruption legislation. Compliance activities centred on the three 
pillars of prevention, detection and action. The crime prevention 
model was recertified. We reviewed training and communications  

The Committee reviewed the Group’s whistleblowing arrangements, 
which encourage employees and contractors to raise concerns in 
confidence about possible improprieties or non-compliance with the 
Group’s Code of Ethics. We received regular reports on reported 
whistleblowing incidents, detailing the number and type of incidents 
and outlining the most significant issues and the actions resulting 
from their investigation, along with plans to strengthen the function. 
The Committee reviewed the process to identify and manage Group 
employees’ potential conflicts of interest and reviewed the due 
diligence process conducted in respect of the Group’s suppliers.

Q.What were the Committee’s main activities in 2023 relating to 

internal control?

During 2023, the Committee reviewed the Company’s internal 
control framework which consists of three lines of defence. 

First, business units identify and manage risks. Second, the risk 
management function provides oversight and support. Third, Internal 
Audit provides independent assurance. In addition to regular 
reviews, a session was held to review the effectiveness of risk 
management, compliance and internal control, the effectiveness of 
internal controls over financial reporting, and the effectiveness of 
internal audit and the relationship with external audit. We feel 
confident that the reviews undertaken by the Committee during 
2023 have allowed it to perform an appropriate review of the 
effectiveness of the Group’s risk management and internal control 
systems during the year. The reporting of these activities by the 
Committee to the Board supports the Board’s confirmation that it 
has undertaken a review of the effectiveness of the Group’s risk 
management and internal control systems during the year as 
required by the UK Corporate Governance Code.

TONY JENSEN
Chair of the Audit and Risk Committee

Audit and Risk Committee, Board, and risk management function interaction

BOARD

The Chair of the Audit and Risk Committee reports to the Board following each Committee meeting, 
allowing a wider discussion of the risk and compliance issues reviewed in detail by the Committee. The 
Board also provides feedback on the analysis of emerging and principal risks for Board agenda items 
which is incorporated into the Board’s review of the effectiveness of the Group’s risk management and 
internal control systems. Every presentation to the Board includes a risk analysis.

AUDIT AND RISK COMMITTEE

The Committee supports the Board in its review of the effectiveness of the Group’s risk management 
and internal control systems.

GENERAL MANAGERS OF THE OPERATIONS

General Managers are responsible for the risks relating to their operation and give detailed 
presentations to the Committee at least once a year, including on each operation’s emerging, principal 
and materialised risks.

RISK MANAGEMENT 
FUNCTION

The risk management function 
provides regular presentations 
covering changes in the 
Group’s emerging and 
principal risks, major 
materialised risks and updates 
on risk management and 
compliance processes.

There are detailed 
presentations at each 
Committee meeting covering 
the risk management process, 
significant whistleblowing 
reports and updates on 
compliance processes and 
activities.

Antofagasta plc  Annual Report 2023

149

Mining operations at Antucoya

150

Antofagasta plc  Annual Report 2023

CORPORATE GOVERNANCESustainability and Stakeholder Management 

Committee report

Sustainability 
and stakeholder 
management

“Committee meetings provide a 
forum for the detailed discussion 
of many of the key issues that 
matter to our stakeholders such 
as environmental matters including 
climate change, the health and 
safety of our workforce and other 
matters that support local 
communities where we operate.”

2023 membership and meeting attendance

Number attended

Vivianne Blanlot (Chair)

Ramón Jara

Juan Claro

Jorge Bande

Michael Anglin 

Eugenia Parot 

6/7

5/7

6/7

7/7

7/7

7/7

Jorge Bande retired from the Board on 31 December 2023.
Other regular attendees included the CEO, the COO, the Vice President of Corporate 
Affairs and Sustainability and the Company Secretary.
Sessions were also regularly attended by Directors who were not Committee 
members.
The Committee meets as necessary and at least twice per year.

The Sustainability and Stakeholder Management Committee supports 
the Board in providing guidance on the Group’s safety, health, 
environmental and social responsibility strategies and policies, in the 
oversight of corresponding programmes and in making 
recommendations to the Board to ensure the views and interests of 
the Group’s stakeholders are considered in the Board’s deliberations.

The Committee reviews the Group’s framework of safety, health, 
environmental, human rights and social policies, monitors the Group’s 
performance in setting and meeting environmental, social, safety and 
occupational health commitments and provides guidance on how the 
Company should reflect the views and interests of stakeholders in 
relation to operational, projects and other business matters. The 
material subjects and results of this engagement are reported 
periodically to the Committee through standalone reports and as part 
of broader Committee discussions.

VIVIANNE BLANLOT
Chair of the Sustainability and 
Stakeholder Management Committee

Key activities in 2023

Policies and commitments

•  Reviewed the implementation plan to adopt the new Global Industry 
Standard on Tailings Management (GISTM), published by the ICMM 
in August 2020. 

•  Reviewed and endorsed a proposal to incorporate all Mining 

Operating Companies to the UN Global Compact whose principles 
cover human rights, labour relations, environmental and anti-
corruption matters. 

•  Reviewed the Group’s Sustainability, Social Value, and Climate 
Change (TCFD) reports, including the Sustainability Databook. 

Health and safety

•  Reviewed the Group’s safety and occupational health strategy, 

performance in 2022, and 2023 plans covering risk management; 
learning; leadership; and contractors. 

•  Reviewed the results of the psychosocial risk analysis questionnaire 

which are being analysed by over 20 focus groups.

•  Reviewed the 2023 report on the Company’s tailings storage 

facilities, issued by the independent technical review board (ITRB) 
appointed to advise the Group on their operation. 

Community relations

•  Reviewed Los Pelambres’ social strategy. 
•  Reviewed activities and initiatives carried out by Fundación Minera 
Los Pelambres, a strategic ally for the execution of relevant social 
management programmes and projects in line with Los Pelambres’ 
social strategy. 

•  Reviewed the water situation in the Choapa Valley and Los 

Pelambres’ water management strategy, including operational water 
management initiatives in order to best support operational, 
environmental and community requirements. 

•  Reviewed the early community participation initiative on 

Los Pelambres Phase 2 Expansion Project (Mine life extension).

•  Reviewed Centinela’s second concentrator project’s social 

enablement strategy, community relations plan and social strategy 
action plan. 

•  Reviewed the results of community information sessions and site 
visits co-ordinated on safety and emergency preparedness in 

Antofagasta plc  Annual Report 2023

151

Sustainability and Stakeholder Management Committee report continued

relation to the Company’s tailings facilities in line with GISTM 
requirements. 

Environment

•  Reviewed the EIA for Los Pelambres’ desalination plant expansion 
and additional critical infrastructure projects, which was approved 
in October 2023. 

•  Reviewed proposals in relation to Zaldívar’s water rights extension.

Q.How was the Group’s safety performance in 2023?

This was a true highlight for 2023. We are very pleased to report 
that the Group recorded its strongest safety performance on record. 
During the year, there were no fatal accidents and the Group 
recorded only 34 High Potential Incidents, 19% fewer than in 2022. 
The Lost Time Injury Frequency Rate also improved by 25% to 0.63. 
The challenge in 2024 is to further improve on these results.

Q.What is the Committee’s role in respect of the Company’s policies 

that relate to sustainability and stakeholder management?

The Committee oversees the development of the Group’s policies 
relating to sustainability and stakeholder management. The 
Committee does not review implementation – this is a matter 
for each individual Operating Company. 

During 2023 the Committee provided input on the policy relating 
to the adoption of the new Global Industry Standard on Tailings 
Management (GISTM) which was published by ICMM in August 2020.

Q.How did the Committee consider climate change during the year?

As noted by the Chairman on pages 120-121, combating climate 
change sits at the centre of Antofagasta’s strategy. In particular, 
lowering emissions and reducing continental water use remain two 
issues for which we have a Group-level strategy, Board-level focus 
and Company-wide initiatives.

The Committee assisted the Board in considering various climate 
change-related initiatives during the year, including those in the 
Board’s assessment of the physical and transition risks of climate 
change and their impact on the net present value of the Group. The 
Group’s Climate Change Strategy, reviewed by the Committee and 
approved by the Board in 2020, takes a multidisciplinary approach 
to the challenges posed by climate change, focusing on the 
development of climate change resilience, the reduction of 
greenhouse gas emissions, the efficient use of strategic resources, 
the management of the environment and biodiversity, and the 
integration of stakeholders. 

The Committee reviewed the community water situation in the 
Choapa Valley, Los Pelambres’ water management strategy and 
operational water management initiatives. 

The Board reviewed the Company’s carbon footprint, approved the 
Company’s decarbonisation plan, set emissions reduction targets 
and committed to revisiting them in 2025.

Q.How does the Committee ensure that the Board considers the 

views and interests of stakeholders?

The Committee does not get involved in the day-to-day management 
and implementation of the Group’s policies and procedures. 
However, meetings provide a forum to discuss key trends and 
issues that matter to local communities, our workforce, national and 
local governments, regulators and other stakeholders. Many of these 
issues are identified as part of each operating companies’ risk 
management and community engagement processes, which are 
submitted by management to the Committee for their information. 

152

Antofagasta plc  Annual Report 2023

Communicating with our stakeholders during difficult times has been 
key to strengthening mutual trust and understanding. We work hard 
to respect their interests and ensure that they understand our 
ambitious safety, occupational health, environmental and social 
commitments. 

As Chair of the Committee, I report to the Board following each 
Committee meeting, summarising the main matters reviewed by the 
Committee.

Q.How does the Committee ensure that the Group’s tailings storage 

facilities are safe?

The stability and safety of our tailings storage facilities (TSFs) is a 
primary concern for us and many of our stakeholders, and the 
Committee and the Board are focused on ensuring that the policies 
and procedures implemented by our operating companies ensure 
that the TSFs continue to be stable and safe.

Chile experiences a significant amount of seismic activity and as a 
consequence there are strict regulations governing the construction 
of TSFs in the country. These regulations apply to all mining and 
other construction, including the storage facilities where tailings are 
deposited. Chilean standards have prohibited the construction of 
TSFs using the upstream method, which is commonly used in other 
countries but can pose significant safety risks. Current Chilean 
legislation also requires a stability analysis of TSFs’ walls, a review 
of safety measures and the development of detailed emergency 
plans in the event of a major incident.

The Group’s governance structures are designed to encourage the 
independent management and monitoring of our TSFs: internal 
teams have reporting lines not linked to the mine operation and an 
independent tailings review board (ITRB) visits our TSFs regularly, 
assessing risks and making recommendations to ensure their 
continued safety. The Committee and the Board review these 
reports and challenge management on their recommendations.

The Committee and the Board also receive regular reports on the 
operation of the Group’s TSFs. Following the Group’s adoption in 
2020 of a tailings management policy aligned with the Global 
Industry Standard on Tailings Management (GISTM), the Committee 
has monitored operating companies’ policies, along with reports 
from management and the ITRB. Operating companies have 
established their own governance structures, plans, tailings 
management systems and implementation timelines.

The Group committed to fulfil GISTM requirements by August 2023 
for its critical tailings’ deposits and by August 2025 for its lower-
risk ones. On 5 August 2023, companies in the Group announced 
that they had complied with GISTM requirements for El Mauro, its 
only critical tailings deposit and for Centinela, classified as 
significant, two years ahead of the commitment. Dam safety 
reviews, required by GISTM, were conducted prior to the GISTM 
fulfilment declaration in August 2023. The Committee reviews 
executives’ reports on an annual basis.

Further information on our TSFs, including the risks and the 
governance measures in place, can be found on page 55.

Q.How are community relations managed throughout the Group?

Dialogue with local communities is crucial for aligning views, 
preventing disputes and addressing concerns. To strengthen this, 
our operating companies use various engagement mechanisms, 
including conversations with members of the community, round 
tables, community meetings, participatory environmental monitoring 

CORPORATE GOVERNANCE“The Committee makes 
recommendations to the Board to 
ensure the views and interests of 
the Group’s stakeholders are 
considered in the Board’s 
deliberations.”

with the community and site visits to our operations, as well as 
communicating through the media and on websites and social 
networks.

The material subjects and results of this engagement are reported 
periodically to the Committee through standalone reports and as 
part of broader Committee discussions.

Q.What are the Committee’s priorities in 2024?

Our number one priority continues to be the health and safety of our 
employees, contractors and local communities. We will continue to 
provide feedback to our mining operations, encouraging them to 
further improve upon the Company’s record safety performance in 
2023 and continue to reinforce the practices that resulted in this 
strong performance.

The Committee will continue to receive feedback from our mining 
operations on the implementation of the Group’s environmental 
management system and we will continue to oversee the 
implementation of our Climate Change Strategy, aimed at meeting 
our greenhouse gas targets for reduced carbon dioxide emissions. 

The Committee will continue to oversee the progress towards 
obtaining material environmental permits for the Group’s major 
development projects during the year and will monitor whether the 
Group’s social programmes and the work done with communities 
close to our operations is in accordance with the Group’s Social 
Management Model.

VIVIANNE BLANLOT
Chair of the Sustainability and Stakeholder Management 
Committee

Antofagasta plc  Annual Report 2023

153

Projects Committee report

Facilitating 
disciplined growth

“The Committee monitors projects 
in execution, ensuring that lessons 
learned are applied from previous 
projects and that the relevant 
considerations are tabled for 
discussion by the Board.”

2023 membership and meeting attendance

Michael Anglin (Chair) 

Jorge Bande 

Ramón Jara

Eugenia Parot 

Vivianne Blanlot

Number attended

6/6

6/6

6/6

6/6

3/4

Vivianne Blanlot joined the Committee on 14 March 2023.
Jorge Bande retired from the Board on 31 December 2023.
Other regular attendees included the CEO, the CFO, the Vice President of Projects, 
the Corporate Projects Manager and the Company Secretary.
Sessions were also regularly attended by Directors who were not Committee 
members.
The Committee meets as necessary and at least twice per year.

Key responsibilities

The Projects Committee reviews all aspects of major projects to be 
submitted for Board approval, highlighting key matters for the Board’s 
consideration throughout the project’s development and making 
recommendations to management to ensure that all projects submitted 
to the Board are aligned with the Group’s strategy and risk appetite.

The Committee adds an important level of governance and control to 
the evaluation of the Group’s projects and plays a key role in providing 
the Board with additional oversight of the Group’s projects portfolio. 
This includes overseeing the establishment of project development 
guidelines, drawing from best practice, industry experience and 
lessons learned from other Group projects.

154

Antofagasta plc  Annual Report 2023

MICHAEL ANGLIN
Chair of the Projects Committee

Key activities in 2023

Policies and commitments

•  Reviewed the Group’s projects portfolio, including budgets and 

schedules.

Project reviews – studies phase

•  Reviewed an update on Los Pelambres’ plans to further expand the 
Company’s desalination plant, in addition to a new concentrate pipeline 
and work to develop enclosures at the El Mauro tailings facility.

•  Reviewed an update on Los Pelambres’ Phase 2 Expansion Project.
•  Monitored steps leading up to the Board’s consideration of the 
Centinela Second Concentrator project investment decision. 

•  Reviewed Centinela’s in-pit tailings deposition project.

Project reviews – execution phase

•  Monitored progress in the execution of the Los Pelambres Phase 1 

Expansion Project. 

Q.What is the Projects Committee’s approval authority?

The Committee is not responsible for approving projects – that is 
for the Board to decide. Our role is to assist the Board by ensuring 
that projects are following a standard, structured process using 
consistent analysis, execution and evaluation practices. The 
Committee oversees the full project development, from the early 
stages to the start of operations, carefully assessing and robustly 
challenging investment proposals prior to submission to the Board, 
monitoring development and construction progress and ensuring 
lessons learned are applied to future proposals. The Committee 
invites management to consider different perspectives, ideas 
and improvements to enhance the value of the Group’s projects, 
enabling focused deliberation when the project is presented 
to the Board.

CORPORATE GOVERNANCEQ.What tools does the Committee use?

Studies – Centinela Second Concentrator project

The Committee provides guidance to each project manager, from 
the early stages of project planning through to completion, to ensure 
that policies, strategies and the Group’s Asset Delivery System 
(ADS) implementation framework are applied.

ADS is a project management system whose processes and 
practices are widely used in the mining industry. ADS sets 
standards and common criteria, including governance by a steering 
committee, functional quality assurance reviews and risk 
management.

In some cases, the Committee may recommend additional 
measures, including independent peer reviews, trade-off studies or 
further analysis in relation to the incorporation of potential new 
technologies or processes.

Q.What were the Committee’s key activities in 2023?

Execution – Phase 1 of the Los Pelambres Expansion project

The Committee monitored progress in the execution of the Los 
Pelambres Expansion, including a detailed review of issues 
associated with the closing of the project and lessons learned. 

See page 29 for more information on Phase 1 of the Los Pelambres 
Expansion project.

Studies – Future development of Los Pelambres

The Committee reviewed an update on Los Pelambres’ planned 
expansion of its desalination plant, which seeks to fulfil production 
commitments by ensuring water supply through an expansion  
of the desalination plant to 800 l/s, in addition to the construction  
of a new concentrate pipeline. The project was approved at the 
beginning of 2024.

The Committee also reviewed an update on the next phase of 
investment at Los Pelambres which included early community 
participation to enable the submission of the EIA.

See page 100 for more information on further development of Los 
Pelambres.

“The Committee supports the Board 
by ensuring that the Group’s 
projects portfolio follows approved 
and consistent guidelines and that 
project execution decisions have 
been thoroughly reviewed before 
being put forward for Board 
approval.”

The Committee reviewed progress in the commitment phase of 
Centinela’s Second Concentrator project. 

The Committee reviewed the project’s sustainability profile, noting 
that 100% of the power will come from renewable sources, and that 
it will use sea water and thickened tailings. Environmentally, the 
project seeks to avoid and, if necessary, control any environmental 
impact associated with its development, including air quality, 
archaeological preservation and biodiversity. Socially, the project 
seeks to generate positive externalities and benefits in the supply 
chain and manage reputational risks. It has identified all relevant 
stakeholders, established a community relations strategy and is 
developing stakeholder, community and communications plans. With 
respect to climate change, the objective is to facilitate early action 
and adaptation in relation to risks and opportunities. 

The Committee monitored preparation for the Centinela Second 
Concentrator project including reviewing progress on engineering, 
contracting, and financing. The Committee reviewed the partial 
cancellation of mining easements, fulfilling the project’s 
environmental resolution (RCA). The Committee also reviewed the 
awarding of contracts for the project and a potential build-own-
operate-transfer (BOOT) contract for Centinela’s current and future 
water infrastructure. 

The Board approved the investment decision in December 2023.

See page 15 for more information on Centinela’s Second 
Concentrator project.

Studies – In-pit tailings deposition project

The Committee reviewed Centinela’s in-pit tailings deposition 
project, which considers using the Tesoro Central pit to cover 
Centinela’s tailings management needs for 9–10 years; to be 
followed by the Tesoro North East and Esperanza pits, to cover 
Centinela’s tailings management needs for 15 years and possibly for 
the life-of-mine. This project would defer investment in raising the 
height of the walls of the current tailings storage facility.

Q.What are the Committee’s priorities in 2024?

The Committee will continue to monitor the Group’s key projects. 
The Committee will oversee the ramp up of Phase 1 of the Los 
Pelambres Expansion project.
The Committee plans to monitor the progress of Centinela’s Second 
Concentrator project and the next phase of investment at Los 
Pelambres, including monitoring progress of the licencing 
application process for the Los Pelambres’ Phase 2 Expansion 
Project (Mine Life Extension).

MICHAEL ANGLIN
Chair of the Projects Committee

Antofagasta plc  Annual Report 2023

155

Remuneration and Talent Management Committee 
Chair’s introduction

Rewarding and 
empowering 
management to 
strengthen the 
organisational 
capabilities needed 
to deliver our 
strategy
“The Committee seeks to ensure 
that pay practices are fair and 
appropriate, taking into account 
the experience of key 
stakeholders and the wider 
economic environment.”

2023 Membership and meeting attendance

Francisca Castro (Chair)

Michael Anglin 

Vivianne Blanlot

Tony Jensen 

Eugenia Parot 

Number attended

5/5

5/5

2/2

5/5

3/3

On 14 March, 2023 Vivianne Blanlot rotated off the Committee and Eugenia Parot 
joined the Committee.
Other regular attendees include the CEO, the Vice President of Human Resources and 
the Company Secretary.
At least one Committee member serves on each of the other Board Committees, 
which allows the Committee to consider strategic priorities and the views of all 
stakeholders in its deliberations.
The Committee meets as necessary in practice and at least four times a year.
All Committee members were independent throughout 2023.

Key report sections: 

Remuneration ‘at a glance.’
Summary of remuneration policy
Single figure remuneration table
Remuneration for 2024

160
162
166
176

156

Antofagasta plc  Annual Report 2023

FRANCISCA CASTRO
Chair of the Remuneration and  
Talent Management Committee

Dear shareholders

I am pleased to present the Directors’ and CEO’s Remuneration Report 
for the year ended 31 December 2023. 

This report comprises:

•  this letter
•  an ‘at a glance’ section, and 
•  the Annual Report on remuneration. This details the implementation 
of our pay policy in 2023 and the proposed implementation of our 
pay policy for 2024. This section also contains a summary of the 
2023 Directors’ and CEO’s Remuneration Policy as approved by 
shareholders at the AGM in 2023. Details of the full policy are 
available on our website (www.antofagasta.co.uk). 

I would like to thank shareholders for their support at the 2023 AGM 
where our remuneration policy received 94.33% votes in favour, and 
the Directors’ remuneration report received 95.17% votes in favour. 
We continue to seek to engage shareholders for their views and 
feedback on Antofagasta’s remuneration arrangements. 

CEO and Directors’ remuneration in context

The Committee considers a range of factors and KPIs when making 
decisions on remuneration, including the views of stakeholders 
(including shareholders and employees) and the Company’s 
performance. A summary of these factors and KPIs is set out in the 
“at a glance” section on page 160. However, I would like to highlight a 
number of important aspects of this report:

•  Despite challenging headwinds, 2023 was a year of significant 

progress, and we are pleased to be moving forward into the next 
phase of development and growth. Financial performance in 2023 
was solid, revenue was 8% higher than 2022, EBITDA grew 5%, 
cash flow from operations increased 11% and net cash costs were 
consistent year-on-year. Operational performance highlights include 
a 2% increase in Group copper production and finalising the delivery 
of the Phase 1 Expansion Project at Los Pelambres, which will help 
to maintain this asset’s future production. The financial and 
operational performance of the Group was carefully considered 
when reviewing the incentive outturns in respect of 2023. 

CORPORATE GOVERNANCE•  The health and safety of people remains our top priority and our 
Board sets the standard in prioritising the safety and wellbeing of 
our employees and contractors. In 2023, we recorded another 
strong year of safety performance, with no fatalities and a Lost Time 
Injury Frequency Rate of 0.63, a 25% reduction year-on-year. In 
2023 management focused on strengthening risk monitoring and 
targeting safety initiatives in high-risk areas. We also monitored and 
targeted reduction of occupational hazard risks (e.g. excessive 
noise, pollutants), as well as addressing physical and mental 
wellbeing. 

•  We are committed to creating a diverse and inclusive culture that 
fosters wellbeing and supports retention and development of a 
range of talents. In 2023, the proportion of women employed 
increased to 23.6%, exceeding our target for the year. Our 
apprenticeship scheme accepted a total of 247 candidates, mostly 
from local communities, 83% of whom were women. We continue to 
focus on increasing the number of employees with disabilities and in 
2023 disabled employees represented 1.4% of the workforce, a 15% 
increase on last year. 

•  We maintain excellent relations with our workforce and six new 

collective bargaining agreements were successfully concluded by 
the end of December 2023. These agreements are on top of the 
inflation linked increases that are already built into agreements and 
employees' contracts providing financial security in periods of higher 
inflation. 

•  During 2023, in my capacity as the Senior Independent Director 

and Chair of the Remuneration and Talent Management Committee, 
I travelled to our operations at Los Pelambres, Centinela and Zaldívar 
with other members of the Board to speak with employees and 
contractors of the Group to understand their day-to-day experiences 
and to hear their views and ideas. I met with groups of female 
employees to understand the challenges they face, working in a 
predominantly male dominated industry and working environment. 
I am grateful for the valuable insights shared by all those we met 
with and have reported these back to the rest of the Board. The 
Remuneration Committee will keep these insights in mind through 
2024 when decision-making. 

•  During 2023 we developed a decarbonisation strategy, and through 
this work, the Company has been able to publish updated emissions 
reduction targets. 

•  We are strongly positioned to supply the much-needed copper that 

plays an integral role in the world’s transition to a low carbon 
economy. We endeavour to meet that demand in a responsible and 
sustainable way, ensuring we create value not just for our 
shareholders, but also for our employees, our communities, our 
partners, and our planet as a whole. 

CEO’s performance and incentive outcomes 
for the year 

Overall, the Committee is comfortable that the range of incentive 
outcomes described below adequately reflects the performance of the 
Group and CEO and demonstrates the balanced nature of the incentive 
plan measures and targets in operation. 

Annual bonus outcome

The overall bonus for the CEO was 78.7% of the maximum. 

Group performance (70% of bonus)

The result for Core Business targets was 45% of the maximum target, 
recognising the challenging headwinds of higher inflation and input 
costs during the year, as well as water scarcity due to the delay in the 
desalination plant impacting copper production. Despite these 
challenges, copper production increased 2% year-on-year and EBITDA 
results were solid, between target and maximum of our original STI 
(short term incentive) targeted performance supported by the higher 
commodity prices of our secondary metals. The result for the Business 
Development targets was 65% of maximum, and the Sustainability and 
Organisational Capabilities targets was 90% of maximum, with safety 
being met in full. The outcome of 60% of maximum was automatically 
adjusted upwards in line with our remuneration policy, as there were 
no fatal accidents during the year. This safety adjustment to the 
performance score outcome was equal to +10 percentage points. 

Annual bonus for 2023

90%

45%

65%

Core Business

  Weighting 

50%

Business Development

  Weighting 

25%

Sustainability and
Organisational Capabilities

  Weighting 

25%

The total bonus payout in relation to Group performance was therefore 
70% of the maximum. 

Individual performance (30% of bonus)

The CEO met 100% of his individual performance objectives. 

Find out more on page 168.

LTIP outcome

The anticipated vesting level for the 2021 LTIP awards is 81.3% of the 
maximum. The outcome of the relative total shareholder return 
measure of the LTIP performance targets will not be known until after 
the Annual Report is published, but it is anticipated that the 
achievement will be 62.6% of the maximum. 100% of the Mineral 
Resources Increase target was achieved, as well as 100% of the 
Environmental and Social commitments targets and 100% of the 
Projects’ portfolio performance targets. The actual final vesting for the 
LTIP will be included in next year’s report. 

Find out more on page 169.

Mineral Resources 
Increase  
target met

Environmental and 
Social commitments 
targets met

Projects’ portfolio 
performance  
targets met

100% 100% 100%

Antofagasta plc  Annual Report 2023

157

Remuneration at a glance

Summary of business performance (strategic performance outcomes in 2023)

TSR performance

300

250

200

150

100

50

0

Dec 13

Dec 14

Dec 15

Dec 16

Dec 17

Dec 18

Dec 19

Dec 20

Dec 21

Dec 22

Dec 23

Antofagasta

FTSE All-Share

Global X Copper Miners ETF

660.6k tonnes
Copper production

$0.72/share
EPS performance

Zero fatalities
Safety record  
for the year

23.6%
Female direct 
employee 
participation

2050  
carbon neutral
Group sustainability 
objective

CEO’s pay outcome 
for 2023

$4,836k
Total remuneration for the CEO

100%
CEO’s individual performance

2023 Annual Bonus

Element

Measure

Core business

EBITDA ($m)

Business 
development

Production

Cash Costs

Growth

Exploration

Innovation and digital transformation projects

Sustainability and 
organisational 
capabilities

Safety

People

Environment

Social

Total outcome – pre-adjustments

Adjustment for meeting zero fatality target

Total Group Performance (70% of Annual Bonus)

Individual Performance (30% of Annual Bonus) 

Total Annual Bonus Outcome 

2023 Annual Bonus

Weighting

Level required for 
maximum vesting

Actual 
achievement 

Achievement (% 
of STI maximum) 

3,108

702.9

211.6

3,009

660.6

230.7

*Further details provided on page 166

15%

22%

13%

15%

5%

5%

5%

5%

10%

5%

85%

25%

30%

55%

80%

95%

100%

90%

75%

100%

60%

10%

70%

100%

78.7%

160

Antofagasta plc  Annual Report 2023

CORPORATE GOVERNANCELTIP: vesting in 2024

Element

Measure

Weighting

Achievement (% of maximum)

Relative total shareholder value

TSR v Global X Copper Miners ETF over three years 
(estimated)

Mineral resources

Increase over three years

Projects’ performance

Key projects’ milestones

Sustainability commitments

Compliance with social management plan initiatives, 
and climate change and environment commitments 

50.0%

25.0%

12.5%

12.5%

Total outcome

How the Policy will be implemented in 2024

2024 Annual Bonus

Element

Pillar of strategy

Measure

Mining division’s performance (70% of bonus opportunity)

Core Business

  Competitiveness

Business Development

  Growth

EBITDA, Copper Production, cash costs  
and innovation

Growth and Exploration

Sustainability and 
organisational capabilities 

  Safety and sustainability

Safety and Health, People, Environment  
and Social

Individual Performance (30% of bonus opportunity)

Individual performance

  People

  Safety and sustainability

  Competitiveness

  Growth

  Innovation

The individual objectives for the CEO are based on 
critical strategic areas as part of our vision for the 
company – talent, culture, core business, growth, 
competitiveness, safety & sustainability and innovation.

2024 Long-term incentive plan – performance award KPIs

The Committee has decided to award the CEO an increased exceptional award of 300% for 2024.

Element

Pillar of strategy

Measure

Relative total shareholder 
return

  Competitiveness

Antofagasta’s Total Shareholders Return (TSR) 
compared to Global X Copper Miners ETF (CopX Index) 
over three year period.

62.6%

100%

100%

100%

81.3%

Weighting 
(as % of 
total bonus)

35%

17.5%
17.5%

30%

Weighting

50.0%

Project portfolio progress

  Growth

Mineral resources

  Growth

Sustainability Commitments

  Safety and sustainability

25.0%

Progress of key projects portfolio, including Los 
Pelambres Concentrate Pipeline and Desalination Plant 
Expansion, Los Pelambres Expansion Phase 2 – Future 
expansion, Centinela Second Concentrator and 
Zaldívar's Primary Sulphide Project.
Mineral resources at the end of the performance period 12.5%
Social agreements commitments (40%)
12.5%

Climate change & Environment (60%)

•  Water Efficiency Strategy
•  Circular Economy Strategy
•  Decarbonisation Plan Implementation
•  Global tailings standard (new this year)

Antofagasta plc  Annual Report 2023

161

2023 Directors’ and CEO’s Remuneration Policy

Summary of the 2023 Directors’ 
and CEO’s remuneration policy

The tables below set out a summary of the Remuneration Policy that was approved by shareholders at the Company’s AGM that took place 
on 10 May 2023. The full Policy is available on the Company’s website (www.antofagasta.co.uk).

Policy table for the CEO
Operation
Purpose and link 
to strategy

Maximum opportunity

Performance measures

Individual and mining division performance is 
considered when determining base salaries and 
increases.

Base salary

To retain and attract 
high-calibre executives 
by offering globally 
competitive salary 
levels. 

Typically, base salaries 
are reviewed annually.

Base salaries and any 
increases take into 
account:

•  the individual’s role, 
performance and 
experience,
•  the Company’s 

performance, the 
external environment 
and cost,

•  salary increases for 
the wider workforce, 
and

•  salary levels for 

comparable roles at 
relevant comparator 
companies.

There is no prescribed 
maximum, although salary 
increases consider those of the 
wider workforce. Chilean labour 
contracts are adjusted 
periodically to reflect Chilean 
inflation, and adjustments may 
also be made due to union 
labour negotiations.

In addition to the salary 
increases already mentioned, 
there may be additional 
increases when the Committee 
considers it appropriate, 
including (but not limited to): 

• 

•  a significant increase in the 
scale, market comparability 
or responsibilities of the role, 
and
individuals appointed on a 
salary lower than market 
levels, where increases 
above those of the wider 
workforce may be made to 
recognise experience gained 
and performance in the role.

Such increases will be explained 
in the relevant Annual Report.

Benefits

To provide market 
competitive benefits.

Benefits typically include 
life and health insurance. 
Other benefits may be 
offered where 
appropriate, including, 
but not limited to, car 
allowance, pension 
contribution, 
professional fees and 
relocation allowances.

Benefits are reviewed 
periodically.

None

There is no maximum overall.

162

Antofagasta plc  Annual Report 2023

CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 
 
 
Operation

Maximum opportunity

Performance measures

The bonus is earned 
based on achieving 
one-year performance 
targets. It is paid in cash.

Maximum of 200% of salary 

Purpose and link 
to strategy

Annual Bonus Plan

To focus on delivering 
annual financial and 
non-financial targets 
designed to align 
remuneration with the 
Company’s strategy 
and to create a 
platform for future 
sustainable 
performance.

Maximum of 200% of salary, 
increased to 325% in 
exceptional circumstances.

Long-Term Incentive Plan (LTIP) 

To align with the 
shareholders’ 
experience and focus 
on long-term, 
sustainable 
performance.

Awards under the LTIP 
will typically comprise:

•  Performance Awards 
– performance is 
measured over a 
three-year period with 
vesting, thereafter, 
comprising at least 
70% of the total LTIP 
awards.

•  Restricted Awards 

– vest one-third each 
year over a three-
year period, 
comprising a 
maximum of 30% of 
the total LTIP awards.

Awards will usually be 
made in the form of a 
conditional right to 
receive a cash payment 
by reference to the value 
of a specified number of 
the Company’s shares.

Malus may be applied in 
exceptional 
circumstances, as 
detailed in the notes to 
the Policy table in the 
2022 Annual Report. 

The bonus is based on financial, operational, 
strategic and individual measures.

Performance measures and weightings are 
reviewed annually to ensure they continue to 
reflect the Company’s strategic priorities. At least 
50% of the bonus will be based on the Mining 
division’s financial, operational and strategic 
performance. Other metrics include, but are not 
limited to, business development, organisational 
capabilities, sustainability and safety.

In addition, an automatic adjustment applies to the 
Mining division’s performance score under the 
Annual Bonus Plan, downwards if there is a fatality 
during the year and upwards if there is no fatality. 
This further aligns the Mining division’s incentives 
with the core value of safety and our goal of zero 
fatalities. The Committee will consider whether this 
should continue to apply annually, considering the 
Mining division’s safety culture and performance.

The annual bonus starts accruing at ‘threshold’ 
performance (0% payout), with a payout of 50% of 
the ‘maximum’ when ‘on-target’ performance is 
achieved.

The Committee retains the discretion to adjust 
bonus outcomes to ensure they reflect underlying 
business performance, the impact of the 
commodity price and any other relevant factors. 

Performance Awards will be based on a 
combination of shareholder return and strategic 
performance measures aligned with the business 
priorities. 

The targets, measures and weightings are 
determined by the Committee annually. The 
shareholder return measures are at least 50% of 
the Performance Awards.

Performance Awards begin vesting at ‘threshold’ 
performance, with the amount depending on the 
performance metric. This level is intended across 
all metrics to be 0% at the threshold and an 
aggregate average of approximately 50% of the 
maximum at ‘on-target’ performance.

No performance conditions usually apply to 
Restricted Awards.

The Committee retains the discretion to adjust 
payments to ensure they reflect underlying 
business performance, the impact of the 
commodity price and any other relevant factors.

Antofagasta plc  Annual Report 2023

163

 
 
 
Performance measures 

None 

Total fees paid will be within 
the limit stated in the 
Company’s articles of 
association. 

Changes may be made to 
Chilean-peso-denominated 
fees to adjust for Chilean 
inflation. 

None  

Benefits are set at a level 
appropriate to the individual’s 
role and circumstances. The 
maximum will depend on the 
type of benefit and cost of its 
provision. 

2023 Directors’ and CEO’s Remuneration Policy continued

Policy table for the Chair and Non-Executive Directors 
Purpose and link  
to strategy

Operation

Maximum opportunity 

Fees 

To attract and retain 
high calibre, 
experienced Directors 
by offering globally 
competitive fee levels. 

Benefits 

To provide appropriate 
benefits and reimburse 
appropriate expenses 
that Directors incur in 
the performance of 
their duties. 

The Chair receives an annual base fee. 

Non-Executive Directors receive an annual base 
fee. 

Directors may receive further fees for serving as 
Senior Independent Director, a Board Committee 
Chair or a Committee member. 

Separate base fees are paid for serving on the 
Antofagasta Minerals Board or as a Director or 
Chair of any subsidiary or joint-venture 
company. 

Ramón Jara also receives a base fee (adjusted 
for Chilean inflation) for advisory services 
provided to Antofagasta Minerals pursuant to his 
service agreement. 

Fees are subject to review, which will take into 
account time commitment, responsibilities and 
market practice. 

Non-Executive Directors are entitled to 
reimbursement for reasonable expenses 
incurred during the performance of their duties, 
including any tax due on the reimbursements. 

Benefits may include the provision of life, 
accident and health insurance, professional 
advice and other minor benefits, including 
occasional spousal travel in connection with the 
business. 

164

Antofagasta plc  Annual Report 2023

CORPORATE GOVERNANCE  
  
  
  
  
  
Our remuneration philosophy

Our remuneration philosophy reflects local 
regulations and market practices while aligning 
with UK best practices and governance. 
Local regulations, market practices and remuneration structures 
available in Chile are a central consideration when structuring the 
CEO’s remuneration. Real share awards have not been part of the 
executive remuneration structure for employees since the LTIP was 
first implemented a decade ago because, until recently, in Chile they 
were taxable in full at the date they were granted. Considering the 
potential future uncertainty on taxation and as the use of real shares 
continues to be uncommon in Chile, all the Company awards continue 
as cash awards linked to a notional number of shares and share price 
performance.

Although our CEO is not a Director of the Company, we have 
voluntarily disclosed his remuneration since 2014 and provided details 
throughout the remuneration report to allow shareholders to 
understand how these structures support the strategy and promote 
long-term sustainable success. Since the implementation of the 
European Shareholders’ Rights Directive II in 2019, these disclosures 
have become mandatory and are included in this report. The final 
decisions in respect of the CEO’s remuneration are always made by 
the Committee and the CEO is not present for this part of the meeting, 
ensuring that the Committee makes independent decisions in the best 
interest of Antofagasta.

The Committee follows the UK Corporate Governance Code. The table 
below summarises how we have considered Code provision 40 when 
developing and implementing our remuneration strategy. 

Factor

Clarity

Remuneration arrangements are 
transparent and promote effective 
engagement with shareholders 
and the workforce.

Predictability

The range of possible values of 
rewards for the CEO is identified 
and explained at the time of 
approving the policy.

How the Committee addresses the factor

Our rationale for operating two long-term (performance and restricted) incentive awards is straightforward 
and well-communicated. The performance measures used in the Annual Bonus Plan and LTIP are used 
internally and externally in tracking and communicating business performance, ensuring that participants 
understand them well. We are careful not to make unnecessary changes to the executive remuneration 
policy; we seek year-on-year consistency which enhances the policy’s simplicity and effectiveness. The 
Committee Chair engages with and seeks the views of our shareholders on material changes to executive 
remuneration. Shareholder views were obtained and are reflected in the current remuneration policy. Views 
of the workforce are considered via the Company’s workforce engagement mechanisms described in more 
detail on page 165. Remuneration-related topics on which employee views are sought include benefits, pay 
fairness, alignment between individual performance and pay and sharing in the Company’s success.

Target ranges and potential payout levels are disclosed in advance, allowing shareholders and participants 
to understand the potential value of the package in different performance scenarios.

The Committee carefully considers the performance measures for the annual bonus and LTIP each year 
and seeks to achieve consistency (when appropriate), with only necessary changes being made so that the 
plans are sufficiently predictable. 

When setting performance targets, the Committee considers the same range of internal and external factors 
each year. This provides consistency in policy implementation.

Simplicity

Each element of pay is clearly communicated. 

Remuneration structures are 
uncomplicated, and their rationale 
and operation are both easy to 
understand and consistent for the 
CEO and, where applicable, those 
below him.

Proportionality

The link between individual 
awards, the delivery of strategy 
and the long-term performance 
of the Company is clear. 

Risk

Reputational and other risks from 
excessive rewards, and 
behavioural risks that can arise 
from target-based incentive plans, 
are identified and mitigated. 

Alignment to culture 

Incentive plans drive behaviours 
consistent with the Company’s 
purpose, values and strategy. 

Our incentive plans are market typical designs, making it easier for participants to understand. 

Where appropriate, incentive arrangements flow down through the organisation to align the interests of 
employees and senior management with those of our shareholders and to encourage and share value 
creation.

Performance conditions in the annual bonus and performance share awards require a minimum level of 
performance before any payment is made to senior management, and performance targets are aligned with 
our business plan and strategy. Remuneration is considered in the context of the wider employee 
population, including pay gap information, to assess its appropriateness. 

Truly stretching performance is required for the maximum to payout under our incentive plans. This 
ensures that executive rewards align with the experience of shareholders. 

There are clearly defined maximum opportunities, as set out in our 2023 Policy. 

Incentive plan performance measures are balanced to promote the right behaviours and appropriate 
safeguards are put in place, including adjustments for safety performance. 

While clawback has not been introduced due to uncertainty around its legal validity in Chile, LTIP awards are 
subject to malus. 

The Committee retains the discretion to adjust outcomes under the plans for variable remuneration.

Our 2023 Policy continues to be aligned with the business objectives to create sustainable value and high 
profitability. We reward strong performance aligned with our business objectives, but only if the methods used 
align with our safety and sustainability objectives. In 2024, all executive and supervisor performance bonuses, 
including the CEO’s, include an assessment of individual performance related to the Group’s Leadership Model 
which defines the behaviours that we require all employees to demonstrate, and is intended to connect and 
enhance our excellence management system and the strength of inclusive leadership.

Antofagasta plc  Annual Report 2023

165

2023 Directors’ and CEO’s Remuneration Report

CEO’s single figure of 
remuneration (audited)

The table below sets out the remuneration received by the CEO in respect of the years ended 31 December 2023 and 31 December 2022.

Iván Arriagada1 2023
Iván Arriagada1 2022

Salary/Fees
$’0002

1,307
833

Benefits 
$’0003

136
115

Bonus
$’0004

2,020
1,846

Restricted
Awards
$’0005

Performance 
Awards
$’0006,7

Total 
remuneration 
$’000

Total fixed 
remuneration 
$’000

Total variable 
remuneration 
$’000

802
520

571
1,978

4,836
5,292

1,443
948

3,393
4,344

1.  Mr. Iván Arriagada’s remuneration was calculated based on amounts paid in Chilean pesos each month of the relevant year, converted into US dollars at the closing exchange rate for the 

month it was paid.

2.  As explained in last year’s annual report there were a number of increases to the CEO’s base salary during 2022 and 2023, impacting the 2023 salary figure shown. Firstly in accordance 

with the CEO’s contract there was a 17.6% exchange rate increase, plus a 2.8% inflation increase in 2022. Secondly, at the start of 2023 as disclosed in the 2022 annual report, the 
CEO’s base salary increased by a further 20% from January 2023. During 2023 an inflationary increase of 4.8% has been applied in December 2023. 

3.  Benefits include life and health insurance. Other benefit values are based on what the Company believes would be deemed by HMRC to be taxable benefits in the UK. These principally 

relate to the cost of attending Board and other meetings and the Company’s Annual General Meeting in London (which comprise $93,000 of the total expenses shown above, including the 
related tax effect). The Company also pays the professional fees incurred to complete the CEO’s tax returns and the actual tax incurred by the CEO on these benefits, which are received 
in connection with fulfilling his duties. The Company makes no pension contributions on behalf of the CEO. HMRC has deemed certain services to be taxable in the UK. The Company has 
agreed to compensate the CEO for any double taxation that is not eventually recoverable from the Chilean revenue under the UK/Chile Double tax treaty. This tax equalisation benefit in 
respect of 2023 is a benefit of $9,892 and in 2022 was a benefit of $6,505.

4.  Mr Arriagada's bonus is paid in Chilean pesos and reported in US dollars. The 2022 annual bonus was paid following the date of publication of the 2022 Annual Report and the exchange 
rate used has been updated with the rate applicable at the date the bonus was paid. The exchange rate as of March 2023, which was used to update the 2022 annual bonus, is Ch$/USD 
790.41 vs Ch$/USD 855.86 in January 2023. 

5.  Restricted Award amounts are reported in the year of the grant based on the face value of the awards on the date of the grant. 
6.  Performance Awards are reported in the year the performance period ends. The Total Shareholder Return (TSR) performance is an estimate based on the substantial completion of the 
performance period, determined after this report's publication. The share price used to value these awards is the three-month average share price to the end of the 31 December 2023 
performance period of £14.36/share and USD/GBP 1.24. Performance awards are cash awards linked to a notional number of shares (39,442) and the Company’s share price 
performance. There was no entitlement to dividends or dividend equivalents.

7.  The Performance Awards included in the 2022 total vested on 27 March 2023. 50% of the award was based on the TSR performance, which was determined after the publication of last 
year’s report. The figure included in the table has been updated to reflect the TSR performance outcome that was 100% of the maximum, leading to a total award outcome of 100% of the 
maximum. The increase in the value reported for the 2020 LTIP reflects the change in share price and exchange rate at vesting. The share price and exchange rate used to value this 
award are £15.31/share and USD/GBP 1.23. For the 2020 LTIP, the value attributable to an increase in the Company’s share price is $343,767. The value at the time of the grant reached 
based on $868,000 with a £6.98/share and USD/GBP 1.18 with an increase in the value reported as $1,110,271. The notional number of shares over which the performance awards were 
granted was 105,295. There was no entitlement to dividends or dividend equivalents.

Annual bonus – audited

Group performance (70%)

The targets and achievements for the 2023 annual bonus are set out below. 70% of the CEO and Executive Committee’s 2023 annual bonuses 
were calculated based on the Group’s performance against these criteria in 2023:

Weighting 
% 

Threshold 
(0% vesting)

On-target 
(50% vesting)

Maximum 
(100% vesting)

Actual 
achievement 

Achievement 
(% of maximum)

50%

15%

22%

13%

25%

15%

5%

5%

25%

5%

5%

10%

5%

2,543

650.9

238.6

2,825

671.7-692.5

225.1

3,108

702.9

211.6

3,009

660.6

230.7

Measured according to the schedule and budget,  
as described in more detail in the footnotes.

Measured according to the KPIs and milestones as 
described in more detail in the footnotes.

Adjustments are described in more detail 
in the footnotes.

45%

85%

25%

30%

65%

55%

80%

95%

90%

100%

90%

75%

100%

60%

10%

0%

70%13

Measure

Core business 

EBITDA – Mining division1 ($m)

Copper production2 (kt)

Cash costs before by-product credits3 (c/lb)

Business development 

Growth projects4

Exploration programmes5

Innovation and digital transformation projects6

Sustainability and organisational capabilities

Safety – Mining division7

People – Diversity and Inclusion Strategy8

Environmental performance9

Social performance10

Total outcome – pre-adjustments

Adjustment for meeting zero fatality target11

Board discretion applied12

Total outcome – post-adjustments

166

Antofagasta plc  Annual Report 2023

CORPORATE GOVERNANCE1.  The EBITDA targets were adjusted for exchange rate, inflation and copper price 

fluctuations, and explosives price fluctuations, and the effect of one-off bonuses paid on 
conclusion of labour negotiations at Minera Centinela, Los Pelambres, and Zaldívar, which 
were not included in the Group’s budget. 

Performance was between target and maximum for this measure with 90% of objectives 
being met. A 15% negative trigger would apply if the overall target of 1% of people with 
disabilities is not met, however, this target was met during the year and so no negative 
trigger applies. 

•  On-target: implementation of roadmap by April 2023 and 22.0% female direct 

employees.

•  Maximum: meet all implementation objectives and at 23.1% female direct employees. 

9.  Split between compliance with a regulatory requirements action plan (40%), and 

implementation of the Climate Change Roadmap (60%). This metric was met 75%. 

•  Regulatory requirements action plan: This measure was achieved in full with 100% 
payout. Maximum: obtaining the Copper Mark ratification at Antucoya by June 2023 
and at Los Pelambres by August 2023; and the internal evaluation for Centinela and 
Zaldívar by December 2023. 

•  Implementation of the Climate Change Roadmap: This measure was partially achieved 
at 60% of the maximum. Target: (25%) Pillar 1: Implementation of Circular Economy 
Strategy, (25%) Pillar 2: (25%) Comply with the Energy Performance Indicators of the 
2023 budget, (25%) Incorporate into the Climate Change scenario, of the 2023 annual 
planning process, the action to implement energy efficiency measures, for each 
Company, (25%) Incorporation of the 2022 Decarbonisation Plan in the annual 
planning process and incorporation of the scenario in the 2024 Budget and 
development of the Second Stage of the Plan. (25%) Target definition of Scope 3 (% to 
be defined during 2023), (25%) Pillar 3: (34%) Increase the water efficiency of the 
Mining Group by 0.25%, which is equivalent to decreasing the consumption at ~35 l/s 
as a whole for the Group. (33%) Develop a pre-feasibility study of a technological 
initiative in all Mining Group Companies. (33%) Achieve an average of 70% compliance 
with the Water Management Standard by 2023 for the global GM Companies. (25%) 
Pillar 4: Climate Change Standard Approval in H1. Maximum: (25%) Pillar 1: 
Implementation of Circular Economy Strategy, (25%) Pillar 2: (50%) Compensation 
Strategy Definition, (50%) Reduction of 1.5% with the implicit Energy Performance 
Indicators of the 2023 budget, (25%) Pillar 3: (50%) Increase the water efficiency of 
the GM by 0.5%, which is equivalent to reducing consumption at ~70 l/s as a whole for 
the Group. (50%) Achieve by 2023 an average of 75% compliance with the Water 
Management Standard for the global Mining Group Companies, (25%) Pillar 4: 
Definition of Baseline for implementation of the Climate Change Standard (identification 
of gaps and definition of an action plan). 

10. Performance against the planned execution of social initiatives. This metric was met in 

full. Maximum: (40%) 3% savings in Social Initiatives budget, (40%) Minera Los 
Pelambres/North District measurement tools implementation, (20%) Positive results in 
the application of the reputation perception tool defined in 2023. 

11.  A standalone adjustment trigger of 15% of the calculated outcome is applied to the Annual 
Bonus Plan, upwards if there are no fatalities during the year or downwards if there are 
one or more fatalities. As there were no fatalities in 2023, the final Mining division’s 
outcome was increased by 10% (from 60% of maximum to 70% of maximum).

12. The Board did not make any discretionary adjustments to the bonus.
13. For the purposes of calculation of outturn results, one decimal place has been used, 

but for simplicity in reporting, above figures have been shown as rounded to the nearest 
whole figure. Performance objectives are evaluated on a twenty-point scale with the 
minimum (90), target (100) and maximum (110), each point from 90 to 110 corresponding 
to 5% of the maximum objective.

2.  The copper production outturn level (which includes 50% of Zaldívar) reflects the 

stretching targets set at the beginning of the year in line with expectations of greater 
water availability through our desalination plant. As the desalination plant was delayed 
beyond the original schedule this impacted production, but despite this our Mining 
Division successfully produced 660,600 tonnes of copper, representing a 2% increase 
year-on-year. 

3.  The cash cost targets were adjusted for the same factors as the EBITDA targets (except 

for copper price fluctuations, which do not impact this measure). 

4.  Split between: Los Pelambres Phase 1 Expansion Project (4%), Los Pelambres critical 

infrastructure projects, including desalination plant increase, concentrate pipeline and El 
Mauro enclosures (collectively PAO), and Los Pelambres – mine life extension (EVU) 
(2%), Centinela: Second Concentrator Detailed Engineering (5%), Zaldívar: CMZ II 
Enablers (2%) and Permission Strategy Zaldívar (2%). The overall result for this measure 
was 55% of the maximum. The underlying performance targets and outcomes are set out 
below. 

•  Los Pelambres Phase 1 Expansion Project: the result was that the threshold target was 
not achieved. Threshold (50%) beginning production less than 30 days late and (50%) 
beginning production on 400 lt/s less than 60 days late. 

•  PAO/EVU: The result was between threshold and target performance. Threshold 

(100%) presenting the investment for approval within 120 days of approval from the 
PAO EIA. Target (70%) at least 85% progress of the approved PAO programme, (30%) 
finalising the processing strategy for entry to the EVU with reference to the PAO EIA.
•  Centinela Second Concentrator Detailed Engineering: The result was between target and 
maximum performance. Target (100%) progress according to the approved programme 
(investment decision during 2023). Maximum (50%) renegotiation of Purchase Orders 
for critical equipment due to deadline extension to 2023 with no impact on the execution 
of the project, and (50%) negotiations for the term extensions of the vertical packages of 
work not impacting capex by more than 2.5%. 

•  Zaldívar II Enablers: The result was between target and maximum performance. 

Target (50%) documentation is ready to start bidding for the design and construction 
of the Pioneer Camp at Zaldívar in Q4 2023 and (50%) documentation is ready for 
a tender process in Q4 2023 for the Engineering, Procurement and Construction 
(EPC) of Zaldivar’s conversion to either sea water or third party water sources. 
Maximum (100%) all critical milestones met in 2023. 

•  Zaldívar permission strategy: Maximum (100%) approval for the DIA bridge in Q4 

2023. Management completed all works required for approval of the DIA bridge and 
submitted for final approval in Q4 2023. The government finalised this approval in 
January 2024. The Board therefore determined the result was maximum performance. 

5.  Includes targets to assess the progress of exploration programmes and consolidation of 
exploration ownership interests, split between Cachorro deposit (60%), Encierro deposit 
(20%) and international exploration (20%). All the programmes were advanced according 
to the plan. The result was 80% of the maximum.

6.  Split between compliance with the Innovation Roadmap (50%) and Data Analytics (50%). 

Milestones for the Innovation Roadmap measure at target was 50% based on IROC 
Minera Los Pelambres and 50% based on IROC Centinela. The overall result for 
Innovation and digital transformation projects was 95% of maximum, made up of 85% of 
maximum achievement for the Innovation Roadmap measure and 100% of maximum 
achievement for the Data Analytics measure.

•  IROC Minera Los Pelambres: (50%) Operating with a 85% value capture in 2023 and 
(50%) achievement by Q2 of 200l/s then 400l/s at the desalination plant for target 
achievement.

•  IROC Centinela: becoming compliant with Value Levers in Budget for Concentrator 

Plant – copper recovery 85.98%, mineral ore processed 107 Ktpd, and Hydrometallurgy 
Plants – copper recovery 62.31%, for target achievement. 

•  To achieve maximum payout on the Innovation Roadmap measure, milestones were 

25% based on IROC Minera Los Pelambres: (50%) Operating with value capture over 
105% of expected 2023 and (50%) Q3 – 2023 start of fourth milling line from IROC. 
25% based on North Zone: approval to advance to feasibility stage and incorporation into 
2024 budget of next phase. 25% based in IROC Centinela: Fulfilment of Value Levers 
2023 budget: Concentrator Plant (1/3) Cu Recovery: > 85.98%. (1/3) Ore Processed: 
> 107 Ktpd Hydrometallurgy Plants (1/3) Cu Recovery: > 62.31%, and Autonomy Control 
Room transfer to IROC. 25% Standardisation of IROC development model. 

•  Milestones for the Data Analytics measure were related to the level of materialisation 
of active advanced analytics tools, requiring $11.5 million for maximum achievement. 

7.  Split between performance against targets for reducing high potential incidents (50%) 
and decrease in similar exposure group (SEG) of occupational hazards (50%). These 
metrics were met in full, and the Lost Time Injury Frequency Rate (LTIFR) trigger which 
applied for a LTIFR of higher than 1 was not triggered.

•  Reduction in High Potential Incident (HPI) rate targets were: maximum: 0.09. 
•  The SEG targets were: maximum: 10% or more. 

8.  Performance against targets for implementation of the Diversity and Inclusion Policy. 
(50%) of the target was based on the D&I Roadmap implementation and (50%) was 
based on an increase in the percentage of female direct employees by the year's end. 

Antofagasta plc  Annual Report 2023

167

2023 Directors’ and CEO’s Remuneration Report continued

Individual performance (30%)

The individual objectives for the CEO were based on critical strategic areas as part of our vision for the Company – organisation, leadership, 
culture, people, growth, competitiveness, safety and sustainability and innovation. Based on individual feedback from Directors, the Committee 
assessed Iván Arriagada’s performance against his personal objectives as 100% of the maximum for his contribution to the individual strategic 
business goals during the year. All his objectives were exceeded, which count towards 30% of his annual bonus. This outcome reflects 
exceptional performance during a challenging year in continuing to deliver a culture of excellence as well as develop the business across its core 
strategic growth areas establishing a stronger foundation to build future value for all our stakeholders. Iván Arriagada’s performance against 
each of his objectives is summarised below:

Key Goals

Performance

Keeping the Board well-informed 
and responding to feedback 
received during the year.

Leading the Group’s core values 
and developing a culture of 
excellence.

Kept the Board well-informed of key issues and developments, demonstrating a strong professional 
working relationship, patience, respect and responsiveness to ideas, suggestions and feedback, 
ensuring that the Board’s perspectives were incorporated in decision-making throughout the Group.

Strong visible and proactive leadership, exemplifying the Group’s core values, with effective 
leadership continuing to foster a corporate culture of excellence.

Outstanding 2023 safety performance supported by strong environmental performance and people 
and organisation initiatives. 

Implementing strategy including in 
relation to long-term growth

Demonstrated strategic vision to strengthen the Group’s operations, projects and project capabilities 
to support the advancement of key projects at Los Pelambres and Centinela during the year.

Focusing on the Group’s core 
business

Developing talent, ensuring 
appropriate succession planning 
and performance management.

Pursuing exploration and business 
development opportunities.

Promoting the Group’s reputation, 
working with key stakeholders and 
local communities

Maintained focus on the core business in a year with significant activity in various areas. 

This included the successful implementation of projects that continue to improve operational 
performance

Demonstrated continued improvements in succession planning and talent initiatives with a consistent 
and more diverse talent pool across the business. 

Successfully restructured the Executive Committee and senior management positions with the 
promotion of internal talent and by attracting internally diverse talent to prepare the business for 
current challenges.

Promoted and executed a growth strategy that balanced brownfield growth and internationalisation.

This included completion of the Desalination Plant project at Los Pelambres, the approval of 
Centinela’s Second Concentrator and Minera Los Pelambres’ key infrastructure projects and the 
Group’s investment in exploration and Buenaventura in Peru.

Outstanding contribution to the visibility and reputation of the Group in Chile, with stakeholders, 
investors and in the international mining industry.

Performance adjustments, discretion and CEO’s total annual bonus for 2023

Based on Iván Arriagada’s performance achieved against his 2023 targets, the Committee determined that he would receive a bonus payment  
of $2,020k. This figure was determined as follows:

Overall performance score 

(70% x 70%) + (30% x 100%) = 78.7% of the maximum

(As a percentage of the maximum) 

  78.7% of $2,568k 

Gross annual bonus  = $2,020k 

Calculated in US dollars using the exchange rate as of 31 December 2023 of $1 = Ch$877.12

Because the annual bonus is calculated and paid in Chilean pesos, it is subject to exchange rate movements when reported in US dollars.

The amount of bonus paid was not linked to share price appreciation.

168

Antofagasta plc  Annual Report 2023

CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 
Long-term incentive – audited

Anticipated vesting in 2024

As noted in the single-figure remuneration table on page 166, performance against the Performance Awards granted in 20211 will not be finally 
determined by the Committee until after the date of this report. The performance criteria attached to these Performance Awards and the 
anticipated performance against these criteria, based on estimates as of the date of this report, are as follows:

Threshold

On-target

Maximum

Performance

Achievement 
%

Discretion 
applied

62.6%

No

100%

No

This KPI will vest 
on or after 29 
March 2024. The 
estimate is based 
on a performance 
of 2.21%2 higher 
than the index as of 
23 February 2024.

Resources 
increased to 92.1 
million tonnes of 
contained copper 
as of 31 December 
2023.

All goals achieved

100%

No

All goals achieved.

100%

No

Weighting 
%

50%

Measure

Relative total 
shareholder 
return over 
three year 
period

ESTIMATED

Global X Copper 
Miners ETF 
(CopX Index)

Below index

Equal to index

≥5% above 
index

% Score

0%

33%

100%

Mineral 
resources 
increase

25%

Tonnes of 
contained copper

82.6m

% Score

0%

85.6m

50%

86.6m

100%

Projects’ 
performance3

12.5%

(1) Los 
Pelambres 
pipeline

(2) Desalination 
plant expansion

(3) Centinela 
Second 
Concentrator

(1) and (2) feasibility 
study not started 
(3) Not submitted 
for Board approval

(1) and (2) 
feasibility study 
75% complete. 
(3) Submitted for 
Board approval 
and construction 
underway

(1) and (2) feasibility 
study 100% complete. 
(3) Construction 
progress in 
accordance with the 
approved plan 

% Score

0%

75%

100%

Sustainability 
commitments4

12.5%

Choapa Valley 
(30%)

North District 
(10%)

Climate change 
& environment 
(60%)

75% compliance

> =85% compliance. 
Considers existing 
initiatives as of 31 
March 2021 and those 
that may be added by 
31 December 2023. 
100% includes 
compliance with the 
implementation 
timelines and budget

75% compliance.

100% compliance

50% compliance with 
the social 
management plan 
initiatives. Final 
compliance is 
calculated as the 
average compliance 
of all initiatives.

50% compliance with 
the emissions budget. 
50% compliance with 
the climate change 
strategy roadmap. 
50% compliance with 
the internal plan for 
extreme, high and 
moderate risk 
regulatory 
requirements. 

% Score

0%

100%

Total outcome

81.3%5

1.  The number of shares and share price used and the impact of vesting % for this award is available in the notes to the single figure table on page 166 and the table setting out long-term 

incentive awards outstanding for the CEO from prior periods on page 172.

2.  The TSR outcome is an estimate as the performance period ends after this report is published. The actual outturn will be included in next year’s Annual Report.
3.  The Los Pelambres pipeline and desalination plant expansion feasibility study is 100% complete. The PAO project had Basic Engineering completed in Nov 2022 for the piping systems and 
made significant progress in engineering and construction works carried out for the 800 lt/s desalination plant by the Los Pelambres Phase 1 Expansion Project. Additionally, in December 
2022 the budget was approved to commence activities of the execution stage, corresponding to detailed engineering, critical purchases (long lead), some early works, bidding of main 
contracts and training of the project team, which has been taking during 2023. Finally, in October 2023, environmental approval was obtained for the project with a favourable RCA,  
a milestone that enables the start of definitive construction, whose request for an investment decision is expected to be submitted to the Board of Directors in the first quarter of 2024. 
Centinela Second Concentrator project was approved on 19 December 2023 with a three-year construction schedule, with critical path works commencing immediately in Q4 2023 and 
full construction to commence after definitive project finance documents have been executed during Q1 2024. The Board approved plan was updated based on the Board’s decision to 
postpone the approval decision until certain national regulatory conditions were met in 2023.

4.  One hundred percent (100%) compliance means agreements reached with the communities near the Company’s operations, CO2 emissions reduction following forecasts set on the grant 

date equivalent to 928,163 tCO2e, 100% compliance with the climate change strategy roadmap and 100% compliance with the internal plan to address regulatory requirements.

5.  The impact of this vesting level on the CEO’s 2023 remuneration is set out in footnote 6 of the CEO single-figure total remuneration table on page 166.

Performance adjustments and discretion

No discretion has been applied to any of the performance calculations for the 2021 LTIP outcome.

Antofagasta plc  Annual Report 2023

169

2023 Directors’ and CEO’s Remuneration Report continued

Directors’ single figure  
of remuneration (audited)

The Directors’ remuneration for 2023 and 2022 is below in US dollars. Unless otherwise noted, amounts paid in Chilean pesos have been 
converted at the exchange rate on the first working day of the month following the payment date. Any additional fees payable for serving on 
subsidiary and joint venture company boards are also included in the amounts below.

Chairman
Jean-Paul Luksic
Non-Executive Directors
Ramón Jara1
Juan Claro
Andrónico Luksic C
Vivianne Blanlot
Jorge Bande (departed 31 December 2023)
Francisca Castro
Michael Anglin
Tony Jensen 
Maria Eugenia Parot
Heather Lawrence (joined 18 April 2023)
Total Board 

Fees

2023
$000

2022
$000

Benefits2,3

2023 
$000

2022
$000

Total4,5

2023 
$000

2022
$000

1,015

1,015

1,133
280
260
317
320
337
335
353
316
196
4,862

927
280
260
325
320
315
335
365
300
-
4,442

19

99
17
6
18
18
35
7
21
17
6
263

16

1,034

1,031

85
3
3
3
13
21 
7
12
6
-
169

1,232
297
266
335
338
372
342
374
333
202
5,125

1,014
283
263
328
333
336 
342
377
306
-
4,611

1.  During 2023, $832,582 (2022 – $604,079) was paid to Asesorías Ramón F. Jara Ltda. for providing services. The increase is due to an inflation adjustment, a change in the Chilean 

service provision law and decrease in the Ch$/USD exchange rate. These payments are included in the fees attributable to Ramón Jara shown above.

2.  Amounts for Jean-Paul Luksic include the provision of life and health insurance. Amounts for Ramón Jara include the provision of life insurance. No such insurance is provided for the other Directors.
3.  Except as described in footnote 2, all “benefits” amounts included in this table arose in connection with the fulfilment of Directors’ duties and, in particular, including the cost of attending 
Board and other meetings and the Company’s Annual General Meeting in London (which comprise $189,000 of the total expenses shown above, including the related tax effect, of which 
$92,000 relates to Ramon Jara) . These calculations have been based on what the Company believes would be deemed by HMRC to be taxable benefits in the UK by the Non-Executive 
Directors or would be if the director was resident in the United Kingdom for tax purposes, alongside any personal incidental expenses. Given these expenses are incurred by Directors 
in connection with the fulfilment of their director duties, the Company also pays the professional fees incurred to complete individual tax returns and the actual tax incurred by Directors 
on these expenses. Figures are reported in the year that they are paid, or would be payable, by the Company.
4.  Totals reflect the total fixed remuneration for each Director. Directors did not receive any variable remuneration. 
5.  Notes relevant to single-figure disclosures for 2022 can be found on page 159 of the 2022 annual report. These remain unchanged.

Payments to former directors (audited)

There were no payments made to past directors.

Payments for loss of office (audited)

There were no payments made for loss of office.

Directors and CEO’s shareholding and share interests 
(audited)

The Directors who held office on 31 December 2023 had the following 
interests in the ordinary shares of the Company:

Jean-Paul Luksic1
Tony Jensen
Ramón Jara2
Juan Claro
Andrónico Luksic C
Vivianne Blanlot
Jorge Bande
Francisca Castro
Michael Anglin
Eugenia Parot

Ordinary shares of 5p each

31 December 2023

1 January 2023

41,963,110
–
–
–
–
–
–
–
–
–

41,963,110
–
5,260
–
–
–
–
–
–
–

1.  Jean-Paul Luksic’s interest relates to shares held by Aureberg Establishment, an entity 

he ultimately controls.

2.  Ramón Jara’s interest relates to shares that were held by a close family member.

170

Antofagasta plc  Annual Report 2023

There have been no changes to the Directors’ interests in the shares 
of the Company between 31 December 2023 and the date of this 
report.

The Directors and CEO had no interests in the shares of the Company 
during the year other than those set out on this page. No Director had 
any material interest in any contract (other than a service contract in 
the case of Ramón Jara) with the Company or its subsidiary 
undertakings during the year other than in the ordinary course of 
business.

The Group does not have shareholding guidelines or requirements for 
Directors, all of whom are Non-Executives.

The Chairman, Mr. Jean-Paul Luksic, and Non-Executive Director, Mr. 
Andrónico Luksic C., are members of the Luksic family. Members of 
the Luksic family are interested in the E. Abaroa Foundation, which 
controls Metalinvest Establishment and Kupferberg Establishment, 
which, taken together, hold approximately 60.66% of the Company’s 
ordinary shares and approximately 94.12% of the Company’s 
preference shares. In addition, Mr. Jean-Paul Luksic controls the 
Severe Studere Foundation, which, in turn, controls the Aureberg 
Establishment (which holds approximately 4.26% of the Company’s 
ordinary shares as mentioned above). This creates significant 
alignment between these members of the Board and shareholders.

During the period, no Non-Executive Director was eligible for any 
short-term or long-term incentive awards, and no Non-Executive 
Director owns any shares as a result of the achievement of 
performance conditions.

CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Other relevant information

Long-term incentive plan awards made to the CEO during the financial year (audited)

As stated earlier in this report, all LTIP awards are cash awards linked to a notional number of shares and the Company’s share price 
performance.

Type of award

Date of grant

Restricted Award

29 Mar 2023

Number of 
shares/options
42,567

Award as  
% of salary1
60%

Face value (market 
value at date of grant)
$801,490

N/A

Performance period

Vesting dates

Performance Award

29 Mar 2023

99,321

140%

$1,870,142

29 Mar 2023 to 29 Mar 2026

1.  The number of awards was calculated according to the base salary at the grant date on 29 March 2023 with the total face value described in the table. The share price used to value 

these awards is £15.33/share and USD/GBP 1.23 as an average of the 5 last working days according to policy.

Performance conditions attaching to long-term incentive plan awards granted to the CEO in 2023 (audited)

Objective

Weighting

Threshold

Target

Maximum

Vesting at 
threshold

Vesting 
at target

Vesting at 
maximum

50%

Performance below 
index

Equal to index

≥ 5% above index

0%

33%

100%

29 Mar 2024 
29 Mar 2025 
29 Mar 2026
29 Mar 2026

Relative total shareholder return 
vs. Global X Copper Miners ETF 
over three years. (CopX Index)

Mineral resources 
(contained copper)

25%

83.6m tonnes

86.2m tonnes

88.1m tonnes

Projects performance: 

12.5%

(1) Los Pelambres Concentrate 
Pipeline (15%) 

(2) Los Pelambres Desalination 
Plant Expansion (15%)

(3) Los Pelambres – Mine Life 
Extension (10%)

(4) Zaldívar’s Operational 
Continuity Solution (20%)

(5) Centinela Second Concentrator 
(40%)

(1), (2) and (5) progress 
of 40%. 

(1), (2) and (5) progress 
of 74%

75% completion of (1), 
(2) and (5)

(3) Addendum 2 
(Document that provides 
consolidated answers to 
the authority’s 
questions) not started as 
of December 2025. 
Tailings filter tests not 
started as of December 
2024.

(4) Definition and 
approval of Zaldívar’s 
operational continuity 
solution: 75% 
compliance with the 
roadmap defined as of 
December 2025.

(3) Addendum 2 in 
preparation with 50% 
progress as of 
December 2025 and 
tailings tests filtered 
with 50% progress as 
of December 2024.

(4) Definition and 
approval of the Zaldívar 
operational continuity 
solution: 85% 
compliance with the 
roadmap defined as of 
December 2025. 

(3) Addendum 2 entry as 
of December 2025 and 
filtered tailings tests 
performed as of 
December 2024

(4) Definition and 
approval of Zaldívar 
operational continuity 
solution: 100% 
compliance with defined 
roadmap as of December 
2025.

(4) Progress in the 
feasibility of the Primary 
Sulphides Project >= 85% 
of the approved plan.

Environmental 
and social 
commitments

(1) Social 
Management 
Plan (40%)

(2) Climate 
change and 
environment 
(60%)

12.5%

Greater than 50% 
compliance

Greater than 75% 
compliance

Greater than or equal  
to 85% compliance1

50% compliance.

75% compliance.

Maximum is achievable 
for compliance with 
Decarbonisation Roadmap 
plan at 75%.

95% compliance with the 
water efficiency target. 

100% for implementation 
of targets relating to the 
Circular Economy 
Strategy. 

Score 75% + 95% 
compliance with extreme, 
high and moderate risk 
regulatory requirements. 

0%

0%

50%

100%

75%

100%

0%

0%

75%

100%

75%

100%

1.  Compliance with initiatives in the Group’s social management plan, including initiatives existing as of 31 March 2023 and added before 31 December 2025, on time and within the budget. 

The Committee set stretching targets which incentivise the CEO and Executive Committee members to deliver exceptional performance and to 
drive sustainable results. The Committee ensures that targets are appropriately stretching in the context of the business plan and prior year 
achievements and that there is an appropriate balance between incentivising the CEO to meet financial targets and to deliver specific non-
financial goals.

Antofagasta plc  Annual Report 2023

171

