2022/23 Annual Report and Accounts

Kingfisher at a glance

Contents
Strategic Report 

2

3

5

6

8

10

12

14

16

23

27

36

39

47

51

59

61

Chair’s statement 

Chief Executive Officer’s statement 

Our markets

Our strategy 

Performance against priorities

Key Performance Indicators

Business model 

People and culture 

Stakeholder engagement and  
decision-making

Responsible Business 

Our response to the Task Force on  
Climate-related Financial Disclosures 

Non-financial information statement 

Financial review

Trading review by division

Risks

Viability statement 

Going concern

Governance 

Financial highlights

For the year ended 31 January 2023

Sales
£13,059m

2021/22: £13,183m

(0.7)%1

Like-for-like2

Gross profit/margin2
£4,795m

2021/22: £4,935m

36.7%

(70)bps

Retail profit2/margin2
£923m

2021/22: £1,148m

Adjusted pre-tax profit2/margin 
£758m

2021/22: £949m

7.1%

(160)bps

5.8%

(140)bps

Statutory profit – pre-tax 
and post-tax

Basic earnings per share (EPS) – 
adjusted and statutory

Corporate governance

Board of Directors

Board composition

Board activities 

Board effectiveness 

Pre-tax

£611m

2021/22: £1,007m

Nomination Committee report 

Post-tax

62

64

66

67

68

69

71

73

Responsible Business Committee report 

Audit Committee report 

Directors’ remuneration report 

77
101 Directors’ report 
104 Statement of directors’ responsibility 

Financial Statements

Independent auditors’ report 

105
116 Consolidated income statement 
117 Consolidated statement of 

comprehensive income 

118 Consolidated statement of changes in equity 
119 Consolidated balance sheet 
120 Consolidated cash flow statement 
121 Notes to the consolidated 
financial statements 
167 Company balance sheet 
168 Company statement of changes in equity 
169 Notes to the Company financial statements 
181 Group five year financial summary 
182
184 Glossary 

Shareholder information 

£471m

2021/22: £843m

Total dividend3
12.40p

2021/22: 12.40p

Free cash flow2,3
£(40)m

2021/22: £385m

Net debt2 to EBITDA2
1.6x

2021/22: 1.0x

1.  Variance in constant currency.

Adjusted2

29.7p

2021/22: 35.2p

Statutory

23.8p

2021/22: 40.3p

Net decrease in cash
£(555)m

2021/22: £(237)m

Net debt2
£(2,274)m

2021/22: £(1,572)m

2.  Alternative performance measure (APM). See the Glossary on pages 184 to 187 for definitions and 

reconciliations of APMs.

3.  The Board has proposed a final dividend per share of 8.60p (FY 21/22 final dividend: 8.60p), resulting in a 
proposed total dividend per share of 12.40p in respect of FY 22/23 (FY 21/22: 12.40p). The final dividend 
is subject to the approval of shareholders at the Annual General Meeting on 27 June 2023.

4.  Evaluation of our Key Performance Indicators against our strategy can be found on pages 10 and 11 and 

pages 39 to 46.

Who we are

Our purpose  

Kingfisher is an international home improvement company 
with over 1,9001 stores in eight countries across Europe.

We believe a better world starts with better homes.  
We help make better homes accessible for everyone.

We offer home improvement products and services to 
consumers and trade professionals through our stores 
and e-commerce channels.

Our strategic principles

Kingfisher banners are not the same.  
This is a strength.

We ‘power’ these banners  
as a Group.

A clear vision to build customer 
propositions for the future.

Human, agile and lean.

Where we operate

Kingfisher operates in eight countries across Europe under retail 
banners including B&Q, Castorama, Brico Dépôt, Screwfix, TradePoint 
and Koçtaş, supported by a team of 82,0001, 2 colleagues.

Our stores

1,188
UK & 
Ireland3

223
France4

97
Poland

33
Romania

28
Spain

3
Portugal

355
Turkey5

All figures on this page relate to the year ended 31 January 2023.

1.  Turkey joint venture included.

2.  Total, not full-time equivalent.

3.  B&Q 316. Screwfix 872.

4.  Castorama 95. Brico Dépôt 123. Screwfix 5.

5.  Our stores in Turkey, Koçtaş, are operated as a 50% joint venture. Store 

figure as of 31 December 2022. 

Kingfisher 2022/23 Annual Report and Accounts

1

Chair’s statement

Kingfisher has seen a tremendous amount of change over the 
last few years as we set about modernising the company and 
positioning it for future growth. We are now three years into the 
‘Powered by Kingfisher’ strategy and Chief Executive Thierry 
Garnier and his team have done a great job organising the 
resources of the Group. This means we can make the most of 
our overall size and scale while keeping, through our local teams, 
the majority of operational decisions as close to the customer 
as possible.

Last year this strategy delivered above average market 
performance in all our banners together with solid increases in 
customer satisfaction and colleague engagement. These are the 
‘vital signs’ for a company like Kingfisher and it’s encouraging to 
see them consistently on the rise. At the same time, continued 
investment in our IT and digital capability is paying dividends and, 
along with other initiatives, such as the opening of our first 
Screwfix store in France last October, gives us great 
confidence in our ability to generate growth in shareholder 
value going forward.

Our strategy and infrastructure investments are also making 
Kingfisher a more resilient business, one more capable of 
absorbing and responding to external shocks, of which there 
seems to be no shortage. During the year we saw this greater 
resilience clearly as our supply chain and stock availability held 
up very well despite the significant sourcing challenges created 
by repeated Covid-19 lockdowns in China and the impact on 
energy prices and supplier confidence arising as a result of 
the war in Ukraine.

In the year, the Group delivered a resilient financial 
performance, particularly given the year on year comparable 
and the impact of rapid inflation and rising interest rates on 
consumer confidence towards the end of the year. Overall 
revenues for the Group were down 0.7% (3-year LFL up 15.6%), 
adjusted pre tax profits at £758 million with statutory pre-tax 
profits at £611 million, down 39.3%. The Board is proposing a final 
dividend of 8.60p, which would make the total dividend for the 
year 12.40p and bring our total return to shareholders in the year 
to £583 million.

Our purpose is to ‘make better homes accessible for everyone’. 
This is a task that is always worthwhile but perhaps never 
more so than right now. The pandemic has changed the role 
of the home with more working from home and with energy 
management an increasing priority for both households and 
governments, this is a time when Kingfisher can really step 
up and help. The recent surge in interest in our energy saving 
products and services has been remarkable and with the profile 
of the transition to a net zero economy only increasing, we 
expect this interest to be sustained. Our offer in this critical area 
will continue to grow in line with demand and using the Group’s 
scale and design capability, we will look to continue to offer 
these products at prices that are affordable to the majority.

Underpinning our purpose is a determination to operate the 
company in a way that is sensitive to the current and future 
needs of the communities and customers we serve, our 
colleagues and the planet. Kingfisher has a long history as 
a pioneer of Responsible Business and we are committed to 
staying an acknowledged leader in the field. Over the last year 
we made good progress in a number of important areas. These 
include the roll out of immersive diversity and inclusion training 
for senior teams, the creation of new development programmes 
for store-based colleagues, support for apprenticeship 
programmes, reducing our carbon emissions, increasing the 
number of ‘sustainable’ products we offer and setting new, 
ambitious targets as part of our net zero commitment. These 
and other initiatives are covered in detail in this report and will 
hopefully provide compelling evidence of our determination to 
play our part as a good corporate citizen.

Our ESG commitments and progress are discussed in detail  
on pages 23 to 26.

Good governance is an integral part of the Company’s success. 
We have a diverse and balanced Board who make a strong 
contribution to strategic development and stewardship of 
the Group. Recently, the Board received inclusive leadership 
training and completed an externally facilitated Board 
effectiveness review. The outcome of this review was positive 
and concluded that the Board operates effectively and well. 
In May we were delighted to welcome Bill Lennie to the Board. 
Bill spent the bulk of his career in the US Home Improvement 
market and his deep knowledge of the sector has been very 
much in evidence in his early dealings with both executive and 
Board colleagues. Bill will be a great asset to the business 
going forward.

I would also like to thank all my other colleagues on the Board 
for their continued commitment and support of the business. 
We have had challenges to face over the past 12 months and 
the quality of the Board and its collegiate way of working has 
clearly helped us make good decisions, often at pace. I must 
also thank Thierry and the team for their tireless efforts to 
drive the business forward and our wider base of colleagues 
right across the business who make Kingfisher what it is.

We look forward with confidence. Short term macro economic 
challenges are clearly present but with a compelling strategy, 
excellent leadership and the evident commitment of our 
people, I remain very optimistic about our prospects.

Andrew Cosslett
Chair of the Board

20 March 2023

2

Kingfisher 2022/23 Annual Report and Accounts

Strategic ReportGovernanceFinancial StatementsChief Executive Officer’s statement

After two extraordinary years dominated by the pandemic, this 
year has brought new challenges, as households and businesses 
across Europe navigate the impact of inflationary pressures. 
I would like to thank one more time all Kingfisher colleagues for 
their hard work to support our customers throughout this time. 
Thanks to their efforts, the business has delivered a year of solid 
execution and a resilient performance while continuing to make 
strategic progress at pace.

A year of solid execution

Kingfisher’s financial performance for FY 22/23 was in line 
with our expectations and guidance, against strong prior 
year comparatives. Like-for-like sales were 15.6% ahead 
of pre-pandemic levels, and our sales outperformed home 
improvement industry growth. Across all our markets, our sales 
have remained resilient in both DIY and DIFM/trade channels. 
To reflect our performance, the Board has proposed a total 
dividend of 12.40p per share, in line with FY 21/22.

We have maintained a sharp focus to deliver on value to our 
customers during this challenging period for household finances, 
while at the same time managing our cost inflation pressures 
effectively. Strong supply chain management has ensured good 
product availability while keeping a firm grip of our inventories.

Strong progress against our strategic priorities

We are pleased with the progress we have made in the 
three years since launching our ‘Powered by Kingfisher’ 
strategic plan. This has been achieved against the backdrop of 
an extraordinary operating environment, which has presented 
challenges as well as opportunities for our business. To reflect 
the fast-moving world in which we live, we have refreshed our 
strategic focus areas to ensure data, trade, culture and agility 
are given increased prominence and focus, and to better align 
to our investments for growth in multiple areas of the business. 
You can read more about the refreshed pillars of ‘Powered by 
Kingfisher’ on pages 6 to 9.

Our e-commerce sales have increased by 146% over the 
last three years. This has been driven by improvements to 
our e-commerce proposition that offer our customers more 
convenience, faster fulfilment of orders, and broader product 
choice. To expand choice, this year we launched marketplaces 
at B&Q in the UK and Brico Dépôt in Spain and Portugal, all 
of which are performing strongly. Our stores are at the heart of 
our e-commerce proposition and continue to play 
a fundamental role, with 91% of online orders picked in store.

Our own exclusive brands (OEB), which represent 45% of Group 
sales, continue to be a point of differentiation for our banners. 
During the year, we redefined our OEB strategy around three 
core pillars: innovation, affordability and sustainability. Moving 
forward, all new product launches and range reviews will clearly 
align to these pillars.

Throughout the year, we have continued to take advantage 
of expansion opportunities for our different banners. Screwfix 
opened a record 82 new stores in the UK and Ireland in the year, 
creating over 800 jobs in local communities. We also took the 
first steps in bringing its proven model to France, with five 
stores opened between October 2022 and January 2023. 
In Poland, we opened seven new Castorama stores, bringing 
its total to 97 stores.

Our compact store format tests in the UK, France and Poland 
have delivered encouraging learnings and results. In the year 
ahead, we will continue to test further compact stores in 
several markets, including B&Q Local in the UK, where we 
see considerable opportunity to increase our presence in 
more urban areas.

As a Group, we have been prioritising Responsible Business 
for over three decades and this year, we continued to make 
progress against our targets. We exceeded our 1.5°C aligned 
science-based scope 1 and 2 carbon reduction targets, 
reducing emissions by 52.7% (FY 19/20: 18.5%). Sustainable 
Home Products accounted for £6.2 billion of sales, representing 
47% of Group sales (FY 21/22: 44%). This has more than doubled 
since we established the programme in FY 11/12.

During the year, we expanded our range of energy-saving 
products and services to help customers save money by 
improving their homes’ energy efficiency. This included 
launching new energy-saving diagnostic solutions in the UK 
and France, which help customers create personalised home 
energy efficiency action plans and access relevant products 
and services.

Multiple profitable growth opportunities

Kingfisher is well positioned to navigate the year ahead and 
deliver medium-term profitable growth, while driving strong 
cash generation. Our banners are diverse, representing the 
full spectrum of the home improvement market with distinct 
offers for both DIY and trade customers. We continue to invest 
for growth and our refreshed strategy provides us with a clear 
plan to maximise the many opportunities we see ahead of us.

We see significant potential to grow by building on our different 
banner propositions in new and existing markets. Screwfix France 
is well positioned to take a share of the trade professional market 
in France, which has an estimated total market size of over 
€29 billion, with up to 25 new stores planned for FY 23/24. 
We are building on our leadership position in Poland, targeting 
80 medium-box and compact store openings over the next 
five years.

We have plans to continue to build our e-commerce offer through 
greater speed and choice, including further expansion of our 
marketplace model by growing product ranges and preparing 
to roll out marketplaces in France and Poland. Leveraging the 
power of data is another big opportunity, to build customer-
centric tools and solutions, support better commercial decision-
making, and unlock significant new sources of revenue for the 
Group. For example, we are exploring opportunities to quickly 
monetise our data capabilities through retail media (advertising 
placed within our e-commerce platforms and apps).

Across the Group, we are also strengthening our proposition for 
trade customers, building on the success of B&Q’s TradePoint 
and the accelerated expansion of Screwfix. This includes 
exploring dedicated trade counters in France, Poland & Iberia, 
and developing trade-focused ranges, services and loyalty 
programmes. Over time, we expect increased trade customer 
penetration to contribute to higher sales and profit growth.

Kingfisher 2022/23 Annual Report and Accounts

3

To hear more about our results from 
Thierry Garnier please use the link 
www.kingfisher.com/fullyearvideo

Chief Executive Officer’s statement continued

We expect many of the supportive industry trends we have seen 
emerge in the last few years to endure, as the home continues 
to be a key priority for consumers. How we live and work has 
fundamentally changed since the pandemic, with working from 
home here to stay, while rising energy costs have underscored 
the importance of improving the efficiency of our homes.

In terms of current trading, February 23/24 like-for-like sales 
were up 0.5% with underlying sales trends remaining resilient. 
With consumers continuing to be impacted by cost of living 
pressures, we are as committed as ever to delivering on value. 
We are maintaining strong price indices in our key markets, 
offering affordable products through our OEB ranges and 
we have our hard discounter banner, Brico Dépôt, in France, 
Spain and Portugal.

We have set clear medium-term financial priorities, focusing 
on delivering sales growth ahead of our markets, growing 
adjusted pre-tax profit faster than sales, and strong cash 
generation to drive growth investment and shareholder returns. 

Looking ahead, we are comfortable with current consensus of 
sell-side analyst estimates for FY 23/24 adjusted pre-tax profit, 
with expectation of more than £500 million free cash flow for 
the year. We are well positioned to navigate the coming year, 
targeting further market share growth, and active and 
responsive management of our operating costs.

This has been a year of significant progress for the Group. 
Kingfisher is a business with multiple profitable growth 
opportunities which we are pursuing at pace. Once again,  
I’d like to thank all of our 82,000 colleagues for their hard work, 
which has been critical to us delivering a resilient performance 
this year.

Thierry Garnier
Chief Executive Officer

20 March 2023

4

Kingfisher 2022/23 Annual Report and Accounts

Strategic ReportGovernanceFinancial StatementsOur markets

The home improvement market for consumer and trade sales 
in our key geographies is worth approximately £150 billion. 
Growth in customer expenditure on hardware and DIY goods 
over the past decade has outperformed total customer 
expenditure and has also proved to be robust during periods 
of economic weakness.

In Europe, this market is significant and caters for a variety 
of customer needs from maintenance to repair or decoration 
tasks and heavy renovation projects. These needs are met by 
a wide range of private label and branded product categories 
and corresponding installation, design, and consumer finance 
services. Larger format home improvement stores and trade 
channels are among the key distribution channels. However, 
generalist and specialist online ‘pure-players’, online marketplaces, 
home improvement specialist stores and discounters also play 
a role.

Structural drivers are expected to remain supportive of 
growth in our industry in the medium term despite softening of 
demand due to the cost of living crisis. Although we’ve recently 
seen a slowdown in housing constructions and transactions 
within the current uncertain environment, the housing market is 
still dynamic, with moving or buying a first house still high on 
consumers’ agenda. Further, increased renovation is anticipated 
in response to the growing heavy maintenance and 
improvement burden associated with ageing housing stock in 
our markets. We also expect to see increased demand for 
energy efficiency in homes as governments intensify efforts 
around net zero; in the UK and France where 60% to 75% of 
housing stock is deemed energy inefficient.

Customers are increasingly passionate about improving their 
homes and we have seen new positive longer-term trends for 
the industry being established. Customers across our markets 
are spending more time living and working at home. They are 
placing a greater emphasis on improving the practicality and 
comfort of their surroundings and in turn are spending more in 
the home improvement market. We expect further demand for 
home improvement longer term to address the resulting ‘wear 
and tear’ on the home through increased use and the need to 
organise living space differently.

During the pandemic we have also seen the emergence 
of a younger generation of ‘DIYers’ with interest, skills, and 
enthusiasm. This allows us to capture a diverse range of 
customers. The more home improvement projects people 
undertake, the more DIY skills they learn – building confidence 
and ultimately increasing their interest and appetite for 
the activity.

While the overall home improvement market is growing, 
other clear longer-term shifts in customer behaviours and 
trends provide us with further opportunities. Our ‘Powered 
by Kingfisher’ strategy is closely aligned with these trends 
and allows the business to respond appropriately.

Over the last two years, the trend towards online has rapidly 
accelerated and all our key banners have experienced significant 
e-commerce growth. Pre-pandemic, Screwfix had been the 
exception amongst our banners with 33% e-commerce sales 
penetration. However, with our stores at the centre of our 
e-commerce proposition, online sales now make up 16.3% 
of Group sales. Stores provide support for the significant 
proportion of online orders fulfilled through Click & Collect, 
in-person returns, and faster home delivery. In addition, 
retailers with omnichannel strategies such as Kingfisher 
provide customers with the option to visualise and design 
projects, seek advice, and choose from a wider range of 
fulfilment options.

Increased customer demand for speed and convenience is 
driving the need for a wider network of smaller and more easily 
accessible stores, and so we believe compact stores unlock 
the opportunity for rapid expansion into smaller cities and 
geographic ‘white spaces’.

We continue to respond to this trend through testing and rollout of 
compact store formats as set out on pages 7 to 9.

In more mature European markets, a rising focus on value for 
money and pricing transparency has seen discounter format 
stores grow and expand their home improvement ranges. With 
our renowned Brico Dépôt discounter banners in France and 
Iberia, as well as our competitive own exclusive brand (OEB) 
products and overall Group-wide focus on attractive price 
positioning, we are well placed to respond in this area.

Kingfisher has balanced exposure to the DIY and Do-it-For-Me 
(DIFM)/trade trends with an approximately equal revenue split 
and healthy growth across both segments. Alongside the 
well-documented increase in DIY during the pandemic, which is 
increasingly seen as a hobby and an activity that contributes to 
wellbeing, the DIFM trade category has also continued to grow. 
This has been supported by the development of service platforms 
connecting offer and demand in an easier way. Kingfisher acquired 
NeedHelp, one of Europe’s leading home improvement online 
services marketplaces, in November 2020.

Finally, being a responsible business is more relevant and 
important than ever before. As the ‘green homes’ agenda 
accelerates, we see considerable potential for our Sustainable 
Home Products, in particular in the UK and France where the 
governments have made net zero commitments. The ongoing 
energy crisis adds weight to the urgent need for governments 
to increase their support of greener homes and energy efficiency. 
This provides us with opportunities to build on our strong 
sustainability credentials.

Our approach to responsible business is discussed from page 23.

Kingfisher 2022/23 Annual Report and Accounts

5

Our strategy

In June 2020, we announced our strategic plan – ‘Powered by Kingfisher’. This plan aims to maximise the benefits of combining 
our distinct retail banners, which serve a range of different customer needs, with the scale, strength and expertise of the 
Kingfisher Group. The business has executed strongly against its core strategic priorities in order to power its retail banners, 
leading to stronger propositions for our customers and market share growth. Reflecting the fast-moving world in which we live, 
we have adapted our strategic focus areas to ensure data, trade, culture and agility are given increased prominence and focus, 
and to better align to our investments for growth in multiple areas of the business.

Grow by building on our  
different banners

Our retail banners occupy number one or two positions 
in all our key markets. These banners address a diverse 
range of customer needs, each operating different 
models tailored to these needs, with clear positionings 
and plans. Our goal is to grow by building on our different 
formats in existing and new markets, leveraging the 
power of Kingfisher.

1

3

Accelerate e-commerce through  
speed and choice

We plan to accelerate our e-commerce sales with 
the ambition of reaching 25% e-commerce sales 
penetration. We will do this by building on our progress 
over the last three years to further enhance speed, 
choice and convenience for our customers, supported 
by our e-commerce marketplace and data-led 
propositions. Furthermore, as we facilitate the 
development of more customer-centric digital 
tools and services, this will drive the growth of 
our digitally-enabled sales.

2

4

Build a data-led  
customer experience

Differentiate and win through  
own exclusive brands (OEB)

We are increasingly embedding data within Kingfisher. 
Our banners are leveraging data to build customer-centric 
tools and solutions, support better commercial 
decision-making, and unlock significant new 
sources of revenue and profit for the Group.

We believe that our OEB product development is a 
significant source of value for our retail banners and their 
customers. OEB provide us with the ability to differentiate 
ourselves from the rest of the market by delivering 
simple, innovative and sustainable solutions at affordable 
prices. OEB also carry a higher gross margin (on average) 
than branded products. We aim to grow our OEB sales 
further as we bring even more innovative and affordable 
solutions to our customers.

6

Kingfisher 2022/23 Annual Report and Accounts

Strategic ReportGovernanceFinancial Statements5

7

6

Develop  
trade business

Roll out  
compact store formats 

Trade customers are an integral part of the home 
improvement ecosystem and a key priority for 
Kingfisher. Trade customers tend to visit more frequently 
and spend more than the average retail customer. The 
significant opportunities to engage further with trade 
customers include the further roll-out of trade counters, 
international expansion, digital enhancements, range 
expansion, loyalty programme optimisation, improved 
merchandising, more partnerships and new services.

Stores play a critical role in the home improvement market. 
They serve as a ‘one-stop shop’ for projects, enabling 
customers to be inspired, to visualise and ‘try before they 
buy’, and receive customised advice and services from 
in-store experts. Over the last three years they have also 
played an integral role in meeting elevated demand via 
e-commerce channels, whether through fast Click & Collect 
or delivery to where the customer wants it. We believe 
that compact stores will play an increasingly crucial role 
in addressing the consumer need for both speed and 
convenience. Through compact store expansion, our 
ambition is to grow market share, optimise our overall store 
footprint, and to grow sales densities and store profitability.

8

Lead the industry in Responsible Business 
practices and energy efficiency 

Human, agile  
and lean 

We are committed to leading our industry in responsible 
business practices. Building on our strong Environmental, 
Social, and Governance (ESG) credentials, our ‘Powered 
by Kingfisher’ strategy sets out four priority areas for 
Responsible Business where we can maximise our 
positive impact on the lives of our customers, colleagues, 
communities and the planet. As the green homes agenda 
accelerates, we see considerable potential for our 
Sustainable Home Products, in particular in the UK and 
France where the governments have made net zero 
commitments. The ongoing energy crisis adds weight 
to the urgent need for governments to increase their 
support of greener homes and energy efficiency.

To deliver the best possible service to our customers 
and ensure our colleagues are engaged, fulfilled and able 
to realise their full potential, we are building a culture 
based on trust, agility, inclusion and curiosity. We are 
adopting a ‘done is better than perfect’ mindset in order 
to move faster and with more agility, given the rapidly 
changing environment in which we do business. We also 
realise the need to be leaner and more productive, and 
are making changes to lower our costs and same-store 
inventories. And through the use of our scale, we expect 
to extract further value from sourcing and buying.

Kingfisher 2022/23 Annual Report and Accounts

7

Performance against priorities

Strategic priorities

Progress

Proof points for FY 22/23

Forward focus

Grow by building on our 
different banners

 — First Screwfix stores opened in France following successful launch as a pure-play 

online retailer.

 — Continued expansion of Castorama in Poland.
 — Opened first two B&Q franchise stores in the Middle East.

Screwfix stores opened in the 

Screwfix stores now open in France 

5

 — Leverage expansion opportunities in our current markets and where 

attractive in new geographies.

 — Ongoing roll-out of Screwfix; in FY 23/24, up to 60 new stores planned 

in the UK and Ireland and up to 25 new stores planned for France.

 — Longer term, explore new markets, franchise and wholesale models.

Accelerate e-commerce 
through speed and choice

 — Expanded store-based picking model.
 — More options for Click & Collect (C&C) through the roll out of lockers in Poland, which 

are also being tested at B&Q.

 — New last-mile delivery options including Screwfix Sprint available to c. 45% of the UK.
 — New e-commerce marketplace model successfully launched at B&Q and in Spain 

and Portugal. 

Build a data-led 
customer experience 

 — Established data Centre of Excellence with expertise in artificial intelligence (AI), 

machine learning, advanced analytics and data platform engineering.

 — New Group-developed recommendation engine implemented at B&Q and Screwfix, 
driving higher click-through and add-to-basket rates as well as faster response times.

 — Entered strategic partnerships, including with Google Cloud.

Differentiate and win through 
own exclusive brands (OEB)

 — OEB continuing to drive affordability, product innovation and sustainability, and is 

carrying a higher gross margin % on average than branded products.

 — Completed roll-out of 32 new and redeveloped OEB brands to drive differentiation 

between retail banners and extended ranges.

 — Good performance in kitchen, bathroom & storage and EPHC (electricals, plumbing, 

heating & cooling) categories, all showing year-on-year growth.

Develop trade business 

Roll out compact store formats 

Lead the industry in Responsible 
Business practices and 
energy efficiency 

 — Accelerated Screwfix openings in the UK & Ireland, and strong progress in developing 

the proposition in France.

 — TradePoint (in B&Q) 3-year LFL sales growth of +31.5%, outperforming core B&Q and 

reaching 22% sales penetration.

 — Launched plan to grow trade customer penetration across all other banners, including 

new trade loyalty programmes in Poland and Iberia, and the introduction of new 
trade-focused services and OEB and branded product ranges.

 — High street concept tests (B&Q Local in the UK, Casto in France and Castorama 

Express in Poland) continue to deliver encouraging learnings and results.

 — Small retail park concepts are also showing positive results.
 — Entering final testing phase for Screwfix ultra-compact ‘XSR’ store format.

 — Brought forward pay awards and introduced support for colleagues to help manage 

higher costs of living.

 — Announced new net zero emissions target for our operations (scope 1 and 2) by the 

end of 2040.

 — Developed innovative end-to-end solutions at B&Q, Castorama France and Brico 

Dépôt France to help customers create personalised energy efficiency action plans 
for their homes, including access to relevant products and services.

Human, agile and lean 

 — Embedding a ‘test and learn’ culture across the Group, alongside key leadership 

behaviours to support delivery of our strategy.

 — Strengthened talent and capability in key areas, including technology, data and trade.
 — Multi-year cost reduction programmes continue to help offset inflationary pressures.

store rightsizings completed at B&Q

eNPS score, significantly ahead of 

global retail benchmark 

 — Continue to embed our ‘test & learn’ mindset.

 — Prioritise agile and efficient technology.

 — Continuing to challenge costs and inventory.

8

Kingfisher 2022/23 Annual Report and Accounts

82

18

UK and Ireland

91%

24%

February 2023

20m

45%

Group sales

56%

18

in the UK

17

47%

2.1

4

new TradePoint counters in the UK

orders picked from stores

digitally enabled sales

B&Q marketplace participation in 

online NPS vs FY 19/20

new identifiable customers acquired 

customer visits across our 

since 2019/20

e-commerce touchpoints annually

of OEB sales from Sustainable  

Home Products 

new TradePoint counters opened 

TradePoint 3-year LFL sales growth 

new compact stores opened in the 

high street concept stores now open 

UK, France and Poland 

in the UK, France and Poland

of Group sales from Sustainable 

million hours of ‘skills for life’ learning 

Home Products 

completed by colleagues since 

million people helped through 

reduction in carbon footprint for our 

charitable partnerships and banner 

own operations against FY 16/17 

Foundations since FY 16/17

base year 

24%

+20ppt

c. 1bn

20%

OEB brands 

+31.5%

12

6.6

54

FY 19/20

52.7%

of Group sales from five leading 

 — Further embedding sustainability credentials at the core of 

project lens.

OEB proposition.

 — Establish OEB as the most affordable solution for customers.

 — Leverage our stores to offer customers even faster speed.

 — Further rapid expansion of the number of SKUs on marketplace 

planned, preparing for the roll-out of marketplaces in Poland  

and France.

 — Ambition of reaching 25% e-commerce sales penetration.

 — Leverage data for margin realisation; better pricing decisions, 

better promotional and markdown effectiveness.

 — Supply chain visibility in real time to optimise fulfilment and availability, 

providing suppliers real time stock visibility, demand-led stock 

optimisation and replenishment.

 — Developing opportunities to quickly monetise our data capabilities 

through retail media, including advertising placed within our 

e-commerce platforms and apps.

 — Continue to develop innovative OEB ranges through a customer 

 — Grow share of wallet by deepening relationships, leveraging loyalty 

schemes, and developing pro-focused ranges.

 — Extend reach through small formats with TradePoint in more of the 

B&Q estate.

 — Grow digital, including launching TradePoint app.

 — Expand trade sales across our general DIY and discount formats.

 — Continue to learn from tests with the aim of creating 

scalable blueprints.

 — Focus on urban, in-fill and ‘white space’ locations.

 — New Brico Dépôt compact store to launch this year.

 — Continue to progress against our four key pillars: colleagues, 

customers, communities and planet.

 — Realise growth share of sales from sustainable products  

(including energy efficient products and solutions).

 — Improve communication to customers and colleagues.

Strategic ReportGovernanceFinancial StatementsAccelerate e-commerce 

through speed and choice

 — Expanded store-based picking model.

are also being tested at B&Q.

 — More options for Click & Collect (C&C) through the roll out of lockers in Poland, which 

 — New last-mile delivery options including Screwfix Sprint available to c. 45% of the UK.

 — New e-commerce marketplace model successfully launched at B&Q and in Spain 

and Portugal. 

Build a data-led 

customer experience 

 — Established data Centre of Excellence with expertise in artificial intelligence (AI), 

machine learning, advanced analytics and data platform engineering.

 — New Group-developed recommendation engine implemented at B&Q and Screwfix, 

driving higher click-through and add-to-basket rates as well as faster response times.

 — Entered strategic partnerships, including with Google Cloud.

Differentiate and win through 

own exclusive brands (OEB)

 — OEB continuing to drive affordability, product innovation and sustainability, and is 

carrying a higher gross margin % on average than branded products.

 — Completed roll-out of 32 new and redeveloped OEB brands to drive differentiation 

between retail banners and extended ranges.

 — Good performance in kitchen, bathroom & storage and EPHC (electricals, plumbing, 

heating & cooling) categories, all showing year-on-year growth.

Develop trade business 

 — Accelerated Screwfix openings in the UK & Ireland, and strong progress in developing 

Roll out compact store formats 

 — TradePoint (in B&Q) 3-year LFL sales growth of +31.5%, outperforming core B&Q and 

the proposition in France.

reaching 22% sales penetration.

 — Launched plan to grow trade customer penetration across all other banners, including 

new trade loyalty programmes in Poland and Iberia, and the introduction of new 

trade-focused services and OEB and branded product ranges.

 — High street concept tests (B&Q Local in the UK, Casto in France and Castorama 

Express in Poland) continue to deliver encouraging learnings and results.

 — Small retail park concepts are also showing positive results.

 — Entering final testing phase for Screwfix ultra-compact ‘XSR’ store format.

Lead the industry in Responsible 

Business practices and 

energy efficiency 

higher costs of living.

end of 2040.

 — Brought forward pay awards and introduced support for colleagues to help manage 

 — Announced new net zero emissions target for our operations (scope 1 and 2) by the 

 — Developed innovative end-to-end solutions at B&Q, Castorama France and Brico 

Dépôt France to help customers create personalised energy efficiency action plans 

for their homes, including access to relevant products and services.

Strategic priorities

Progress

Proof points for FY 22/23

Forward focus

Grow by building on our 

different banners

 — First Screwfix stores opened in France following successful launch as a pure-play 

online retailer.

 — Continued expansion of Castorama in Poland.

 — Opened first two B&Q franchise stores in the Middle East.

82

5

Screwfix stores opened in the 
UK and Ireland

Screwfix stores now open in France 

18

new TradePoint counters in the UK

91%

24%

orders picked from stores

digitally enabled sales

24%

B&Q marketplace participation in 
February 2023

+20ppt

online NPS vs FY 19/20

20m

c. 1bn

new identifiable customers acquired 
since 2019/20

customer visits across our 
e-commerce touchpoints annually

 — Leverage expansion opportunities in our current markets and where 

attractive in new geographies.

 — Ongoing roll-out of Screwfix; in FY 23/24, up to 60 new stores planned 

in the UK and Ireland and up to 25 new stores planned for France.
 — Longer term, explore new markets, franchise and wholesale models.

 — Leverage our stores to offer customers even faster speed.
 — Further rapid expansion of the number of SKUs on marketplace 
planned, preparing for the roll-out of marketplaces in Poland  
and France.

 — Ambition of reaching 25% e-commerce sales penetration.

 — Leverage data for margin realisation; better pricing decisions, 

better promotional and markdown effectiveness.

 — Supply chain visibility in real time to optimise fulfilment and availability, 

providing suppliers real time stock visibility, demand-led stock 
optimisation and replenishment.

 — Developing opportunities to quickly monetise our data capabilities 

through retail media, including advertising placed within our 
e-commerce platforms and apps.

45%

Group sales

56%

of OEB sales from Sustainable  
Home Products 

20%

of Group sales from five leading 
OEB brands 

 — Continue to develop innovative OEB ranges through a customer 

project lens.

 — Further embedding sustainability credentials at the core of 

OEB proposition.

 — Establish OEB as the most affordable solution for customers.

18

+31.5%

new TradePoint counters opened 
in the UK

TradePoint 3-year LFL sales growth 

 — Grow share of wallet by deepening relationships, leveraging loyalty 

schemes, and developing pro-focused ranges.

 — Extend reach through small formats with TradePoint in more of the 

B&Q estate.

 — Grow digital, including launching TradePoint app.
 — Expand trade sales across our general DIY and discount formats.

17

12

new compact stores opened in the 
UK, France and Poland 

high street concept stores now open 
in the UK, France and Poland

 — Continue to learn from tests with the aim of creating 

scalable blueprints.

 — Focus on urban, in-fill and ‘white space’ locations.
 — New Brico Dépôt compact store to launch this year.

47%

6.6

of Group sales from Sustainable 
Home Products 

million hours of ‘skills for life’ learning 
completed by colleagues since 
FY 19/20

2.1

52.7%

million people helped through 
charitable partnerships and banner 
Foundations since FY 16/17

reduction in carbon footprint for our 
own operations against FY 16/17 
base year 

 — Continue to progress against our four key pillars: colleagues, 

customers, communities and planet.

 — Realise growth share of sales from sustainable products  

(including energy efficient products and solutions).
 — Improve communication to customers and colleagues.

Human, agile and lean 

 — Embedding a ‘test and learn’ culture across the Group, alongside key leadership 

behaviours to support delivery of our strategy.

 — Strengthened talent and capability in key areas, including technology, data and trade.

 — Multi-year cost reduction programmes continue to help offset inflationary pressures.

4

54

store rightsizings completed at B&Q

eNPS score, significantly ahead of 
global retail benchmark 

 — Continue to embed our ‘test & learn’ mindset.
 — Prioritise agile and efficient technology.
 — Continuing to challenge costs and inventory.

Kingfisher 2022/23 Annual Report and Accounts

9

Key Performance Indicators

We use a range of financial and non-financial Key Performance Indicators (KPIs) to track and evaluate delivery of our ‘Powered by 
Kingfisher’ strategy. 

Financial performance indicators

Total sales

2022/23

2021/22

2020/21

£13,059m

£13,183m

£12,343m

Retail profit*

2022/23

2021/22

2020/21

£923m

£1,148m

£1,003m

Sales down 0.7% in constant currency, reflecting 
strong prior year comparatives linked to high demand 
for home improvement products. Resilient sales 
across both retail and trade channels.

Retail profit down 19.2% in constant currency 
to £923 million (FY 21/22: £1,148 million; FY 19/20: 
£786 million), largely reflecting very strong prior 
year comparatives in the UK & Ireland and France.

Adjusted pre-tax profit*

Like-for-like sales*

2022/23

2021/22

2020/21

£758m

2022/23

(2.1)%

£949m

£786m

2021/22

2020/21

9.9%

7.1%

Adjusted pre-tax profit down 20.2% to £758 million 
(FY 21/22: £949 million; FY 19/20: £544 million), 
reflecting lower retail profit, partially offset by 
lower finance costs.

Like-for-like (LFL) sales down 2.1% and corresponding 
3-year LFL up 15.6%. Double-digit 3-year LFL sales 
growth across all banners. Positive one-year 
growth in Poland, Iberia and Romania; resilient 
performance in France and strong prior year 
comparatives for the UK & Ireland.

Free cash flow*

2022/23

£(40)m

2021/22

£385m

2020/21

£938m

Free cash flow of £(40) million, down £425 million 
(FY 21/22: £385 million; FY 19/20: £191 million), 
reflecting lower EBITDA and one-off working 
capital outflow from completion of inventory 
rebuild programme.

 * Denotes an Alternative Performance Measure (APM). APMs are defined in the Glossary on pages 184 to 187. 

10

Kingfisher 2022/23 Annual Report and Accounts

Strategic ReportGovernanceFinancial StatementsNon-financial performance indicators

Inclusion and diversity

Responsibly  sourced wood  and paper 

2022/23

25.8%

2021/22

25.2%

38.9%

37.9%

2020/21

23.2%

36.1%

Senior leadership, % of women

Management, % of women

2022/23

2021/22

2020/21

94.5%

87.2%

81.2%

25.8% of senior leaders and 38.9% of managers 
are women, compared with 25.2% and 37.9% 
respectively last year.* We remain focused 
on improving our gender balance.

We have further increased the share of our 
responsibly sourced wood and paper to 94.5% 
of total SKUs sold. We are on track to achieve our 
target of 100% by FY 25/26.

Operational carbon emissions  

Community: people we helped 

2022/23

52.7%

2022/23

0.5m

2021/22

24.5%

2021/22

0.8m

2.1m

1.6m

2020/21

27.5%

2020/21

0.4m

0.8m

Number of people who beneﬁtted from our 
community contributions during the year
Number of people who directly beneﬁted from our 
community contributions since 2016 (cumulative number) 

0.5 million people benefited from our community 
donations. This brings our total to 2.1 million 
people helped through our projects since FY 16/17, 
achieving our target of 2 million three years earlier.

We continue to make progress against our 
science-based targets and have reduced 
operational emissions (scope 1 and 2, 1.5°C 
scenario) by 52.7% since FY 16/17, exceeding 
our target of 38% by FY 25/26.

Sustainable Home Products: % of retail sales

2022/23

2021/22

2020/21

46.8%

44.1%

42.2%

46.8% of total Group sales came from Sustainable 
Home Products (SHP) that help create greener, 
healthier homes. This represents an increase on the 
previous year, and we are on track to achieve our target 
of 60% Group sales to be from our SHP by FY 25/26. 
The share of SHP sales for our own exclusive brand 
(OEB) was 56.4%, also an increase on FY 21/22. The 
OEB SHP participation missed target by 0.6% points.

 * We previously reported two sets of management data, one in our Directors’ remuneration report and the other in the People and Responsible 

Business sections. This year, we have aligned this data and are now reporting progress against the target set out in the Directors’ remuneration 
report (to increase women in management to 40% by FY 25/26) which can be found on page 96. The management population reflects all junior and 
middle management and excludes senior leadership. FY 21/22 data reported here has been rebased to show progress against our target.

Kingfisher 2022/23 Annual Report and Accounts

11

Strategic Report

Governance

Financial Statements

Business 
model 

We offer own and vendor branded home 
improvement products and services to 
consumers and trade professionals across 
our over 1,900 stores, via our e-commerce 
channels and through our franchise and joint 
venture partners.

By delivering our strategy and operating 
as a responsible business, we create 
sustainable value for our customers, 
colleagues, shareholders, suppliers 
and wider society. 

12

Kingfisher 2022/23 Annual Report and Accounts

Our key resources 

Our people and culture

82,000 engaged colleagues with the right skills 
to serve customers. 

Our financial strength and scale

Over £13 billion of sales in eight countries; 
collective buying scale. 

Our diverse and trusted retail banners

Distinct retail banners which address diverse 
customer needs, with different models, strong 
customer relationships and a clear positioning 
and plan. 

Our market-leading positions

Our retail banners occupy number one or 
number two positions in all our key markets.

Our channels

Network of over 1,900 stores, strong 
e-commerce capabilities, as well as 
franchise and joint venture partners. 

Our own exclusive brands

Our own exclusive brands (OEB) allow our 
banners to offer differentiated products in 
terms of design, functionality, sustainability  
and value for money. 

Our supplier relationships

Close collaboration with our suppliers to bring 
the best home improvement products to our 
customers at great prices, while ensuring they 
meet our ethical standards. 

Our industry-leading Responsible 
Business practices

Longstanding commitment to make a positive 
impact for communities, colleagues, 
customers and the planet.

How do we create value?

Who we create value for

Our leading retail banners serve different customer needs 
within their markets. They offer product ranges and services 
that meet these distinct needs through their own commercial 
approach and business model. As trusted brands, they connect 
with customers and drive loyalty. They are powered by the 
scale, strength and expertise of the Kingfisher group.

Benefits brought by the Group include sourcing and buying, 
differentiated OEB, technology and partnerships capability, 
shared services and Centres of Excellence. The Group is 
underpinned by a common culture and values, including a 
shared commitment to responsible business practices.

Sourcing and buying, delivering lower cost prices across all 
products (OEB and brands).

Technology and partnerships, providing all our banners with 
access to the best technologies and complementary partnerships.

Shared services and lower-cost functions.

Centres of Excellence, to set strategy and targets, to share 
knowledge and best practices, to support implementation, 
and to help steer progress.

Culture and values, providing a framework for our core 
behaviours, values, and industry-leading responsible 
business practices. 

Differentiated OEB, which are innovative and provide a key 
source of difference.

Differentiated 
OEB 

Sourcing  
& buying

France

France

Culture  
& values

Powered by 

Technology &  
partnerships

Romania

Centres of 
Excellence* 

Shared  
services

Poland

Iberia

Franchise & 
partnerships

 *

E-commerce, digital journey, data, store concepts, services and service 
platforms, supply chain, trade and property.

Customers

Making better homes 
accessible for everyone; 
helping tradespeople to 
get their jobs done quickly 
and affordably. 

Colleagues

Inclusive, rewarding work and 
careers, developing skills. 

Communities 
and society

Operating as a responsible 
business, with strong 
community involvement.

Environment

Protecting and restoring 
natural resources, tackling 
climate change. 

Shareholders

Growing the value of the 
company sustainably. 

Suppliers

Sharing value in our 
supply chain. 

Partners

Growing our business 
together with joint 
venture, franchise and 
marketplace partners.

Kingfisher 2022/23 Annual Report and Accounts

13

People and culture

Our 82,000 colleagues are key to our success. We strive to be an 
inclusive employer, where every individual can fulfil their potential, 
be themselves and is given the opportunity to share their ideas.

During the year, we monitored the rising cost of living across 
our markets and have taken action to support colleagues in our 
stores and head offices. On colleague pay, for example, salary 
increases or one-off payments were awarded in the UK, France, 
Poland, Spain and Portugal, which focused largely on store 
colleagues. Additional support to help colleagues with the cost 
of living have included:

 — Establishing a Colleague Support Fund in the UK in 

partnership with the Retail Trust to support colleagues 
experiencing financial difficulties.

 — A partnership between Screwfix and the Hapi app, 

which provides colleagues with financial wellbeing advice.
 — Colleague discounts on energy-saving products in Romania, 
Spain, Portugal and the UK to help reduce household bills.

Our People and Culture Plan, which launched in 2020, is a key 
enabler of our ‘Powered by Kingfisher’ strategy. Progress made 
in FY 22/23 includes:

 — Further embedding our Group banner operating model, 
including new Centres of Excellence to support the 
launch of our marketplaces and improving our  
pro-customer proposition.

 — Building in-house capabilities in key growth areas for 

the business.

 — Increasing colleague engagement and delivering 

inclusion initiatives.

 — Executing the first year of our Leadership Development Plan.

Delivering our People and Culture Plan to empower 
our people

1.  Efficient operating model
In FY 22/23, we further embedded the Group banner operating 
model to ensure that our banner teams, who are closest to our 
customers, can make decisions in an agile way and continue to 
benefit from Group scale in areas including Offer & Sourcing 
and Technology.

We also completed the implementation of our technology 
operating model through the creation of banner technology 
teams, streamlined governance and establishing a new digital 
product team.

We have also adjusted the organisation of our head offices 
to realise further cost savings. The banners have also been 
exploring and implementing new retail operating models, 
including a low-cost operating model at Brico Dépôt France.

At Group, we have further improved the operation of the 
Centres of Excellence established in FY 21/22 in the areas 
of supply chain, store concepts, data, pro-customers and 
marketplace. They have been critical to our progress, 
for example, launching marketplace in B&Q and Brico 
Dépôt in Spain and Portugal, and in strengthening our  
trade customer proposition.

14

Kingfisher 2022/23 Annual Report and Accounts

2.  Capabilities to fuel growth
In FY 22/23, we further supported colleagues in developing their 
skills and fulfil their potential through more than 2.6 million hours 
of learning across our banners and Group functions, surpassing 
our skills for life target of five million learning hours by 2025.

We have also continued to invest in talent and capability in key 
growth areas. As part of our focus on creating new customer 
propositions, we have recruited deep functional expertise in 
areas including technology, e-commerce, our own exclusive 
brands (OEB), data and in growing our trade customer proposition. 
In our Technology function, we have strengthened our in-house 
capability in areas including software engineering, data, cloud 
computing and product.

To help us attract and retain colleagues in increasingly 
competitive markets, we have further strengthened our banner 
employer brands, with Brico Dépôt Romania certified as a ’top 
employer’ by the Top Employers’ Institute, and Screwfix winning 
the ’Employer Brand – National’ award at the RAD employer 
brand awards in the UK.

We have continued to support youth employment, social 
mobility and learning for life, and in FY 22/23, there were more 
than 4,600 apprentices across Kingfisher. For example, Screwfix 
has over 700 apprentices enrolled in its in-house designed and 
externally accredited Level 2, 3 and 4 apprenticeships, with 81% 
of apprentices promoted into Assistant Manager and Branch 
Manager roles.

Our strong investment in learning is demonstrated by our 
colleague satisfaction score of 8.3 out of 10 for the question: 
‘Kingfisher enables me to learn and develop new skills’.

3.  An agile, inclusive culture led by trust
Strong colleague engagement and an inclusive culture are 
essential to creating the environment for our teams to deliver 
for our customers. This year, we have focused on increasing 
agility, listening to our people and further implementing our 
Inclusion and Diversity (I&D) strategy.

We have tracked our progress on colleague engagement against 
the key metrics of our culture through both formal and informal 
mechanisms, including our formal listening tool through Workday 
Peakon, the Kingfisher Colleague Forum and works councils, 
our 16 affinity networks, our social channels and regular town 
hall meetings.

Overall, our colleague engagement levels have continued to 
be strong across the Group. In the all-colleague engagement 
survey held in FY 22/23, we heard from 83% of our colleagues 
(up 4% compared with FY 21/22), with colleagues sharing 317,000 
comments (up 10% on last year). Our Employee Net Promoter 
Score (eNPS) of 54 is significantly ahead of the global retail 
benchmark (+16 points above the median), placing us in the top 
5% of retailers. Our attrition levels and the time it takes to hire 
new colleagues are either in line with, or ahead of, industry norms.

For both the agility and trust metrics of our listening tool, our 
colleague satisfaction score is 8.5 (up from 8.2 in FY 21/22 for 
both measures).

Strategic ReportGovernanceFinancial StatementsFurther progress has also been made in FY 22/23 to build an 
inclusive culture, ensuring that colleagues of all backgrounds 
feel valued at Kingfisher and feel they can truly be themselves 
at work.

For example, we established a new I&D Forum chaired by 
the Screwfix CEO, which brings together senior leaders and 
representatives from our affinity networks from across the 
Group to share best practices. In the UK, a colleague data 
collection campaign was also launched across B&Q, Screwfix 
and Kingfisher, which will help us analyse the inclusiveness of 
our HR policies and systems and identify where further action 
may be required to create a more inclusive culture.

In FY 22/23 we have begun tracking colleagues’ perception of 
inclusion at Kingfisher, and have achieved a score of 8.2 out 
of 10 in response to the question: ‘I feel valued as a person’.

We are working to increase diverse representation across our 
leadership team, and are on track to meet our goal of 40% of 
women in management roles by 2025. We remain focused on 
achieving our target of 35% of women in senior leadership roles.

4.  Diverse and inspiring leaders
Our leaders have a huge role to play in the delivery of our 
strategy and our plans for growth.

In FY 22/23, we launched a new Leadership Development Plan 
to grow our current and future leaders through events that build 
connections across teams and stimulate curiosity, in addition to 
executive coaching and leadership evaluation tools. Focus areas 
for FY 22/23 include digital trends and inclusive leadership.

Equal opportunities
Kingfisher is committed to creating a workplace where everyone 
is treated with fairness, respect and dignity, irrespective of age, 
educational and professional background, diverse abilities, 
gender, gender re-assignment, marital status, race, ethnicity, 
religion and beliefs, and sexual orientation.

It is our policy that all colleagues are treated fairly. No colleague 
is to be treated less favourably or experience discrimination 
(unlawful or otherwise) on any grounds. Our policy applies to 
every part of employment, including recruitment and selection 
processes, opportunities for training, development and 
promotion, and terms and conditions of employment. Entry 
into and progression within the company is based solely 
on personal ability and competence to meet set job criteria. 
Our employment policies, practices and procedures promote 
accessibility for disabled people, providing reasonable 
adjustment where appropriate. Kingfisher continues to be 
a proud partner of a number of recognised forums across 
its geographies that champion diversity in all its forms.

In line with the Lloyd’s High Court judgement on Guaranteed 
Minimum Pension equalisation, the Kingfisher Pension Scheme 
has begun implementing a project to equalise the pensions of 
affected members.

Further information about our people can be found in the Risk section 
from page 51.

Board, senior management and employee diversity

At 31 January 2023, the gender breakdown of colleagues and directors were as follows:

The Board1

Senior leadership1, 2, 3

Total workforce1, 3

General Executive and 
their direct reports1

25.8%

33.3%

44.4%

43.1%

55.6%

74.2%

56.9%

66.7%

  Female: 4
  Male: 5

  Female: 78
  Male: 224

  Female: 33,482
  Male: 44,219

  Female: 29
  Male: 58

1.  2021/22 gender breakdown of colleagues and directors:

– The Board: 4 female (50%). 4 male (50%).

– Senior leadership: 76 female (25.2%). 225 male (74.8%).

– Total workforce: 35,227 female (43.1%). 46,483 male (56.9%).

– General Executive and their direct reports: 28 female (31.1%). 62 male (68.9%).

2.  As disclosed on page 24, we have set a target to increase women in senior leadership to 35% by 2025. Senior leadership under this target is defined as those 

who are eligible for our Performance Share Plan.

3.  Turkey joint venture not included.

Kingfisher 2022/23 Annual Report and Accounts

15

Stakeholder engagement 
and decision-making

Section 172(1) Statement

Considering our impact on our stakeholders is something the 
Board and the company spends time on wherever appropriate. 
The Board fully recognises the importance of all our stakeholders in 
the successful operation of the business. Remaining mindful of our 
Companies Act 2006 (the ‘Act’) section 172 (1) responsibilities and 
the needs and concerns of our stakeholders is an intrinsic part of 
our decision-making processes.

Ahead of matters being put to the Board for consideration, the 
business often carries out significant engagement to support 
the directors to assess and ensure that all stakeholder views are 
considered fairly. This engagement may be formal or informal 
and is often governed by policies, control frameworks, 
regulation, and legislation.

Before reaching a decision, the Board considers how proposed 
actions and behaviours of the company may affect its key 
stakeholders and the environment, as well as the company’s 
reputation and long-term success. Kingfisher’s actions and 
behaviours are governed by a robust governance framework, 
including Group policies and the Kingfisher Code of Conduct.

We have set out some examples below of how the directors 
have had regard to the matters in section 172(1)(a)–(f) when 
discharging their section 172 duties and the effect on certain 
decisions taken by them in 2022/23.

Pages 17 to 22 set out further consideration of each of our key 
stakeholders and examples of how they have been engaged 
during the year.

Page 67 sets out the Board’s key activities during the year and 
the section 172 matters considered in pursuing these activities.

Key considerations

Long-term impact

Interests of colleagues

Fostering business relationships

Impact on community and environment

Maintaining reputation for high standards  
of business conduct

Acting fairly between members

Shareholder returns – capital allocation

Climate change pillar – net zero target

In June 2022, the Board agreed to adopt a new net zero 
greenhouse gas emissions target for our operations (scope 1 
and 2) by the end of FY 40/41. Supportive of our ambition to be a 
responsible industry leader, the directors recognised this would 
further deliver Kingfisher’s commitment to tackle climate change, 
whilst also meeting increasing stakeholder expectations around 
greenhouse gas emissions, and keeping pace with regulation. 
However, the Board also considered the investment and 
business impacts including technological challenges, and the 
ability to secure long-term access to zero carbon electricity.

The Board noted that each banner will be supported in the delivery 
of the target in line with our broader Responsible Business priorities 
and endorsed the announcement of the target in July 2022, 
accompanied by an Investor Teach-in event to further engage 
in this area.

Supported by the Group Climate Committee and Responsible 
Business Committee, the Board will continue to monitor 
Kingfisher’s approach to managing its climate-related risks and 
meeting these targets, including the evolving costs to ensure 
investment remains aligned to the Group’s purpose and 
long-term success.

In May 2022, the Board agreed a second £300 million share 
buyback programme, having considered the Group’s financial 
priorities and capital allocation policy in the context of ‘Powered 
by Kingfisher’.

The Board assessed future investment opportunities, financial 
resilience and the sustainable growth of dividends in determining 
whether there was excess capital to be distributed to shareholders, 
being mindful of the need to promote the success of the company 
for the benefit of all stakeholders. This included financial scenario 
analysis and consideration of the health of the Group’s finances, 
trading outlook and three-year plan, as well as available funding 
facilities and anticipated impact on the Group’s credit metrics.

The directors considered the macro-environment and market 
sentiment, noting that the first share buyback programme had 
been well received by stakeholders. The directors weighed up 
investment and growth opportunities to ensure the company 
had sufficient liquidity and that funds were not needed elsewhere 
across the business. They also considered the impact of the 
share buyback on the company’s ability to continue to meet 
its obligations to the defined benefit pension scheme and 
its members.

In considering the merits of share buybacks over special 
dividends, we concluded that a second programme would 
appropriately signal the Board’s confidence in long-term growth 
and cash generation opportunities. The Board will continue to 
periodically evaluate returning surplus capital to shareholders 
via a share buyback programme or special dividends in line with 
its capital allocation policy.

16

Kingfisher 2022/23 Annual Report and Accounts

Strategic ReportGovernanceFinancial StatementsThis section details how we have engaged with our key 
stakeholders during the year as well as how this engagement may 
have influenced the Board’s discussions and decision-making.

The Board and its Committees monitor the effectiveness 
of engagement with stakeholders through various methods, 
including the monthly review of customer insight data, 
consideration of colleague engagement outputs gathered  
via a continuous listening tool, and through the twice-yearly 
Kingfisher Colleague Forum (KCF). 

The Board and Committees annual evaluation process gives 
directors the opportunity to comment on the engagement 
mechanisms in place with our different stakeholder groups 
and invites them to make recommendations for improvement.

Through the adoption of our Code of Conduct we ensure high 
standards of business conduct for all our stakeholders and seek to 
promote a culture where transparency and fairness are the norm. 
The Board has delegated authority to the Responsible Business 
Committee for oversight of our Responsible Business governance.

More detail can be found in the Responsible Business report on pages 
71 to 72.

Customers

Who they are

Anyone who visits our stores or online platforms. 

Why Kingfisher engages

Customer safety and satisfaction are pivotal to the success of our business. The needs, behaviours and feedback 
of our customers are collected, assessed, and used to develop our long-term strategy.

How the Board engages

 — Through the CEO and the commercial dashboard, the Board is 

regularly updated on customer opinion, behaviour and feedback, 
monthly Net Promoter Scores (NPS) and customer insight, which 
inform our commercial and investment decisions and help us 
identify key revenue drivers. The Board receives the commercial 
dashboard on a monthly basis.

 — The commercial dashboard also consolidates a broad range of 

metrics including price indices, market trends, competitor activity 
and customer insight to enable the Board to track and benchmark 
progress in key business areas. The Group Customer and Market 
Intelligence Director also presents to the Board twice a year, which in 
2022 included the impacts of the current economic environment 
and the market outlook, supported by external consultants.

 — Using the online NPS results and analysis of customer comments, 
we have monitored the positive impact of actions implemented 
at a Group and banner level to improve the customer experience 
on our websites.

How the business engages

 — We collect and consider customer research to understand the 
evolving needs, attitudes, and behaviours of our customers.
 — We engage in continuous customer surveys to monitor post-

purchase or post-interaction views on all our touch points and the 
key drivers of customer satisfaction to improve their experiences.

 — We support continuous tracking of customer brand perceptions 

over time against our competitors on a range of issues, 
including sustainability.

 — We commission ad hoc research to gather feedback before and just 

after launching new products, services, or store concepts.

Outcomes and impact on Board decision-making

 — The Board received supplementary analysis at a Group and 
banner level to better understand customer attraction and 
retention rates.

 — The Board reviewed cyber threats facing the company and its 
customers and other stakeholders. The Board agreed actions 
to keep under review cyber threats facing the Group, including 
commissioning independent assurance to monitor progress 
against our strategy.

 — The Board has delegated responsibility to the Responsible 

Business Committee for primary governance of Responsible 
Business practices. This includes the setting of targets for 
approval by the Board, and the progress of performance 
against the Responsible Business objectives.

More detail can be found in the Responsible Business section 
on pages 23 to 38 and on pages 71 to 72 of the Responsible 
Business Committee report.

 — We receive regular insight updates, and this year monitored 

consumer sentiment through quarterly ‘Home Improver Pulse’ 
surveys to get insights on home improvement activities and spend.
 — We regularly monitor price indices versus our competitors in key 
categories to provide visibility of customer price perception. 
Our ‘price reality’ and ‘price perception’ monitoring gives us 
the agility to adjust our pricing strategies throughout the year.
 — We continue to transform our ranges using our industry-leading 

Sustainable Home Product (SHP) guidelines and have introduced 
services that together help customers assess and improve the 
energy efficiency of their homes.

 — Around 1,450,000 customer surveys collected for our NPS across 

 — 25,000 customers surveyed to monitor consumer sentiment, 

our markets.

 — 47% of Group sales were from products that create a 

more sustainable home.

 — The Board receive ongoing customer insights identifying key 

areas of opportunity and how to maximise customer experience.

impact of inflation and home improvement activity.

 — Since the start of 2022, NPS scores have improved and have 

been good overall. The Board requested, to have a benchmark 
for our NPS with competitors, to better understand our 
NPS methodologies. 

Kingfisher 2022/23 Annual Report and Accounts

17

Stakeholder engagement and decision-making continued

Colleagues

Who they are

Colleagues of Kingfisher plc and all its subsidiaries.

Why Kingfisher engages

We believe an effective people strategy and strong culture are essential to the successful delivery of our strategy.
Being able to attract, retain, and develop diverse talent is one important part of fostering a stronger, more inclusive 
culture, as is incorporating the views of colleagues into decisions and being able to accurately assess their impact.

How the Board engages

 — The Board regularly visits our offices and stores, engaging with 
a broad range of colleagues across the business to support the 
assessment of behaviour and culture.
 — In May 2022, the Board visited Castorama and Brico Dépôt 

stores and offices in Lille, France. Directors had the opportunity 
to meet leadership teams, senior management and store 
colleagues.

 — In October 2022, the Board visited Screwfix distribution 

centres and stores in Trentham and Stafford, UK where the 
directors met members of the Screwfix and B&Q leadership 
teams, senior management and store colleagues.

 — The Board also received briefings from the CEO, Chief People 
Officer (CPO), and General Counsel on important matters 
affecting the workforce, including:
 — whistleblowing reports;
 — investment in training and development of our people;
 — results of the annual colleague engagement and Pulse surveys 

using the Workday Peakon platform; and

 — dialogue with, and feedback from, the Kingfisher 

Pension Trustees.

How the business engages

 — We communicate regularly through a variety of internal channels 
and social communication tools. We also engage interactively via 
virtual town halls and Q&As.

 — Through the Responsible Business network meetings, we engage 

monthly to receive updates on the four key priorities of our 
Responsible Business strategy.

 — We have a variety of listening groups, such as retail banner 

colleague forums, and affinity networks.

 — Colleagues also receive frequent performance check-ins and 

development meetings.

More detail can be found in the People and Culture section on 
pages 14 to 15.

Outcomes and impact on Board decision-making

 — The Board and Responsible Business Committee monitor and 
assess the company’s culture and the implementation of the 
vision and values set by the ‘Powered by Kingfisher’ and 
Responsible Business strategies. Through the updates 
presented in both forums, the directors have collectively 
advised and helped to shape our People and Culture Plans.
 — The Board monitored action taken to build and track culture 
across Kingfisher. This included monitoring results from the 
colleague listening and engagement tool which has given the 
Board further insight on the workforce voice across the Group.
 — Each Responsible Business Committee meeting considers the 
impact of responsible business issues on our key stakeholders 
including colleagues, and discusses the Colleague pillar of the 
Responsible Business strategy at least annually.

 — Through the Kingfisher Colleague Forum (KCF), the joint forum 
of management and employee representatives. Our Senior 
Independent Director, Catherine Bradley, our CEO and our CPO 
engage with colleagues on transnational issues and consult on 
major decisions. The Board reviews details of each meeting and 
is delighted that the KCF continues to be a strong engagement 
channel. Alongside the colleague listening and engagement tool 
it provides an opportunity for the views of the workforce to be 
clearly heard by executive leadership and the Board.

 — We continue to hold ongoing dialogue with unions where appropriate.
 — Senior colleagues receive training and development, which in 2022 

supported our Inclusion and Diversity action plans.

 — Ongoing usage of a specialist tool by our recruiters as well as line 
manager training are helping to minimise the impact of bias and 
ensure a fair recruitment process.

 — 83% participation in our 2022 annual colleague engagement 

 — 2,642,927 hours of learning across our banners and 

survey (c. 63,600 colleagues).

Group functions.

 — In light of the rising cost of living, the Board reviewed workforce 

pay proposals at the September 2022 and January 2023 
Remuneration Committee.

 — Employee NPS was 54, which is in the top 5% of global retailers. 

18

Kingfisher 2022/23 Annual Report and Accounts

Strategic ReportGovernanceFinancial StatementsInvestors

Who they are

Equity shareholders and providers of debt funding that contribute capital to our business.

Why Kingfisher engages

Our investors rely on us to protect and manage their capital in a responsible and sustainable way while generating 
long-term value. Investors and potential investors need a clear understanding of our business, our strategy, our 
performance against our strategic objectives, our growth potential, and the risks and uncertainties we are managing.

How the Board engages

 — The Board takes ultimate responsibility for how we plan to create 
sustainable long-term value for investors and this engagement 
takes place in a frequent and constructive manner.

 — The CEO, the CFO, and the Chair engage regularly with investors. 

Other directors including the Chair of the Remuneration 
Committee and Senior Independent Director also met 
with investors in 2022.

 — When making strategic decisions, the Board draws on the 

feedback from its engagement or holds targeted consultation 
to analyse how its choices will impact the delivery of long-term 
shareholder value.

 — In July 2022, we hosted a Teach-in event for investors and 

analysts, focused on two of our ‘Powered by Kingfisher’ pillars: 
E-commerce & Technology and Responsible Business. The event 
was attended by both executive and non-executive directors.

How the business engages

 — The Board recognises the AGM as a significant opportunity to 

engage with retail shareholders. In 2022, in-person AGMs resumed 
following two years of virtual meetings. The business also engages 
through key disclosures, including:
 — annual report and accounts;
 — market disclosures, including results announcements, trading 

updates and ad hoc updates; and

 — investor and analyst presentations, roadshows, Teach-in events 
attended by the CEO, the CFO, and the Chair, as appropriate.

Outcomes and impact on Board decision-making

 — The Board chooses to engage with investors and our brokers  
on a broad range of shareholder returns and capital allocation 
decisions, including working capital requirements, capital 
investment opportunities, and matters such as ESG, appetite 
for mergers and acquisitions (M&A), the Dividend Policy and 
share repurchase programmes.

 — The Chair of the Remuneration Committee also consults 

with shareholders on ESG and executive remuneration matters. 
In the second half of 2021/22 and in the first quarter of 2022/23 
the Chair of the Remuneration Committee consulted with 
shareholders on the proposed Remuneration Policy as well 
as the targets for 2022 Performance Share Plan (PSP) ahead 
of their adoption at our 2022 Annual General Meeting (AGM).
 — In May 2022, the Board approved a second £300 million share 
buyback programme. Page 16 sets out how the directors had 
regard to their section 172 duties in making this decision.

 — We do not take any decisions or actions that would provide any 
shareholder or group of shareholders with any unfair advantage 
or position compared to the shareholders as a whole. 

 — In July 2002, 50 investors and sellside analysts attended the 

 — Approval of the Remuneration Policy and the plan rules of the PSP 

at our 2022 AGM.

investor Teach-in event alongside seven members of executive 
leadership, the Chair and the Senior Independent Director.

 — During the year, the Kingfisher Investor Relations team had over 
450 interactions with institutional investors and sellside analysts 
on general business topics. They also had interactions with over 
100 investors and analysts covering ESG topics.

 — We took steps to improve our understanding of climate-related 
financial risks and opportunities in line with recommendations of 
the Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD). 
We see our TCFD statement as an investor driven disclosure to 
be used by investors to guide their conversations with us on 
climate risk. See pages 27 to 38 for more detail.

Kingfisher 2022/23 Annual Report and Accounts

19

Stakeholder engagement and decision-making continued

Suppliers

Who they are

Organisations we work with to deliver products and services to our customers.

Why Kingfisher engages

The trusted partnerships we have with our suppliers are critical to meeting customer needs and instrumental in 
delivering our Responsible Business strategy. 

How the Board engages

 — Where appropriate, we consider the impact on our suppliers when 

 — Annual review of the Modern Slavery Transparency Statement 

making key strategic decisions relating to product ranges or 
supply and logistics.

 — The Board does not regularly engage directly with our suppliers 
but receive frequent reporting from the parts of the company 
that work with them.

 — Supplier surveys are conducted on an annual basis to capture 
the sentiment among own exclusive brands (OEB) and branded 
suppliers. The output from these surveys is tabled to the Board to 
allow the directors to understand the quality of the relationships 
with vendors including to key topics such as tendering, payment 
performance, communication and logistics.

 — In March 2023, the Board reviewed insights on OEB and branded 
suppliers’ sentiment to the company and their experiences, 
gathered via the 2022/23 Supplier Survey. Through their 
consideration, directors have helped shape the mechanisms 
utilised to gather feedback.

How the business engages

 — Engaging suppliers with our Code of Conduct and Responsible 

Business strategy.

 — Conducting supplier ethical risk assessments and audits that look at:

 — our factory base, by requiring Sedex or Amfori BSCI 

registration (online supplier data exchanges) and ethical 
audits of high-risk production sites, for our ‘goods for resale’ 
(GFR) suppliers;

 — our supplier carbon footprint, through the M2030 Low Carbon 

Manufacturing Programme; and

 — our sustainability ratings, through the EcoVadis sustainability 
ratings platform, for contract spend with our ‘goods not for 
resale’ (GNFR) suppliers above £75,000.

and progress of implementation of the Modern Slavery Action Plan 
(Action Plan) across key areas of the business and supply chain. 
This Action Plan covers diligence, ethical audit, supplier and 
colleague engagement, training, policy and reporting. The Group 
continues to strengthen its monitoring of human rights risks across 
the business.

 — The Audit Committee has a forward agenda that ensures it 

receives updates from each banner CEO and Group function 
head including information on suppliers and supply chain 
resiliency. The Committee’s report is on pages 73 to 76.

 — The Responsible Business Committee also receives updates 
regarding the delivery of the Responsible Business strategic 
objectives. The Committee’s report is on pages 71 and 72.
 — In January 2023, the Audit Committee reviewed a report on 

our supply chain risks and mitigating actions.

 — Visiting factories and sites.
 — Conducting risk-based anti-bribery and corruption due diligence.
 — Keeping under review our approach to human rights.
 — In October 2022, we conducted a survey of c. 1,810 OEB and 
branded GFR suppliers to gather feedback and identify key 
areas for improvement at a banner, regional and buying office 
level. Improvement action plans will be put in place to address 
areas identified.

 — Organising supplier conferences on topics of significance.
 — In November 2022, we held an OEB vendor conference in Lille, 

France. Attended by our 100 largest vendors in-person and online 
with access available to all of our OEB vendors globally.

 — Reporting our payment practices under the UK Government’s 

Duty to Report Requirements. 

Outcomes and impact on Board decision-making

 — We received 1,150 replies to the 2022/23 Supplier Survey; 82% of all 

 — Board approval of Modern Slavery Transparency Statement.

responses were positive.

 — Further details and performance data are set out in our  

Modern Slavery Act Transparency Statement on our website,  
www.kingfisher.com

 — Successful OEB vendor conference held in Lille, France in 

November 2022.

20

Kingfisher 2022/23 Annual Report and Accounts

Strategic ReportGovernanceFinancial StatementsCommunities and non-governmental organisations (NGOs)

Who they are

The communities and people who live where we work, and where we source from, as well as the NGOs we 
work alongside.

Why Kingfisher engages

It is important to us that we meet growing expectations on companies to undertake strong environmental, social 
and governance action and are committed to having a positive impact on the lives of our customers, colleagues 
and communities. 

How the Board engages

 — The Board recognises increasing expectations around ESG and 
the importance of building momentum around our Responsible 
Business and Community strategies.

 — In 2022, the Board received presentations regarding initiatives 

within our banners and experienced some first hand, including the 
Screwfix power tool refurbishment site in Stafford, UK.

 — In 2022, the Board was also updated on our partnership with the 
Rainforest Alliance Forest Allies supporting our Forest Positive 
strategy and our climate change carbon reduction activities.

How the business engages

 — We form strategic partnerships and fund charitable organisations 
active in the environment and on housing issues aligned with our 
purpose and Responsible Business priorities, including:
 — partnership with Shelter, a UK-based housing charity, to 

fund a network of DIY Skills Advisers and provide advice, and 
campaigns to improve the quality of UK housing. Fondation 
Abbé Pierre supports tackling homelessness in France;
 — each banner has a charitable foundation established to help 

fix bad housing in their respective markets; and

 — we are a founding member of the Rainforest Alliance Forest 
Allies programme; we fund and support leading green NGOs 
and not-for-profit initiatives including Green Alliance, Aldersgate 
Group, BioRegional, UN Race to Zero Breakthroughs: Retail 
campaign and the Forest Stewardship Council.

Outcomes and impact on Board decision-making

 — Collaborating with retail peers through the UN Race to Zero, and 
the British Retail Consortium’s Climate Action Roadmap, to help 
tackle climate change across the retail sector and to collectively 
drive climate actions.

 — Adoption of ESG targets in the new Kingfisher Performance  

Share Plan.

 — Further delivering against our Forest Positive commitment 
through forest projects. More detail can be found in the 
Responsible Business section on pages 23 to 26.

 — Through updates presented to the Board and its Responsible 

Business Committee, the directors regularly review the progress 
of our community programmes and environmental work.

 — The Board is kept abreast of emerging issues such as climate 
risk and updated reporting obligations, on an ad hoc basis.

 — We support organisations to:

 — help us develop our inclusivity agenda including Business 

Disability Forum and Stonewall;

 — collaborate to tackle modern slavery including partnering 

with the Slave Free Alliance;

 — play a constructive and active role in the implementation 
of Brexit and the future of UK and European relationships 
including supporting the Centre for European Reform; and
 — we also respond to emerging situations to provide disaster 

relief via NGOs including the Red Cross and the United Nations 
High Commissioner for Refugees for the Turkey/Syria 
earthquakes. Our banner foundations mobilised during 
the Ukraine conflict and donated £500k comprising cash 
and products.

 — Through updates presented to the Board and Responsible 

Business Committee, the directors have helped shape our plans 
for delivery and set targets in this area. For example, approval of 
a net zero emissions target by the end of FY 40/41. Page 16 sets 
out how directors had regard to their section 172 duties in making 
this decision.

Kingfisher 2022/23 Annual Report and Accounts

21

Stakeholder engagement and decision-making continued

Regulators and government

Who they are

Bodies that supervise our industry and business activities.

Why Kingfisher engages

We value the trust of our stakeholders to fully realise our purpose, provide employment opportunities, and 
contribute to the economic prosperity of the places where our people live and work.

How the Board engages

 — Twice a year a report on material political issues impacting 
Kingfisher across its geographies is shared with the Board. 
These reports include monitoring actions and next steps.

 — The Board receives updates on key governance and regulatory 
changes that may impact the company and responds to policy 
consultations and formal information requests, as required. 

How the business engages

 — We directly engage with the governments and regulators in each 

of our key markets as well as with the EU.

 — We also engage indirectly through:

 — retail trade associations, including the British Retail Consortium, 

the EU DIY Retail Association, and the French DIY Retail 
Association; and

 — business associations such as the CBI (UK), AFEP (France) and 

Lewiatan (Poland).

 — In 2022, we have engaged on key policies, including UK business 
rates reform to achieve parity with online only retailers; the cost 
of energy to enhance support for domestic energy efficiency; 
and, the need to promote careers in the trade. We have also been 
involved in supporting a range of positive environmental measures 
in line with our Responsible Business commitments.

Outcomes and impact on Board decision-making 

 — When needed the Board and executive leadership engage with 

regulators, government stakeholders, and political representatives 
both directly and via industry associations and other partners.

 — As a matter of course, we attend government meetings 
and events, respond to consultations, and participate in 
parliamentary inquiries.

 — We also regularly engages with regulators, including in the UK, the 
Registrar of Companies, the Financial Reporting Council, the 
London Stock Exchange, the Financial Conduct Authority, and the 
Information Commissioner’s Office on matters of statutory or 
regulatory compliance.

 — Progress made on issues, including:

 — Ongoing Board monitoring of macroeconomic and geopolitical 

 — certain reform of business rates in the UK and the 
establishment of the Digital Markets Act in the EU;

 — further government measures in a number of our markets to 

support home energy efficiency; and

 — the ban on peat in horticulture in the UK and updates to the EU’s 

Deforestation Regulation.

forces on performance.

22

Kingfisher 2022/23 Annual Report and Accounts

Strategic ReportGovernanceFinancial StatementsResponsible Business

The Chair of the RBC reports on its activities to the Board and 
the Board and Committee members also review Responsible 
Business KPIs on a quarterly basis as part of their governance 
duties. This year we integrated responsible business measures 
into the Kingfisher Performance Share Plan for our senior 
leadership team.

For more detail see pages 71 to 72.

The governance of climate-related risks and opportunities is 
detailed on page 27 of our Task Force on Climate-related 
Financial Disclosures (TCFD).

Integrating responsible business into 
everyday operations

For over three decades, Kingfisher has been prioritising 
responsible business practices. As a key part of our ‘Powered 
by Kingfisher’ strategy, we are working to integrate responsible 
business into everything we do.

Responsible Business governance

Our Responsible Business Committee (RBC), a Committee of 
the Board, is chaired by a non-executive director and oversees 
the delivery of our Responsible Business strategy. It provides 
advice and assurance to the Group Executive and the Board 
on all matters relating to responsible business practices, and 
monitors performance against our priorities.

See page 71 for the Responsible Business Committee report.

Our four Responsible Business priorities

We have four Responsible Business priorities. These focus on the issues where we can use our size and scale to bring about positive 
change for our customers, colleagues, communities and the planet. Now into the third year of delivery, we have continued to make 
progress in all four areas.

We will publish full details of this year’s progress in our dedicated Responsible Business Report in June 2023.

Colleagues

Planet

Customers

Community

We will be a more 
inclusive company.

Our commitment  
We will be a more 
inclusive company by 
breaking down barriers 
to employment and 
progression, and by 
building skills for life. 

We will be Forest 
Positive and help 
tackle climate 
change. 

Our commitment 
We will help tackle 
climate change by 
reducing carbon 
emissions from our 
business, products and 
supply chains; and by 
creating more forests 
than we use. We 
will become Forest 
Positive by investing 
in forest projects. 

We will help make 
greener, healthier 
homes affordable.

We will fight to fix  
bad housing.

Our commitment  
We will help millions 
of customers have a 
greener, healthier home 
– one that is resource-
efficient, uses planet-
friendly materials 
and is free from 
harmful chemicals.

Our commitment 
We will donate our 
products, expertise 
and time to help people 
whose housing needs 
are greatest in the 
communities we serve. 

See page 24 for details on our progress against the targets for our four key priorities.

Kingfisher 2022/23 Annual Report and Accounts

23

Responsible Business continued

Colleagues

Our targets

Planet

Our targets

 — Improve gender balance to 35% women in senior leadership 

 — 100% wood and paper responsibly sourced for our products 

and 40% women in management by FY 25/26.

and catalogues by FY 25/26.

 — Provide five million hours of skills for life learning by FY 25/26.

Our progress

 — 25.8% of senior leaders1 and 38.9% of managers are women, 
compared with 25.2% and 37.9%2 respectively last year.
 — 33.3% of our Group Executive and their direct reports are 

women, compared with 31.1% last year.

 — Colleagues completed over 2.6 million hours of skills for life 
learning, bringing the total number of hours completed since 
FY 19/20 to 6.6 million – reaching our target ahead of schedule.

 — Each retail banner and Group function has an Inclusivity 

Action Plan and Inclusion and Diversity (I&D) Affinity Groups 
linked to Kingfisher’s I&D Advisory Forum.

 — Our I&D Advisory Forum acts as an ideas incubator and 

amplifier to accelerate inclusion. Chaired by Screwfix CEO, 
the Forum brings together colleagues from Group functions 
and every retail banner.

Engagement and inclusivity are part of our People and Culture 
Plan discussed on pages 14 and 15.

 — Become Forest Positive by FY 25/26.
 — Achieve our Science Based Targets initiative (SBTi) 
approved carbon reduction target (consistent with 
reductions required to keep global warming to 1.5°C) by 
FY 25/26.

 — Reach net zero emissions for our operations (scope 1 and 2) 

by the end of FY 40/41.

Our progress

 — 94.5% of the wood and paper used in our products was 

responsibly sourced (FY 21/22: 87.2%) and all catalogue paper.

 — As a founding member of the Rainforest Alliance Forest 
Allies, we continue to invest in six forest projects in key 
tropical sourcing regions. These cover over 300,000 
hectares and support the livelihoods of 7,400 people.
 — B&Q, Castorama France, Castorama Poland and Screwfix 

established local partnerships to restore, create and protect 
native woodland and forests.

 — Continued progress against our science-based targets and 

have reduced operational emissions (scope 1 and 2) by 52.7% 
since 2016/17 exceeding our target of 38% reduction by FY 
25/26.3

 — Announced a new net zero commitment for our operational 
emissions and published a five-point roadmap, setting out 
how we will achieve our new goal. 

Customers

Our targets

Community

Our targets

 — 60% of Group sales to be from our Sustainable Home 
Products (SHP), including 70% of sales for our Own 
Exclusive Brand products (OEB) by FY 25/26.

Our progress

 — 46.8% of total Group sales came from products that help 
create greener, healthier homes (FY 21/22: 44.1%), with 
energy-saving and energy efficiency products in particularly 
high demand.

 — SHP now account for 56.4% of OEB sales (FY 21/22: 54.7%) 
and we have started a project to better understand the 
footprint of our OEB products (scope 3 emissions).

 — Expanded our range of energy-saving products and services 

to better support customers to improve the energy 
efficiency of their homes.

 — Improved sustainability performance across several ranges 
including: fully phasing out peat at B&Q (our Group’s biggest 
seller of compost by volume); introducing Naturéa, a 
biobased paint; replacing virgin plastic with recycled plastic 
or more planet-friendly materials in several OEB product 
ranges and product packaging.

 — Help more than two million people whose housing needs are 

greatest by FY 25/26.

Our progress

 — Our projects have reached over 470,000 people this year, 
which brought our total to 2.1 million people helped since 
FY 16/17, achieving our target three years ahead of schedule.

 — Charitable foundations now established in all our banners. 
Our Foundation in Iberia launched in March, supporting 
projects linked to housing or helping refugees.

 — £5.4 million community investment in the year with an 

additional £2.8 million raised by our colleagues and customers.
 — Continued to support people displaced by the war in Ukraine 
through our partnership with the Red Cross, the work of our 
Foundations particularly in Poland and Romania, and through 
a new partnership between B&Q and the Refugee Council.
 — Continued our partnerships with national charities, Shelter 
and Macmillan Cancer Support in the UK, Fondation Abbé 
Pierre and Compagnons Bâtisseurs in France, and Habitat 
for Humanity in Romania and Poland. 

1.  Our senior managers are those included in our Performance Share Plan (around top 300 positions, see pages 77 to 100). We also participate in the 

FTSE Women Leaders Review benchmark which uses a data set based on a smaller selection of leadership positions. Based on the benchmark data set 
we reached 33.3% women in senior leadership.

2.  We previously reported two sets of management data, one in our Directors’ remuneration report and the other in the People and Responsible Business 
sections. This year, we have aligned this data and are now reporting progress against the target set out in the Directors’ remuneration report (to increase 
women in management to 40% by FY 25/26) which can be found on page 77. The management population reflects all junior and middle management 
and excludes senior leadership. FY 21/22 data reported here has been rebased to show progress against our target.

3.  Scope 3 emissions will be published in our Responsible Business Report in June 2023.

24

Kingfisher 2022/23 Annual Report and Accounts

Strategic ReportGovernanceFinancial StatementsOur Responsible Business fundamentals

Our priorities are underpinned by our commitment to our 
Responsible Business fundamentals. These are the issues and 
impacts we measure and manage to ensure we continue to 
operate responsibly across our business.

For each fundamental we have a clear Group policy that allows 
us to work effectively across our functions and banners to 
continually improve performance.

Responsible sourcing and human rights

We respect, protect and promote the human rights of our 
colleagues, workers across our supply chain and others 
affected by our business activities.

Our Human Rights Policy aligns with international agreements 
and guidelines, including the United Nations Guiding Principles 
on Business and Human Rights, the International Bill of Human 
Rights (which includes the Universal Declaration of Human 
Rights), the UN Global Compact, the International Labour 
Organization’s Declaration on Fundamental Principles and 
Rights at Work, the Children’s Rights and Business Principles 
and UN conventions on the elimination of discrimination.

We work with our suppliers to raise standards on the 
environment, labour practices, and human rights in our supply 
chain. Our due diligence includes ethical risk assessment 
processes, ethical audits, supplier training and engagement, 
and collaboration with human rights experts such as Slave 
Free Alliance, a victim-focused social enterprise.

Further details are available in our Modern Slavery Act Transparency 
Statement (www.kingfisher.com/Modern-Slavery).

We do not tolerate any form of modern slavery in our business 
or supply chains. Our Modern Slavery Working Group, chaired 
by our Human Rights Manager, meets three times a year to 
oversee due diligence and disclosure on human rights and 
modern slavery. It brings together stakeholders from across 
the business who are working on ethical sourcing issues. Its 
action plan includes internal training, supplier training, supplier 
ethical risk assessment, ethical audit, supplier and colleague 
engagement, policy and reporting.

For further details and performance data, see our Modern Slavery Act 
Transparency Statement (www.kingfisher.com/Modern-Slavery).

Health and safety

We believe every colleague is entitled to a safe working 
environment. Our Group Safety and Compliance Officer 
oversees our approach and is supported by Senior Management 
Safety Committees in each retail banner and a network of safety 
professionals. Kingfisher Safety Network meetings and training 
sessions are held twice a year.

A Health & Safety dashboard summarises performance at each 
retail banner. This data is reviewed quarterly by the Group 
Executive and the Board and is published annually in our 
Responsible Business Report.

We began a project to update our safety software and reporting 
tool in FY 22/23 to improve how we record and report accidents, 
illness and near-miss incidents across all banners and functions. 
The software will be rolled out in Q2 2023.

Restoring a tree-less landscape with 
the Woodland Trust

B&Q and Screwfix have launched a major new partnership 
with the Woodland Trust, the UK’s largest woodland 
conservation charity.

The partnership will support the creation of new native 
woodland at Snaizeholme in the Yorkshire Dales, which is 
currently a tree-less valley. The aim is to capture carbon 
and help to reduce flood risk in surrounding areas, as well as 
creating a haven for wildlife. The project will also include work 
to restore 250 acres of upland peat bog – a vital and unique 
natural habitat and carbon sink. The Woodland Trust’s vision 
for Snaizeholme is to create a vibrant mosaic of native 
woodland, with extensive habitat restoration across peat 
moorland, acid grassland, limestone pavement and riverside 
meadows, which will become a Yorkshire beacon for the bid 
to support nature recovery and tackle climate change.

The project is part of our Forest Positive commitment and 
supports the Woodland Trust’s ambitious plan to establish 
England’s largest new native woodland as part of the 
Northern Forest.

Waste and chemicals

We are committed to achieving zero waste to landfill and 
increasing recycling. In the UK and France, these policy 
commitments are integrated into the contracts with waste 
management partners, and we regularly review their progress. 
We are also working to further reduce packaging waste.

While we strictly comply with all applicable regulations related to 
chemicals, we have identified some chemicals that we consider 
to be less sustainable and are starting to phase these out of our 
products. In FY 22/23 we updated our chemicals roadmap to 
ensure our approach will align with significant regulatory 
changes expected in the EU.

A full update and performance data will be published in the 
Responsible Business Report in June 2023.

Kingfisher 2022/23 Annual Report and Accounts

25

Responsible Business continued

Ethical conduct

Our Code of Conduct summarises our approach to doing 
business and the ethical standards we expect. It promotes a 
culture of transparency, honesty and fairness. 

Read more at www.kingfisher.com/en/about-us/company-policies

The Code applies to all Kingfisher colleagues and third parties. 
We have supporting policies and an online approval and 
reporting procedure for gifts and hospitality and conflicts 
of interest, and a policy on competition law.

All colleagues are required to complete annual training on our 
Code of Conduct. This covers the key principles of the Code and 
how to raise concerns. Colleagues working in sensitive areas of 
the business or in higher-risk roles also completed additional 
training on fair competition and Market Abuse Regulation.

Our Group Ethics and Compliance Committee is chaired by 
our CFO and oversees compliance, identifies priorities, and 
reviews compliance reports and investigations during its 
quarterly meetings. Local Ethics and Compliance Committees 
in each of our banners provide ongoing support and insight.

We use a third-party due diligence tool to support our 
processes in areas such as anti-bribery and corruption, data 
protection, sanctions and conflict of interest. We operate 
a confidential whistleblowing hotline. The Board and Audit 
Committee receive regular updates about whistleblowing 
reports as well as the outcome of sensitive internal investigations.

For more information see page 75 of the Audit Committee report.

All suppliers must comply with our Code of Conduct and we 
embed its requirements into our procurement processes and 
supplier contracts. Potential new suppliers must factor in our 
Code of Conduct and ethical requirements.

Our anti-bribery and corruption policies and procedures, and 
our approach to data protection and cyber security are 
explained in the Risk section on pages 51 to 58.

ESG disclosure

We disclose our performance on ESG issues through several 
external benchmarks including CDP (see page 38) and the 
Workforce Disclosure Initiative (WDI). We align our reporting 
to the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI), Task Force on Climate-
related Financial Disclosures (TCFD) and the Sustainability 
Accounting Standards Board (SASB) standards for Multiline 
and Speciality Retailers and Distributors.

For more information visit www.kingfisher.com/responsiblebusiness

26

Kingfisher 2022/23 Annual Report and Accounts

Strategic ReportGovernanceFinancial StatementsOur response to the Task Force on 
Climate-related Financial Disclosures 

Our CEO is accountable for energy and climate change, with 
climate-related responsibilities sitting within various Board and 
management committees:

 — Our Group Executive is responsible for identifying, 

assessing and managing the principal risks, including climate 
change, and for reviewing and recommending to the Board 
on an ongoing basis key climate-related commitments 
proposed by management (e.g. our scope 1 and 2 net 
zero commitment and investment plan).

 — Our Responsible Business Committee (RBC), a committee 
of the Board, is chaired by a non-executive director and 
provides advice and assurance to the Group Executive 
on all matters relating to responsible business practices 
(including climate change). The RBC met twice in 2022 and 
its report is on pages 71 and 72. Specific climate-related 
issues discussed by the RBC in 2022 included customer 
support for energy efficiency measures, and our scope 1 
and 2 net zero commitment.

 — Our Group Climate Committee, chaired by our Chief 
Executive Officer, was established in 2022. It meets 
quarterly with relevant management to agree and 
monitor the company’s approach to meeting its climate 
commitments and assessing climate-related risks and 
opportunities. It provides an update to the RBC on the 
proceedings of each meeting, including on key decisions 
and actions.

 — Our Group Investment Committee is directly accountable 
for all capital and revenue expenditure above the threshold 
reserved for approval at the banner or Group function level. 
Energy-related capital investments, which are fully aligned 
with our scope 1 and 2 emissions reduction targets, are a 
standing agenda item at meetings.

 — Our Audit Committee receives updates from management 
on Kingfisher’s compliance with changing sustainability-
related reporting requirements, including our 
TCFD disclosures.

Additionally, banner boards consider climate-related issues and 
are responsible for implementing the energy-related capital 
investments approved by GIC, and for delivering progress 
against our scope 1 and 2 emissions reduction commitments.

Information on how our Board engages with stakeholders including in 
relation to climate change is included in our Section 172(1) Statement 
on page 16.

Climate change is one of the greatest risks society faces and 
its impacts will be felt by businesses over the short, medium 
and long term. In this TCFD statement, we provide our material 
climate-related financial disclosures, as required by current FCA 
Listing Rules.

Within our FCA compliance statement, found alongside our 
TCFD index on pages 37 and 38, we describe which TCFD-
aligned disclosures we have not yet been able to make.

Key areas of progress in FY 22/23:

 — Governance: We established our Group Climate Committee, 

chaired by our Chief Executive Officer, to agree and 
monitor the company’s approach to meeting its emission 
reduction commitments and assessing climate-related risks 
and opportunities.

 — Strategy: We announced a net zero commitment for our 

operational (scope 1 and 2) carbon emissions and published 
our five-point transition plan, setting out how we will achieve 
our new goal. We launched a range of energy-saving services 
and expanded our energy-saving product ranges to help 
customers reduce their household energy bills, supporting 
carbon reduction efforts.

 — Risk management: We undertook detailed, quantitative 
analysis to understand the financial impacts of climate 
change under a range of scenarios. This focused on risks 
associated with carbon pricing, disruption to our operations 
from physical climate hazards, and the future availability of 
key species of wood for our product ranges.

 — Metrics and targets: We tied our new Performance Share 
Plan, granted to members of our senior leadership team, 
to progress on our operational (scope 1 and 2) emissions 
targets. We made continued progress against our 2025/26 
targets by reducing scope 1 and 2 emissions by 52.7% in 
FY 22/23 (vs 2016/17), in addition to reducing our FY 21/22 
scope 3 emissions by 19.7% per £million turnover 
(versus 2017/18).

Governance

Board-level oversight of climate-related risks and 
opportunities [TCFD Governance (a)]
The governance of climate-related risks and opportunities is 
integrated into our overarching Kingfisher governance 
framework. A visual representation of our governance 
framework is provided in the Corporate governance report on 
page 62.

Our Board of Directors is our highest governing body and 
assesses the management of principal risks, including climate 
change, and reviews our Responsible Business KPIs each 
quarter. In 2022/23, the Board of Directors reviewed and 
approved management’s proposal for a scope 1 and 2 net zero 
target, progress against which will be communicated to the 
Board on an annual basis.

Kingfisher 2022/23 Annual Report and Accounts

27

Our response to the Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures continued

Management’s role in assessing and managing 
climate-related risks and opportunities [TCFD 
Governance (b)]

The day-to-day assessment and management of climate-
related risks and opportunities is conducted through several 
senior management positions and operational teams:

 — Our Responsible Business team, led by our Director 

of Responsible Business, is accountable for developing 
Group-wide climate change strategy, climate-related risk 
and opportunity identification and assessment, and for 
reporting and communication on climate-related matters. 
The Responsible Business team is responsible for ensuring 
each of these activities is fully integrated into Kingfisher’s 
strategic and financial planning processes.

 — Within the Group Offer & Sourcing function, a sustainability 
team is responsible for ensuring our product sustainability 
requirements are embedded into our Own Exclusive Brand 
(OEB) product ranges, and for collaborating with OEB 
vendors to reduce their own emissions.

 — Each banner is responsible for delivering scope 1 and 2 

emissions reductions, in line with the contributions of each 
banner required under the Group-wide scope 1 and 2 
science-based targets.

 — In 2022, we established internal Energy and Net Zero 

Logistics Forums to facilitate decarbonisation planning 
and action in each area of our retail operations and to 
share best practices across banners.

The Responsible Business team agree the agendas for 
the Responsible Business Committee and Group Climate 
Committee with the respective committee chairs, prioritising 
updates or decisions on key areas of Kingfisher’s climate 
strategy as necessary. This ensures that management 
communicates to relevant governing bodies on an 
ongoing basis.

For example, in FY 2022/23 the Responsible Business team 
delivered an update to the Group Climate Committee on the 
findings from our climate scenario analysis, and proposed the 
establishment of a scope 1 and 2 net zero target to the 
Responsible Business Committee.

Enhancing our governance of climate-related risks 
and opportunities
We have reviewed competence at Board level and found that 
the Board contains sufficient climate-related expertise through 
the inclusion of the Chair of Kingfisher’s RBC, who is briefed 
regularly on a wide range of climate-related issues, as well as 
our CEO who chairs the Group Climate Committee.

In 2022 we also focused on building knowledge and expertise 
on climate change for management through dedicated training 
in key Group functions such as Financial Planning and Analysis, 
and Internal Audit.

Strategy

Our strategy for identifying climate-related risks and 
opportunities is informed by our risk management processes 
(see Risks on page 51), of which our use of climate-related 
scenario analysis is a key component. Where material to our 
business performance, we consider climate-related risks 
and opportunities within our strategy development and 
financial planning.

Our climate-related risks and opportunities [TCFD 
Strategy (a, b), Metrics and Targets (a)]
We have defined risk time horizons of short term (0-1 years), 
medium term (1-3 years), and long term (3+ years).

To guide our disclosure of climate-related risks and 
opportunities, we define materiality based on net risk severity 
level, in accordance with our Group-wide risk management 
framework, rather than any definition of financial materiality 
used elsewhere within our reporting. As a result, we have 
disclosed only those risks and opportunities assessed 
as having a net risk severity level of ‘medium’ or higher  
(see Risk Management (a)).

Risks and opportunities assessed as having a lower net risk 
severity level include those related to current and emerging 
climate-related regulations.

28

Kingfisher 2022/23 Annual Report and Accounts

Strategic ReportGovernanceFinancial StatementsOur climate-related risks and opportunities

Risks/opportunities and description 
[TCFD Strategy (a)]

Market changes
Opportunities to increase sales of Sustainable 
Home Products (SHP)1 that enable customers to 
create net zero homes; reputational risks from 
failure to transition away from carbon intensive 
products such as peat.

Timeframe for most significant impact: 
Short term (0-1 years) due to current elevated 
energy prices.

Geography and business areas impacted: 
Global product offering, with actions to realise 
opportunities in each market. 

Energy and fuel costs
Increased risk of rising energy and fuel prices, 
due to regulatory changes and an increase in 
energy demand (e.g. more heating and cooling 
requirements during extreme weather).

Timeframe for most significant impact: 
Short term (0-1 years) due to current elevated 
energy prices.

Geography and business areas impacted: 
Global retail and distribution operations, with 
actions to mitigate risks in each market. 

Carbon pricing
National and/or international carbon pricing 
policies may result in increased operational and 
supply chain costs that we are not able to pass 
through to customers in full, and/or may lead to 
reduced demand for products.

Timeframe for most significant impact:  
Long term (3+ years).

Geography and business areas impacted: 
Global supply chains, with actions to mitigate 
risks in each market.

Impact of specific climate-related risks and opportunities on our strategy 
and financial planning [TCFD Strategy (b)] and associated metrics for ongoing 
assessment of our risks and opportunities [TCFD Metrics and Targets (a)] 

Elements impacted: Products and services, supply chain mitigation activities, investment in R&D.

Description: The commercial opportunities and risks from the transition towards net zero will 
continue to shape our product range and business strategy. Research by Halifax suggests that 
around 60% of homes in England and Wales fail to meet the UK Government’s aspiration for as 
many homes as possible to reach Energy Performance Certificate Band C by 2035.2

Our SHP help to make greener, healthier homes more affordable and can support the delivery 
of national net zero targets. We are also taking action to reduce the embodied carbon in our 
product ranges, in line with our scope 3 carbon targets.

Product innovation is a key focus of our strategy. For example, we are exploring how we can 
reduce supply chain carbon emissions from our bagged cement products by switching to lower 
carbon formulations.

In 2022, we launched the B&Q Energy Saving Service in the UK and other energy efficiency 
services in our French banners, and expanded our energy-saving product ranges across our 
banners to support customers in reducing household energy costs and emissions.

Metrics: We assess progress in managing this opportunity through our headline target to 
achieve 60% of Group sales from SHP by the end of FY 25/26 (and 70% from our OEB products 
and services) – see page 24. A more detailed breakdown of our SHP metrics is provided for 
historical periods on pages 27 to 29 of our FY 21/22 Performance Data Appendix.3

Elements impacted: Operations.

Description: We are working to reduce energy use and carbon emissions through our science-
based targets, which cover our own operations (scope 1 and 2 emissions) and supply chain 
(scope 3 emissions).

We mitigate this risk through investments to improve the efficiency and reduce the carbon 
intensity of our energy and fuel consumption. For example, we continue to roll out LED lighting 
and building energy management systems across our estate, whilst increasing the proportion 
of our power derived from renewable sources. See the Improving energy efficiency section on 
page 34.

Metrics: We assess progress in managing this risk through multiple metrics including:

 — Scope 1 and 2 GHG emissions
 — Total energy intensity (kWh/m2 reported floor space)
 — Loading efficiency (litres of fuel used per m3 of product delivered to stores)

Our latest FY 22/23 scope 1 and 2 GHG emissions and total energy intensity are available on 
page 33. A more detailed breakdown of each of these metrics is provided for historical periods 
on pages 22 to 26 of our FY 21/22 Performance Data Appendix.3 

Elements impacted: Products and services, supply chain mitigation activities, access to capital.

Description: A key pillar of our Responsible Business strategy is our commitment to reducing 
our emissions in line with the UN’s goal to limit global warming to 1.5 degrees (see Metrics and 
Targets below), the highest ambition of the Paris Climate Change Agreement.

We have a strong track record in reducing our own emissions and are collaborating closely with 
our suppliers to ensure we are driving positive change across our supply chain. For example, 
through our commitment to generating 60% of Group sales from SHP by the end of FY 2025/26, 
a co-benefit will be the reduction of carbon emissions embodied within certain SHP ranges (e.g. 
through selecting more sustainable materials) and/or emitted when our customers use and 
dispose of our products (e.g. through providing more energy efficient products).

We continue to monitor regulatory and market developments to inform our Responsible 
Business strategy and financial planning.

Metrics: We assess progress in managing this risk primarily through our GHG emissions (scope 1, 
2 and 3), as well as a Discounted Cash Flow at Risk metric calculated through our scenario 
analysis (further details on page 32). Our latest FY 2022/23 scope 1 and 2 GHG emissions are 
available on page 33. A detailed breakdown of our scope 1, 2 and 3 GHG emissions is provided 
for historical periods on pages 22 to 26 of our FY 2021/22 Performance Data Appendix3.

1.  Our Sustainable Home Products (SHP) can help to lower the environmental impacts of our products by including features that are sustainable and/or deliver 

sustainable benefits to customers. SHP support our ambition to address climate change through reducing carbon emissions embodied in our products and 
those linked to our customers’ use and disposal of them.

2.  www.lloydsbankinggroup.com/media/press-releases/2022/halifax/15-million-homes-need-energy-efficiency-upgrades.html
3.  Our Performance Data Appendix provides climate-related metrics for FY 2021/22 and historical periods and is available at www.kingfisher.com/dataappendix

Kingfisher 2022/23 Annual Report and Accounts

29

Our response to the Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures continued

The following risks have been assessed via our scenario analysis process and have been determined to have a ‘low’ net risk severity 
level (see Strategy (c)), in accordance with the Kingfisher risk assessment process (see Risk Management (a)). We will continue to 
monitor these risks on an annual basis:

Risks/opportunities and description 
[TCFD Strategy (a)]

Impact of specific climate-related risks and opportunities on our strategy and 
financial planning [TCFD Strategy (b)] and associated metrics for ongoing 
assessment of our risks and opportunities [TCFD Metrics and Targets (a)] 

Facilities disruption and damage
Increased average global temperatures will most 
likely lead to the increased frequency and intensity 
of extreme weather events, which may cause 
damage to our facilities (increased costs) and 
consequently disrupt our retail and distribution 
operations (decreased revenues).

Timeframe for most significant impact:  
Long term (3+ years).

Geography and business areas impacted: 
Global retail and distribution operations, with 
actions to mitigate risks in each market. Key supply 
routes and ports may also be impacted but are yet 
to be fully assessed. 

Changes in raw material supply
Changes in the global climate will likely impact 
the availability of high-quality supplies of certain 
wood species. This may affect our future ability 
to generate revenues from wood and 
paper products.

Timeframe for most significant impact:  
Long term (3+ years).

Geography and business areas impacted: 
Global wood and paper supply chain. 

Elements impacted: Operations.

Description: We maintain robust continuity planning and insurance programmes (including 
self-insured policies).

Additionally, we incorporate climate change factors into the planning and design of new stores, 
refurbishment projects and preventative maintenance programmes. For example, in certain 
locations, we have implemented location-specific adaptations, such as painting store roofs white 
to aid natural cooling.

Metrics: We assess progress in managing this risk through a Discounted Cash Flow at Risk metric 
calculated through our scenario analysis (further details provided below). 

Elements impacted: Products and services, supply chain adaptation.

Description: A resilient supply chain is key to our business and the achievement of our 
strategic objectives.

We continually review key suppliers by category to establish capacity and volumes and assess 
the impact of an interruption in supply. Our supplier strategy includes guidance on when to use 
more than one supplier to increase resilience.

Metrics: We assess progress in managing this risk through a Discounted Cash Flow at Risk metric 
calculated through our scenario analysis (further details provided below). We also assess this risk 
through our metrics on responsible sourcing of wood and paper products (pages 20 to 21 of our 
FY 2021/22 Performance Data Appendix*). 

 * Our Performance Data Appendix provides climate-related metrics for FY 2021/22 and historical periods and is available at www.kingfisher.com/dataappendix

In addition to the measures outlined in Our climate-related 
risks and opportunities table referenced above, we increasingly 
consider the management of climate-related risks through our 
existing financial planning processes, with capital investments 
(such as the installation of low-carbon energy technologies), 
anticipated revenues from our SHP, and executive remuneration.

Moving towards net zero in our properties

In 2022, we developed the detailed plans we need to guide our 
progress across our stores and distribution centres. One key 
action we’re taking is replacing gas and fossil fuel-based heating 
systems with electric alternatives. We have now installed 
all-electric heating using air source heat pumps (ASHP) in over 
500 Screwfix stores and this is now standard specification for 
new Screwfix stores in the UK & Ireland. We are also investing 
across our banners in energy-saving projects, including the 
installation of LED lighting, building energy management 
systems and insulation and heating improvements.

Additional impacts of climate-related risks and 
opportunities on our strategy and financial planning 
[TCFD Strategy (b)]

The mitigation and adaptation measures identified above are 
intended to build operational, regulatory, and supply chain 
resilience to climate change.

Central to our approach to managing climate-related risks 
and opportunities is our transition plan, centred on our science-
based emissions reduction targets (see Metrics and Targets 
below). We have committed to achieving net zero scope 1 and 2 
emissions by the end of 2040, ten years ahead of the UK 
Government’s 2050 target. Our transition plan for achieving net 
zero and our other emissions targets is set out in our FY 2021/22 
Responsible Business Report (pages 23 to 30). We will continue 
to expand our transition plan, with consideration to the 
Transition Plan Taskforce’s Disclosure Framework and the 
TCFD’s Guidance on Metrics, Targets, and Transition Plans.

We also recognise that we cannot manage our climate-related 
risks and opportunities alone. In addition to the mitigation actions 
described above, we continue to promote cross-sector climate 
action through our support for the British Retail Consortium’s 
Climate Action Roadmap, and as a founding member of the 
UN Race to Zero Breakthroughs: Retail Campaign.

30

Kingfisher 2022/23 Annual Report and Accounts

Strategic ReportGovernanceFinancial StatementsThe results of our analysis are reported to our Group Climate 
Committee, to ensure cross-functional and Executive-level 
decision-making on the management of climate-related risks 
and opportunities.

Scenario analysis results
The financial impacts identified in the table below reflect the 
estimated gross incremental impact, before mitigations, from 
climate change on the Group’s discounted cash flows (DCF) over 
the next five years. This allows comparison of different risks, 
whether physical and transition, within a standard framework.

The impacts have been rated as ‘Low’, ‘Medium’ or ‘High’ 
to reflect the relative financial materiality of each risk under 
each scenario. Impact on cumulative DCF is used as a proxy 
for resilience. The impact thresholds have been determined 
following consultation with investors and are therefore a helpful 
proxy for resilience of our financial and strategic position.

Our scenario analysis results indicate that both transition 
and physical climate-related risks could impact our financial 
performance and position over the five-year time horizon 
assessed, with low (<1% of DCF) to medium (1% to 5% of DCF) 
severity. Increased costs from policy-driven carbon price 
increases has a medium severity impact, with the most significant 
financial impacts in our longer-term (3+ years) horizon.

Our scenario analysis results do not currently identify any 
significant impacts on our business model over the time horizon 
assessed, and therefore no changes in strategy are required 
beyond those already being implemented to decarbonise our 
business in line with limiting global temperature increases to 
1.5°C, as described in our response to carbon pricing risk in 
Our climate-related risks and opportunities table is on page 29.

We will continue to expand our use of scenario analysis to test 
our resilience to climate-related risk, and to inform our strategic 
and financial planning, in line with the TCFD recommendations.

The alignment of the scenarios discussed above, and the 
assumptions and sensitivities identified in the table on page 32, 
with our financial statements is described in note 3 of the 
consolidated financial statements.

Our approach to climate scenario analysis [TCFD 
Strategy (c)]

Scenario analysis is an important tool increasingly used to 
assess the Group’s strategic and financial resilience to a 
range of alternative, but plausible, climate futures.

To undertake detailed scenario analysis, we have worked with 
a third-party provider to develop a digital twin model of our 
business, which we can use to assess the financial impact 
of various climate-related transition and physical risks1 and 
opportunities across our value chain. This analysis enables 
us to stress-test our organisational and financial resilience 
to climate change, and to develop effective mitigation plans.

Our scenario analysis considers the implications of a full range 
of emissions trajectories and global average temperature 
increases, each based on climate modelling used by the 
Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change, the Network for 
Greening the Financial System, and the International Energy 
Agency. Our reference scenarios, and the global impact of 
climate risks under each, are as follows:

Global temperature 
increase* 

1.5°C

2°C – 3°C

>4°C

Scenario description

Urgent global policy response delivering 
net zero global emissions by 2050. Leads to 
rapid shifts in energy generation, consumer 
behaviours, and technological innovation. 
Physical risk increases are limited, but 
transition risks are high. 

Implementation of current climate policies 
and commitments, without further action 
beyond this. Intermediate levels of physical 
and transition risks in the short term, with 
increasing physical risks over time. 

No further global policy action is taken on 
climate change and even current obligations 
are not met. Emissions therefore continue 
to grow. Physical risks grow significantly 
over time, but transition risks are low.

 * Average global surface temperature increase above pre-industrial levels 

by 2100.

Our use of scenario analysis covers a five-year period, ensuring 
that we consider all Kingfisher risk time horizons, including the 
three-year assessment period for our Viability statement and 
beyond (the Viability statement on page 60 models one scenario 
which links to our climate change principal risk).

The three risks considered in our scenario analysis during FY 
2021/22 (see Scenario analysis results) are modelled 
independently, reflecting the complexity and uncertainty 
associated with measuring the interconnectivity of risks. 
Mitigating actions have not been considered within our 
modelling, giving an assessment of gross risk. Assumptions 
regarding business growth have been used to generate 
a baseline view of the business for assessment of the 
potential financial impacts of climate change.

1.  Risks can be associated with the physical impacts of climate change (i.e. extreme weather events or long-term shifts in precipitation and temperatures), or 
with the transition to a lower-carbon global economy (e.g. policy and legal actions, technology change, market responses, and reputational considerations).

Kingfisher 2022/23 Annual Report and Accounts

31

Our response to the Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures continued

Our climate scenario analysis results

Climate-related risk/opportunity and key 
modelling assumptions

Carbon pricing

 — Kingfisher’s emissions to increase in line with 

2019-2021 growth rates

 — All scope 1, 2, and upstream scope 3 emissions 

are subjected to carbon pricing

 — 100% of costs will be passed through to Kingfisher 

from suppliers

 — The global average carbon prices reached by the 

end of our 5-year time horizon are:
 — 1.5°C = USD 80 per tonne CO2e
 — 2°C – 3°C = USD 60 – 20 per tonne CO2e
 — >4°C – USD 2 per tonne CO2e

Facilities disruption and damage
 — Our analysis is based on our current 

operational footprint

 — Any adaptation measures, such as flood protection, 

employed across our estate have not been 
accounted for

 — Financial impacts from this risk cannot be passed 

on to customers

Raw materials supply

 — Yields of pine, spruce, and fir within Europe 

assessed only

 — Analysis considered impact on yields of changes 
in local temperatures and precipitation levels only

 — Solid wood purchases considered only
 — Risk is a function of lost revenues, as each 

scenario assumes we do not adapt our sourcing 
strategy accordingly 

Impact on 5-year cumulative DCF and implications for resilience

1.5°C

Medium

2-3°C

Medium

>4°C 

Low

Increases in carbon pricing globally could impact our operational costs (e.g. the purchase 
of electricity, natural gas, and other fuels), and reduced demand for products if costs are 
passed on to customers.

The greatest potential impact, however, could arise from our product supply chain, where 
costs would most likely be passed on by vendors. The higher the carbon price, the greater 
the likely impact on our DCF.

1.5°C

Low

2-3°C

Low

>4°C 

Low

The DCF impacts from physical climate hazards on our own facilities and operations 
are likely to be relatively low under each of our scenarios within a 5-year time horizon.

Lost revenues from disruption caused by heatwaves could have the greatest potential 
DCF impact under all scenarios. Some ‘positive’ impacts could be seen through reduced 
risks from freezing, flooding, and windstorms.

Longer-term analysis shows that the reduction in 5-year cumulative DCF from facilities 
disruption and damage could be more than 20% greater (under a >4°C scenario) by 2050 
than by the end of our 5-year risk horizon. 

1.5°C

Low

2-3°C

Low

>4°C 

Low

In aggregate the DCF impacts are projected to be small, over a 5-year time horizon, 
relative to our policy risks.

Yields of pine and spruce are projected to increase under all scenarios, whilst yields of fir 
are projected to decrease. Conversely, we would expect increased yields of spruce within 
our Northern European sourcing regions across all scenarios.

Further analysis is required in FY 2023/24 to assess the potential impact of other climate 
hazards (e.g. pests, disease, and wildfires), and on a greater proportion of our wood and 
paper purchases (e.g. composites).

Key 
Potential impact on Kingfisher’s cumulative DCF over five years, 
assuming no mitigating actions are taken:

Low

Medium

High

<1% of DCF

1%-5% of DCF

> 5% of DCF

Risk management

Processes for identifying and assessing climate-related 
risks [TCFD Risk Management (a, c)]
The identification, assessment and management of climate-
related risks are fully integrated into Kingfisher’s overall 
risk management framework. This means that all risks and 
opportunities across the Group are assessed on their likelihood 
of occurrence (within a 3 year outlook), and their potential 
financial, legal, business continuity, and/or reputational impact. 
Using five different impact levels, and five different likelihoods, 
enables us to plot each risk on a 5 x 5 matrix. The combination 
of the impact and likelihood levels on the matrix determines 
the overall risk severity level (low, medium, high, critical) for 
each risk. Each risk is assessed on a gross and net risk basis.

Our Group-level climate-related risks and opportunities, 
including existing and emerging regulatory requirements related 
to climate change, are identified and assessed as part of our 
annual review of our Group Responsible Business risk register. 
In FY 2022/23, climate change was elevated to a principal risk. 

32

Kingfisher 2022/23 Annual Report and Accounts

A full description of our principal risks, setting out their link to 
Kingfisher’s strategic priorities and how principal risks are 
assessed, can be found on pages 51 to 58.

Kingfisher’s processes for managing climate-related risks 
[TCFD Risk Management (b)]
Each retail banner and Group function is responsible for 
putting appropriate actions, controls and procedures in place 
to manage and monitor their identified risks and to verify that 
the controls operate effectively. 

Efforts are made to manage all climate-related risks and 
opportunities which have been included within our Group 
Responsible Business risk register, irrespective of risk 
severity level. This approach reflects the inherent uncertainty 
in how climate-related risks and opportunities may impact 
our business in the future. Our use of scenario analysis is 
our primary mechanism for understanding this uncertainty. 
Our approach to managing each identified climate-related risk 
and opportunity is included in the table on pages 29 to 30.

More detail on our risk management approach is on pages 51 and 52.

Strategic ReportGovernanceFinancial StatementsMetrics and targets

We continually review our climate change metrics and targets 
to ensure that we are providing the information the business and 
our stakeholders need to effectively monitor our performance 
and drive progress.

Metrics for assessing climate-related risks and 
opportunities [TCFD Metrics and Targets (a)]
We have several metrics in place to assess and monitor the 
most significant risks and opportunities arising from climate 
change, detailed in the table on pages 29 to 30.

Our metrics have been developed with consideration of the 
cross-industry, climate-related metric categories described 
in the TCFD implementation guidance table A2.1. We currently 
only calculate the TCFD-recommend metrics most relevant 
to our business and the climate-related risks and opportunities 
identified in the table on pages 29 to 30. We do not currently use 
an internal carbon price.

Executive remuneration
Our new Remuneration Policy applicable to the executive 
directors was approved at the 2022 AGM. It includes the 

Kingfisher Performance Share Plan for our senior leadership 
population, in which Responsible Business measures form part 
of the performance conditions which determine the vesting of 
the plan. This currently includes scope 1 and scope 2 greenhouse 
gas emissions reduction targets, which are aligned to our 
science-based targets detailed below. More detail is provided 
on pages 96 and 97.

Revolving credit facility
In FY 2021/22 we agreed a £550 million three-year revolving 
credit facility with a group of our relationship banks. The facility 
includes specific targets which are aligned with the Group’s 
Responsible Business plan and will benefit from a lower interest 
rate if we deliver against these targets. These targets include 
the ongoing delivery of our FY 2025/26 science-based target 
for scope 1 and 2 emissions.

External benchmarks
We monitor performance on climate change in external 
benchmarks, including the CDP Climate Change disclosure 
initiative. In FY 2022/23 our disclosure score increased to 
A (FY 2021/22: A-), one of just 296 companies to achieve 
this score globally. 

Our greenhouse gas emissions and energy use data [TCFD Metrics and Targets (b)]

2022/23

2021/22

Scope 1

Scope 2 – location-based

Scope 2 – market-based

Total scope 1 and 2 – location-based

Total scope 1 and 2 – market-based

Carbon footprint (market-based) 
per m2 of floor space

Total energy consumption

Total energy intensity

Five year performance and baseline

Total energy consumption

Total scope 1 and 2 – market-based

Carbon footprint (market-based) 
per m2 of floor space

Unit

Global*

UK only

130,642

95,870

3,536

85,215

32,667

642

Global  
(excl UK)

45,427

63,203

2,894

Global

UK only

Global  
(excl UK)

% change 
(global)

153,133

105,056

61,122

98,541

37,570

731

54,592

67,486

60,391

226,512

117,882

108,630

258,189

136,110

122,079

134,178

85,857

48,321

214,255

99,271

114,984

tCO2e
tCO2e
tCO2e
tCO2e
tCO2e

kgCO2e/m2
GWh

kWh/m2

17.1

1,111

142

24.3

633

180

11.2

478

111

27.9

1,230

160

28.2

692

197

27.6

538

129

Unit

2022/23

2021/22

2020/21

2019/20

2018/19

1,111

1,230

1,139

1,193

1,274

2016/17
baseline

1,284

134,178

214,255

205,767

228,146

232,842

283,696

GWh

tCO2e

-14.7%

-8.7%

-94.2%

-12.3%

-37.4%

-38.7%

-9.6%

-11.5%

% change  
against 
baseline

-13.4%

-52.7%

kgCO2e/m2

17.1

27.9

26.7

29.6

30.3

37.8

-54.8%

Our GHG emissions have been calculated using the UK Government (Defra) and International Energy Agency (IEA) emissions factors. Our data covers our material 
scope 1 and 2 impacts: emissions from property energy use and dedicated delivery fleets. We use the market-based method for calculating scope 2 emissions to 
account for our efforts in generating and purchasing low-carbon energy. We also publish our location-based emissions. We report on an ‘operational control’ basis, 
meaning that the data covers Kingfisher’s retail banners where we have the full authority to introduce and implement operating policies. Emissions from our 
Koçtaş joint venture are reported under our scope 3 emissions (category investments). Our data methodology document contains details on our greenhouse 
gas emissions and energy calculations and is available at www.kingfisher.com/datamethodology.

In line with the SECR (Streamlined Energy and Carbon Reporting) requirements, we now report our emissions and energy use split between the UK and other 
countries. UK emissions account for 64.0% of global market-based emissions and UK energy use accounts for 57.0% of total energy use. Carbon footprint and 
energy intensity calculations are based on total floor area of occupied properties. 7,846,756 m2 in FY 22/23). This is because a significant component of our direct 
environmental impact derives from our property portfolio.

 * Our GHG and energy use data is subject to annual independent assurance (International Standard on Assurance Engagements (ISAE) 3000 limited assurance). 

The assurance statement with details on the scope and conclusion of the work will be published in the Responsible Business report in June 2023.

Kingfisher 2022/23 Annual Report and Accounts

33

Our response to the Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures continued

Improving energy efficiency

We continued to improve energy efficiency in our operations 
through our roll out of LED lighting, the introduction of building 
energy management systems across our stores, our energy 
efficient design blueprints for new stores and investing in 
insulation and efficient heating and cooling systems. We have 
switched to all-electric heating at over 500 stores by installing 
air source heat pumps and invested in on-site renewables such 
as biomass boilers and PV panels. We have three-year energy 
reduction plans for each banner.

Since FY 16/17 our energy intensity has decreased by 17.0%. 
Our overall energy consumption in FY 22/23 decreased year on 
year by 9.6% in part due to operational measures to conserve 
energy in line with broader European energy conservation 
efforts and has reduced by 13.4% since our baseline of FY 16/17.

We purchase electricity from zero carbon and renewable 
sources, supported by Renewable Energy Certificates for 
all our markets.

Targets for managing climate-related risks and 
opportunities [TCFD Metrics and Targets (c)]

We use several climate-related targets for managing climate-
related risks and opportunities identified in the table on pages 29 
to 30.

Our targets have been developed with consideration to the 
cross-industry, climate-related metric categories described 
in the TCFD implementation guidance table A2.1. The targets 
described below have been established as they are most 
relevant to our business and the management of our material 
climate-related risks and opportunities.

Our science-based emissions reduction targets
Related risks/opportunities: market changes, energy and fuel 
costs, carbon pricing (see the table on pages 29 to 30).

Each of our emissions reduction targets are aligned with the 
relevant methodologies of the Science Based Targets initiative 
(SBTi), with our near-term targets (for FY 2025/26) validated 
by the SBTi as being aligned with limiting global temperature 
increases to 1.5°C.

Each of our targets have been developed in line with our 
operational control reporting boundary, meaning that we 
assess 100% of emissions from Kingfisher’s retail banners 
where we have the full authority to introduce and implement 
operating policies.

We do not currently use carbon offsets to claim progress 
against any of our emissions reduction targets. In line with the 
SBTi’s definition of net zero, we acknowledge that we will be 
required to neutralise any residual emissions by permanently 
removing an equivalent volume of CO2e, once we have achieved 
a scale of value chain emissions reductions consistent with the 
depth of abatement at the point of reaching global net zero in 
1.5°C pathways.

Our Sustainable Home Product and responsible 
sourcing targets
Related risks/opportunities: market changes, raw materials 
supply (see the table on pages 29 and 30).

We use targets for the proportion of sales from our Sustainable 
Home Products, and for responsibly sourced wood and paper 
for our products and catalogues, to manage the identified risks 
from market changes and raw materials supply. Our targets, and 
our FY 2022/23 performance against these, are detailed on 
page 24. Further details are provided on page 20 (responsibly 
sourced wood and paper) and pages 27 to 29 (sales from our 
Sustainable Home Products) of our FY 2021/22 Performance 
Data Appendix.

KPIs used to monitor progress against targets
We have begun to fully incorporate our net zero commitment 
into our retail banners’ Long Term Financial Plans and have 
established KPIs to measure preparedness for and progress 
towards net zero. For example, we track the percentage of 
projected electricity consumption covered by long-term 
renewable electricity contracts. We plan to disclose further 
information on the KPIs we use to monitor progress against 
our targets in future disclosures.

34

Kingfisher 2022/23 Annual Report and Accounts

Strategic ReportGovernanceFinancial StatementsOur science-based emissions targets

Our carbon emissions (scope 1 and 2 market-based) 
thousand tonnes CO2e from property and transport

283.7

232.8

228.1

205.8

 214.3

176.0

134.2

Target

2016/17
Baseline

2018/19

2019/20

2020/21

2021/22

2022/23

2025/26

Scope 1 and 2
Reduce our absolute greenhouse gas emissions from our direct 
operations by 37.8% by FY 25/26 compared with a FY 16/17 
baseline, and reach net zero by the end of FY 40/41.

Performance: On track

We have reduced our emissions by 52.7% since FY 2016/17. During 
the last year we reduced our emissions by 37.4% year on year due to 
continued investment into renewable electricity purchases, energy 
efficiency measures, and lower carbon fuels (such as hydrotreated 
vegetable oil) across our fleets.

We continue to exceed the requirements of our scope 1 and 2 
science-based emissions reduction target, ensuring that we continue 
to play our part in limiting global temperature increases to 1.5°C.

Our scope 1 and 2 targets include all purchased fuels and electricity 
for consumption within our owned or controlled assets, constituting 
>95% of our scope 1 and 2 base year emissions.

Scope 3
Achieve a 40% reduction (per million pounds (£) turnover) in 
emissions from purchased goods and services and use of sold 
products by FY 25/26 compared with FY 17/18.

Our scope 3 emissions represent around 99% of our total carbon 
footprint, and are therefore highly material to our management 
of climate-related risks and opportunities. Our scope 3 intensity-
based target includes two thirds of our total base year scope 3 
emissions. As of FY 21/22 we had reduced such emissions by 19.7%.

We will report the latest progress against our scope 3 target in our 
FY 2022/23 Responsible Business Report (published in June). For our 
most recently published scope 3 data, prepared in line with relevant 
GHG Protocol standards and disaggregated by all relevant scope 3 
categories, please see our FY 2021/22 Performance Data Appendix.

Kingfisher 2022/23 Annual Report and Accounts

35

 
Non-financial information statement

The table below sets out where stakeholders can find information in our Strategic Report that relates to non-financial matters,  
as required by 414CA and 414CB of the Companies Act 2006.

Our approach

Relevant policies

Where to find more 
information

Page

Reporting 
requirement

Environmental 
matters

We will become Forest Positive by creating 
more forests than we use, and investing in forest 
projects. We will help tackle climate change by 
reducing carbon emissions from our business, 
products and supply chains.

 — Environmental Policy
 — Forest Positive Policy
 — Sustainable 

Packaging Policy
 — Chemicals Policy

Employees

We will become an inclusive company, by 
breaking down barriers to employment and 
progression and building skills for life.

 — Equal opportunities 

Policy

 — Diversity Policy
 — Code of Conduct

Human rights

We aim to understand and address human rights 
risks in our business and we work with suppliers 
across the world to bring our customers great 
products at great prices, without compromising 
on our ethical standards. 

 — Human Rights Policy
 — Supply Chain Workplace 

Standards

 — Supplier engagement
 — Responsible Business priorities
 — Responsible sourcing and 

 — Our strategy
 — Performance against priorities
 — Key Performance Indicators
 — Supplier engagement
 — Responsible Business priorities
 — TCFD disclosures
 — Climate change risk
 — Responsible Business 
Committee Report

 — Our strategy
 — Performance against priorities
 — Key Performance Indicators
 — People and culture
 — Colleague engagement
 — Responsible Business priorities
 — Principal risks – Our People
 — Responsible Business 
Committee Report

human rights

 — Risks – Reputation and Trust
 — Responsible Business 
Committee Report

 — Performance against priorities
 — Key Performance Indicators
 — Section 172(1) statement
 — Community and 

NGO engagement

 — Responsible Business priorities
 — Responsible Business 
Committee Report

 — Supplier engagement
 — Responsible Business – Ethical 

conduct

 — Principal risks – 

Supply Chain Resilience, 
Legal and Regulatory, 
Reputation and Trust

 — Audit Committee report – 

Internal Audit

 — Business model

 — Key Performance Indicators

 — Risk management
 — Principal risks 

6
8
10
20
23
27
58
71

6
8
10
14
18
23
53
71

20
23
25 

57
71

8
10
16
21 

23 

71

20
26 

54, 57 

76

12

10

51
53

Social matters

We will donate our products, expertise and 
time to help people whose housing needs 
are greatest in the communities we serve. 

 — Community Policy 

Anti-bribery and 
corruption

We are committed to acting professionally, 
fairly and with integrity in all our business 
dealings and relationships wherever we operate. 
That includes assessing risks, and implementing 
and enforcing effective systems to counter 
fraud, bribery and corrupt business practices. 

 — Anti-Bribery and 
Corruption Policy

 — Gifts and 

Hospitality Policy

Description of 
business model

Non-financial KPIs

Principal risks and 
uncertainties

36

Kingfisher 2022/23 Annual Report and Accounts

Strategic ReportGovernanceFinancial Statements 
 
In line with the requirements of LR 9.8.6R(8), Kingfisher plc considers our disclosure of climate-related financial information (see the 
table on page 38 for locations) to be sufficient to be consistent with the TCFD recommendations and recommended disclosures for 
the current year, as well as the FRC’s CRR Thematic review of TCFD disclosures and climate in the financial statements, except for 
the following matters:

Disclosure not provided in full

Explanation

[TCFD Strategy (a)] Description of climate-
related risks and opportunities by geography, 
as appropriate.

[TCFD Metrics and Targets (a)] Provision of key 
metrics used to measure and manage climate-
related risks and opportunities in relation 
to capital deployment and the amount or 
percentage of physical and transition risks. 

Whilst some description of risks and 
opportunities by geography is provided, the 
time required to collect sufficiently granular data 
to enable detailed analysis of climate-related 
impacts by geography has prevented a 
fuller description. 

Further work is required to calculate metrics 
specifically related to capital deployment 
and the amount or percentage of physical and 
transition risks, to provide consistency with the 
cross-industry metric requirements described 
in Table A2.1 of the TCFD Implementation 
Guidance for All Sectors. 

Expected timeframe for compliance

We will extend our assessment of climate-
related risks and opportunities in FY 2023/24, 
allowing for a fuller disclosure in our FY 2023/24 
annual report and accounts.

We will look to further develop relevant metrics 
for measuring and managing climate-related 
risks and opportunities in FY 2023/24, allowing 
for a fuller disclosure in our FY 2023/24 annual 
report and accounts.

[TCFD Metrics and Targets (c)] Description of 
the key performance indicators used to assess 
progress against targets.

Additional work is required to finalise and expand 
the use of relevant KPIs across Kingfisher 
before disclosing publicly.

We will look to disclose key performance 
indicators used to assess progress against 
targets in our FY 23/24 annual report 
and accounts.

The following recommendations have been deemed not relevant for inclusion within our disclosures, as they do not currently apply 
to Kingfisher:

 — [TCFD Strategy (b)] Discussion of how identified climate-related issues have impacted our businesses, strategy, and financial 

planning, in relation to acquisitions or divestments.

 — [TCFD Metrics and Targets (a)] Provision of internal carbon price.

A description of the external assurance of our climate-related financial disclosures can be found in the Independent auditor’s report 
to the members of Kingfisher plc on page 112. In addition, our GHG and energy use data is subject to annual independent assurance 
(ISAE 3000 limited assurance). The assurance statement with details on the scope and conclusion of the work will be published in our 
2022/23 Responsible Business Report in June.

Kingfisher 2022/23 Annual Report and Accounts

37

TCFD index

The table below provides a reference to where our TCFD disclosures can be found.

Topic 

Governance 

Disclosure 
summary

Disclose the 
organisation’s 
governance around 
climate-related risks 
and opportunities.

Strategy 

Disclose the actual and 
potential impacts of 
climate-related risks 
and opportunities on 
the organisation’s 
businesses, strategy 
and financial planning.

Disclosures

Kingfisher response

a. Describe the Board’s oversight of climate-

TCFD: page 27

related risks and opportunities.

TCFD: page 28

Principal risks: page 51

Kingfisher CDP Climate Change 2022

b. Describe management’s role in assessing 

TCFD: page 28

and managing climate-related risks 
and opportunities.

Principal risks: page 51

Kingfisher CDP Climate Change 2022

a. Describe the climate-related risks and 

TCFD: page 28

opportunities the organisation has identified 
over the short, medium and long term.

Kingfisher CDP Climate Change 2022

b. Describe the impact of climate-related risks and 
opportunities on the organisation’s business, 
strategy, and financial planning.

TCFD: page 28

Principal risks: page 58

c. Describe the resilience of the organisation’s 
strategy, taking into consideration different 
climate-related scenarios, including a 2°C 
or lower scenario.

Kingfisher CDP Climate Change 2022

TCFD: page 31

Kingfisher CDP Climate Change 2022

Risk 
management 

Disclose how the 
organisation identifies, 
assesses, and manages 
climate-related risks.

a. Describe the organisation’s processes for 

TCFD: page 32

identifying and assessing climate-related risks.

Principal risks: page 51

b. Describe the organisation’s processes for 

TCFD: page 32

Kingfisher CDP Climate Change 2022

Metrics and 
Targets 

Disclose the metrics 
and targets used to 
assess and manage 
relevant climate-related 
risks and opportunities.

managing climate-related risks.

Principal risks: page 58

Kingfisher CDP Climate Change 2022

c. Describe how processes for identifying, 

TCFD: page 32

assessing, and managing climate-related risks 
are integrated into the organisation’s overall 
risk management.

Kingfisher CDP Climate Change 2022

a. Disclose the metrics used by the  

TCFD: page 33

organisation to assess climate-related risks 
and opportunities in line with its strategy 
and risk management process.

b. Disclose scope 1, scope 2, and if appropriate, 
scope 3 greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions, 
and the related risks.

Responsible Business Report 2021/22

Performance Data Appendix 2021/22

Kingfisher CDP Climate Change 2022

TCFD: page 33

Responsible Business Report 2021/22

Performance Data Appendix 2021/22

Kingfisher CDP Climate Change 2022

c. Describe the targets used by the 

TCFD: page 34

organisation to manage climate-related 
risks and opportunities and performance 
against targets.

Responsible Business Report 2021/22

Performance Data Appendix 2021/22

Kingfisher CDP Climate Change 2022

Responsible Business Report 2021/22: http://www.kingfisher.com/responsible-business-report 

Performance Data Appendix 2021/22: www.kingfisher.com/dataappendix

Kingfisher CDP Climate Change 2022: www.kingfisher.com/CDPclimatechange2022

Note that information within our Responsible Business Report and Performance Data Appendix covers a different time period 
(FY 2021/22) to the climate-related financial disclosures presented in this report, but we believe it is helpful to cross-reference 
to these earlier reports, given the more extensive disclosures they provide for certain TCFD recommendations.

38

Kingfisher 2022/23 Annual Report and Accounts

Strategic ReportGovernanceFinancial StatementsFinancial review

A summary of the reported financial results for the 12 months ended 31 January 2023 is set out below.

Financial summary

Sales

Gross profit

Gross margin %

Operating profit

Statutory pre-tax profit

Statutory post-tax profit

Statutory basic EPS

Net decrease in cash1

Total dividend2

Adjusted metrics

Retail profit

Retail profit margin %

Adjusted pre-tax profit

Adjusted pre-tax profit margin %

Adjusted post-tax profit

Adjusted basic EPS 

Free cash flow

Net debt3

2022/23

£13,059m

£4,795m

36.7%

£723m

£611m

£471m

23.8p

£(555)m

12.40p

£923m

7.1%

£758m

5.8%

£589m

29.7p

£(40)m

2021/22

£13,183m

£4,935m

37.4%

£1,144m

£1,007m

£843m

40.3p

£(237)m

12.40p

£1,148m

8.7%

£949m

7.2%

£737m

35.2p

£385m

£(2,274)m

£(1,572)m

% Total change

% Total change

% LFL change

Reported

Constant currency

Constant currency

(2.1)%

(0.7)%

(2.6)%

(70)bps

(19.2)%

(160)bps

(0.9)%

(2.8)%

(70)bps

(36.7)%

(39.3)%

(44.1)%

(40.9)%

n/a

–

(19.7)%

(160)bps

(20.2)%

(140)bps

(20.2)%

(15.6)%

n/a

n/a

1.  Net decrease in cash and cash equivalents and bank overdrafts.

2.  The Board has proposed a final dividend per share of 8.60p (FY 21/22 final dividend: 8.60p), resulting in a proposed total dividend per share of 12.40p in respect 

of FY 22/23 (FY 21/22: 12.40p). The final dividend is subject to the approval of shareholders at the Annual General Meeting on 27 June 2023.

3.  Net debt includes £2,444 million lease liabilities under IFRS 16 in FY 22/23 (FY 21/22: £2,376 million).

Sales

Total sales decreased by 0.7% on a constant currency basis, 
to £13,059 million, reflecting resilient sales across both retail 
and trade channels despite strong prior year comparatives. 
Sales were lower in the UK & Ireland and France, substantially 
offset by sales growth in Poland, Iberia and Romania. On a 
reported basis, which includes the impact of exchange 
rates, total sales decreased by 0.9%.

Like-for-like sales

Like-for-like (LFL) sales decreased by 2.1%, which excludes 
the sales impact from a net increase in space of +1.4%, driven by 
store openings by Screwfix in the UK & Ireland, and Castorama 
in Poland. During the year, we opened 101 new stores (including 
77 stores in the UK, 10 in Ireland, seven in France including five 
Screwfix stores, and seven in Poland) and closed one store in 
the UK and two in Romania.

Gross margin

Gross margin % decreased by 70 basis points on a constant 
currency basis, reflecting mix impacts, ‘normalised’ promotional 
activity in H1, and one-off logistics spend in H1 to secure/
manage seasonal and ‘buffer’ stock. Mix impacts are the result of 
a lower year-on-year share (versus other banners) of B&Q’s 
higher gross margin % revenues given very strong prior year 

sales, and unfavourable category mix between lower-margin 
building & joinery and EPHC (electricals, plumbing, heating & 
cooling) and higher margin surfaces & décor categories. On a 
reported basis, gross margin % also decreased by 70 basis points. 
Group gross profit decreased by 2.6% in constant currency.

Retail profit

In constant currency, retail profit decreased by 19.2%, largely 
reflecting strong prior year comparatives in the UK & Ireland 
and France, and losses incurred in ‘Other’ operations. This was 
partially offset by retail profit growth in Poland. On a reported 
basis, retail profit decreased by 19.7%. Operating costs 
increased by 2.4% on a constant currency basis, largely 
reflecting higher costs associated with space growth and new 
store openings, higher technology spend, and operating cost 
inflation including increases in pay rates and significantly higher 
energy costs. Part of the year-on-year cost increase was also 
the result of the reversal of one-off cost savings that were 
achieved in the first half of the prior year due to Covid-related 
restrictions in our markets (e.g. advertising, marketing and travel 
costs). The increase in operating costs was partially offset 
through flexing our staff costs and cost reductions achieved by 
our strategic cost reduction programme. The Group’s retail 
profit margin % decreased by 160 basis points to 7.1% (FY 21/22: 
8.7%; FY 19/20: 6.8%).

Kingfisher 2022/23 Annual Report and Accounts

39

Financial review continued

Adjusted pre-tax profit

Adjusted pre-tax profit decreased by 20.2% to £758 million (FY 21/22: £949 million; FY 19/20: £544 million), reflecting lower retail profit, 
partially offset by lower net finance costs. Adjusted pre-tax profit margin % decreased by 140 basis points to 5.8% (FY 21/22: 7.2%; 
FY 19/20: 4.7%).

Statutory pre-tax profit

Statutory pre-tax profit, which includes adjusting items, decreased by 39.3% to £611 million. This reflects lower operating profit, 
including the impact of impairments (see below).

A reconciliation from the adjusted basis to the statutory basis for pre-tax profit is set out below:

Retail profit (constant currency)

Impact of exchange rates

Retail profit (reported)

Central costs

Share of interest and tax of joint ventures & associates

Net finance costs

Adjusted pre-tax profit

Adjusting items before tax

Statutory pre-tax profit

2022/23 
£m

2021/22 
£m

Increase/
(decrease)

923

–

923

(49)

(4)

(112)

758

(147)

611

1,142

6

1,148

(60)

(2)

(137)

949

58

(19.2)%

n/a

(19.7)%

n/a

n/a

n/a

(20.2)%

n/a

1,007

(39.3)%

Net finance costs of £112 million (FY 21/22: £137 million) consist principally of interest on IFRS 16 lease liabilities. The year-on-year 
decrease was due to lower interest on lease liabilities and higher interest income.

Adjusting items after tax were a total charge of £118 million (FY 21/22: gain of £106 million), as detailed below:

Net store asset impairment (charges)/reversals

Romania goodwill impairment

Release of Castorama Russia disposal warranty liability

Release of France and other restructuring provisions

Property gains

Commercial operating model restructuring

Release of France uncertain operating tax position

Adjusting items before tax

Prior year and other adjusting tax items

Adjusting items after tax

2022/23
Gain/(charge)
£m

2021/22
Gain/(charge)
£m

(139)

(16)

4

3

1

–

–

(147)

29

(118)

33

–

–

9

3

4

9

58

48

106

In consideration of the significant increase in discount rates resulting from high levels of inflation and wider macroeconomic 
uncertainty, the Group has undertaken a full impairment review of its stores. The significant increase in discount rates, combined 
with revised financial projections, has resulted in the recognition of £139 million of net store asset impairments in the year. These 
have been recorded principally in the UK and France.

An impairment charge of £16 million has been recorded relating to the remaining goodwill in Romania, principally driven by the 
significant increase in discount rates and revised financial projections.

A £4 million liability that was held in relation to warranties as part of the Castorama Russia disposal in 2020 was released in the year 
following the expiry of the warranty claims period.

Other adjusting items include a £3 million gain arising due to savings on costs relating to legacy store closure programmes in France, as 
compared with the original restructuring provisions recognised. A gain of £1 million was recorded on the exit of one property in the UK.

40

Kingfisher 2022/23 Annual Report and Accounts

Strategic ReportGovernanceFinancial StatementsTaxation

The Group’s adjusted effective tax rate (ETR) is sensitive to the blend of tax rates and profits in the Group’s various jurisdictions. It is 
higher than the UK statutory rate because of the amount of Group profit that is earned in higher tax jurisdictions. The adjusted ETR, 
calculated on profit before adjusting items, prior year tax adjustments and the impact of future rate changes, is 22% (FY 21/22: 22%).
The adjusted ETR is consistent with the prior year rate with small increases relating to the impact of increased losses in territories in 
which tax credits are not recognised, and a higher share of profits in France; offset by reductions for the fall in French corporate 
income tax rate.

The statutory effective tax rate includes the impact of adjusting items (including prior year tax items). The impact of these result in a 
statutory effective tax rate of 23%.

Adjusted effective tax rate

Adjusting items

Statutory effective tax rate

Pre-tax profit
£m

758

(147)

611

Tax
£m

(169)

29

(140)

2022/23
%

22%

23%

Pre-tax profit
£m

949

58

1,007

Tax
£m

(212)

48

(164)

2021/22
%

22%

16%

On 8 June 2022, the General Court of the European Union dismissed several of the appeals, including the UK Government’s, to annul 
the European Commission’s 2019 state aid decision concerning the UK’s controlled foreign company tax rules. This decision has been 
appealed to the European Court of Justice.

In FY 21/22, Kingfisher paid £64 million (including interest) to HM Revenue & Customs in relation to the state aid decision. The Group 
continues to recognise this amount as a non-current tax asset based on its assessment that its appeal will ultimately be successful.
Refer to note 35 of the consolidated financial statements.

In February 2022, a payment of €40 million (c. £34 million) was made to the French tax authorities relating to a historic tax liability. 
This amount was fully provided for in prior periods.

The statutory tax rates applicable to this financial year and the expected statutory tax rates for next year in our main jurisdictions are 
as follows:

UK

France

Poland

2023/24
Statutory tax rate

2022/23
Statutory tax rate

24%

26%

19%

19%

26%

19%

Adjusted basic earnings per share decreased by 15.6% to 29.7p (FY 21/22: 35.2p), which excludes the impact of adjusting items.  
Basic earnings per share decreased by 40.9% to 23.8p (FY 21/22: 40.3p) as set out below:

Adjusted basic earnings per share

Adjusting items before tax 

Prior year and other adjusting tax items

Basic earnings per share

Earnings*
£m

589

(147)

29

471

2022/23
EPS  
pence

29.7

(7.4)

1.5

23.8

Earnings*
£m

737

58

48

843

2021/22
EPS  
pence

35.2

2.8

2.3

40.3

 *

Earnings figures presented reconcile adjusted post-tax profits to statutory post-tax profits.

Kingfisher 2022/23 Annual Report and Accounts

41

Tax risks can arise from changes in law, differences in 
interpretation of law and the failure to comply with the 
applicable rules and procedures. The Group seeks to take a 
balanced approach to tax risk having regard to the interests 
of all stakeholders including investors, customers, staff and 
the governments and communities in the countries in which it 
operates. As a multinational group, operating in an increasingly 
complex and changing international corporate tax environment, 
some risk is unavoidable.

Kingfisher manages and controls this risk through local 
management, the tax specialists that it employs and agile 
monitoring of changes in law and interpretation of law. The 
Group may engage with reputable professional firms on areas 
of significant complexity, uncertainty or materiality, to support it 
in complying with its Tax strategy. Group companies work within 
a tax controls framework, and compliance with this is monitored 
by the Internal Audit and Risk team.

The Group seeks to engage with tax authorities with 
professionalism, honesty and respect. It works with all tax 
authorities in a timely and constructive manner to resolve 
disputes where they arise, although it is prepared to litigate 
where this is not possible.

Dividends

The Board has proposed a final dividend per share of 8.60p 
(FY 21/22 final dividend: 8.60p). Taken alongside the interim 
dividend already paid of 3.80p (FY 21/22 interim dividend: 3.80p), 
this results in a proposed total dividend per share of 12.40p in 
respect of FY 22/23 (FY 21/22: 12.40p). The final dividend is 
subject to shareholder approval at the Annual General Meeting 
on 27 June 2023, and if approved will be paid on 3 July 2023 to 
shareholders on the register at close of business on 26 May 
2023. The shares will go ex-dividend on 25 May 2023.

A dividend reinvestment plan (DRIP) is available to shareholders 
who would prefer to reinvest their dividends in the Company’s 
shares. The last date for receipt of DRIP elections is 12 June 2023.

Financial review continued

Tax contribution

Kingfisher makes a significant economic contribution to the 
countries in which it operates. In 2022/23 it contributed £2.3 
billion in taxes it both pays and collects for these governments. 
The Group pays tax on its profits, its properties, in employing 
82,000 people, in environmental levies, in customs duties and 
levies as well as other local taxes. The most significant taxes 
it collects for governments are the sales taxes charged to its 
customers on their purchases (VAT) and employee payroll-related 
taxes. Taxes paid and collected together represent Kingfisher’s 
total tax contribution which is shown below:

Total taxes paid as a result of Group operations

Taxes borne

Taxes collected

Total tax contribution

2022/23
£bn

2021/22*
£bn

0.8

1.5

2.3

0.8

1.6

2.4

 *

2021/22 comparatives are presented on a constant currency basis. 
Both current and prior year figures exclude the tax contribution of 
discontinued operations.

Kingfisher participates in the Total Tax Contribution survey that 
PwC perform for the Hundred Group of Finance Directors. The 
2022 survey ranked Kingfisher 23rd (2021: 23rd) for its Total Tax 
Contribution in the UK. In 2022, 95 (2021: 95) companies 
contributed to the survey.

Taxation governance and risk management

The Kingfisher Code of Conduct applies high standards of 
transparency, honesty and fairness to our employees and 
suppliers. The Code requires that we carry out our work 
ethically and in compliance with the law. We have a zero-
tolerance approach to tax evasion and the facilitation of tax 
evasion. These principles underpin our approach to tax. Our 
core tax objectives are to pay the right amount of tax at the 
right time and to comply with all relevant tax legislation in all 
Group entities. Kingfisher undertakes its activities and pays tax 
in the countries in which it operates in compliance with the local 
and worldwide tax rules. These tax objectives are met through 
the application of the Group Tax Standards and the published 
Kingfisher Tax Strategy, which are Board approved, as well as 
other relevant Group policies and standards, which document 
our approach to tax compliance, tax risk management and tax 
planning to ensure that consistent minimum standards are 
observed throughout the Group.

The responsibility for tax policy and management of tax risks lies 
with the Chief Financial Officer and the Group Tax Director who 
engage regularly with the Board and the Audit Committee on all 
tax matters.

42

Kingfisher 2022/23 Annual Report and Accounts

Strategic ReportGovernanceFinancial StatementsManagement of balance sheet and liquidity 
risk and financing

Management of cash and debt facilities

Kingfisher regularly reviews the level of cash and debt facilities 
required to fund its activities. This involves preparing a prudent 
cash flow forecast for the medium term, determining the level 
of debt facilities required to fund the business, planning for 
repayment of debt at its maturity, and identifying an appropriate 
amount of headroom to provide a reserve against unexpected 
outflows and/or unexpected impacts to cash inflows. To retain 
financial flexibility, we aim to maintain strong liquidity headroom 
(including cash and cash equivalents, and committed debt 
facilities), which is currently set at a minimum of £800m.

Net debt to EBITDA

As of 31 January 2023, the Group had £2.3 billion (FY 21/22: £1.6 
billion) of net debt on its balance sheet including £2.4 billion (FY 
21/22: £2.4 billion) of total lease liabilities.

The ratio of the Group’s net debt to EBITDA was 1.6 times as of 
31 January 2023 (1.0 times as of 31 January 2022). At this level, 
the Group has financial flexibility whilst retaining an efficient 
cost of capital.

The Group’s maximum net debt to EBITDA is 2.0 times over the 
medium term. 

Credit ratings

Kingfisher holds a BBB credit rating with Fitch, (P) Baa2 rating 
with Moody’s, and a BBB rating with Standard and Poor’s. The 
Outlook is Stable across all three agencies.

Revolving credit facility

The Group has a £550 million revolving credit facility (RCF) 
agreement in place with a group of its relationship banks, linked 
to sustainability and community-based targets, which expires 
in May 2025. As of 31 January 2023, this RCF was undrawn.

Term loans

In FY 21/22, the Group repaid its €50 million and £50 million fixed 
term loans at maturity in September 2021 and December 2021 
respectively. During FY 22/23, the Group entered into two new 
fixed term loans: £50 million maturing in December 2024 and 
£50 million maturing in January 2025, with the latter linked to the 
Group’s sustainability and community-based targets.

Covenants

The terms of the committed RCF and both term loans require 
that the ratio of Group operating profit (excluding adjusting 
items) to net interest payable (excluding interest on IFRS 16 
lease liabilities) must be no less than 3:1 for the preceding 12 
months as at the half and full year-ends. As of 31 January 
2023, Kingfisher was in compliance with this requirement.

Net debt to EBITDA is set out below:

Total liquidity

Retail profit

Central costs

Depreciation and amortisation

EBITDA

Net debt

Net debt to EBITDA

2022/23
£m

2021/22
£m

923

(49)

582

1,456

2,274

1.6

1,148

(60)

555

1,643

1,572

1.0

As of 31 January 2023, the Group had access to over £800 
million in total liquidity, including cash and cash equivalents of 
£270 million and access to a £550 million RCF. Further detail on 
Kingfisher’s debt and facilities can be found at www.kingfisher.com

Kingfisher 2022/23 Annual Report and Accounts

43

Financial review continued

Free cash flow

A reconciliation of free cash flow is set out below:

Operating profit 

Adjusting items

Operating profit (before adjusting items)

Other non-cash items1

Change in working capital

Pensions and provisions

Net rent paid

Operating cash flow

Net interest paid

Tax paid

Gross capital expenditure 

Free cash flow

Ordinary dividends paid

Share buybacks

Share purchase for employee incentive schemes

Disposal of Castorama Russia

French tax authority payment2

Other tax authority payment3

Disposal of assets and other4

Net cash flow

Opening net debt

Movements in lease liabilities

Other movement including foreign exchange

Closing net debt

2022/23
£m

723

147

870

612

(469)

(20)

(454)

539

–

(130)

(449)

(40)

(246)

(337)

(9)

8

(34)

–

4

(654)

(1,572)

(41)

(7)

2021/22
£m

1,144

(58)

1,086

595

(215)

(31)

(480)

955

(4)

(169)

(397)

385

(254)

(157)

(29)

7

–

(64)

(28)

(140)

(1,394)

7

(45)

(2,274)

(1,572)

1. 

Includes principally depreciation and amortisation, share-based compensation charge and pension operating cost.

2.  Payments made in relation to French tax authority settlement (refer to the Taxation section above for further details).

3.  Payments made in relation to the EC state aid challenge (refer to the Taxation section above for further details).

4. 

Includes proceeds from the issue of new shares, dividends from joint ventures and associates, and disposal of assets; partially offset by adjusting cash flow 
items (principally comprising restructuring costs).

Operating profit (before adjusting items) was £216 million lower than last year, largely reflecting lower profits in the UK & Ireland 
and France.

The working capital outflow of £469 million was partly driven by an increase in net inventory of £234 million. Over 100% of this 
increase was driven by higher product purchase prices, alongside increases related to higher levels of ‘carry-over’ seasonal 
items (which we decided to proactively purchase ahead of forecast cost price increases), and stock to support our store expansion 
programme. The increase was partially offset by lower purchases and our strategic actions to reduce inventory. Payables decreased 
by £191 million, largely reflecting higher inventory purchases in the prior year to rebuild product availability, build seasonal and ‘buffer’ 
stock, and secure lower cost stock. Receivables increased by £44 million.

Gross capital expenditure in the year was £449 million, increasing by 13% (FY 21/22: £397 million). Of this expenditure, 33% was 
invested in refreshing, maintaining and adapting existing stores (including renewable energy initiatives), 13% on new stores, 39% 
on technology and digital development, 5% on range reviews and 10% on other areas including supply chain investment.

Overall, free cash flow for the year was £(40) million (FY 21/22: £385 million).

Net debt (including IFRS 16 lease liabilities) as of 31 January 2023 was £2,274 million (FY 21/22: £1,572 million).

44

Kingfisher 2022/23 Annual Report and Accounts

Strategic ReportGovernanceFinancial StatementsA reconciliation of free cash flow and net cash flow to the statutory net movement in cash and cash equivalents and bank overdrafts 
is set out below:

Free cash flow 

Ordinary dividends paid

Share buybacks

Share purchase for employee incentive schemes

Disposal of Castorama Russia

French tax authority payment1

Other tax authority payment2

Disposal of assets and other3

Net cash flow

Issue of fixed term debt

Repayment of bank loans

Repayment of fixed term debt

Net decrease in cash and cash equivalents and bank overdrafts

2022/23
£m

2021/22
£m

(40)

(246)

(337)

(9)

8

(34)

–

4

(654)

99

–

–

(555)

385

(254)

(157)

(29)

7

–

(64)

(28)

(140)

–

(2)

(95)

(237)

1.  Payments made in relation to French tax authority settlement (refer to the Taxation section above for further details).

2.  Payments made in relation to the EC state aid challenge (refer to the Taxation section above for further details).

3. 

Includes proceeds from the issue of new shares, dividends from joint ventures and associates, and disposal of assets; partially offset by adjusting cash flow 
items (principally comprising restructuring costs).

Return on capital employed (ROCE) 

In FY 22/23, Kingfisher’s post-tax ROCE was 10.9% (FY 21/22: 14.6%). The decrease was mainly driven by lower profit in the UK & 
Ireland. Kingfisher’s weighted average cost of capital (WACC) is 9.3% (FY 21/22: 7.6%).

ROCE by geographic division is analysed below:

UK & Ireland

France 

Other International

Central

Total

Sales
£bn

6.2 

4.5 

2.4 

13.1 

Proportion of 
Group sales 

Capital employed 
(CE)  
£bn

Proportion of 
Group CE 

47.3%

34.3%

18.3%

3.0 

1.7 

1.3 

0.2 

6.2 

48.3%

27.4%

21.0%

3.2%

2022/23
ROCE

16.4%

8.5%

9.1%

2021/22
ROCE

22.6%

9.7%

9.3%

10.9%

14.6%

Capital risk management

The Group’s objectives when managing capital are:

 — to invest in the business where economic returns are attractive;
 — to maintain a solid investment grade credit rating;
 — to retain financial flexibility;
 — to provide attractive returns to shareholders; and
 — over the medium term, maximum net debt to EBITDA on an IFRS 16 basis of 2.0 times.

The Group manages its capital through:

 — a continued focus on free cash flow generation;
 — setting the level of capital expenditure and dividend in the context of its current year trading outlook and forecast free cash 

flow generation;

 — rigorous review of capital investments and post investment reviews to drive better returns; and
 — monitoring the level of the Group’s financial and leasehold debt in the context of Group performance and its credit rating.

Kingfisher Insurance Designated Activity Company (Ireland), a wholly owned subsidiary, is subject to minimum capital requirements 
as a consequence of its insurance activities. The Group complied with the externally imposed capital requirements during the year.

Kingfisher 2022/23 Annual Report and Accounts

45

Financial review continued

Property

Kingfisher owns a significant property portfolio, almost all of which is used for trading purposes. A formal valuation of the portfolio 
was undertaken by external professional valuers in October 2022, with the valuations then updated to 31 January 2023. Based on 
this exercise, on a sale-and-leaseback basis with Kingfisher in occupancy, the value of the property portfolio is £2.8 billion as of 
31 January 2023 (FY 21/22: £2.8 billion).

France

UK

Poland

Other

Total

2022/23
£bn

1.4

0.5

0.7

0.2

2.8

2022/23
Yields

8.1%

7.2%

8.0%

n/a

2021/22
£bn

1.3

0.6

0.7

0.2

2.8

2021/22
Yields

8.0%

6.2%

7.6%

n/a

This is compared to the net book value of £2.2 billion (FY 21/22: £2.2 billion) recorded in the financial statements (including investment 
property and property included within assets held for sale). Balance sheet values were frozen at 1 February 2004 on the transition 
to IFRS.

Pensions

As of 31 January 2023, the Group had a net surplus of £137 million (FY 21/22: £410 million net surplus) in relation to defined benefit 
pension arrangements, of which a £251 million surplus (FY 21/22: £540 million surplus) was in relation to the UK scheme. The decrease 
in net surplus is mainly due to significant increases in yields on UK Government and corporate bonds which has caused reductions of 
around a third in both scheme liabilities and assets; the latter reflecting the liability-matching investment strategy. Further actuarial 
losses arose due to updated membership data and demographic assumptions following the triennial funding valuation completed in 
the year. As part of the funding valuation exercise, the Trustee and Kingfisher have agreed to cease annual employer contributions 
during the period from August 2022 to July 2025. The accounting valuation is sensitive to a number of assumptions and market 
rates which are likely to fluctuate in the future. Please refer to note 28 to the consolidated financial statements for more information.

46

Kingfisher 2022/23 Annual Report and Accounts

Strategic ReportGovernanceFinancial StatementsTrading review by division

UK & Ireland

£m

B&Q

Screwfix

Total sales 

Retail profit

Retail profit margin %

2022/23

3,835 

2,365 

6,200 

603

9.7%

2021/22

4,178 

2,327 

6,505 

794

12.2%

% Reported
change

(8.2)%

+1.6%

(4.7)%

% Constant
currency
change 

(8.2)%

+1.6%

(4.7)%

(24.0)%

(250)bps

(24.0)%

(250)bps

% LFL
change

(8.8)%

(3.4)%

(6.9)%

% 3-year LFL 
change

+15.8%

+14.2%

+15.3%

Kingfisher UK & Ireland sales decreased by 4.7% (LFL -6.9%) to 
£6,200 million, against very strong prior year comparatives in H1. 
In H2, total sales increased by 1.5% (LFL -1.2%). 3-year LFL sales 
for the year were up 15.3%. The 3-year sales trend improved to 
+16.2% in Q4 (versus +12.9% in Q3) supported by resilient sales 
from DIFM/trade categories. Over the last three years, B&Q 
(including TradePoint) and Screwfix have increased their market 
shares in the UK, supported by strong engagement with new and 
existing customers and higher store and online NPS scores. 
Gross margin % decreased by 80 basis points, reflecting 
‘normalised’ promotional activity in H1 versus the prior year and 
one-off logistics spend in H1 to secure and manage seasonal 
and ‘buffer’ stock, in addition to mix impacts. Mix impacts were 
the result of a lower year-on-year share (versus Screwfix) of 
B&Q’s higher gross margin % revenues given very strong prior 
year sales; and unfavourable B&Q category mix between lower 
margin building & joinery and EPHC (electricals, plumbing, 
heating & cooling) and higher margin surfaces & décor categories.

Retail profit decreased by 24.0% to £603 million (FY 21/22: 
£794 million; FY 19/20: £499 million; at reported rates), due to 
the exceptionally higher sales and gross margin % in H1 last year. 
In H2, retail profit increased 22.4% to £264 million (H2 21/22: 
£215 million at reported rates). Operating costs increased by 
1.3%, driven by higher costs associated with 86 net new store 
openings in the year, higher technology spend, and operating 
cost inflation including increases in pay rates and significantly 
higher energy costs. Advertising, marketing and travel costs also 
normalised compared to one-off Covid-related savings in the 
prior year. Increases were substantially offset through flexing our 
staff costs and cost reductions achieved by our strategic cost 
reduction programme. Retail profit margin % decreased by 250 
basis points to 9.7% (FY 21/22: 12.2%; FY 19/20: 9.8%).

B&Q

B&Q total sales decreased by 8.2% (LFL -8.8%) to £3,835 million 
against very strong prior year comparatives, especially in H1. 
Sales trends improved in H2 (LFL -3.2%) with positive LFL 
growth in the EPHC, building & joinery and bathroom & storage 
categories. 3-year LFL sales for the year were up 15.8%. The 
business achieved good growth across all categories on 
a 3-year basis, in particular building & joinery and outdoor. 
LFL sales of weather-related categories decreased by 16% 
(increase of 21% on a 3-year LFL basis), while LFL sales 
of non-weather-related categories, including showroom, 
decreased by 6% (increase of 14% on a 3-year LFL basis). B&Q’s 
total e-commerce sales (including marketplace gross sales) 
decreased by 7% year-on-year, which was a resilient 
performance against strong online trading in the first half of 
the prior year. In H2, total e-commerce sales increased by 9%, 
driven by the growth of B&Q’s marketplace which has scaled 
rapidly since its launch in March 2022.

Marketplace reached a penetration of 22% in January 2023  
(i.e. B&Q’s marketplace gross sales divided by B&Q’s total 
e-commerce sales). B&Q’s total e-commerce sales were  
up 130% on a 3-year basis, with overall e-commerce sales 
penetration of 11% (FY 21/22: 11%; FY 19/20: 5%). B&Q opened 
five small format stores in FY 22/23, including its first two B&Q 
Local compact format stores, and closed one store. As of  
31 January 2023, B&Q had a total of 316 stores in the UK and 
Ireland. In February 2023, B&Q announced that it is terminating 
its ‘grocery concession’ partnership with ASDA in eight stores.

TradePoint

B&Q’s trade-focused banner, TradePoint, continued to perform 
ahead of expectations in FY 22/23, supported by resilient sales 
from trade customers. LFL sales for TradePoint outperformed 
the rest of B&Q, down just 1.2% year-on-year, with 3-year LFL 
sales up 31.5%. TradePoint’s penetration of B&Q sales increased 
to 22% (FY 21/22: 20%). Throughout the year, TradePoint 
continued to focus on customer engagement and loyalty 
through targeted campaigns, trade-only deals and events, and 
improvements to trade-specific product ranges and services. 
E-commerce sales increased by 14% in the year as TradePoint 
grew awareness of its digital offer. During the year, TradePoint 
opened 18 new counters in the UK within B&Q stores, and 
expanded into Ireland with its first eight counters. Further 
roll-out of the proposition will continue in FY 23/24.

Screwfix

Screwfix total sales increased by 1.6% (LFL -3.4%) to £2,365 
million, reflecting a robust performance against very strong 
prior year comparatives, especially in H1. In H2, total sales 
increased by 8.0% (LFL +2.1%), supported by good demand 
from trade customers. 3-year LFL sales for the year were up 
14.2%, with the sales trend accelerating to +15.3% in Q4 versus 
+12.4% in Q3. Screwfix continued to grow its market share in FY 
22/23, with strong gains in the year. Screwfix’s e-commerce 
sales decreased by 9% year-on-year, again reflecting a resilient 
performance against strong online trading in the first half of the 
prior year. E-commerce sales were up 137% on a 3-year basis, 
with e-commerce sales penetration of 60% (FY 21/22: 67%; FY 
19/20: 33%). The business continued to strengthen its digital 
proposition throughout the year through the introduction of 
digital tablets in all stores, the launch of its product 
recommendations feature in the new Screwfix app, and the 
continued roll-out of Screwfix Sprint.

Space growth contributed c. 5% to total sales. In FY 22/23, 
Screwfix opened 82 new stores (including 10 in Ireland), bringing 
the total to 872 as of 31 January 2023. The business remains on 
track to reach its target of over 1,000 stores in the UK & Ireland 
in the medium term.

Kingfisher 2022/23 Annual Report and Accounts

47

Trading review by division continued

As part of its international expansion plans, Screwfix launched as a pure-play online retailer in France in April 2021. Following 
encouraging results and learnings over an 18-month period, including customer NPS scores on a par with Screwfix UK, the business 
opened its first store in France in October 2022 and ended the financial year with five stores in operation. During the year, the 
business successfully implemented a tailored IT operating system, opened its first French distribution centre, onboarded a strong 
selection of local and national vendors, and accelerated its marketing efforts. The results for Screwfix International are captured in 
‘Other International’ – see below for further information.

France

£m

Castorama

Brico Dépôt

Total sales

Retail profit

Retail profit margin %

2022/23

2,302 

2,150 

4,452 

195

4.4%

2021/22

2,296 

2,202 

4,498 

221

4.9%

% Reported
Change

+0.3%

(2.4)%

(1.0)%

(11.9)%

(50)bps

% Constant
Currency
Change 

+0.1%

(2.5)%

(1.2)%

(12.0)%

(50)bps

% LFL
Change

–

(2.9)%

(1.4)%

% 3-year LFL 
Change

+13.9%

+12.5%

+13.2%

Kingfisher France sales decreased by 1.2% (LFL -1.4%) to 
£4,452 million, against strong prior year comparatives in H1. In 
H2, total sales increased by 0.5% (LFL +0.5%). A resilient sales 
performance in DIY categories was outpaced by sales from 
DIFM/trade categories. 3-year LFL sales for the year were up 
13.2%. The 3-year sales trend slowed to +10.9% in Q4 (versus 
+14.6% in Q3) due to a significantly stronger 3-year comparative 
in Q4 19/20 relative to the first nine months of FY 19/20. France 
LFL sales in Q4 19/20 were over eight percentage points higher 
than the first nine months of FY 19/20. Castorama and Brico 
Dépôt continued to focus on strengthening their respective 
competitive positions in the market through improving their 
digital capabilities, product ranges and overall customer 
proposition, resulting in higher store and online NPS scores. 
Gross margin % decreased by 30 basis points, largely reflecting 
category mix impacts. In H2, we completed our work to optimise 
distribution centre space in France, resulting in a cumulative 
reduction of c. 27% in square metres versus two years ago.

Retail profit decreased by 12.0% to £195 million (FY 21/22: 
£221 million; FY 19/20: £164 million; at reported rates), with 
lower gross profit partially offset by lower operating costs. 
Operating costs decreased by 0.6% due to lower staff costs 
and cost reductions achieved by our strategic cost reduction 
programme, substantially offset by operating cost inflation 
including increases in pay rates and significantly higher energy 
costs. Retail profit margin % decreased by 50 basis points to 
4.4% (FY 21/22: 4.9%; FY 19/20: 4.0%).

Castorama

Castorama total sales increased by 0.1% (LFL flat) to 
£2,302 million, reflecting resilient sales despite strong prior 
year comparatives in H1. Sales trends improved in H2 (LFL 
+0.7%) with positive LFL growth in the EPHC and building & 
joinery categories supported by energy efficiency and trade/
renovation activity. 3-year LFL sales for the year were up 13.9%. 

The business achieved growth across all categories on a 3-year 
basis, with particularly strong performances in the outdoor and 
building & joinery categories, both up by c. 30%. LFL sales of 
weather-related categories were broadly flat (increase of 24% 
on a 3-year LFL basis), while LFL sales of non-weather-related 
categories, including showroom, were also flat (increase of 11% 
on a 3-year LFL basis). Castorama’s e-commerce sales 
decreased by 19% year-on-year, largely reflecting strong online 
trading in the first half of the prior year. In H2, e-commerce 
sales increased by 27% year-on-year. Castorama’s 
e-commerce sales were up 240% on a 3-year basis, with 
e-commerce sales penetration of 5% (FY 21/22: 6%; FY 19/20: 
2%). Castorama opened two new stores in FY 22/23; its first high 
street compact store tests in Paris. As of 31 January 2023, 
Castorama had a total of 95 stores in France.

Brico Dépôt

Brico Dépôt total sales decreased by 2.5% (LFL -2.9%) to 
£2,150 million, again reflecting resilient sales levels against 
strong prior year comparatives in H1. Sales trends improved in 
H2 (LFL +0.2%) with positive LFL growth in the EPHC, building & 
joinery and kitchen. 3-year LFL sales for the year were up 12.5%. 
The business achieved strong growth across its outdoor, 
building & joinery and EPHC categories on a 3-year basis. Brico 
Dépôt continues to strengthen its discounter credentials 
through further differentiating its ranges and maintaining a 
strong price index relative to its home improvement peers. 
Brico Dépôt’s e-commerce sales decreased by 20% year-on-
year, again reflecting strong online trading in the prior year. In 
H2, e-commerce sales increased by 7% year-on-year. Brico 
Dépôt’s e-commerce sales were up 133% on a 3-year basis, with 
e-commerce sales penetration of 4% (FY 21/22: 5%; FY 19/20: 
2%). In FY 23/24, Brico Dépôt France will test its first ever 
compact store – a 1,000 sqm format.

48

Kingfisher 2022/23 Annual Report and Accounts

Strategic ReportGovernanceFinancial StatementsOther International

Sales (£m)

Poland

Iberia

Romania1

Other2

Other International

Retail profit (£m)

Poland

Iberia

Romania1

Other2

Turkey (50% JV)

Other International 

Retail profit margin %

Poland

Other International

% LFL
Change

+13.8%

+1.9%

+7.8%

n/a

+11.2%

% 3-year
LFL Change

+19.8%

+16.7%

+38.0%

n/a

+21.5%

2022/23

1,734 

373 

285 

15 

2,407 

148

9

(10)

(30)

8

125

2021/22

1,525 

366 

279 

10 

2,180 

135

12

(11)

(10)

7

133

% Reported
Change

+13.7%

+2.0%

+1.8%

n/a

+10.4%

+9.4%

(27.9)%

+7.3%

n/a

+19.8%

(6.6)%

% Constant
Currency
Change 

+16.7%

+1.9%

+1.7%

n/a

+12.4%

+12.4%

(28.0)%

+7.4%

n/a

+114.8%

(1.8)%

8.5%

5.2%

8.8%

6.1%

(30)bps

(90)bps

(30)bps

(70)bps

1.  Kingfisher’s subsidiary in Romania historically prepared its financial statements to 31 December. In the prior year (FY 21/22), Romania migrated to Kingfisher’s 
financial reporting calendar (year ended 31 January). Its sales and retail loss presented in FY 21/22 therefore included one additional month of results (January 
2022) in order to facilitate the alignment to Kingfisher’s financial reporting calendar. Reported and constant currency variances for Romania’s total sales and 
retail loss are for February 2022 to January 2023 (compared against January 2021 to January 2022), whilst LFL and 3-year LFL sales growth compares 
equivalent periods in the current and prior years.

2. 

‘Other’ consists of the consolidated results of Screwfix International, NeedHelp, and results from franchise agreements.

Castorama’s e-commerce sales increased by 2% year-on-year, 
with growth of +11% in H2. Castorama’s e-commerce sales were 
up 285% on a 3-year basis, with e-commerce sales penetration 
of 5% (FY 21/22: 5%; FY 19/20: 2%).

Gross margin % decreased by 30 basis points, largely reflecting 
‘normalised’ promotional activity versus the prior year. Retail 
profit increased by 12.4% to £148 million (FY 21/22: £135 million; 
FY 19/20: £151 million; at reported rates) with growth in gross 
profit partially offset by an increase in operating costs. 
Operating costs increased by 16.8%, reflecting staff and 
operating cost inflation including higher energy costs, space 
growth and new store opening costs, and higher marketing 
costs. The increase in operating costs was partially offset 
by cost reductions achieved by our strategic cost reduction 
programme. Retail profit margin % decreased by 30 basis 
points to 8.5% (FY 21/22: 8.8%; FY 19/20: 10.4%).

Space growth contributed c. 3% to total sales. Castorama 
opened seven new stores in FY 22/23, including three big-boxes 
and four compact stores, bringing its total to 97 stores in Poland.

Other International

Total sales increased by 12.4% (LFL +11.2%) to £2,407 million, 
with 3-year LFL sales up 21.5%, driven by growth in all key 
geographies. Retail profit decreased by 1.8% to £125 million 
(FY 21/22: £133 million; FY 19/20: £123 million; at reported rates), 
largely due to an increase in losses incurred in ‘Other’ operations, 
driven by investment in Screwfix France, and a lower retail profit 
in Iberia. This was substantially offset by higher retail profit in 
Poland. The retail profit margin % decreased by 70 basis 
points to 5.2% (FY 21/22: 6.1%; FY 19/20: 5.3%).

Poland

Total sales increased by 16.7% (LFL +13.8%) to £1,734 million, 
against a prior year comparative impacted in Q1 by the Covid-
related temporary closure of all Castorama stores (between 27 
March and 3 May 2021). Notwithstanding this, Castorama 
continued to attract new customers and achieved strong 
market share gains in FY 22/23 by leveraging its leading market 
position and competitive pricing, supported by robust sales 
of DIY and DIFM/trade categories. On a year-on-year basis, 
nearly all categories achieved double-digit LFL sales growth, 
with a standout performance in the kitchen category where its 
new OEB kitchen ranges delivered over 40% LFL sales growth. 
3-year LFL sales for the year were up 19.8%. The business 
achieved good growth across all categories on a 3-year basis, in 
particular its building & joinery, outdoor, EPHC and kitchen 
categories. LFL sales of weather-related categories increased 
by 20% (increase of 34% on a 3-year LFL basis), while LFL sales 
of non-weather-related categories, including showroom, 
increased by 13% (increase of 18% on a 3-year LFL basis).

Kingfisher 2022/23 Annual Report and Accounts

49

Trading review by division continued

Iberia

Turkey

Total sales increased by 1.9% (LFL +1.9%) to £373m, reflecting 
resilient sales against strong prior year comparatives. The 
business achieved good year-on-year growth in its EPHC, 
building & joinery and kitchen categories. 3-year LFL sales for 
the year were up 16.7%, with strong performances in building & 
joinery and outdoor, both up by c. 30%. Retail profit decreased 
to £9 million (FY 21/22: £12 million; FY 19/20: £2 million; at 
reported rates), reflecting a lower gross margin % and an 
increase in operating costs of 1.2%.

Romania

Total sales increased by 1.7% to £285 million, despite the 
inclusion of one additional month of sales in the prior year 
comparative and the impact of Covid-related trading 
restrictions earlier in the year (lifted in March 2022). On a LFL 
basis sales growth was +7.8%, reflecting strong year-on-year 
performances in the outdoor, surfaces & décor and kitchen 
categories. 3-year LFL sales for the year were up 38.0%. 
Growth in gross profit was partially offset by an increase in 
operating costs of 7.1%, mainly driven by staff costs and 
operating cost inflation including higher energy costs. As a 
result, the business reduced its retail loss by 7.4% to £10 million 
(FY 21/22: £11 million reported retail loss; FY 19/20: £23 million 
reported retail loss). On a comparable basis, excluding losses 
incurred in the month of January 2021, Romania’s retail loss 
increased by 6.8% year-on-year.

Retail banner employees, store numbers and sales area

In Turkey, Kingfisher’s 50% joint venture, Koçtaş, continued 
to grow successfully against a challenging macroeconomic 
backdrop. The business contributed £8 million of retail profit 
in the year (FY 21/22: £7 million; FY 19/20 £9 million; at reported 
rates). The business opened 129 mostly compact stores in their 
financial year to 31 December 2022, bringing its total store 
count to 355.

‘Other’

‘Other’ consists of the consolidated results of Screwfix 
International, NeedHelp, and franchise agreements. Due  
to these businesses being in their early investment phase, a 
combined retail loss of £30m (FY 21/22: £10m reported retail 
loss) was recorded, largely driven by Screwfix France as the 
business invested in the opening of its first distribution centre 
and stores. As noted in the UK & Ireland commentary above, 
Screwfix opened its first five stores in France following 
encouraging results as a pure-play only operator. During the year, 
we also opened two franchise stores under the B&Q banner in 
the Middle East. The stores and support office functions are 
fully operated and staffed by the Al-Futtaim Group.

Employees 
(FTE) at 
31 Jan 2023

Store
numbers at 
31 Jan 2023

Sales area1
(000s m2) at
31 Jan 2023

16,413

9,380

25,793

10,509

8,238

18,747

12,136

1,777

2,542

143

16,598

61,138

316

872

1,188

95

123

218

97

31

33

5

166

1,572

2,203

55

2,258

1,156

872

2,028

817

195

238

–

1,250

5,536

B&Q

Screwfix

UK & Ireland

Castorama

Brico Dépôt

France

Poland

Iberia

Romania

Other2

Other International

Total

1.  Screwfix sales area relates to the front of counter area of an outlet.

2. 

‘Other’ consists of Screwfix International, NeedHelp, and franchising.

50

Kingfisher 2022/23 Annual Report and Accounts

Strategic ReportGovernanceFinancial StatementsRisks

Risk management

Risk appetite

Effective risk management is critical to our ability to achieve 
our strategic and operational objectives. We have a detailed 
risk framework in place that ensures the Board performs 
a robust risk assessment to have sufficient visibility of the 
principal risks and the opportunity to regularly review our 
mitigating controls and actions. This is informed by the Group 
Executive, who is accountable for identifying, assessing and 
managing the principal risks and for reviewing and assessing 
the management of the retail banner and Group function risks.

The Group Risk team performed a comprehensive review of our 
risk appetite last year to understand where we actively choose 
to pursue opportunities that give rise to risks, where we balance 
risks with the cost of mitigation, and where we are unwilling to 
accept risks. This highlighted a small number of activities where 
risk reduction actions were necessary to ensure the level of risk 
we are exposed to is in line with our appetite. As part of our review 
of risk appetite this year, an assessment of these actions was 
performed to ensure plans are progressing as expected.

The Governance framework and the role of the Board, Audit 
Committee and Group Executive are set out from page 62.

High-velocity risks

An exercise was performed during the year with the Group 
Executive to identify our high-velocity risks – those unexpected 
risks or events which could impact the company at pace, providing 
little time to react and so causing significant disruption. Analysis 
was conducted to ensure we had appropriate response plans, in 
addition to the usual controls to reduce the impact and likelihood. 
The exercise did not identify any new risks and confirmed 
the adequacy of the existing mitigations. Discussions were 
subsequently held to improve the wider understanding 
of some of our Group response plans.

Business continuity planning

The Group’s Business Continuity policy was updated and 
approved in the year, formalising a consistent set of requirements 
across the Group. This was a key part of the mitigation against 
several of our high-velocity risks. The Group Risk team worked 
with all banners and Group functions to ensure their plans had 
been reviewed in the year and testing plans had been formalised.

To identify our risks, we consider our strategic objectives and 
what might stop us achieving them over the three-year period. 
We combine a top-down strategic view with a bottom-up 
operational view of the risks. Our retail banners and Group 
functions help us to identify changes to the risks within their 
operations. These are consolidated and used as one of the 
inputs to identify and validate our principal risks. Discussions  
are also held with the Group Executive, both individually and 
collectively, and non-executive directors.

To assess our risks, we consider the potential financial, 
reputational, regulatory or operational impact, as well as the 
probability of them materialising within our three-year outlook 
period. This helps us to create the right actions and controls  
to manage our risks to an acceptable level. For each of the 
principal risks, we also assess any change to the risk level 
compared to last year.

To manage our risks, ownership is assigned at all levels. Each 
retail banner and Group function is responsible for putting 
appropriate actions, controls and procedures in place to 
manage and monitor their identified risks and to verify that  
the controls operate effectively.

To effectively monitor our risks, the Group Executive and 
Board review the nature, likelihood and impact of the Group’s 
principal risks twice a year together with any changes since the 
previous review. This includes mitigating actions to ensure that 
these risks are proactively managed.

Our dedicated Risk and Control Managers are embedded in the 
retail banners, Group functions and shared services continue to 
implement the revised internal control framework. The design 
assessments have been completed and controls have been 
adjusted where required. We are now ready to move to a first 
cycle of full testing to monitor the ongoing effectiveness of  
our controls.

The Internal Audit team considers the risks at the operational  
and Group level as part of its quarterly audit planning cycle, 
to provide timely assurance of the most significant risks across 
the business. Insights from the risk management process support 
Internal Audit to deliver a risk-focused assurance programme, a 
key example from the year being the high-velocity risk exercise, 
mentioned below.

Kingfisher 2022/23 Annual Report and Accounts

51

Risks continued

Principal risks

Emerging risks

As part of our risk management process, we identify and 
monitor emerging risks. These risks are currently difficult 
to fully assess and quantify or are expected to materialise 
outside our defined outlook period.

We have a thorough process to capture emerging risks across 
our retail banners. Alongside their risk identification process, 
each banner was asked to consider what future risks they 
were concerned by, and what they were doing to better 
understand them.

The banner reviews did not reveal any new emerging risks. 
They did however lead to a refocusing of the Geopolitical 
instability creating macroeconomic volatility risk (see above).

Our industry moves at pace, and so many emerging risks raised 
by companies in different industries are already reflected in our 
principal risks. We will continue to scan the horizon for emerging 
risks in the future through our regular risk reviews. 

Following a comprehensive review, our existing principal risks 
remain broadly unchanged, with the addition of climate change 
as a principal risk. Other adjustments reflect progress made in 
delivering our strategy and changes in the external operating 
environment. These are included in the descriptions of risks 
and mitigating actions.

All principal risks are given significant attention and focus. 
We believe the highest severity risks are:

 — Responding to changing customer preferences.
 — Geopolitical instability creating macroeconomic volatility.
 — Cyber and data security.

The key changes this year are:

Climate change: This has been added as a new risk. Climate 
change is a huge global challenge that requires significant 
actions by governments and businesses, including Kingfisher. 
Our analysis (see Our response to the Task Force on Climate-
related Financial Disclosures from page 27) demonstrates a 
limited impact on our activities over our three-year planning 
horizon. However, if climate change solutions are not effective, 
this will have longer-term negative consequences for our 
strategy and affect our ability to serve our customers, including 
challenging our product availability, supply chain, reputation and 
cost to operate.

Geopolitical instability creating macroeconomic volatility: 
This risk has increased since last year. Previously called 
‘political and market volatility’, it has been broadened to 
incorporate risks from global events/conflicts. Furthermore, 
there is an increased risk of macroeconomic volatility across 
all our markets. Sustained or accelerating inflationary pressures 
or other market disruptions could result in local market or global 
decrease in demand and potential recessions.

Level and impact of change: This risk has decreased since 
last year. We are three years into our change programme 
and have demonstrated a good track record of delivery, 
implementing many structural and foundational changes. 
However, we still need to manage delivery of our investment 
programme, which requires significant levels of technology 
development and implementation.

Our people: This risk has also decreased since last year. 
We have improved mitigation plans over our people strategies, 
which are integrated into each business unit. However, we need 
to ensure we have the technological capabilities required to 
deliver our investment programme, whilst also delivering our 
inclusion and diversity ambitions.

Principal risks are shown on pages 53 to 58.

52

Kingfisher 2022/23 Annual Report and Accounts

Strategic ReportGovernanceFinancial StatementsPrincipal risks

Key: 

 Increasing 

 No change 

 Decreasing 

 New

1    Our people

How we manage and monitor the risk

Our colleagues are critical to the successful delivery of our 
‘Powered by Kingfisher’ strategy and priorities, which aim to expand 
our functional capabilities to address the changing needs of our 
customers. Failure to attract the required level of colleagues with 
appropriate skills could impact our ability to deliver our strategic 
priorities at the pace required. This risk is particularly critical for 
our technology and digital functions.

More generally, we have set ambitious Inclusion and Diversity targets, 
aimed at making Kingfisher an even better place to work and increase 
our innovation and creativity. Failure to meet these targets could 
have a negative impact on delivering our business objectives and 
cause reputational damage.

How our risks have changed

  Decreased

Each banner has a clear people strategy, setting out their plans for 
securing their required talent. Our colleague turnover rates and 
time to hire are stable and are stronger than our industry peers.

Link to strategic priorities

 — Accelerate e-commerce through speed and choice.
 — Build a data-led customer experience.
 — Lead the industry in Responsible Business and energy efficiency.
 — Human, agile and lean.
 — Grow by building on our different banners.

 — The Board has approved our Group strategy for people and culture, 

with individual priorities agreed for each banner and function.
 — The Group Executive and Board hold regular talent reviews 

focused on ensuring senior leadership has the required capabilities 
to deliver the strategy and activities to strengthen our leadership 
succession pipeline.

 — Dedicated Technology careers webpage and a formal Technology 
Capability programme in place to ensure continued focus and 
progress on acquiring and retaining critical skills.

 — As part of our technology transformation, we are taking action 

to attract new capabilities in-house and reduce dependence on 
third parties.

 — Investing in tools and infrastructure to support our colleagues’ 

learning, including a leadership development portal for bite-size 
instant learning and e-learning for our store teams on new products.

 — Continue to embed our key leadership behaviours through our 

leadership development work. This will accelerate delivery of our 
strategy and embed our agile and inclusive culture led by trust.
 — Each banner has a tailored inclusion and diversity plan. Areas of 
focus are our senior leadership, creating a culture of inclusion, 
our customer proposition and learning for life. Relevant targets 
are linked to the remuneration of senior leaders.

2    Level and impact of change

How we manage and monitor the risk

We continue to execute our strategy at pace and invest for growth. 
Under our strategic plan, the business is utilising its core strengths 
and commercial assets, and ‘powering’ its distinct retail banners to 
address the significant growth opportunities that exist within the home 
improvement market. We have high ambitions and are continuously 
improving our offer, market positions, cost base and technology. In 
particular, we are evolving our IT systems development programme 
to better meet banner needs and serve the customer.

Where relevant we may also consider complementary acquisitions, 
partnerships and joint ventures to optimise our business activities 
and support our strategy.

Failure to properly prioritise activity and manage change effectively 
could result in weaker than anticipated sales growth, reduced 
operating margins or insufficient cash being generated to meet 
our objectives.

How our risks have changed

  Decreased

We have demonstrated a good track record of delivery against 
our strategic objectives, landing many structural and foundational 
changes and initiatives. Focus needs to be kept on the capacity of 
teams to deliver future projects at pace.

Link to strategic priorities

 — Accelerate e-commerce through speed and choice.
 — Build a data-led customer experience.
 — Roll out compact store formats.
 — Develop trade business.
 — Human, agile and lean.
 — Grow by building on our different banners.

 — The Board has approved three-year plans for each banner 

and Group functions to deliver the strategy.

 — A balanced and simple local-group operating model is in place.
 — Central Results Delivery Office provides monthly reporting to 

the Group Executive and quarterly to the Board, based on a set of  
c. 50 KPIs, measuring the implementation and effectiveness of 
strategic initiatives.

 — Each of our key strategic pillars is led and monitored by one of our 
banners or Global Functions, with monthly review points with the 
Group Executive sponsor.

 — Annual in-depth strategic review and six-monthly strategic 

performance updates performed with the Board, addressing 
the agreed priorities and making changes where appropriate.

 — We develop a detailed annual IT roadmap that ensures investments 
are aligned with our priorities and resources. Progress against the 
roadmap is monitored and adjustments made as needed.

 — Technology directors have been appointed in our retail banners to 
provide more local flexibility while leveraging the scale of our wider 
Group Technology organisation.

 — Regular communication with all colleagues on the delivery of 

the strategy, key changes being made and forthcoming 
business developments.

 — Periodic reviews of governance and enabling activities undertaken 

by Internal Audit.

 — Dedicated M&A function, with accountability resting with the CFO. 
M&A activity exceeding £10 million in value requires Kingfisher plc 
Board scrutiny and approval.

Kingfisher 2022/23 Annual Report and Accounts

53

Principal risks continued

3    Contagious diseases

How we manage and monitor the risk

 — Continuously monitor events to ascertain any increased risk of a 
resurgence of Covid-19 infections or other contagious diseases.
 — We have Group Crisis Committee and business continuity and crisis 
teams in each of our markets, which we would mobilise in the event 
of any future significant operational impact.

 — Gained significant knowledge about how to deal with a future 

pandemic. The measures taken as part of the recent pandemic 
(including strict hygiene and appropriate social distancing measures 
in stores) would, where applicable and effective, be reintroduced 
to ensure the health and safety of our colleagues and customers.

 — If required, we are able to significantly reduce discretionary 

spend (including freezing pay reviews, delaying bonus payments 
and/or recruitment), stop all non-committed capital expenditure, 
reprioritise sourcing requirements and adjust purchasing plans.

Despite the wide rollout of vaccines and the recent reversal 
of China’s ‘zero-Covid’ policy, a level of uncertainty still remains. 
New and more transmissible variants of Covid-19 may emerge or we 
could be faced with other contagious diseases. Although significantly 
reduced, the risk of a prolonged global health threat and associated 
government restrictions remains, which could adversely affect our 
operations and those of our partners and suppliers. This could cause 
a significant reduction in footfall and consumer spending and could 
negatively impact our ability to receive products from affected 
suppliers. High levels of absence in either our workforce or our 
suppliers could impact our ability to operate stores and warehouses, 
deliver products or provide appropriate functional support to 
our business.

Such restrictions and/or reductions in demand could adversely affect 
our financial results and the financial condition of the Group.

How our risks have changed

  No change

We have demonstrated our ability to protect our colleagues 
and serve customers while continuing to operate in challenging 
circumstances and are better prepared to react should a new 
pandemic occur. However, there is still a level of uncertainty.

Link to strategic priorities
 — Human, agile and lean.

4    Supply chain resilience

How we manage and monitor the risk

A resilient supply chain is key to our business and the achievement 
of our strategic objectives. We are dependent on complex global 
supply chains and fulfilment solutions to deliver our products to 
our customers. We are also reliant on the ability of our suppliers to 
respond quickly to changes in demand and to be financially resilient, 
particularly to fluctuations in energy prices, and in certain areas, 
energy rationing. Major disruption to our supply chain could result in 
reduced levels of product availability, with an adverse financial and 
reputational impact.

How our risks have changed

  No change

We have seen a continued increase in the supply network capacity 
and a reduction in sea freight costs. We continue to engage regularly 
with our suppliers to understand how the current economic volatility 
is managed to ensure it does not affect operations.

Link to strategic priorities

 — Differentiate and win through OEB.
 — Human, agile and lean.
 — Accelerate e-commerce through speed and choice.
 — Develop trade business.

 — Our Supply and Logistics three-year roadmap was updated in 

2022/23. It considers our future logistics capacity needs, based 
on the various sourcing, inventory and sales-generative strategies 
identified in the Group’s strategic planning activities.

 — Business continuity plans are updated regularly, covering our 

internal points of failure and key partner service-continuity plans. 
The actions include a response to supplier and logistics failures, and 
plans were tested live as part of our Covid-19 response activities.

 — Established partnerships with key transportation and logistics 

suppliers to align planning and secure capacity.

 — Extended our demand forecasting to better anticipate future 

sales requirements and worked with suppliers to ensure 
product availability.

 — Invest in supply chain visibility tools to be able to better monitor 

products as they move through the supply chain and react 
to events.

 — Continued the implementation of store-based fulfilment for 
customer orders to support the business operation and the 
increased demand since the pandemic.

 — For our OEB suppliers, we have an agreed supplier strategy 

including initiatives to diversify our ‘sourcing footprint’ and exploit 
more near-sourced suppliers, guidance on choosing which regions 
to source from and when to use more than one factory or supplier 
to increase resilience.

 — Robust process for selecting individual suppliers. This includes 

checks on financial strength, ethical and environmental risks and 
their ability to manufacture the products to the agreed specification.

 — Continually review key suppliers by category to establish capacity 
and volumes and assess the impact of an interruption in supply.

54

Kingfisher 2022/23 Annual Report and Accounts

Strategic ReportGovernanceFinancial Statements5    Competitor behaviour

Our competitors include both traditional store-based and pure-play 
online retailers. Over the past years, we have seen an increase in 
online penetration in the home improvement market, including 
through marketplaces. Competitors are also developing their 
offers, including both fulfilment options and the services offered.

Targeted actions or disruptive behaviour by competitors could 
negatively impact our market share, the value of our assets and 
our financial results.

How our risks have changed

  No change

Against a challenging backdrop, we have continued to 
execute strongly, with sales outperforming home improvement 
industry growth in our markets and significantly ahead of  
pre-pandemic levels.

Link to strategic priorities

 — Accelerate e-commerce through speed and choice.
 — Build a data-led customer experience.
 — Differentiate and win through OEB.
 — Roll out compact store formats.
 — Develop trade business.
 — Grow by building on our different banners.

How we manage and monitor the risk
We are building a differentiated offer through:

 — Clear positioning for each of our banners, with different operating 
models to address diverse customer needs, such as general DIY 
needs, trade-focused and discounters.

 — Extending our online presence, tripling our e-commerce sales 

over the last few years. Most recently we successfully launched 
e-commerce marketplaces in the UK, Spain and Portugal.

 — Centrally developing our OEB brands, with clearly defined range 
principles and customer projects to create a differentiated and 
compelling offer.

 — Leveraging the autonomy of local banners by allowing local ranges, 
services and store formats that are tailored to customers’ needs.

 — Competing on price by using the scale of our Group to benefit 

from volume and lower purchase prices.

 — Tailoring trading actions to local markets, through distinct customer 
communications, promotions and loyalty schemes to increase sales 
and brand loyalty.

We regularly monitor our market share, our performance and 
that of our competitors, to react quickly to targeted actions via:

 — Comparison of price indices versus competition in our key 
categories and measuring customer price perception on a 
regular basis.

 — Customer trend monitoring in all our markets to anticipate and 

develop an appropriate offer.

 — Monitoring Net Promotor Scores (NPS) with targets to improve the 

customer experience and satisfaction.

6    Responding to changing customer preferences

How we manage and monitor the risk

The pace of change remains high, with a greater use of e-commerce 
solutions for Click & Collect and home delivery. To make our products 
available to customers where and when they want it, we need innovative 
digital channels supported by an agile and reliable infrastructure, a 
robust logistics capability and an optimised property portfolio with 
in-store services.

Failure to identify and respond to new trends effectively with pace 
could affect our ability to stimulate spend and adversely impact the 
value of our assets and our financial results.

How our risks have changed

  No change

Our commercial operating model affords banners autonomy, 
allowing them to rapidly identify and react to changes in customer 
trends. However, a significant risk remains that we are not able to 
deliver the required changes fast enough or that the changes are 
not sufficiently compelling for our customers.

Link to strategic priorities

 — Accelerate e-commerce through speed and choice.
 — Build a data-led customer experience.
 — Differentiate and win through OEB.
 — Roll out compact store formats.
 — Lead the industry in Responsible Business and energy efficiency.
 — Develop trade business.
 — Human, agile and lean.
 — Grow by building on our different banners.

 — Customer and Market Intelligence team continuously monitors and 
gathers insights, with regular updates to the Group Executive, the 
Board and the wider business. We also have teams focused on 
customer data and digital experience, so that we can better 
understand the behaviour of our customers and provide 
them with personalised omnichannel experiences.

 — Based on customer and banner feedback, we extend and refresh 

our OEB ranges, particularly in the area of sustainability and 
energy efficiency.

 — A Group digital strategy has been developed and approved by 

the Board, with various priority programmes underway.

 — Technology Product Board meets quarterly, to monitor financial 
and project portfolio performance and to prioritise upcoming 
digital initiatives.

 — Launched numerous strategic programmes to accelerate 

e-commerce, focusing on putting stores at the centre of our 
fulfilment model. We continue to expand the range of do-it-for-me 
services available to customers to help them complete projects, 
including offering energy diagnostic and project support services 
in the UK and France.

 — Along with the B&Q marketplace in the UK which continues to grow, 
we have successfully launched marketplaces in Spain and Portugal, 
offering more product choice to customers, reducing risks for 
availability and following consumer trends as part of the overall 
online marketplace growth strategy.

 — Created a Group Centre of Excellence for online marketing 
and digital trading that monitors digital consumers’ demand, 
searches and customer acquisition costs to quickly identify 
changes and opportunities.

 — Continued to develop our understanding of compact store formats 
and concessions, with a variety of test concepts live in a range of 
locations across the UK, France and Poland. As of 31 January 2023, 
we had 41 compact store tests across four banners, providing us 
with strong learnings for future blueprinting and conceptualisation.

Kingfisher 2022/23 Annual Report and Accounts

55

Principal risks continued

7    Geopolitical instability creating 

 macroeconomic volatility

Kingfisher operates in eight countries across Europe and relies on a 
global supply base, exposing us to both geopolitical uncertainty and 
local volatility. Disruption could include government restrictions 
on mobility, strikes, work stoppages and/or our ability to receive 
products from affected countries. These impacts could potentially 
disrupt the day-to-day operations of our business and our ability to 
meet our strategic objectives.

Recent geopolitical events have created uncertainty in economic 
markets, with rising energy prices fuelling inflation. In addition, our 
markets could be indirectly impacted by recent volatility in the 
financial sector. This uncertainty and volatility could change customer 
behaviours and reduce consumer confidence. This could negatively 
impact the demand for our products and services. If governments 
try to reduce their budget deficits through further taxation, this will 
create additional burdens on businesses.

How our risks have changed

Increased
Macroeconomic volatility has increased across all our markets 
as a result of recent geopolitical instability, with further cost price 
inflation affecting salary and energy costs. This is also causing 
uncertainty over future levels of demand. Geopolitical events 
could also disrupt our supply chain and/or limit the availability 
of certain raw materials.

Link to strategic priorities

 — Differentiate and win through OEB.
 — Grow by building on our different banners.

How we manage and monitor the risk
Monitoring and engagement activities

 — Our Corporate Affairs team actively monitors the political and 

economic situations in the countries in which we operate or which 
may impact our operations. This is supported by membership of key 
business trade associations in every market. We also continuously 
monitor our exposure to financial institutions to ensure our risk 
is minimised.

 — Strategies are in place to identify, monitor and influence changes 

to legislation that may impact our business.

 — Crisis management processes and teams are in place to monitor 

and manage situations as they arise.

 — Actively monitor our sourcing from large suppliers by region 

and work to diversify our sourcing options where appropriate. 
Our global buying offices and supply chain teams are focused 
on ensuring we maintain appropriate levels of product availability 
through periods of disruption.

Mitigation activities

 — Strong and distinct banners, with each able to set the right product 
offer and pricing to meet our customers’ appetite for spending 
and to respond in a flexible way to changes in the environment.

 — Our OEB, which represent 45% of our sales, offer particularly 

great value for customers.

 — Banner and Group sourcing offices focused on securing 

competitively priced supplies.

 — Access to significant committed liquidity facilities and debt funding, 

through drawn term loans and the ability to issue debt into the 
capital markets through its European Medium-Term Note 
(EMTN) programme.

 — Cash holdings are diversified across a number of financial 
institutions (for which credit risk is closely monitored).

 — An appropriate and prudent mix of hedging policies, cash deposits 
and debt financing to minimise the impact of foreign exchange 
currency volatility on the company.

 — Continually investing to reduce our energy usage and increase our 
efficiency. In recent months, our banners and Group entities have 
put in place additional energy-saving measures. Our Group hedging 
policy reduces our exposure to energy price fluctuations and 
provides regular reporting for oversight.

 — Launched energy-saving tools in the UK and France, to help 
customers diagnose and access products and services to 
increase the efficiency of their homes ahead of the winter.

8    Cyber and data security

How we manage and monitor the risk

Cyberattacks and security incidents continue to present a risk for 
organisations with an online presence. We proactively manage our 
risk profile and will continue to do so as we deliver on our strategy 
and as our digital presence evolves.

Failure to protect data, detect breaches and respond accordingly 
would negatively impact our operations, profitability and reputation.

How our risks have changed

  No change

This risk remains one of our top three risks. The sophistication and 
organisation of cyberattacks continues to grow, with significant 
focus on the retail sector.

Link to strategic priorities

 — Accelerate e-commerce through speed and choice.
 — Build a data-led customer experience.

56

Kingfisher 2022/23 Annual Report and Accounts

 — Cyber security continues to receive Group Executive-level 

sponsorship and Board focus.

 — Continue to make investments in support of our IT security roadmap.
 — Regular review of the cyber threats facing Kingfisher and work with 
security partners to evaluate and implement appropriate controls.
 — Assessments and exercises held to prepare for security incidents 

up to and including Board level.

 — Commissioned continuous independent assurance to monitor 
progress against our strategy and to ensure we meet our 
maturity milestones.

 — All technology development goes through a ‘Secure by Design’ 
process to ensure solutions and data are secure and adhere to 
compliance and regulation requirements.

 — Perform security assurance of third parties that process our 

data across all functions and banners.

 — Recognising the importance of the role our colleagues play 

in protecting the organisation, we are delivering an education 
and awareness strategy tailored to roles and responsibilities.
 — Robust major incident management process in place, and we 
maintain a third-party retainer for incident response, breach, 
and forensic expertise.

Strategic ReportGovernanceFinancial Statements 
9    Legal and regulatory

The Group’s operations are subject to a broad range of regulatory 
requirements in the markets in which we operate. A major corporate 
issue or crisis, a significant fraud or material non-compliance with 
legislative or regulatory requirements would impact our brands and 
reputation, could expose us to significant fines or penalties and would 
require significant management attention.

How our risks have changed

  No change

Link to strategic priorities

 — Lead the industry in Responsible Business and energy efficiency.

How we manage and monitor the risk
Policies and procedures

 — Policies and procedures are in place, clearly stating our expectation 

to carry out our business fairly and with complete integrity.
 — Due diligence processes are in place over our third parties, 
covering risks such as sustainability, business integrity, data 
protection and information security as applicable. Internal audit 
conduct periodic reviews of these processes.

 — A whistleblowing policy and hotline, facilitated by an independent 
third party, are in place across the Group. Speak Up Champions 
have been appointed in all banners to ensure that all ethical 
concerns raised via our whistleblowing system are followed up 
and investigated appropriately.

Training and communication

 — Targeted Group-wide mandatory compliance training is refreshed 
annually, with modules on our Code of Conduct (including anti-
bribery and corruption), GDPR, Competition Law and the Market 
Abuse Regulation.
Oversight and reporting

 — Our Legal and Compliance network is well established, for teams at 

Group and banners to work and communicate together.

 — The Group Ethics and Compliance Committee (GECC) ensures 

that the Group approach to ethics and compliance is adequate and 
effective. This includes approving compliance training and reviewing 
the outcomes of investigations. Local Ethics and Compliance 
Committees (LECC) have been implemented in all banners to 
ensure a consistent approach across the Group.

 — The Disclosure Committee is in place to address our Market Abuse 

Regulation obligations.

 — Whistleblowing statistics and trends are monitored in each LECC 
and reported to the GECC, Audit Committee and Board annually.

10    Reputation and trust

Our customers, colleagues, suppliers, investors and the communities 
we source from and operate in expect us to conduct our business in 
a way that is responsible and in everyone’s long-term interest. One 
of the many ways we strive to ensure this is through our publicly 
communicated Responsible Business strategy and targets, covering 
topics such as how we help our customers’ homes become more 
sustainable, responsible sourcing and diversity (for further details 
please refer to Responsible Business on pages 23 to 26).

Failure to deliver on our obligations and commitments, or material 
breaches of our policies or controls, could undermine trust in 
Kingfisher, damage our reputation and impact our ability to meet 
our strategic objectives.

How our risks have changed

  No change

The level of scrutiny and expectations from our stakeholders 
remains high, with social media networks amplifying criticism so 
fast that the opportunity to provide an effective response is limited.

Link to strategic priorities

 — Lead the industry in Responsible Business and energy efficiency.
 — Human, agile and lean.

How we manage and monitor the risk
Governance

 — The Responsible Business Committee leads and oversees the 
delivery of the Responsible Business strategy. It is chaired by a 
non-executive director and includes the Chief Executive Officer.
 — Our Code of Conduct establishes the core behaviours we expect 

of ourselves and others, including our suppliers.

Stakeholder dialogue

 — Monitoring of external stakeholders’ views of the Group and all 

banners through traditional and digital media.

 — For colleagues, we have forums, committees and working groups 

in all of our businesses, including a collective forum that meets with 
the CEO and members of the Board.

 — Externally, we have regular engagement with a range of NGO 
partners in our key markets, which helps to ensure that the 
company remains close to social and environmental concerns.

Due diligence and external assurance

 — Our due diligence of suppliers and partners covers a range of 

ESG issues, from environment to modern slavery. This includes our 
policy framework and supplier standards which we expect suppliers 
to adhere to, supplier training and capacity building and auditing of 
high-risk suppliers.

 — Our due diligence extends to the data we disclose. Selected 

ESG data in the annual Responsible Business Report and Modern 
Slavery Transparency Statement is independently audited by DNV.

 — Independent ratings agencies also monitor and rate our ESG 
performance throughout the year, including MSCI, CDP, 
Sustainalytics and ISS ESG.

Kingfisher 2022/23 Annual Report and Accounts

57

Principal risks continued

11    Climate change

How we manage and monitor the risk

 — Established a Group Climate Committee to extend oversight and 
governance for the monitoring of, and response to, Kingfisher’s 
climate-related risks and commitments. The committee is chaired 
by the Chief Executive Officer, and brings together different 
parts of the business, to enable co-ordination in our response 
to climate change.

 — Longstanding commitment to reduce our emissions in line with 

climate science. Our near-term science-based targets for 2025/26 
commit us to reducing our scope 1, 2, and 3 emissions in line with 
global efforts to limit global warming to 1.5oC. In 2022/23 we also 
announced our commitment to achieving net zero within our 
own operations by 2040. These targets are supported by 
decarbonisation roadmaps and capital investment plans.

 — Strengthened our Sustainable Home Products (SHP) sales target, 

to maximise business opportunities from the transition to a net zero 
future. We are aiming for SHP to account for 60% of Group sales 
by the end of FY 25/26 and 70% of sales of OEB products.
 — Support a number of industry initiatives aimed at inspiring 
more retailers to act on climate change, such as the UN’s 
Race to Zero Breakthroughs: Retail Campaign (of which we 
are a founding member) and the British Retail Consortium’s 
Climate Action Roadmap.

 — Aligned our climate-related ambitions with our financial 

performance by linking the delivery of our 2025/26 scope 1 and 2 
science-based target to our £550 million Revolving Credit Facility, 
and to the vesting of our Performance Share Plan.

 — Continue to perform climate-related scenario analysis to 

understand how different climate-related risks could impact 
us and to continually test the feasibility of our mitigation plans. 

See the TCFD section on pages 27 to 35.

Climate change will have negative consequences on society and 
businesses without concerted mitigation efforts.

We have identified several climate-related financial and operational 
risks, which are potentially significant if climate solutions are not 
effective, even if their impact over our outlook period is limited. 
These include:

 — Cost of carbon increasing, through the introduction and 

strengthening of national and international carbon policies 
and pricing mechanisms.

 — Physical damage to assets and business disruption from an 

expected increase in the frequency of extreme weather events.

 — Sourcing and supply chain disruption and changes in the 
availability of key raw materials (such as timber) from  
long-term climate changes.

Failure to implement appropriate cross-functional responses to 
these risks could negatively impact our operations and profitability 
over time.

In response to these challenges, we have created ambitious climate 
change plans. Failure to deliver on these could damage our reputation.

How our risks have changed

  New

Scrutiny on the validity and reliability of our response to climate-
related risks continues to increase each year (for details of our 
commitments, please refer to Responsible Business on pages 23 
to 26). This means that we need to constantly focus on ensuring 
that our approach and efforts to reduce our greenhouse gas 
emissions in line with climate science are robust and stand up 
to changing external expectations.

Link to strategic priorities

 — Lead the industry in Responsible Business and energy efficiency.
 — Differentiate and win through OEB.

58

Kingfisher 2022/23 Annual Report and Accounts

Strategic ReportGovernanceFinancial StatementsViability statement

Assessment period

The directors consider a viability assessment period of three 
years to be appropriate given the fast pace of change in both 
consumer and retail markets. This is consistent with the Group’s 
strategic planning period and the period over which the principal 
risks are considered. The period to maturity or full implementation 
and impact for new ranges, stores and technology investments 
is up to three years. In addition, there are no major renewal or 
investment commitments expected that go above the current 
investment level (at most around 3.5% of revenues) beyond the 
three-year period. The Group’s debt repayment profile is not 
relevant due to the low levels of debt and the revolving credit 
facility has a three-year horizon. A period of greater than three 
years is considered too long for financial projections, given the 
uncertainties involved.

Assessment of prospects

The directors regularly assess the Group’s prospects and 
progress against the strategic objectives set out in its three-
year plan.* Our planning process consolidates retail banner 
strategies to generate a Group-wide plan. This incorporates 
forecasts of the Group’s financial performance that include 
cash flows which allow the directors to assess both the Group’s 
liquidity and solvency positions, along with adequacy of funding. 
Sensitivity analysis of the main assumptions underlying the plans 
is also carried out. The plans are approved by the directors and 
financial budgets and KPIs are subsequently used to monitor 
performance during the year via periodic performance reviews.

In its assessment of the Group’s prospects, the Board has 
considered the following:

 — The Group’s strategy and how it addresses changing 

customer preferences. We continue to evolve and execute 
our strategy at pace and to invest for growth. We have 
opened our first Screwfix stores in France and launched the 
B&Q e-commerce marketplace in the UK, before launching 
in Spain and Portugal, allowing us to offer more choice to 
customers and increase digital market share. We have a 
favourable competitive position, with lower cost fulfilment 
from store-based picking and a low returns rate with no 
excess warehouse expansion. We have a strong omni-
channel proposition and are investing heavily in new 
technology to strengthen our online presence and 
e-commerce propositions. We remain confident in both 
our long-term growth and cash generation opportunities.
 — The Group’s inherent resilience to risk. The Group has 
an inherent resilience to risk, provided by the diversified 
nature of our activities and competitive position. Many 
of our products are of an essential nature and we have 
balanced exposure to both DIY and DIFM sides of the 
market. We continue to grow our customer base, with 
high rates of revenue retention, and a significant proportion 
of our sales is linked to repairs and maintenance. Our 
geographic spread provides us with the ability to withstand 
political instability or economic downturn in a particular 
country. We have a diverse product portfolio, including own 
exclusive brands (OEB) which form 45% of total sales, and 
have a diversified sourcing footprint (both near and far).

 — Expectations of the future economic environment. 
Uncertainty remains over macroeconomic risks and 
the significant and ongoing direct and indirect impacts 
of the Ukraine conflict. This has resulted in higher inflation, 
reduced consumer confidence and governments facing 
higher budget deficits. However, recent surveys confirm 
the home improvement market has a strong future, with 
a high proportion of sales relating to maintenance and 
repair and a greater interest in energy efficiency. There 
is continued interest in the market from both younger 
generations and those working from home. We are 
benefiting from new industry trends which we believe 
will endure and provide the opportunity for sustained 
long-term growth.

 — The Group’s financial position. The Group retains a 

strong financial position; as of 31 January 2023, Kingfisher 
had access to over £800 million of liquidity comprising cash 
and cash equivalents (net of bank overdrafts) of £270 million 
and access to an undrawn Revolving Credit Facility (RCF) of 
£550 million (expiring at the end of May 2025, with an option 
for a one-year extension). This level of liquidity is deemed 
sufficient for all of the viability scenarios analysed. The Group 
has low levels of debt and proven robust performance and 
cash generation in previous recessions.

 — Supplier and supply chain risks. The Group’s supply 

chain has remained resilient through recent geopolitical 
uncertainty and product availability continues to improve. 
While we have some dependency on far-sourced products 
from Asia, we reduce this risk through dual-sourcing key 
OEB products whilst also ensuring business continuity plans 
are updated regularly, covering internal points of failure and 
key partner service-continuity plans (including a response 
to supplier and logistics failures).

 — Climate change. This year we have seen strong sales of 
energy efficient products, helping our customers reduce 
their carbon footprints. The Group has set ambitious targets 
as part of our Responsible Business agenda, including our 
net zero target by 2040 and becoming Forest Positive by 
2025. We continually analyse the potential operational 
impacts which could affect us so that we can remain 
proactive by investing early to mitigate these.

Taking these factors into account, we have shown our business 
model is resilient and we are confident that our strategy is 
providing a strong foundation for sustainable long-term growth.

Assessment of viability

To assess our viability, we model different scenarios identified 
by considering the potential impact of individual principal risks 
and possible combinations (as shown in the table on page 60). 
Our extensive risk review resulted in the addition of Climate 
change as a principal risk. The additional investments being 
made to realise our climate targets are already included in 
the base financial projections used. Therefore, we believe 
the scenarios used last year remain valid for this exercise. 
We have updated elements of the scenarios to reflect the 
progress made in delivering our strategy and for changes in 
the external operating environment. In total, we used nine of 
the principal risks in our modelling. They were chosen because 
they combine to represent plausible scenarios covering a range 
of different operational and financial impacts on the business.

 * This Viability statement should be read in conjunction with the description of the Group’s strategy and business model, which are set out on pages 6 to 13.

Kingfisher 2022/23 Annual Report and Accounts

59

Viability statement continued

The two principal risks not specifically modelled would 
have similar impacts to the existing scenarios: the ‘Legal 
and regulatory’ risk could result in a significant financial penalty 
and related financial pressure similar to scenario 1 (demand/
operational shock) and the ‘Reputation and trust’ risk 
could cause a fall in demand similar to scenario 3 (further 
economic downturn).

In total, four severe but plausible individual scenarios have 
been created, with a fifth ‘collective’ scenario, considering the 
combined impact of scenarios 1, 3 and 4 to model a worst-case 
hypothetical situation. Theoretically all these scenarios could 
run together, with different impacts. Although the causes are 
different, the potential impact of scenario 2 (production and 
supply chain disruption) is similar to scenario 3 (further 
economic downturn) and overlaying it on the collective 
scenario would not make a material difference to the results.

None of the scenarios modelled, including the more extreme 
and unlikely aggregated scenario, was found to impact the 
long-term viability of the Group over the assessment period. 
In assessing each of the scenarios, we have taken account of 
the mitigating actions available to us, including, but not limited to:

 — Reducing discretionary operating spend, such as marketing 

and travel.

 — Reducing non-committed capital expenditure.
 — Renegotiating prices and payment terms with suppliers.
 — Freezing recruitment and reducing variable incentives.
 — Temporary suspension of dividend payments.

Having assessed our current position, principal risks and 
prospects of the Group and considering the assumptions below, 
the directors confirm they have a reasonable expectation that 
the Group will be able to continue in operation and meet its 
liabilities as they fall due over the three-year assessment period. 

Scenarios modelled

Scenario 1 – Demand/operational shock
The whole of Kingfisher’s operations become subject to a material and unexpected reduction in demand 
or operational disruption resulting in reduced sales for a period of time (e.g. a future pandemic or 
prolonged failure of our global IT infrastructure).

Assumptions:
Sales: Reduced sales during a four-week period of severe operational impact, followed by a short period 
of recovery before returning to prior levels.
Margin: Margin impacted by fixed distribution costs during disruption period.
Cost: Minimal cost savings due to the acute nature of the event.
Inventory: Limited adjustment opportunity given lead times.

Links to principal risks

Risk 3: Contagious diseases

Risk 7: Geopolitical instability creating 
macroeconomic volatility

Risk 8: Cyber and data security

Scenario 2 – Production and supply chain disruption
Our suppliers and supply chain continue to be affected through 2023/24 and into 2024/25 by the impact 
of Covid-19 or events which impact production or supply. Stock availability is severely reduced in several 
key product categories and logistics costs are significantly increased for others. Suppliers are not able to 
support the increased sales volumes on key ranges.

Risk 3: Contagious diseases

Risk 4: Supply chain resilience

Risk 11: Climate change

Assumptions:
Sales: Negative sales impact with smaller stores most affected (more limited range depth so fewer 
alternatives). Applied to three-year plan sales for the years 2023/24 and 2024/25.
Margin: Increased shipping and transportation costs.

Scenario 3 – Further economic downturn
Prolonged and further downturn in economic conditions across Europe with lower economic activity, 
higher unemployment and higher inflation resulting in changing customer behaviours, reduced consumer 
confidence and lower spending. Customers become more price sensitive and price reductions impacting 
margins are required to manage overstocks. Suppliers of key ranges default on their supply commitments. 
Governments increase taxes to reduce deficits.

Assumptions:
Sales: Year-on-year sales reduction for a period of 12 months followed by recovery to initial level and then 
back to growth.
Margin: Margin reduction for a period of 24 months followed by recovery in third year.
Tax: 5% tax increase on Group Adjusted PBT for the years 2024/25 and 2025/26.

Scenario 4 – Failure to execute our strategy
We continue to implement our strategy, including planned investments, but this fails to deliver the 
expected sales growth and margin support. In addition, there is a failure to realise cost-efficiency targets.

Assumptions:
Sales: Non-delivery of planned sales growth from initiatives included in the three-year plan.
Margin: Non-delivery of margin increases linked to growth in own brand product sales.
Costs: Non-delivery of efficiency benefits.

Risk 3: Contagious diseases

Risk 7: Geopolitical instability creating 
macroeconomic volatility

Risk 1: Our people

Risk 2: Level and impact of change

Risk 5: Competitor behaviour

Risk 6: Responding to changing 
customer preferences

Scenario 5 – A combination of scenarios 1, 3 and 4
This represents a demand or operational shock, resulting in a short period of reduced income, followed by 
a further economic downturn. At the same time, our strategy fails to deliver the planned benefits. This is 
seen as a worst-case scenario and highly unlikely.

As above

60

Kingfisher 2022/23 Annual Report and Accounts

Strategic ReportGovernanceFinancial StatementsGoing concern

The Group’s business activities, together with the factors likely 
to affect its future development, performance and position are 
set out in the Strategic Report, including the principal risks of the 
Group set out on pages 53 to 58. The financial position of the 
Group, its cash flows, liquidity position and borrowing facilities 
are described in the Financial review on pages 39 to 46. In addition, 
note 25 of the Group financial statements includes the Group’s 
financial risk management objectives and exposures to liquidity 
and other financial risks.

The directors have considered the above and how they may 
impact going concern as well as modelling of a remote scenario 
which assesses the impact on the Group’s liquidity headroom 
of a significant demand or supply shock preventing us from 
realising a large part of our sales over the period of a month 
followed by subdued demand for the remainder of the year.  
As a result of this review, the directors have a reasonable 
expectation that the company has adequate resources to 
continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future 
and consider it appropriate for the Group to continue to adopt 
the going concern basis of accounting in preparing the annual 
financial statements. Further details in relation to the use of the 
going concern assumption and the scenario modelled by the 
directors are detailed in note 2 of the Group financial statements.

Strategic Report approval

The Strategic Report was approved by a duly 
authorised Committee of the Board of Directors on 
20 March 2023 and signed on its behalf by:

Thierry Garnier
Chief Executive Officer 
20 March 2023

Kingfisher 2022/23 Annual Report and Accounts

61

Corporate governance

Dear Shareholder,

Our governance structure is designed to ensure that the right 
decisions are taken at the right time and underpins our purpose to 
make better homes accessible for everyone. This report describes 
our structure and sets out how your company is run to serve our 
customers, to look after our colleagues as a responsible employer, 
to support the communities in which we operate, and to protect 
our business for the long term.

A key part of being able to deliver on our purpose and our 
‘Powered by Kingfisher’ strategy is ensuring that we, as a Board, 
continue to be effective in how we discharge our duties. To 
this end and, in compliance with the UK Corporate Governance 
Code, we undertook an externally facilitated evaluation during 
the year, the outcome of which is described on the following 
pages along with the progress against actions from the prior 
year evaluation.

With heightened macroeconomic uncertainty, maintaining a 
resilient business that is able to invest for growth is vital and 
your Board is committed to supporting the Executive and all of 
our colleagues in executing our strategy. Ensuring that we are 
an agile organisation that is able to respond to changing market 
conditions and stakeholder needs is a key focus of the Board.

Read more about how we engage with our stakeholders and respond 
to their views on pages 16 to 22.

Finally, I want to thank my fellow directors for all of their efforts 
in supporting the management team and our ‘Powered by 
Kingfisher’ strategy. Despite the challenging external backdrop, 
we are confident that we have the right plan in place, supported 
by a robust governance framework, that will deliver value for all 
of our stakeholders over the long term and allow us to respond 
with agility in the face of emerging challenges.

Andrew Cosslett
Chair of the Board

20 March 2023

Our governance structure

Our structured framework comprising the Board and its committees, enables the company and our directors to work effectively.

The Kingfisher plc Board
Responsible for the overall leadership of the Group, the Board defines our purpose, values, and strategy and aligns them with our culture. 
Considering the views of our key stakeholders, the Board promotes the Group’s long-term sustainable success and its contribution to 
wider society. It is also responsible for the Group’s performance and governance oversight.

Audit Committee
Oversees the integrity of our financial and narrative 
reporting, the effectiveness of our internal controls, 
risk management and audit, as well as reviewing 
compliance matters.

Report can be found from page 73.

Disclosure Committee
Responsible for the framework we use to identify, 
manage, and release inside information.

Nomination 
Committee
Manages the 
composition of 
the Board and its 
committees, as well as 
succession planning 
for the Board and 
senior management.

Report can be found  
from page 69.

Remuneration 
Committee
Ensures rewards 
are linked to our 
wider strategy and 
recognise success.

Report can be found  
from page 77.

Responsible 
Business 
Committee
Oversees delivery  
of our Responsible 
Business activities, 
providing collective 
advice and assurance.

Report can be found  
from page 71 with 
additional reporting 
from page 23.

Group Executive
Comprises the CEO and his direct reports including the CFO, retail banner CEOs, and certain functional leads. This group meets monthly  
to support and advise our CEO to develop and implement the strategic direction of the Group and its constituent businesses, to make 
and implement operational decisions, and where appropriate, make Board recommendations.

Group Investment Committee
Chaired by the CFO, this group approves all capital and revenue expenditure above the threshold reserved for approval at the banner  
or Group function level. Authority for approval for such matters also resides with the CEO.

Group Climate Committee
Monitors and agrees our emission reduction commitments. Oversees our external reporting on climate-related matters and assesses  
and manages our climate-related risks.

62

Kingfisher 2022/23 Annual Report and Accounts

Strategic ReportGovernanceFinancial StatementsBoard attendance
Directors’ attendance at Board meetings during the year is set out below. Directors who are unable to attend scheduled meetings are 
encouraged to input ahead of the meeting. Detail regarding information flows to the directors can be found in the Corporate 
Governance Statement on our website www.kingfisher.com/en/investors and on page 68.

Current directors 

Andrew Cosslett

Claudia Arney

Bernard Bot

Catherine Bradley1

Jeff Carr

Thierry Garnier

Sophie Gasperment

Rakhi Goss-Custard

Bill Lennie2

Board

8/8

8/8

8/8

7/8

8/8

8/8

8/8

8/8

7/7

1.  Catherine Bradley was unable to attend one Board meeting due to a competing board commitment (AGM).

2.  Bill Lennie joined the Board on 1 May 2022. On joining the Board, Bill became a member of the Audit and Nomination Committees. 

Compliance with the UK Corporate 
Governance Code

Kingfisher was subject to the Financial Reporting Council (FRC) 
2018 UK Corporate Governance Code (the Code) for the year 
ended 31 January 2023. The notes below outline how Kingfisher 
applied the principles and complied with the provisions of the 
Code. It is noted that, whilst the current Directors’ Remuneration 
Policy (the Policy) approved by shareholders at the 2022 AGM 
now complies with Provision 36, there are legacy Delivering 
Value Incentive (DVI) awards made before the adoption of the 
Policy that do not have phased vesting. The DVI awards will 
continue in line with the approved Remuneration Policy under 
which they were granted. Further details of these awards can be 
found within the Remuneration Policy approved at the 2019 AGM 
and included within the 2018/19, 2019/20, 2020/21 and 2021/22 
Annual Report and Accounts. The current Policy can be found in 
our 2021/22 Annual Report and Accounts. The Code is available 
to view at www.frc.org.uk

We have published a detailed Corporate Governance Statement 
(CGS) on our compliance with the Code at www.kingfisher.com/
en/investors. Our website also has copies of: the company’s 
Articles of Association; Matters Reserved for the Board; terms of 
reference of the Board committees; Role Profiles for the Chair, 
the CEO, the Senior Independent Director, a non-executive 
director, and the Company Secretary. 

Page no. or CGS

1. Board leadership and company purpose

Effective and entrepreneurial Board 

CGS, Matters Reserved,
16 – 22, 36 – 38, 51 – 61

Purpose, value and strategy 

Resources and controls 

CGS

CGS

Engagement with stakeholders

CGS, 16 – 22

Workforce policies and practices

CGS, 14 – 15, 25 – 26

2. Division of responsibilities 

Role of the Chair

Composition of the Board 

CGS, Role Profiles

CGS, 64 – 66

Role of the non-executive director

CGS, Role Profiles

Board information, time and resource

CGS, 63, 68 – 70

3. Composition, succession and evaluation

Appointment to the Board 

Board composition 

Board evaluation 

4. Audit, risk and internal control 

Internal and external audit functions

Fair, balanced and understandable

Risk management

5. Remuneration 

Aligning remuneration to strategy

Policy for executive remuneration

Independent judgement

CGS, 69 – 70

CGS, 64 – 66, 69 – 70

CGS, 68

CGS, 75 – 76

CGS, 73, 104

CGS, 51 – 58, 75 – 76

CGS, 77 – 100

CGS, 80 – 87

CGS, 89

Kingfisher 2022/23 Annual Report and Accounts

63

Board of Directors

Andrew Cosslett CBE, Chair of the Board 
Appointed: April 2017 Chair of the Board: June 2017

Claudia Arney, Non-Executive Director 
Appointed: November 2018

Skills and experience: Andrew’s early career was with Unilever 
in a variety of branding and marketing roles. He then spent 14 
years at Cadbury Schweppes in senior international roles before 
becoming CEO for InterContinental Hotels Group (IHG). Andrew 
was at IHG for six years, creating value by leveraging the power 
of its brands alongside executing a programme of significant 
transformational and cultural change. He served as CEO 
for Fitness First, where he was instrumental in successfully 
repositioning the business and brand. Andrew served as a 
non-executive director of the Rugby Football Union (RFU) 
from 2012, where he was appointed chair from 2016 until 2021. 
Andrew was appointed Commander of the Order of the British 
Empire (CBE) in 2022.

External appointments: Andrew is non-executive chair of  
ITV plc. Please see page 70 for further details of Andrew’s 
time commitment.

Skills and experience: Claudia brings a wealth of experience of 
business transformation and building digital capabilities to the 
Board having previously held non-executive roles, including 
interim chair of the Premier League, senior independent 
director of Telecity Group plc, chair of the remuneration 
committee at Halfords plc, non-executive director at Ocado 
Group plc, and governance committee chair at Aviva plc. 
Claudia began her career at McKinsey & Company, before holding 
roles at Pearson, the Financial Times, Goldman Sachs, and HM 
Treasury. She was also group managing director, digital at EMAP.

External appointments: Claudia is currently chair of Deliveroo 
plc, and non-executive director and remuneration committee 
chair at Derwent London plc. She also serves as a member 
of the Panel on Takeovers and Mergers and is the lead  
non-executive board member for the Department for 
Digital, Culture, Media and Sport.

Catherine Bradley CBE, Senior Independent Director

Appointed: November 2020  Representative to the Kingfisher 
Colleague Forum: From June 2022

Skills and experience: Catherine provides substantial 
expertise to the Board in the field of finance, risk management 
and corporate governance, having previously been a non-
executive director of the Financial Conduct Authority, the 
UK financial regulator, where she chaired its audit committee. 
Catherine also served as an independent member of the 
supervisory board of PEUGEOT S.A. where she chaired 
its finance and audit committee. Prior to embarking on her  
non-executive career, Catherine had a 30-year career in 
investment banking based in the US, the UK and Asia. She has 
French and British citizenship and was appointed a Commander 
of the Order of the British Empire (CBE) in June 2019.

External appointments: Catherine is a non-executive 
director and chair of the nomination and corporate governance 
committee at Johnson Electric Holdings Limited, a Hong Kong 
listed company. She is also a non-executive director of easyJet 
plc where she chairs its finance committee, and abrdn plc where 
she is chair of the audit committee.

Thierry Garnier, Chief Executive Officer 
Appointed: September 2019

Skills and experience: Thierry spent 20 years in senior roles 
at Carrefour, the French multi-national retailer. Before joining 
Kingfisher, he was a member of the Carrefour group executive 
committee and CEO of Carrefour Asia. From 2003 to 2008, 
Thierry was the managing director of Supermarkets for 
Carrefour France. Following his success in this role he became 
CEO of Carrefour International and a member of the group 
executive committee in 2008, where he became responsible 
for operations in Asia, Latin America and various European 
countries. In 2016, Thierry was awarded the Chevalier de 
l’Ordre National de la Légion d’Honneur (France).

External appointments: Thierry is a non-executive director 
of Tesco plc.

Bernard Bot, Chief Financial Officer

Appointed: October 2019

Skills and experience: Bernard is a seasoned CFO having 
served in this role at several international listed companies. 
Bernard also has significant experience of large-scale 
transformation programmes, logistics and supply chain 
management, technology and digital services. He was CFO at 
Travelport Worldwide, a global NYSE-listed company providing 
a technology platform for the travel industry, until it was taken 
private in June 2019. Prior to that, Bernard was CFO of Aer 
Lingus and held various senior positions at TNT and TNT 
Express. Previously, he worked at McKinsey & Company as a 
partner and leader of its worldwide Post and Logistics group.

External appointments: Bernard is a non-executive director 
of A.P. Møller–Mærsk A/S.

64

Kingfisher 2022/23 Annual Report and Accounts

Strategic ReportGovernanceFinancial StatementsJeff Carr, Non-Executive Director 
Appointed: June 2018

Skills and experience: Jeff became CFO of Reckitt Benckiser 
Group plc in April 2020. Reckitt Benckiser has operations in over 
60 countries and a large number of globally trusted household 
brands and products. Jeff previously held an executive finance 
role with Reckitt Benckiser earlier in his career. Most recently, 
Jeff was CFO of Koninklijke Ahold Delhaize N.V. (Ahold Delhaize), 
one of the world’s largest retail groups. Jeff was also previously 
group finance director at both FirstGroup plc and easyJet plc, 
and held a senior finance role at Associated British Foods plc, 
as well as a non-executive director role at McBride plc.

External appointments: Jeff is currently CFO of Reckitt Benckiser 
Group plc, the British multinational consumer goods company.

Sophie Gasperment, Non-Executive Director 
Appointed: December 2018

Skills and experience: Sophie brings to the Board expertise 
in strategy, brand and international retail markets as well as 
substantial experience in business transformation and digital 
capabilities, having held a number of senior leadership positions 
at L’Oréal, including managing director of L’Oréal UK & Ireland, 
and executive chair and global chief executive officer of The 
Body Shop, as well as 12 years as non-executive director at 
Accor where she chaired the Nominations, Remunerations 
and CSR Committee.

External appointments: Sophie is a senior advisor at 
the Boston Consulting Group. She is also a non-executive 
director of Givaudan S.A., the D’Ieteren group SA/NV, and is 
the lead independent director on the board of Cimpress plc, 
a NASDAQ-listed technology company.

Rakhi Goss-Custard, Non-Executive Director

Appointed: February 2016

Skills and experience: Rakhi is an experienced non-executive 
director, with expertise in digital retailing, strategy, analytics, and 
operational execution. She spent 12 years at Amazon in various 
senior leadership positions running many of Amazon’s key 
categories, including high growth, mature and digital categories, 
in addition to being responsible for pricing across the UK. 
Prior to joining Amazon, Rakhi held roles at TomTom and 
in management consultancy in the United States. She was 
previously a non-executive director of Intu Properties plc.

External appointments: Rakhi is a non-executive director of 
Schroders plc and Rightmove plc. She is also a non-executive 
director of Trainline plc where she chairs the remuneration 
committee. Rakhi is due to step down from the Board of 
Rightmove plc at its upcoming AGM on 5 May 2023. Please 
see page 70 for further details of Rakhi’s time commitment.

Bill Lennie, Non-Executive Director 
Appointed: May 2022

Skills and experience: Bill brings substantial industry experience 
to the Board, having spent 26 years at The Home Depot, Inc., 
the largest home improvement company in the world, where 
he had an outstanding track record of delivery supporting their 
remarkable growth during this period. Bill was most recently 
executive vice president, outside sales and services at Home 
Depot and retired in 2021. During his time there, he held many 
senior leadership roles including president, Canada and senior 
vice president, international merchandising, private brands, and 
global sourcing. Bill has a deep knowledge of merchandising and 
global sourcing, and experience in developing successful trade 
and services strategies. Before his time at Home Depot, Bill was 
merchandising manager for Lowe’s Companies Inc. and millwork 
plant manager for Menards Inc.

External appointments: None

Key: 

  Audit Committee 

  Nomination Committee 

  Remuneration Committee 

  Responsible Business Committee 

  Chair

Kingfisher 2022/23 Annual Report and Accounts

65

Board composition

Board independence

Director sector experience

22%

78%

2

4

7

7

3

2

5

4

4

6

  Executive directors

Independent non-executive directors

  Retail
  Digital

International markets

  Former CEO
  Brand/marketing
  Listed market experience
  Remuneration/HR
  Finance
  Matrix-model business*
  Home improvement sector

 *

Experience of multi divisional/business unit model with responsibilities split across regions and the centre.

Board diversity and ethnicity

We have four female directors (44%) and one director from a minority ethnic background (11.11%) on our Board (as defined in the 
Listing Rules).

Board nationality

Dutch

US

French

British

1

2

3

3

Current directors

Tenure at 31 January 2023

0-3 years

3-6 years

6-9 years

Andrew Cosslett

Claudia Arney

Catherine Bradley

Jeff Carr

Sophie Gasperment

Rakhi Goss-Custard

Thierry Garnier

Bernard Bot

Bill Lennie

2 years, 3 months

5 years, 10 months

4 years, 3 months

4 years, 8 months

4 years, 2 months

3 years, 4 months

3 years, 3 months

9 months

66

Kingfisher 2022/23 Annual Report and Accounts

7 years

Strategic ReportGovernanceFinancial Statements 
 
 
Board activities

Key activities of the Kingfisher plc Board in the year 

Strategy
S.172 considerations:

 — Endorsed the refreshed ‘Powered by Kingfisher’ strategic pillars and 2023/24 strategic priorities.
 — Monitored delivery of the ‘Powered by Kingfisher’ strategic objectives and priorities for each key initiative:

 — Monitored the rollout and progress of the marketplace initiative in B&Q and Iberia.
 — Monitored the rollout of Screwfix in France.
 — Reviewed the OEB offer direction and strategy, including updates on Sustainable Home Products (SHP) and 

on B&Q, Screwfix and their related brand campaigns.

 — Reviewed Kingfisher’s franchise and partnership strategy and approach.
 — Received updates on the performance of the Responsible Business strategy.
 — Oversaw developments to the Group’s technology infrastructure and information security.
 — Reviewed key components of the digital and technology roadmap.
 — Considered customer and market insights and dashboards including key customer metrics.

Finance and 
performance
S.172 considerations:

 — Reviewed Kingfisher’s progress through the CEO and CFO’s reports, including:

 — market and trading updates, including store and category performance;
 — performance against budget and forecast, and progress of the Value Taskforce;
 — dividend cover, and interim and final dividends; and
 — cash flow, funding requirements, credit rating and leverage targets.

People, culture, 
vision and values
S.172 considerations:

Governance and 
risk
S.172 considerations:

 — Approved the three-year plan and annual budget.
 — Approved the UK tax strategy and required disclosures.
 — Approved a share buyback programme to return a further £300 million of capital to shareholders.
 — Monitored macroeconomic and geopolitical forces on performance, receiving updates from external advisers.

 — Endorsed the FY 21/22 Responsible Business Report for publication.
 — Monitored the action taken to build and track culture across Kingfisher.
 — Reviewed progress against the Inclusion and Diversity pillars and the key priorities for 2022/23.
 — Monitored the level of health and safety incidents across the business.
 — Received feedback from colleagues through the Kingfisher Colleague Forum (KCF).
 — Reviewed progress against the People and Culture Plan and endorsed the key priorities for 2023/24.
 — Received updates on the community investments made during 2022/23.
 — Approved a number of matters relating to the Kingfisher Pension Scheme (KPS), including the valuation 
assumptions and funding position of the final salary section of the KPS and approach to supporting the 
‘Guaranteed Minimum Pension’ equalisation. 

 — Conducted a physical AGM which was broadcast live and provided the option for shareholders to submit 

questions online.

 — Received defence planning and valuation updates supported by our brokers.
 — Reviewed feedback from investor and governance roadshows.
 — Monitored investor consultation around the proposed new Remuneration Policy and Performance Share Plan, 

approved at the 2022 AGM.

 — Reviewed the results and action plans resulting from the supplier survey.
 — Considered capital expenditure and investment decisions taken by the Group Investment Committee.
 — Approved:

 — the Modern Slavery Transparency Statement;
 — the net zero target for scope 1 and 2 greenhouse gas emissions;
 — the Group’s principal and emerging risks and risk appetite statement;
 — a revised Group Delegation of Authority Policy and significant contracts falling under its authority; and
 — new share plan rules: a Performance Share Plan (and French Sub-Plan) and new Sharesave.

 — Received annual updates on the Group’s pensions and insurance arrangements.
 — Considered whistleblowing reporting across the Group.
 — Externally evaluated the Board’s performance in 2022/23 and monitored progress against the actions arising from 

the internal 2021/22 evaluation.

 — Agreed Kingfisher’s approach to compliance with new legislation and regulation, including Economic Crime 

(Transparency and Enforcement) Act and Russian Sanctions regarding withholding of dividend payments and FCA 
Listing Rule requirements on Transition Plans.

Key

 Long-term impact

 Impact on community and environment

 Interests of colleagues

 Maintaining reputation for high standards of business conduct

 Fostering business relationships 

 Acting fairly between members

Kingfisher 2022/23 Annual Report and Accounts

67

Board effectiveness

2022/23 External Board evaluation

The Board and each of its principal committees conduct an 
annual effectiveness evaluation and, in line with the Code, 
this is externally facilitated every third year. These evaluations 
are conducted in accordance with the Code and include 
consideration of skills, composition and performance. This year, 
Independent Audit, an external facilitator with no connection to 
Kingfisher, or its individual directors, was engaged to lead our 
external evaluation. The evaluation began with a review of 
the Board and Committee pre-read materials, and included 
observations at Board, Audit and Remuneration Committee 
meetings. Individual interviews with directors, senior management 
and external advisers were also held. A detailed report was then 
considered by the Board and the outcome from this, as well as 
progress against last year’s actions, were discussed. Overall, the 
evaluation concluded that the Board is working well and benefits 
from strong support from the Group Executive. In addition, 
non-executives have a good understanding of their role and 
all the fundamentals are in place for the Board to carry out 
its functions effectively. This should enable it to continue to 
support management as new challenges come into focus.

Finding

Action plan for 2023/24

Keep under review the 
key drivers of 
long-term growth.

 — Continue to review strategic priorities in 
light of progress made and the changing 
external environment.

Make further 
improvements to the 
information coming to 
the Board.

 — Endorse and help shape primary focus 
areas for the Board agenda in 2023/24.

 — Further refine the Board information flows 
to aid synthesis of key messages and 
reduce the overall volume.

 — Keep under review the balance of time 

allocated to presentations and discussion.

Increase the Board’s 
visibility of our people 
and culture. 

 — Establish a schedule of Teach-ins for  
non-executive directors to deep dive 
in operational areas.

 — Establish a programme for directors to 

individually spend a day in different parts 
of the business each year.

Catherine Bradley received separate reporting regarding 
the outcome of the Chair’s evaluation and led a discussion 
of the report with the other non-executive directors. Based 
on the review, the Board concluded that the Chair continued 
to operate effectively and that there were no concerns 
regarding his performance.

2021/22 Internal evaluation progress update

The table below outlines progress against actions agreed during the 2021/22 internal evaluation.

Areas of focus

Actions taken during 2022/23

Strategy and performance
Create and plan opportunities  
for the Board to engage more 
often with a broad range 
of management across 
the business.

Board information
Increase the Board’s 
understanding of the 
wider stakeholder groups.

Governance
Create opportunities for wider 
discussion and dialogue around 
subject matter in meetings.

Governance
Continue to build and maintain 
good Board relationships.

 — In May, the Board travelled to visit the French banners, providing opportunities for directors to meet 
local leadership teams, senior management (including product teams), high-potential candidates, 
and store colleagues during their two-day visit.

 — In October, the Board visited distribution centres and stores in Trentham and Stafford hosted by 
Screwfix Management. Directors met members of Screwfix and B&Q leadership teams, senior 
management including network and distribution centre teams, high-potential candidates, and 
store colleagues.

 — The Board was invited to attend a cyber threat tabletop event with the Group Executive in 
addition to a Teach-in on Marketplace and the Investor Teach-in event held in July 2022.
 — Board and Committee presentations have included attendance by senior management from 

the banners and Group functions, including Internal Audit, Health & Safety, Legal & Compliance, 
Cybersecurity, Responsible Business, Logistics and Technology.

 — Board presentation held in March on the output of 2021/22 Supplier Survey conducted to capture 

suppliers’ sentiment.

 — Board received a presentation on Sustainable Home Products (SHP), specifically customer sentiment.
 — Board received regular Customer Insights updates and presentations and, in September, received 

external presentation on pro and home improvement market trends across Europe.
 — Board received a CEO Update at each meeting, including NPS and Brand Health data.
 — Board received feedback on our employee engagement survey (Peakon) and from the Kingfisher 

Colleague Forum.

 — Chair, Chair of the Remuneration Committee, and the Senior Independent Director received 

feedback from investors directly and at the Teach-in in July 2022.

 — Guidance given to presenters ahead of each meeting to clarify minimum standards.
 — Presentations limited to key highlights with sufficient time reserved for questions.
 — Nomination Committee meetings extended to accommodate additional discussion.

 — Cycle of discussion meetings and informal get togethers introduced during 2022/23.
 — Non-executive only meetings and meetings of the non-executives and CEO (without the Chair)  

held through 2022/23.

68

Kingfisher 2022/23 Annual Report and Accounts

Strategic ReportGovernanceFinancial StatementsNomination Committee report

Dear Shareholder,

Selection and appointment of Board members

The role of the Nomination Committee is to ensure the Board 
maintains the required skills and experience to boost business 
resilience and deliver the ‘Powered by Kingfisher’ strategy. This 
report describes the Committee’s activities during the year.

Andrew Cosslett
Chair of the Nomination Committee

20 March 2023

Andrew Cosslett1

Claudia Arney

Catherine Bradley

Jeff Carr

Sophie Gasperment

Rakhi Goss-Custard

Bill Lennie2

Eligible

Attended

3

3

3

3

3

3

3

3

3

3

3

3

3

3

1.  Chair of the Committee.

2.  Appointed to the Committee on 1 May 2022.

In addition to scheduled meetings, one ad hoc meeting was 
held during the year to oversee the search process for a 
non-executive director.

The Nomination Committee is comprised solely of 
independent non-executive directors. Its terms of 
reference are reviewed annually and are available on the 
company’s website. The Chair of the Committee reports 
on its activities during each subsequent Board meeting.

The 2022/23 effectiveness evaluation was facilitated by 
external provider, Independent Audit, and concluded that 
the Committee operates effectively and raised no areas of 
immediate concern.

Further detail on the evaluation process can be found on page 68.

Board composition and succession planning

The Board considers its own performance and composition 
annually as part of the Board evaluation process. More detail on this 
process can be found on page 68 of the Corporate Governance 
report. During the year, the Nomination Committee kept the 
structure, size, composition and diversity of the Board and its 
committees under review, including a review of tenure so that we 
can best anticipate retirement within our non-executive population 
and balance continuity with the introduction of fresh perspectives.

We also continued to plan for the succession of roles at the Board 
and Group Executive level to maintain the relevant mix of skills, 
experience, and capabilities in key areas. This included a detailed 
consideration of succession plans in place for executive and key 
senior leadership roles, including the Group CEO and Group CFO, 
as well as potential initiatives to strengthen its pipeline.

To support these processes at Board level, we have used our 
skills and experience matrix to capture and monitor the combined 
strategic and committee experience considered relevant 
and appropriate for Kingfisher, as a UK-listed company and 
an international, matrix-model retail business.

The skills of our directors are summarised on page 66.

During the year, the Committee oversaw the search process 
for a non-executive director, resulting in the appointment of  
Bill Lennie in May 2022. Bill’s appointment further enhances the 
diverse mix of skills and experience on the Board; specifically,  
in the home improvement retail sector.

Search process

1. Board composition review
The Committee evaluates the structure, size and composition of the 
Board and its Committees, including, the balance of skills, knowledge, 
experience, diversity and tenure of the directors and, taking into account 
the company’s business model, strategy, and external environment. 
We then agree the search criteria.

2. Role brief development
A comprehensive role brief is prepared that is aligned to the desired Board 
and committee composition, our Board Inclusion and Diversity Policy, and 
any other relevant corporate governance requirements, including the 
time commitment expected. All role briefs should be free from bias.

3. Shortlisting
The company’s retained search consultants prepare an initial longlist of 
candidates from a broad range of backgrounds. The Chair and Company 
Secretary then work with the search consultants to refine this into a 
shortlist for review by the Committee. We then agree the candidates 
for interview based on merit and against objective criteria, whilst taking 
into account all types of diversity and the time available to devote to the 
position. Where appropriate, the Committee challenges the scope of the 
search and breadth of the pool from which the longlist has been drawn.

4. Interview
Through a multiple-stage interview process, a panel of directors will 
meet prospective candidates. Whilst the selection of the directors to 
the panel will be flexed as appropriate for the role in question, the Chair, 
the Senior Independent Director and the CEO always participate. After 
the first round of interviews, the panel agrees which candidates should 
be invited for final interview and with whom the candidate should meet.

5. Recommendation to, and approval by, the Board
Upon completion of a search, the Committee will make 
recommendations for new appointments to the Board for approval.

The Committee is supported by Egon Zehnder and Heidrick & 
Struggles, our retained search consultants, in our selection and 
appointment of Board members. Egon Zehnder does not have 
any other relationship with the company or its directors; 
Heidrick & Struggles was engaged to facilitate inclusive 
leadership training to the Board and all senior leaders across 
Group functions during the year and otherwise has no other 
relationship with the company or the directors. Both are 
accredited firms under the UK Government’s Enhanced Code 
of Conduct for Executive Search Firms and signatories to the 
latest Standard Voluntary Code of Conduct for Executive 
Search Firms (the Voluntary Code), supporting gender 
and ethnic diversity on corporate boards.

Induction

Each new director receives a tailored induction to help establish 
a broad knowledge and full understanding of the company’s 
operations and challenges, aspirations, governance and culture. 
During the year, Bill Lennie commenced a comprehensive and 
ongoing induction plan, which the Committee oversaw.

Kingfisher 2022/23 Annual Report and Accounts

69

 
Nomination Committee report continued

Each induction is phased and gives directors the opportunity  
for customisation based on their feedback. As well as tailored 
features, each induction programme ordinarily includes:

 — Individual one-to-one meetings with all directors and the 

Company Secretary.

 — Meetings with members of the Group Executive, senior 
members of Group functions and retail banners, and 
dependent on their role, with the external auditors, 
brokers, investors, and legal advisers.

 — Briefing sessions on the activities of each of the 

Board’s committees.

 — Visits to the company’s stores, office locations, and key 

sites across the business.

 — Ongoing access to the Board’s online resources, including 
to meeting minutes, key reference materials, and briefings 
on market status and competition.

Board inclusion and diversity

The Kingfisher Board believes in the value of inclusion and diversity 
throughout the company, including that it is in the company’s best 
interests to have a diverse board that reflects the communities 
in which we operate. A diverse board champions a culture that 
is fully inclusive and the benefits that it brings to overall board 
composition, board effectiveness and better decision-making. 
Therefore, we are pleased to confirm that the Board already meets 
the Listing Rules diversity benchmark target (as at 31 January 2023 
and the date of publication of this report) and at least 40% of the 
Board are women, one of the senior board positions is held by a 
woman (SID) and one director is from a minority ethnic background.

Kingfisher’s policy on Board Inclusion and Diversity (the ‘Policy’) 
supports the Board in achieving this aim and the Committee 
keeps it under review and monitors the company’s performance 
against its objectives. During the year, the Policy was refreshed 
to bring further alignment with the company’s inclusion and 
diversity ambitions and to reflect the new Listing Rules. The 
Committee’s recommendations included the addition of:

 — diversity of professional and educational background to 

the list of diversity characteristics considered;

 — the company’s own target to have at least one additional 
diverse leader on each Banner Executive Management 
board by 2023; and

 — a new policy objective to reflect the Parker Review 
recommendation to adopt the Voluntary Code for 
executive search firms.

A copy of the Policy is available on our website (www.kingfisher.com/
corporate-governance).

A separate Kingfisher Group Diversity Policy (which also covers 
inclusion) applies to all employees in the Kingfisher Group of 
companies. The Committee supports the work undertaken 
by management to develop a diverse and inclusive pipeline 
of talent. Pages 14 to 15 set out our People and Culture Plan in  
more detail, including the gender diversity of senior management 
and colleagues.

For the time being, we are satisfied that good progress is being 
made towards Board Inclusion and Diversity. During the year, the 
Board participated in inclusive leadership training, facilitated by 
Heidrick & Struggles.

70

Kingfisher 2022/23 Annual Report and Accounts

As part of director searches, the Committee considers 
the search pool to ensure it is sufficiently wide and covers 
candidates with a mix of backgrounds and diversity that may 
include race, disability, gender, sexual orientation, beliefs, and 
age, as well as culture, personality, professional and educational 
background, and workstyle. The Committee always considers 
the Board’s current and desired composition, bearing in mind 
these considerations, when making our recommendation to the 
Board on any new appointment.

As well as the Listing Rules diversity benchmark target, during 
the year, the Board continued to meet the targets of the FTSE 
Women Leaders Review and the Parker Review on ethnic 
diversity. We have met these targets (as required for the 
relevant year) since 2016. The gender and ethnic diversity of the 
Board is set out on page 66. There are four women (33.33%) in 
the company’s executive management including the Company 
Secretary (as defined in the Listing Rules). Improving gender and 
ethnic diversity in leadership continues to be a priority for the 
company and forms part of the People and Culture Plan set out 
on pages 14 to 15.

Independence, time commitment, and re-election 
to the Board

New directors are advised of the time commitment expected 
from them on appointment. During the year, the Committee 
conducted its annual review of the non-executive directors’ 
independence and time commitments taking into account 
the recommended guidance from investor bodies and 
Kingfisher’s top shareholders. The Committee believes 
that each non-executive director remains independent and is 
not overextended or unable to fulfil their duties to the Board. 
Directors have demonstrated a strong commitment to their 
roles in their attendance at Board and Committee meetings 
set out on pages 63, 69, 71 and 73 of the governance report.

The Board considers existing time commitments before approving 
new appointments. Three directors in particular had changes to 
their time commitments during the year. Andrew Cosslett joined the 
board of ITV plc in June 2022 and became chair in September 2022, 
Rakhi Goss-Custard joined the board of Trainline plc in June 2022 
but noted she would step down from the board of Rightmove plc at 
its upcoming AGM in May 2023 and Sophie Gasperment stepped 
down from the board of Accor SA in May 2022. The directors have 
given careful consideration to their external time commitments to 
ensure that they are able to devote an appropriate amount of time 
to their role at Kingfisher. In approving these appointments, taking 
into account each director’s total external time commitments, the 
Board was satisfied these changes would not compromise their 
commitments to their roles on our Board and committees.

All directors are subject to annual re-election by shareholders, as 
required by the company’s Articles of Association.

Kingfisher’s policy allows executive directors to hold one external 
non-executive directorship.

Our areas of focus in 2023/24

 — Continued focus on longer-term succession planning at the 

Group Executive level.

 — Focus on initiatives to strengthen the Group’s pipeline for 

executive and key leadership roles.

 — Continue to support delivery of the Board Inclusion and 

Diversity objectives.

Strategic ReportGovernanceFinancial StatementsResponsible Business  
Committee report

Dear Shareholder,

The Responsible Business Committee’s commitment is to 
support and oversee the delivery of the Responsible Business 
strategy, an integral part of ‘Powered by Kingfisher’, and, in doing 
so, amplify our impact and ensure that Responsible Business is 
integrated into our governance and is always robust, transparent 
and accountable. The Committee ensures that Kingfisher 
delivers on its ambition to lead the industry in Responsible 
Business practices and empowers our stakeholders to 
bring about positive change for our customers, colleagues, 
communities and the planet, whilst remaining pertinent to 
the wider strategic agenda. The Committee’s role includes 
appraising performance against the strategy and providing 
collective assurance and advice to the Group Executive and 
Board on all Responsible Business matters, and monitoring 
performance against our Responsible Business priorities.

During the year, the Committee continued to champion the 
Responsible Business agenda, providing independent challenge 
and oversight on behalf of the Board on our four Responsible 
Business priorities. The Committee engaged with stakeholders 
to bring to life Responsible Business and drive positive change. 
This included developing opportunities to monitor customer 
trends and insights and adapting the ways in which we interact 
with colleagues, customers and suppliers to encourage 
engagement and ambassadorship and understand the 
Responsible Business topics that resonate most with them. 
The Committee also informed and monitored the actions the 
business was taking to drive the Responsible Business agenda 
and their effectiveness. Further detail on our Responsible 
Business priorities and fundamentals, together with the business 
activities delivering progress against them, is set out in the 
Strategic Report on pages 23 to 26 and in the Responsible 
Business Report available on the company’s website.

Materials for Committee meetings are structured to support the 
Committee to oversee the delivery of our priorities, maximise 
stakeholder engagement, ensure meaningful focus on the 
Responsible Business fundamentals and facilitate adequate 
challenge by Committee members. Board and Committee 
members also receive a variety of updates on a monthly 
and quarterly basis, including Responsible Business KPIs. 
The Committee is kept informed of relevant regulatory 
and legislative developments and oversees key events in 
the reporting cycle, including our Responsible Business 
Report, climate-related financial disclosures, Modern 
Slavery Transparency Statement, ESG investor 
engagement and our approach to ESG ratings.

Sophie Gasperment
Chair of the Responsible Business Committee

20 March 2023

Sophie Gasperment*

Rakhi Goss-Custard

Thierry Garnier

John Mewett

Kate Seljeflot

Henri Solère

 * Chair of the Committee. 

Eligible

Attended

2

2

2

2

2

2

2

2

2

2

2

2

In addition to scheduled meetings, two ad hoc meetings 
were held during the year to consider the results of the 
2021/22 and 2022/23 Committee evaluations.

The Responsible Business Committee is comprised of two 
independent non-executive directors, our CEO and other 
members of the Group Executive. Its terms of reference 
are reviewed annually and are available on the company’s 
website. The Chair of the Committee reports on its 
activities at each subsequent Board meeting.

The 2022/23 effectiveness evaluation was facilitated by 
external provider, Independent Audit, and concluded that 
the Committee operates effectively and raised no areas 
of immediate concern.

Further detail on the evaluation process can be found on  
page 68.

Colleagues

The Committee focused on colleague engagement, using direct 
feedback to identify the topics that resonated most with them 
and to understand how well equipped our colleagues felt to 
relay our Responsible Business key messages to customers and 
suppliers. The Committee analysed deep dives on engagement 
campaigns including the colleague engagement survey, and on 
inclusion and diversity, such as inclusive youth employment 
in France.

We heard from representatives of Affinity Networks in Poland, 
B&Q, Screwfix and Group functions about the benefits of 
providing a safe and supportive environment for colleagues 
to discuss inclusion and demonstrate allyship with minority 
and marginalised groups.

The Chair of the Committee relayed her insights from the 
Kingfisher Colleague Forum to inform action plans and to ensure 
colleague views remained front and centre of discussion.

Kingfisher 2022/23 Annual Report and Accounts

71

 
Responsible Business Committee report continued

Customers

Communities

The Committee reviewed the impact and effectiveness of 
Kingfisher’s Responsible Business agenda with customers. This 
included an update from B&Q, Screwfix and Castorama France 
on their Responsible Business communication plans and their 
effectiveness, as well as an analysis of customer insights. These 
insights provided the Committee with a customer perspective 
on sustainability and the key barriers to more sustainable homes, 
which, together with an awareness of the latest industry trends, 
facilitated discussion on customer communications, research 
and investment in Responsible Business products and services.

The Committee also monitored progress on the Sustainable Home 
Products (SHP) programme and endorsed the SHP targets and 
the associated communication plan. Other updates included the 
Kingfisher energy efficiency campaign and B&Q’s Energy Saving 
Service, including the assessment of their impact on relevant 
stakeholders and the wider Responsible Business agenda.

Planet

As part of monitoring performance against the Planet priority, 
the Committee reviewed the company’s net zero commitments 
and delivery roadmap, including implications for banners, and 
key activities and milestones for reducing emissions. It also 
guided management’s approach to communicating and 
reporting on the company’s climate targets.

We received presentations directly from banners on Responsible 
Business Planet communications and actions being taken to help 
colleagues further promote positive practices in B&Q, Screwfix 
and Castorama France. These included raising awareness of 
sustainability and encouraging colleagues and customers to 
share the concrete actions they were taking to become more 
eco-responsible.

The Committee also oversaw the review process for the policies 
which underpin our Planet commitments, including our Forest 
Positive, Environmental and Sustainable Packaging policies.

The Committee assessed the impact and breadth of community 
projects and investment across banners, including the banner 
Foundations. This covered our action to address situations 
of conflict and disasters, such as the Brico Dépôt Romania 
Foundation’s response to the refugee crisis arising from the 
conflict in Ukraine, and the B&Q community fundraising event 
‘Raise the Roof’ in response to the UK’s cost of living crisis. 
In monitoring the delivery of our Community priority, we also 
considered our charity partners and their support in enabling 
us to maximise the impact of our giving, as well as community 
employability partnerships targeted at youth development 
in France.

The Committee also oversaw the review process for the 
policies which underpin our Community commitments, 
including our Human Rights and Community policies.

Our areas of focus in 2023/24

At each meeting the Committee considers the monitoring 
of progress on our four Responsible Business priorities 
and underlying fundamentals, the feedback received from our 
colleagues and customers, the topics and key events coming up 
in the Responsible Business reporting cycle, and any regulatory 
or legislative updates relevant to its area of activity. This, in turn, 
helps to shape the agenda for the next Committee meeting. In 
2023/24, the Committee will review the Responsible Business 
agenda to ensure it remains effective in driving our ambitions 
set by ‘Powered by Kingfisher’ and that it is focused on making 
the most of colleague engagement and of our significant 
investment in Responsible Business in order to optimise 
the delivery and impact of our Responsible Business 
priorities, including:

 — Colleagues – recommending opportunities for driving 

further inclusion and diversity; enhancing the interaction 
with our banners to further embed Responsible Business 
practices and responding to issues and opportunities that 
colleagues are sharing.

 — Communities – assessing the impact of our response 

to conflict and disasters and developing opportunities to 
further support the community through cost of living crises.

 — Planet – influencing and monitoring performance against 

our responsible sourcing and climate change commitments.

 — Customers – inspiring and supporting our customers to 

create more sustainable homes through SHP.

72

Kingfisher 2022/23 Annual Report and Accounts

Strategic ReportGovernanceFinancial StatementsAudit Committee report

Dear Shareholder,

Always ‘fair, balanced and understandable’

All company financial statements and results announcements 
are reviewed by the Committee with the support of the 
Disclosure Committee. It is the Committee’s role to consider 
and challenge management regarding accounting principles, 
policies and practices applied, as well as any financial reporting 
issues and significant judgements made. The Disclosure 
Committee is comprised of the CFO, Group Company 
Secretary, Group General Counsel, and Group Investor 
Relations Director.

After reviewing the 2022/23 Annual Report and Accounts and 
full-year results announcement, we recommended to the Board 
that the disclosures, and the processes and controls underlying 
their production, met the legal and regulatory requirements for a 
UK listed company. We believe that taken as a whole, the Annual 
Report and Accounts and announcement of full-year results 
were fair, balanced, and understandable. Our review extended to 
the publication of these documents in a structured XHTML web 
browser format and electronic tagging of the primary financial 
statements, ensuring that the necessary procedures had been 
completed by all parties, including our technical accounting 
team and a specialist IT provider. No external assurance was 
considered necessary for the electronic tagging.

Going concern and viability statements

The Committee received a report on both the company’s 
ability to continue operating as a going concern and on the 
rationale and risk mitigations underpinning the sensitivity analysis 
undertaken. This analysis included the modelling of a remote 
downside scenario which considered the impact of a significant 
drop in sales resulting from a significant event such as a 
cyberattack, IT or supply chain failure. The Committee is of the 
view that the company would have sufficient headroom under 
its key financial covenants. Following review, we recommended 
both statements for approval by the Board.

The Committee also noted correspondence received from 
the Financial Reporting Council commending the company’s 
disclosure in its 2021/22 Annual Report in relation to viability 
assessment scenarios. The Committee welcomed this feedback 
and continues to look for ways to enhance the company’s 
reporting to ensure that it remains useful and informative 
for stakeholders.

The Viability statement and Going concern are set out on pages 59 to 61.

The role of the Audit Committee is to provide independent 
challenge and oversight on behalf of the Board, of the accounting, 
financial reporting, risk management and internal control systems 
of the Group. It also oversees our Internal Audit function and 
Kingfisher’s relationship with our external auditor, Deloitte LLP 
(Deloitte). The Committee has an annual forward agenda which 
evolves as the risks and priorities of the business change.

During the year, the Committee received presentations  
from a number of banners and Group functions regarding their 
control environments and the mitigating actions that are in place 
to manage key risks. In addition to the usual periodic reporting 
and audit activities, the Committee continued to monitor the 
Department for Business, Energy & Industrial Strategy (BEIS) 
proposals to improve trust in audit and corporate governance. 
Following the publication of the BEIS Response Statement on 
31 May 2022, the Committee believes that our existing plans, 
managed through the Group’s Internal Controls over Financial 
Reporting programme (ICFR), remain valid and the company is 
well prepared to address these requirements as they develop.

The following pages further describe the Committee’s activities 
and key judgements during the year.

Jeff Carr
Chair of the Audit Committee

20 March 2023

Jeff Carr1

Catherine Bradley

Rakhi Goss-Custard

Bill Lennie2

Eligible

Attended

4

4

4

3

4

4

4

3

1.  Chair of the Committee.
2.  Appointed to the Committee on 1 May 2022.

The Audit Committee is comprised solely of independent 
non-executive directors. Jeff Carr is a qualified chartered 
accountant and a CFO with experience in both the retail 
sector and UK listed companies. His financial experience 
makes him the right person to fulfil the Committee’s 
responsibilities and the Code requirements. The Committee’s 
terms of reference are reviewed annually and are available 
on the company’s website.

The Chair of the Committee reports on its activities during 
each subsequent Board meeting. The 2022/23 
effectiveness evaluation was facilitated by an external 
provider, Independent Audit. The evaluation concluded that 
the Committee operates effectively and raised no areas of 
immediate concern.

Further detail on the evaluation process can be found on page 68.

Kingfisher 2022/23 Annual Report and Accounts

73

 
Audit Committee report continued

Significant financial reporting matters

We assess all issues that may affect the integrity of the company’s published financial statements to ensure that each is treated 
appropriately. For 2022/23, we monitored the following significant financial reporting matters and took appropriate actions. The 
Committee discussed these matters with Deloitte and, where appropriate, they have been addressed as key audit matters in the 
Independent auditor’s report from page 105.

Matter  
considered

Role of the  
Committee 

Does the carrying 
value of stores and 
goodwill require any 
impairment charges 
or reversals? 

 — We examined the results of management’s year-end 

impairment exercise and assessed the validity of cash 
flow projections based on the company’s three-year 
strategic plans and the financial assumptions used. These 
assumptions included forecast sales growth, margin and 
operating profit percentages, discount rates and 
long-term growth rates.

 — Our review included consideration of actual trading 
during the year, expectations for the future market 
environment, and the impact of Kingfisher’s strategy. 
It also included consideration of the nature and level 
of overheads that are necessarily incurred to generate 
cash inflows in the context of allocation to individual 
store or goodwill cash generating units.

 — We reviewed the significant increases in the discount 
rates used to calculate the present value of forecast 
cash flows and agreed with management’s view that 
this represented an indicator of impairment.
 — Sensitivity analyses were reviewed for changes 

in operating cash flows and discount rates.

Conclusion

 — The Committee endorsed the recognition of store 
net impairment charges of £139 million (recorded 
as adjusting Items), principally in the UK and France. 
Refer to notes 3, 6, 15, 16 and 17 to the consolidated 
financial statements.

 — The Committee also endorsed the recognition of 
an adjusting impairment charge of £16 million for 
Romania goodwill. Refer to note 13 to the 
consolidated financial statements.

What should the 
treatment of liabilities 
and contingent 
liabilities be in 
relation to uncertain 
tax positions?

 — We reviewed various tax positions and audits across the 
Group’s jurisdictions. These included transfer pricing 
arrangements and the European Commission state 
aid investigation. This review included the appropriate 
recognition and measurement of assets and liabilities 
recorded, and the classification and disclosures of 
contingent liabilities.

 — The Committee endorsed management’s 

accounting judgements relating to uncertain 
tax positions. In relation to the state aid case, a 
non-current asset of £64 million is recorded on the 
balance sheet, reflecting the amount paid to the UK 
tax authorities in 2021/22 and which is considered 
to be recoverable. Refer to notes 3, 10 and 35 to 
the consolidated financial statements.

What are the principal 
judgements relating to 
inventory valuation?

 — We closely monitored the levels of inventory in each 

 — The Committee endorsed management’s 

banner as well as the performance of the Group’s OEB 
and the estimated impacts on future selling prices of 
range review and clearance activities. This included 
consideration of our trading performance, stock 
availability, the Group’s management of seasonal 
stock, new ranges and the impact of inflation.

 — The key consideration was the appropriateness of the 

Group’s inventory provisions and policy, which considers 
factors including stock turn, range or de-listed status, 
shrinkage, damage, and obsolescence when assessing 
net realisable value. This included an assessment of any 
significant judgemental provisions or exclusions from 
the standard mechanical provision calculations.

accounting estimates relating to inventory valuation 
(£3.1 billion in note 19 to the consolidated financial 
statements), and that the provisions recorded were 
appropriate considering the quality and profile of 
inventories held by the Group at the reporting date. 
Refer to notes 3 and 19 to the consolidated 
financial statements.

Are appropriate 
actuarial assumptions 
being used in respect 
of the valuation of  
the company’s 
pension scheme?

 — The Committee reviewed the principal market rates and 
assumptions used to value the Group’s defined benefit 
pension schemes, in particular for the significant UK 
scheme. This review included interest rates on high-
quality corporate bonds, inflation and mortality rates, 
and followed the completion in the year of the triennial 
valuation for funding purposes.

 — The Committee endorsed management’s 
accounting estimates relating to defined 
benefit pensions and the recognition in other 
comprehensive income of £278 million of net 
remeasurement losses. Refer to notes 3 and 28 
to the consolidated financial statements.

The Committee also reviewed the relevant disclosures in relation to climate change, including compliance with the Task 
Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD) requirements, and considered whether the impact of climate change 
represented a key source of estimation uncertainty or critical accounting judgement in the financial statements. 
The Committee endorsed management’s disclosures and its assessment that climate change does not represent a key 
source of estimation uncertainty or a critical accounting judgement, given the limited financial impacts expected in the 
time horizons used in forecasts such as for going concern or impairment testing purposes.

74

Kingfisher 2022/23 Annual Report and Accounts

Strategic ReportGovernanceFinancial Statements 
External audit

The Committee’s oversight of our relationship with our 
external auditor includes making recommendations to the 
Board regarding their appointment, reappointment, and removal, 
as well as continuously assessing Deloitte’s independence and 
negotiating the audit fee.

The 2021/22 reporting cycle marked the conclusion of a 
three-year fixed fee agreement with Deloitte for audit services. 
During 2022, the Committee considered and approved a new 
proposal from Deloitte for a one-year agreement with future 
year fees negotiated on an annual basis. The increase in audit 
fees compared with prior years has been driven by the significant 
increase in regulations over recent years which have required 
greater involvement from senior specialists, together with 
significant wage cost inflation across the professional 
services sector.

The fees paid to Deloitte for their audit services in 2022/23 
are set out in note 8 to the consolidated financial statements. 
Deloitte were appointed as auditor in 2009/10 and subsequently 
reappointed in 2019/20 after a comprehensive and competitive 
audit tender process. Nicola Mitchell has been external audit 
engagement partner since the start of the 2019/20 process. 
Kingfisher complies with the Statutory Audit Services for Large 
Companies Market Investigation (Mandatory Use of Competitive 
Tender Processes and Audit Committee Responsibilities) Order 
2014 and the Code.

Non-audit services

Deloitte also engage in a range of non-statutory audit services 
such as the interim review, additional assurance procedures, 
shareholder circulars, regulatory filings and certain business 
acquisitions and disposals for which we may consider them 
from time to time. Work in any of these areas is awarded by 
competitive tender.

We review our policy governing the use of Deloitte to provide 
non-audit work each year to make sure it reflects the FRC’s 
Ethical Standard as applied to listed public interest entities.  
The current policy, approved In 2020 and reviewed by the 
Committee during the year, can be found on the website.

Fees for non-audit services are also set out in note 8 to the 
consolidated financial statements.

Independence, effectiveness, and reappointment

During the year, the Committee considered Deloitte’s 
independence and decided that no breaches of policy had 
been identified. We have not found anything that would call 
into question their independence or objectivity in providing 
a true and fair opinion on the company’s financial statements 
and Annual Report. In addition, Deloitte confirmed they were 
not aware of anything that they should bring to the company’s 
attention in relation to their independence and objectivity. 
The Committee also considered Deloitte’s effectiveness and, 
through a survey of the Committee members and management, 
reviewed the experience and expertise of the audit team, as well 
as the quality of planning and execution of the audit. This review 
was supported by management discussions and feedback from 
the banners and Group functions, with the conclusion reached 
that the audit was judged to be effective.

Following the outcome of this evaluation process, the 
Committee recommended Deloitte’s reappointment under 
the current external audit contract for the financial year ending 
2022/23 and this was approved at the 2022 AGM. The Board 
also expects to propose Deloitte’s reappointment at the 2023 
AGM. The company will be required to put its external audit 
process out to tender again no later than the audit of the 
financial year ending 2029/30.

Accountability, risk management and internal control

Ensuring accountability
On behalf of the Board, the Audit Committee oversees 
the company’s system of internal control, including its risk 
management framework and the work of the Internal 
Audit function.

Internal Audit reports directly to the Committee and has 
authority to review any part of the organisation and to oversee 
the audit and risk committees of the retail banners. Internal 
Audit reports annually to the Board and regularly to the Group 
Executive and Audit Committee so that our leadership always 
has objective assurance on the control environment across 
the Kingfisher Group.

The Group’s approach in this regard complies with the 
requirements of the Code and was developed with reference 
to the FRC’s Guidance on Risk Management, Internal Control 
and Related Financial and Business Reporting. The Committee 
provides an independent overview of internal control matters 
while Deloitte’s reports to the Committee include key audit 
risk and control findings relevant to the audit process.

During the year, the Committee has continued to monitor the 
implementation of an enhanced framework for Internal Controls 
over Financial Reporting (ICFR programme). The publication of 
the FRC’s position paper in July and subsequent three-year plan 
statement in December setting out plans to revise the Code, 
adding a greater level of reporting and evidencing on the 
effectiveness of internal controls, has further underlined 
the importance of the ICFR programme. The Committee is 
confident that the company will be in a position to conduct a 
full-year cycle of assessment, testing and reporting against the 
new ICFR controls framework in 2023/24 and will be ready to 
meet the future requirements of a revised Code.

In addition to financial controls, the Committee receives 
regular updates on litigation and compliance, including reports 
on the company’s ‘Speak Up’ whistleblowing hotline that was 
relaunched in 2021. Operating as a responsible business is a key 
element of the ‘Powered by Kingfisher’ strategy and the 
Committee plays a fundamental role in overseeing the process 
to ensure the highest ethical standards are maintained across 
Kingfisher’s business.

More information on the company’s Code of Conduct and the role  
of the Group Ethics and Compliance Committee can be found on  
page 26.

Kingfisher 2022/23 Annual Report and Accounts

75

Audit Committee report continued

Managing risk and internal control
The risk assessment process in place across the Group directly 
impacts the way in which significant business risks are identified, 
measured, and managed. The Committee’s consideration of 
risk management and internal control is driven primarily by the 
company’s assessment of its emerging and principal risks and 
uncertainties, discussed on pages 51 to 58. During the year, the 
Committee received briefings from the Internal Audit and Risk 
Director, as well as from retail banner CEOs and Group function 
directors, on operational risks and associated controls, including 
on risk mitigation and control improvements.

The Board is responsible for establishing a framework of 
effective controls for assessing and managing risk. Our internal 
control environment is codified in a suite of policies, procedures, 
operating standards, and delegated authorities to ensure the 
right actions are approved and taken quickly. We aim to manage 
rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve our business 
objectives as it is not possible to provide absolute assurance 
against material misstatement or loss.

Management is responsible for applying judgement when 
evaluating and managing the risks the company faces as part  
of its operations.

The company’s approach to risk management is also discussed on 
pages 51 and 52.

There are clear processes for controlling and monitoring the 
system of internal control and reporting any significant control 
failings or weaknesses. These include:

 — The annual planning process and regular financial reporting 
to compare our results with those set out in our strategic 
plan and against previous performance.

 — Quarterly updates on financial risks and internal controls 
for financial reporting (ICFR) are made against the global 
controls framework prescribed by the Group and detailed 
control design assessments updated by all banners and 
global functions for each reporting period.

 — Reports from the CEO and CFO at each Board meeting.
 — Periodic reports from banner CEOs and Group function 
directors on the control environment in their businesses 
and improvements made thereto.

 — Reports and presentations to the Board on certain 
specialist risks, including treasury, insurance, tax, 
governance, cyber threats, and pensions.

Additionally, banner CEOs and Group function directors certify 
compliance with the Company’s policies and procedures and 
that the relevant internal controls were in operation during the 
period. Any weaknesses are highlighted, and the results are 
reviewed by the Internal Audit and Risk Director, the CFO, 
the Committee, and the Board. Furthermore, full substantive 
testing of financial reporting controls is in the process of being 
rolled-out across the Group to support the updated global 
controls framework.

Each year, the Internal Audit function’s reviews are aligned 
to the company’s principal risks. The function works with the 
banners and Group functions to develop, improve, and further 
embed risk management activities into their operations.

76

Kingfisher 2022/23 Annual Report and Accounts

This year, the Committee also considered high-velocity risks 
which is those unexpected risks that could materialise at pace 
and cause a significant impact. Following a process conducted 
by the Group Executive to identify the high-velocity risks, the 
Committee reviewed the output from the exercise, noting the 
appropriateness of existing mitigation efforts, and endorsed 
management’s recommendations to improve understanding 
and readiness to act in the event of a risk materialising.

Group Internal Audit
During the year, the Committee received progress updates 
from the Internal Audit and Risk Director on:

 — Delivery of the Internal Audit change programme designed 

to strengthen the role of Internal Audit.
 — The company’s risk management systems.
 — Detailed outputs of internal audits conducted in several 

areas, including:

 — Strategic: Progress on Fix France, Implementation of a 
common SAP reporting platform in Brico Dépôt France.

 — Financial risks: rebates recognition, financial control 
health checks, payroll processes, stock counts, 
GNFR payments.

 — Operational risks: forecast and replenishment, OEB 

tendering, privileged access management, Javascript, 
vendor master data, pricing and margin control, critical 
supplier management.

 — Compliance risks: ethical sourcing, Screwfix Foundation, 

GFR contract management, GDPR management of 
inactive customers.

During 2020/21, Ernst & Young LLP (EY) conducted an 
independent evaluation of the effectiveness of the Internal 
Audit function. An Internal Audit roadmap and milestones for 
delivery during 2021/22 and beyond were developed and 
approved by the Committee. During 2022/23, the change 
programme deliverables have been substantially completed. 
This has included:

 — Continuing to deepen relationships with key stakeholders  
in banners and Group functions to facilitate audit planning  
and delivery.

 — Enhancing the functionality of in-house developed tools 
to facilitate the delivery of audit work and monitoring of 
actions and reporting of audit themes.

 — Developing a stronger and more consistent approach to 

the use of data analytics in audits.

 — Embedding a quality assurance programme over 

audit delivery.

 — Continuing to develop the Group’s risk management 

framework and Board reporting, including a project focused 
on identification and management of high-velocity risks.

The remit, organisation, and resources of the Internal Audit 
function were reviewed as part of the internal effectiveness 
evaluation that was conducted internally by the Company 
Secretary and captured the views of Committee members, 
relevant executive directors, and senior management including 
banner CEOs and Group function directors. The Committee 
and management continued to rate the Internal Audit function 
highly and, in doing so, endorsed the ongoing actions being 
implemented as part of the roadmap set out in 2020/21.

Strategic ReportGovernanceFinancial StatementsDirectors’ remuneration report

Dear Shareholder,

As Chair of Kingfisher’s Remuneration Committee, I am pleased 
to present the Directors’ remuneration report for 2022/23. 
In this statement, I describe the key items considered by the 
Committee during the financial year, including the incentive 
outcomes for the year as well as the broader context of 
remuneration at the company. These are contained within our 
Annual Remuneration Report which describes how our new 
Policy was implemented during 2022/23, and how the Policy 
will be implemented in 2023/24. This, together with the Annual 
Statement, will be put to an advisory vote at the 2023 AGM.

Also included in this report is a summary of our Directors’ 
Remuneration Policy which was approved by the majority 
of our shareholders at the 2022 AGM.

Performance during the year

The Group’s 2022/23 financial performance has been resilient, 
particularly given the external challenges over the last year. Our 
adjusted pre-tax profits for the Group were £758 million for the 
year while our total sales were £13,059 million, down 0.7% on the 
prior year (3-year like-for-like (LFL) up 15.6%). Based on these 
results, the Board is proposing a final dividend of 8.60p, resulting 
in a total dividend for the year of 12.40p. This, when combined 
with the share buyback programme, resulted in £583 million 
being delivered to shareholders for the year.

The company also continues to be a leader in responsible 
business. As shown in the Responsible Business section 
on pages 23 to 26, we have stepped up our ambitions in 
reducing our carbon emissions and ensuring our wood and 
paper products are responsibly sourced as well as continuing 
to support those most in need in the wider community.

While the economic environment is expected to remain 
challenging, Kingfisher is well positioned to navigate these 
uncertain times. This is in part due to the excellent leadership 
of Thierry Garnier and his team and our wider workforce.

Our wider workforce

Kingfisher is committed to creating a workplace where 
everyone is treated equitably. With this in mind and particularly in 
light of the current cost of living pressures, the Committee has 
overseen targeted reward action taken to support colleagues 
across our organisation.

Since our last pay round in April 2022, the company has 
undertaken a number of initiatives including:

 — In the UK, in December 2022, we awarded an increase to 

the basic hourly rate offered to our store colleagues from 
£9.80 to £10.10 in B&Q and from £9.70 to £10.00 in Screwfix, 
along with a 3% increase for colleagues at our most junior 
work level in the UK banners or those who earn £35,000 or 
less in our head office.

 — In France, Poland and Iberia, salary increases or one-off 

payments were awarded.

 — In Turkey, where there is a backdrop of inflation at 

unprecedented levels, a programme of interim increases 
was approved.

In this report

77

79

80

88

99

Annual Remuneration Committee 
Chair’s statement 

Remuneration at a glance

Directors’ Remuneration Policy 

Annual Report on Remuneration 

Statement of Implementation of the Remuneration 
Policy for 2023/24

About this report

The Directors’ remuneration report, on pages 77 to 100, 
has been prepared in compliance with the remuneration 
disclosures required under the Large and Medium-Sized 
Companies and Groups (Accounts and Reports) 
Regulations 2008 (as amended).

Whilst the response to base pay focused predominantly on store 
colleagues, the company has also provided additional support to 
help all colleagues with the cost of living crisis, including:

 — A Colleague Support Fund in the UK in partnership with 
the Retail Trust to provide grants to support colleagues 
experiencing financial difficulties.

 — A partnership between Happi app and Screwfix to provide 

colleagues with financial wellbeing advice.

 — Colleague discounts on energy saving products in the UK, 
Romania, Spain and Portugal to help reduce household bills.

Store colleagues’ pay rates will also be reviewed as part of 
the April 2023 pay review cycle. Increases proposed for these 
colleagues are generally above or in line with the proposal for 
management colleagues. In the UK, both B&Q and Screwfix will 
move their base hourly pay rate to £10.60, a total increase of 
8.2% and 9.3% respectively, inclusive of the additional 
December 2022 uplift covered above. We will continue to 
monitor inflation and the cost of living in all of our markets.

The Committee also oversaw Kingfisher’s fifth gender pay 
report, which is available on our corporate website. As part of 
our Inclusion and Diversity (I&D) strategy, we are committed 
to developing more inclusive leaders and improving gender 
representation across our business. We are on track to meet 
our goal of 40% women in all management roles by 2025. 
Achieving our women in senior leadership target (35% by 2025) 
remains an ongoing area of focus as demonstrated in the 
Responsible Business section on page 24. The Group did 
not consult with employees when drafting the Directors’ 
Remuneration Policy. However as part of a Kingfisher 
Colleague Forum, colleagues were advised on remuneration 
arrangements of executive directors and how these align with 
the arrangements offered elsewhere in the organisation, and 
this topic was included during discussion with colleagues for 
the year being reported on.

Kingfisher 2022/23 Annual Report and Accounts

77

Directors’ remuneration report continued

Our Remuneration Policy

At the 2022 AGM, the Committee submitted a new 
Remuneration Policy for shareholders’ approval, after an 
extensive review and consultation with our largest shareholders.

The new Policy, of an Annual Bonus with part deferred into 
shares and a new Performance Share Plan (KPSP) granted 
annually, was well received by shareholders who approved the 
Policy with a vote of over 93%. The Committee and I would like 
to thank shareholders for their strong level of support.

Decisions made by the Committee during the year

Taking into account the performance during the year and our 
continuing commitment to ensuring that executives are focused 
on outcomes and strategic priorities, the Committee implemented 
the approved Policy as follows:

2022/23 Annual Bonus outturn

The 2022/23 Annual Bonus for the executive directors was 
assessed against adjusted pre-tax profit, LFL sales growth, own 
exclusive brands (OEB) sales growth and digital sales growth. In 
line with the Policy, the Committee reviewed the outcome of 
each measure and also undertook a holistic view of the outturn 
versus underlying performance and value delivered to our 
shareholders.

There was some vesting on both LFL sales growth and OEB 
sales growth. Neither adjusted pre-tax profit or Digital sales 
growth met the threshold target for vesting. This has resulted 
in a formulaic outturn of 15.9% of maximum which is equivalent 
to 31.7% and 30.1% of salary for the CEO and CFO respectively. 
The Committee determined this level of outturn was appropriate 
given the performance over the year, the value delivered to 
shareholders and the treatment of the wider workforce.

Full detail on the performance against each of the 2022/23 
strategic measures can be found on page 91.

Vesting of the 2020 Alignment Shares

Performance against the underpins attached to the 2020 
Alignment Shares granted to both executive directors was 
assessed by the Committee as at 31 January 2023, ahead of 
the awards vesting.

Both underpins were met with the Net Debt to EBITDA ratio 
less than 2.5 times, the dividend cover over 1.75 times and the 
2022/23 dividend payments being above the required threshold. 
Therefore, the Committee concluded that this award will vest at 
100% for the executive directors. This award vests in July 2023 
and is subject to a two-year holding period.

Full detail on performance against the underpins for the 2020 
Alignment Shares and the vesting outcomes for the executive 
directors can be found on pages 91.

Salary increases
A salary increase of 5% will be awarded to the executive directors 
effective from 1 April 2023. This increase is in line with the standard 
increase proposed for the wider UK workforce based in head 
offices and is reflective of their ongoing strong performance.

2023 Performance Share Plan (PSP) Measures 
and Targets
The measures for 2023 PSP are the same as for the 2022 PSP 
which are Earnings Per Share (EPS), Return On Capital Employed 
(ROCE), Relative Total Shareholder Return (TSR) and a basket of 
ESG measures, each with a 25% weighting. The basket of ESG 
measures remains the same as the 2022 PSP:

 — climate change: a reduction in scope 1 and 2 emissions from 

a FY 16/17 baseline;

 — Forest Positive: % of wood and paper responsibly sourced 

as a % of SKUs purchased; and

 — gender diversity: % of women in senior leadership.

These measures all continue to align with our long-term strategy 
and support value creation. The target ranges, like last year, 
have been set taking into account the internal long-term plans 
and external consensus. Further details on these measures 
including the target ranges can be found on pages 96 to 97.

Remuneration for the executive directors in 2023/24 will be 
implemented in line with the Policy. For a summary of the 
application of the Policy for 2023/24 see page 99 of the Annual 
Report on Remuneration.

Changes to non-executive directors’ and Chair’s fees
The Board reviewed the non-executive directors’ (NED) fees 
in 2022/23 and agreed, effective 1 February 2023, that the base 
fee will be increased by 4%. There are no changes to the Senior 
Independent Director, and Committees’ chair or member fees.

Separately, in respect of the company Chair’s fee, a 4% 
increase effective 1 February 2023 was agreed.

These increases reflect the continuing significant time 
commitment required from the non-executive directors and 
Chair and are lower than the increase being implemented for the 
wider UK workforce.

Looking ahead

The Committee remains dedicated to ensuring that we have 
an open and transparent dialogue with shareholders and other 
stakeholders and so welcomes any questions you may have on 
the implementation of our Remuneration Policy in 2022/23, our 
Remuneration Policy and how we intend to implement the Policy 
in the coming year, or any other relevant topics.

I look forward to receiving your support for our Annual Report 
on Remuneration at the 2023 AGM.

The Policy was operated as intended in 2022/23.

Key remuneration decisions for 2023/24

Claudia Arney
Chair of the Remuneration Committee

The Committee also made a number of decisions relevant for 
2023/24 during the year which are as follows:

20 March 2023

78

Kingfisher 2022/23 Annual Report and Accounts

Strategic ReportGovernanceFinancial StatementsRemuneration at a glance

The following page provides our simplified Remuneration Principles, a summary of the Remuneration Policy and its implementation in 
2023/24 and a summary of the implementation of the Policy in 2022/23.

Remuneration principles

Simple, transparent and relevant

Supports long-term value 
creation

Fully supports Kingfisher’s 
purpose and values 

Rewards for strategy delivery 
and performance

Summary of Policy and implementation for 2023/24

Summary

 Measures

Alignment to strategy

Base salary

For 2023:

 — CEO: £882,525 (5% increase)
 — CFO: £623,280 (5% increase)

Annual Bonus

Maximum opportunity

 — CEO: 200% of salary
 — CFO: 190% of salary

Performance is assessed over one year. 
Any bonus earned over 100% of salary 
is deferred into shares for three years.

Performance 
Share Plan

Maximum opportunity

 — CEO: 275% of salary
 — CFO: 260% of salary

Awards vest subject to performance 
over three financial years and are subject 
to a further two-year holding period. 

Share ownership 
requirements

 — CEO: 350% of salary
 — CFO: 270% of salary

Executives are additionally required to hold 
100% of the shareholding requirement for 
a period of two years post-employment. 

Reflects the individual’s role, experience and 
contribution to the company and is set at levels that 
support the recruitment and retention of executive 
directors of the calibre required by the company.

 — 40% LFL sales growth
 — 40% Adjusted pre-tax profit
 — 10% OEB sales penetration
 — 10% Digital sales penetration

Incentivises executive directors to achieve or 
exceed annual financial and strategic objectives set 
by the Committee at the start of each financial year. 
Long-term shareholder alignment provided through 
bonus deferral.

 — 25% EPS
 — 25% ROCE
 — 25% Relative TSR
 — 25% on a basket of 
ESG measures

EPS, ROCE and ESG are aligned to the strategy while 
Relative TSR ensures that payout for participants is 
aligned to value creation for shareholders.

ESG reflects the importance of our Responsible 
Business agenda and recognises our long-term 
goals and commitments.

To ensure the alignment of the interests of 
executives and shareholders over the long term, 
executive directors are required to build a 
significant shareholding.

Our FY 22/23 performance highlights

Adjusted  
pre-tax profit

LFL  
sales growth

OEB  
sales growth

Digital sales 
growth

Net debt  
to EBITDA

£758m

(2.1)%

(2.1)%

(8.8)%

1.6x

Total  
dividend

12.4p

Annual Bonus (200%/190% of salary)

Alignment Shares (80% of salary)

Our FY 22/23 Incentive Outcomes

Maximum

40%

40%

10%

10%

Maximum

50%

50%

Actual

0%

13%

3%

0%

Actual

50%

50%

Adjusted pre-taxproﬁt

LFL Sales Growth

OEB Sales Growth

Digital Sales Growth

Maintain dividend subject to dividend cover

Maintain ratio of net debt to EBITDA

Remuneration in 2022/23

CEO

CFO

Fixed  
pay

£’000

993.0

698.3

Annual Bonus  
outcome

% of max

% of salary

15.9%

15.9%

31.7%

30.1%

Alignment Shares  
outcome

% of max

% of salary

100%

100%

80%

80%

£’000

265.2

177.9

Total  
single figure

£’000

1,938.3

1,356.5

£’000

680.0

480.3

Kingfisher 2022/23 Annual Report and Accounts

79

Directors’ remuneration report continued

Directors’ Remuneration Policy (approved at the 2022 AGM)

Our Remuneration Policy (the Policy) is set out in this section. The Policy was approved by 93.11% of our shareholders at the AGM 
held on 22 June 2022.

The full version of the current shareholder-approved Policy can be found in the 2021/22 Annual Report. The Policy is presented 
unchanged from that approved by shareholders other than minor wording changes to reflect, for example, that the Policy has been 
approved by shareholders, an update on selection of performance measures to reflect rationale for 2023/24 bonus measures and 
the 2023 PSP as well as updated scenario charts.

Policy table

Base salary

Element and purpose
Base salary reflects the individual’s role, experience and contribution 
to the company and is set at levels that support the recruitment and 
retention of executive directors of the calibre required by the company.

Maximum opportunity
Salary increases will typically be in line with the wider workforce. 
The Committee has the flexibility to award higher salary increases 
in exceptional circumstances.

Operation
In setting base salaries, the Committee also has regard to salaries for 
similar roles in comparator companies including those in FTSE retailers 
and companies of a similar size and complexity.

Increases awarded each year will normally be set out in the statement 
of implementation of the Policy.

Assessment of performance
Individual performance is an important factor considered by 
the Committee when reviewing base salary each year. 

Benefits

Element and purpose
Benefits are provided to assist executive directors in the performance 
of their roles and are designed to be competitive and cost-effective.

Operation
The company may provide pension benefits (set out in the following 
section), a company car or cash alternative, medical insurance, and 
life assurance cover.

Other benefits may be provided from time to time if considered 
reasonable and appropriate by the Committee, such as relocation 
allowances, and would be explained in the subsequent Annual Report  
on Remuneration.

Maximum opportunity
Maximum levels of benefit provision are:

 — Car allowance of £25,000 per annum.
 — Private medical insurance on a family basis.
 — Life assurance cover of four times base salary.
 — Store discount of up to 20%.

The cost of providing insurance benefits varies according to premium 
rates so there is no formal maximum monetary value.

Any relocation allowance will be limited to 50% of base salary (inclusive 
of any tax payable on expenses reimbursed).

The company pays the cost of providing benefits on a monthly basis 
or as required for one-off events such as financial planning advice.

Assessment of performance
None.

Store discounts may be offered to all executive directors on the 
same basis as offered to other company employees.

Pension

Element and purpose
To provide retirement benefits, support retirement planning, and 
provide a competitive fixed pay package.

Operation
Pension provision for executive directors is by way of contributions to 
a defined contribution scheme or cash allowance.

Maximum opportunity
Maximum employer contribution into a defined contribution scheme of 
14% of base salary or a cash alternative of 12.5% of base salary, in line 
with arrangements for other UK colleagues.

Assessment of performance
None.

80

Kingfisher 2022/23 Annual Report and Accounts

Strategic ReportGovernanceFinancial Statements 
 
 
Policy table continued

Annual Bonus

Element and purpose
To incentivise executive directors to achieve or exceed annual strategic 
objectives set by the Committee at the start of each financial year.

Maximum opportunity
The maximum Annual Bonus award is 200% of salary for the CEO and 
190% of salary for the CFO (and any other executive directors).

The level of payment at threshold is set on an annual basis but will not 
exceed 25% of maximum.

Assessment of performance
The Annual Bonus measures may be based on a mixture of financial, 
operational, strategic and individual performance measures dependent 
on the company’s goals and strategic priorities over the year 
under review.

At least 70% of the bonus will be dependent on financial measures. 

Operation
Annual Bonuses are earned over the year, based on performance 
against targets over the financial year.

The Annual Bonus will be delivered as follows:

 — bonus earned up to 100% of salary in cash; and
 — bonus earned above 100% of salary in shares which are deferred 
for three years and subject to continued employment in line with 
plan rules.

Dividend equivalents are payable in respect of any deferred shares 
that vest.

The Committee has the discretion to adjust the bonus outcome in light 
of overall underlying performance.

Any adjustment made using this discretion will be explained in the 
following Annual Report on Remuneration.

Malus and clawback apply under circumstances as set out in the notes 
to the Policy table.

Change of control provisions apply as set out in the notes to the  
Policy table.

Performance Share Plan (PSP)

Element and purpose
To incentivise executive directors to deliver on Kingfisher’s long-term 
strategic aims and create sustainable shareholder value, aligning the 
interests of participants with those of shareholders.

Maximum opportunity
The maximum annual award that can be granted each year under the 
PSP is 275% of salary for the CEO and 260% of salary for the CFO 
(and any other executive directors) respectively.

To retain executive directors and provide market competitive 
total reward.

For threshold performance on any measure, at most 25% of the 
maximum award available for that measure may vest.

Operation
Awards are granted annually, and vest after three years subject to 
performance achieved against performance targets set over not less 
than a three-year period. All vested shares will normally be subject to 
a further two-year holding period.

Assessment of performance
Awards granted will vest based on performance over not less 
than three years against performance measures determined by 
the Committee and aligned to the company’s strategic priorities. 
At least 50% of the measures will be based on financial measures.

Dividend equivalents are payable in respect of the shares that vest.

The performance measures selected for the 2023 grant are:

The Committee has discretion to adjust the vesting outcome if the 
formulaic outcome is not felt to produce an appropriate result in light 
of overall underlying company performance.

Any adjustment made using this discretion will be explained in the 
following Annual Report on Remuneration.

 — 25% Earnings per Share (EPS);
 — 25% Return on Capital Employed (ROCE);
 — 25% Relative Total Shareholder Return (TSR); and
 — 25% on a basket of Environmental, Social and Governance 

(ESG) measures.

Malus and clawback apply under circumstances as set out in the notes 
to the Policy table.

Any substantial or significant changes to the measures will be subject 
to shareholder consultation.

Change of control provisions apply as set out in the notes to the  
Policy table.

The performance outcomes will be assessed at the end of the 
three-year period to ensure they are appropriate within the context of 
the wider business performance.

The performance measures have been chosen to balance growth and 
returns and ensure sustainable delivery of performance.

Kingfisher 2022/23 Annual Report and Accounts

81

 
 
Maximum opportunity
Aggregate annual fees paid to the Chair and non-executive directors 
are limited by the company’s Articles of Association, which may be 
varied by special resolution of the shareholders.

The current limit contained within the Articles of Association is 
£1.75 million as approved at the 2014 AGM.

Contributions towards the cost of running the Chair’s office will not 
exceed £60,000 per annum and are included within the aggregate 
fees set out above.

Assessment of performance
None.

Maximum opportunity
The maximum limit for the Sharesave is currently £500 per month. The 
maximum amount an individual may invest in partnership shares under 
the SIP is currently £150 per month. The SIP also allows the award of 
free and matching shares up to the limits set by the UK Government. 
The company may increase the amounts that can be saved or invested 
under the Sharesave and SIP plans in line with any increases authorised 
by the UK Government for approved plans.

Assessment of performance
None.

Directors’ remuneration report continued

Policy table continued

Chair and non-executive director fees

Element and purpose
To attract and retain a Chair and non-executive directors of the 
highest calibre.

Operation
The fees paid to the Chair are determined by the Committee, while 
the fees of the non-executive directors are determined by the Board 
with affected persons absenting themselves from the discussions, 
as appropriate.

The Committee reviews the Chair’s fees annually.

The Chair’s fees are determined with reference to time commitment 
and relevant benchmark market data. Contributions are made towards 
the cost of running the Chair’s office.

The Board determines non-executive directors’ fees under a policy that 
seeks to recognise the time commitment, responsibility and technical 
skills required to make a valuable contribution to an effective Board.

A base fee is paid to all non-executive directors and additional fees 
are also paid to the Senior Independent Director, the Chairs and 
members of each of the Audit, Remuneration and Responsible 
Business Committees.

Chair and membership fees may be introduced for current and 
new committees.

Appropriate benefits, including the reimbursement of appropriate 
expenses, may be provided from time to time, as required.

The Board may annually review fees paid to non-executive directors 
against those in similar companies and take into account the time 
commitment expected of them.

Fees are paid monthly, wholly in cash.

The Chair and the non-executive directors do not participate in any 
of the company’s performance-related pay programmes and do not 
receive pension benefits.

All-employee share plans

Element and purpose
Executive directors may participate in Kingfisher’s all-employee share 
plans on similar terms to other employees.

Operation
In particular, UK-based executive directors may participate in the 
Sharesave Plan (Sharesave), a tax-approved all-employee scheme 
under which they make monthly savings over a period of three or five 
years, which may be used to buy Kingfisher shares at a discounted 
price when the scheme matures. They may also choose to withdraw 
their savings at the end of the savings period or at any time during 
the savings contract.

UK-based executive directors may also participate in the Share Incentive 
Plan (SIP). Designed to promote employee share ownership, the SIP 
enables employees to make monthly investments in Kingfisher shares.

82

Kingfisher 2022/23 Annual Report and Accounts

Strategic ReportGovernanceFinancial Statements 
 
Shareholding requirements

To ensure the alignment of the interests of executives 
and shareholders over the long term, executive directors are 
required to build a significant shareholding. The shareholding 
requirement is 350% of salary for the CEO and 270% for the 
CFO, and any other executive director.

All shares owned beneficially and nil-cost awards that 
have vested but that the executive has yet to exercise are 
considered to count towards the shareholding on a notional 
post-tax basis.

Until the shareholding requirement is met, executive directors 
are required to retain 100% of vested post-tax PSP, Deferred 
Bonus and Alignment Share awards and retain 50% of vested 
post-tax Delivering Value Incentive (DVI) shares. It is expected 
that executives would retain 100% of post-tax shares from the 
DVI awards until the requirement is met.

The full shareholding requirement will apply for two years 
post-employment. The Committee has established mechanisms 
to enforce the post-employment shareholding guidelines once 
an executive director has left the company.

Notes to the Policy table

Selection of performance measures
The measures for the Annual Bonus and the Performance 
Share Plan will be chosen each year for their alignment to the 
company’s goals and strategic priorities and may vary according 
to the priorities over the relevant performance periods.

The measures for the 2023/24 Annual Bonus are adjusted 
pre-tax profit, LFL sales growth and individual strategic 
measures. Adjusted pre-tax profit and LFL sales growth 
ensure that executives are focused on delivering both 
growth and profitability for our shareholders while individual 
metrics ensure that executives are focused on specific key 
strategic priorities. The individual measures may vary between 
performance years depending on strategic priorities for that 
year. For 2023/24, OEB sales penetration and digital sales 
penetration were chosen for both executive directors as 
they are fundamental to the company strategy over 2023/24.

For the 2023 PSP, the measures chosen are EPS, ROCE, 
Relative TSR and ESG. EPS was chosen to ensure sustainable, 
long-term delivery of profit for our shareholders with ROCE 
ensuring the efficient use of our capital to generate sustainable 
returns for shareholders. Relative TSR is measured against the 
constituents of the FTSE 350 Retailers, FTSE 350 Drug and 
Grocery Stores as well as the STOXX 600 Drug and Grocery 
Stores. The group ensures that we deliver strong shareholder 
returns within the context of an appropriate group of peers.

ESG measures provide a direct link to our Responsible Business 
agenda and recognise our long-term goals and commitments. 
For the 2023 PSP, the ESG bucket of measures will continue 
to reflect our commitment to the planet with (1) a measure 
addressing climate change and (2) a measure on sourcing of 
our wood and paper products, as well as (3) an inclusion-based 
measure (gender diversity). These proposed measures reflect 
the importance of Kingfisher’s long-term goals in respect of the 
wider external context (climate change), sustainable wood and 
paper products (sourcing) and our commitment to improve 
the representation of our women in senior leadership roles.

The targets are set each year to ensure they are appropriately 
stretching taking into account short and long internal forecasts 
and ambitions as well as external forecasts and views. The 
specific measures, targets and weightings may vary from 
year to year to align with the company’s strategy.

Malus and clawback
Malus and clawback may operate in respect of the Annual Bonus 
and Deferred Bonus Shares and PSP awards granted under the 
Kingfisher Performance Share Plan (KPSP) as well as legacy 
Alignment Shares and DVI awards granted under the Kingfisher 
Alignment Share and Transformation Incentive Plan (KASTIP). 
These provisions enable the company to reduce (including, if 
appropriate, to nil) the payout and vesting levels or to recover 
the relevant value following the cash bonus payout or vesting 
of shares. These provisions will apply to the cash bonus for a 
period of three years following payment, to the Deferred Bonus 
Awards during the three-year deferral period and for a period 
of two years following vesting of the PSP and legacy Alignment 
Share and DVI grants. These provisions could take effect in the 
event of financial misstatement, miscalculation due to an error, 
serious reputational damage, or material misconduct in 
individual cases.

Change of control
In the event of a change of control, share awards will normally 
vest subject to performance conditions. PSP awards, legacy 
Alignment Shares and DVI awards will normally be reduced on a 
time pro-rated basis in line with the treatment for good leavers, 
which is set out in the ‘Policy on payment for loss of office’ 
section of this Directors’ Remuneration Policy. Deferred Bonus 
share awards will normally vest on change of control. The 
Committee retains discretion to replace awards with an 
equivalent share award in the acquiring company.

The Committee may alternatively consider that such a reduction 
is inappropriate, e.g. if it is agreed with an acquirer to roll over 
outstanding awards. Other awards may be reduced at the 
Committee’s discretion.

Discretions
The Committee retains certain discretions in relation to the 
Annual Bonus Plan, which are set out in full in the plan rules, 
and which include but are not limited to:

 — The determination, and timing, of any bonus payment.

 — The impact of a change of control or restructuring.

 — Overriding formulaic outcomes in line with the provisions of 

the UK Corporate Governance Code.

 — Adjustments for accounting or equivalent changes for the 

Annual Bonus.

 — Any adjustments required as a result of a corporate event 

(such as a transaction, corporate restructuring event, special 
dividend, share buyback or rights issue).

Kingfisher 2022/23 Annual Report and Accounts

83

Directors’ remuneration report continued

Discretions set out as part of this Policy provide the Committee 
with discretion in certain matters regarding the administration 
and operation of Deferred Bonus and KPSP awards as well as 
legacy Alignment Shares and DVI awards (as set out in the 
corresponding plan rules approved by shareholders), including, 
but not limited to the following:

 — The assessment of good leaver status.

 — Overriding formulaic outcomes in line with the provisions 

of the UK Corporate Governance Code.

 — Adjustments for accounting or equivalent changes for the 

KPSP and the KASTIP.

 — Minor administrative matters to improve the efficiency of 
the operation of the plans or to comply with local tax law 
or regulation.

 — Any adjustments to performance conditions or awards 
required as a result of a corporate event (such as a 
transaction, corporate restructuring event, special 
dividend, share buyback or rights issue).

In relation to the Annual Bonus Plan, KPSP awards, legacy 
Alignment Shares and DVI awards, and in line with the plan rules, 
the Committee retains the ability to amend the performance 
conditions and/or measures in respect of any award or payment 
if one or more event(s) occur that would lead the Committee 
to consider that it would be appropriate to do so, provided 
that such an amendment would not be materially less difficult 
to satisfy than the original performance condition would have 
been but for the event in question.

Should the Committee use any of the discretions set out above, 
these would, where relevant, be disclosed in the following Annual 
Report on Remuneration. The views of major shareholders 
may also be sought. Discretion in relation to the company’s 
All-Employee Share Plans (Sharesave and SIP) would be 
exercised within the parameters of the HMRC-approved 
plan status and the FCA’s Listing Rules.

Legacy awards
In-flight awards made before the adoption of this Policy will 
continue in line with the approved Policy under which they were 
granted. Further details of these awards can be found within the 
Remuneration Policy approved at the 9 July 2019 AGM and 
included within the 2018/19, 2019/20, 2020/21 and 2021/22 
Annual Report and Accounts.

Differences in Remuneration Policy for all employees
The remuneration structure for members of the Group Executive 
follows a similar approach as for the executive directors but 
with a lower maximum opportunity as appropriate under the 
Annual Bonus and KPSP. The performance measures attached 
to the Annual Bonus are a combination of Group financial and 
strategic measures, banner-specific financial and strategic 
measures and/or functional measures, depending on the Group 
Executive member’s role and responsibilities. Like the executive 
directors, bonus earned over 100% of salary is paid into 
deferred shares. KPSP awards for the Group Executive have 
the same performance conditions as the executive directors.

84

Kingfisher 2022/23 Annual Report and Accounts

For the next two levels of management below the Group 
Executive, the remuneration structure consists of base salary, 
benefits, pension, Annual Bonus and KPSP awards. Performance 
measures attached to the Annual Bonus are tailored to reflect 
the position of the individual and the part of the business in 
which they operate, and as such are a combination of Group 
financial and strategic measures, banner-specific financial and 
strategic measures and/or functional measures. Vesting of the 
KPSP awards for these colleagues will be primarily based on 
the same measures as the executive directors and Group 
Executive, however there is also an element based on time 
in employment only for these colleagues.

All other employees are entitled to base salary and benefits and 
may also receive bonus, pension, profit share and share awards, 
which vary according to local jurisdiction and market practice. 
The maximum provision and incentive opportunity available 
are determined by the seniority and responsibility of the role.

Statement of consideration of employment conditions 
elsewhere in the company
The CPO is invited to present to the Committee the proposals 
for salary increases for the employee population generally and 
on any other remuneration changes. The CPO consults with the 
Committee on the performance conditions for the executive 
directors’ bonuses and the extent to which these should be 
cascaded to other employees. The Committee has oversight 
of all long-term incentive awards across the Group.

The Committee is provided with data on the remuneration 
structure for all individuals in Kingfisher’s leadership team, which 
includes retail banner CEOs and Group function directors. The 
Committee approves the policy on share award levels for all 
employees and uses this information to ensure that there is 
consistency of approach across Kingfisher.

The Group did not consult with employees when drafting the 
Directors’ Remuneration Policy. However as part of a Kingfisher 
Colleague Forum, colleagues were advised on remuneration 
arrangements of executive directors and how these align 
with the arrangements offered elsewhere in the organisation.

Statement of consideration of shareholder views
When determining the Remuneration Policy, the Committee 
consulted with the company’s largest shareholders in respect 
of changes to the proposals and also reviewed best practice 
guidelines issued by institutional investor bodies. The Committee 
took on board the feedback received when finalising the proposals.

The Committee continues to always be open to feedback from 
shareholders on our Remuneration Policy and remuneration 
arrangements and commits to ensuring consultation with our 
largest shareholders in advance of any significant changes to 
the Remuneration Policy or structure. The Committee continues 
to monitor trends and developments in corporate governance 
and market practice to ensure the structure of executive 
remuneration remains appropriate.

Strategic ReportGovernanceFinancial StatementsSection 40 disclosures
When considering the Policy and its implementation, the 
Committee took into account Provision 40 of the UK Corporate 
Governance Code and considers the framework meets the 
factors under the provisions as follows:

 — Clarity: The Committee has provided transparent disclosures 
regarding the Remuneration Policy and structure. Changes 
have been explained in the context of alignment to the strategy 
and market practice. The Remuneration Committee Chair has 
engaged with our shareholders on the Remuneration Policy. 
The Company has explained the remuneration structure with 
the relevant broader population through a variety of methods 
including group and one-on-one meetings and guides.

 — Simplicity: The Committee has improved the simplicity of 

the incentive arrangements with fewer measures with more 
meaningful weightings on the Annual Bonus than under the 
previous Policy. There is only one share award plan applicable 
for executive directors (and other employees), the KPSP, 
which is market-aligned in structure and granted annually.

 — Risk: The Committee believes that the incentive structures 

under the Remuneration Policy do not encourage inappropriate 
risk taking. The targets set for the Annual Bonus and KPSP are 
stretching and set in line with strategic priorities and sustainable 
value creation. All incentive arrangements have malus and 
clawback provisions including in the event of serious reputational 
damage and for material misconduct. The Committee can 
also override formulaic outcomes if it concludes that incentive 
outcomes are not representative of underlying performance.

 — Predictability: The Annual Bonus and KPSP have maximum levels 
of opportunity with vesting/payment outcomes dependent on 
achievement of performance measures. The range of vesting/
payment outcomes is set out in the scenario charts on page 87 
which also demonstrate the impact of a 50% share price 
increase from date of grant to vesting.

 — Proportionality: Performance conditions attached to the Annual 

Bonus and PSP are directly and clearly linked to the achievement 
of Kingfisher’s strategic priorities both in the short and longer 
term. The level of stretch in the performance conditions have 
been and continue to be set to compensate participants 
accordingly. Bonus deferral, KPSP holding periods and 
shareholding requirements (including post-exit) ensure 
significant alignment to long-term value creation.

 — Alignment to culture: As discussed above, there is a 

strong alignment of the incentive arrangements under the 
Remuneration Policy with Kingfisher’s strategic priorities.

Approach for recruitment remuneration

Area

Policy and operation

Overall

When hiring a new executive director, or making internal promotions to the Board, the Committee will apply the Remuneration Policy.  
The rationale for the package offered will be explained in the following Annual Report on Remuneration.

For internal promotions, any commitments made prior to appointment may continue to be honoured as the executive is transitioned to 
the new remuneration arrangements. Where an individual is promoted after the annual KPSP award has been granted, an award may be 
made to bring the executive on to the in-flight cycle at an opportunity level reflecting their new role, subject to the limits set out in the 
Policy. Awards may be pro-rated to reflect the remaining portion of the vesting period. Any award will take into consideration awards 
granted prior to promotion.

The Policy below is consistent with the principles of the previous Recruitment Policy, which have been adapted in line with the new 
remuneration structure.

Base  
salary

Base salary would be set at an appropriate level to recruit the best candidate based on their skills, experience and current remuneration.

Benefits

Benefits provision would be in line with the normal Policy.

Where appropriate, the executive may also receive relocation benefits or other benefits reflective of normal market practice in the 
territory in which the executive director is employed.

Pension

Pension provision would be in line with the normal Policy.

Incentive 
awards

Incentive awards would be made under the Annual Bonus and KPSP in line with the normal Policy, which determines the maximum 
incentive awards that can be made.

Where an individual joins after the annual KPSP has been granted, an award may be made to bring the executive on to the in-flight cycle 
subject to the limits set out in the Policy. Awards may be pro-rated to reflect the remaining portion of the vesting period.

Buyout 
awards

In addition to normal incentive awards, buyout awards may be made to reflect value forfeited through an individual leaving their 
previous employer.

If a buyout award is required, the Committee would aim to reflect the nature, timing and value of awards forgone in any replacement 
awards. Awards may be made in cash, as KPSP awards, shares with vesting based on time only or by any other method deemed 
appropriate by the Committee. Where possible, share awards will be replaced with share awards.

Where performance conditions applied to the forfeited awards, performance conditions will be applied to the replacement award or 
the award size will be discounted accordingly.

In establishing the appropriate value of any buyout, the Committee would also take into account the value of the other elements of 
the new remuneration package.

The Committee would aim to minimise the cost to the company; however, buyout awards are not subject to a formal maximum. 
Any awards would be broadly no more valuable than those being replaced.

Kingfisher 2022/23 Annual Report and Accounts

85

Directors’ remuneration report continued

Policy for payment for loss of office

Area

Notice period

Non-compete

Executive directors’ 
contractual termination 
payment

Policy

12 months’ notice by either the director or the company.

During employment and for 12 months after cessation of active employment.

Resignation 
No payments on departure will be made on termination, even if by mutual agreement the notice period is cut short.

Departure not in the case of resignation 
For the period of notice served, the executive director may continue to receive their monthly base salary, benefits and 
pension. During this time, at the discretion of the company, they may continue their duties or be assigned garden leave.

For the period of notice not served, the executive director may receive a payment in lieu of notice.

No other payments should be due on departure.

Settlement agreement 
The Committee may agree payments it considers reasonable in settlement of legal claims.

This may include an entitlement to compensation in respect of a director’s statutory rights under employment 
protection legislation in the UK or in other jurisdictions.

The Committee may also include in such payments reasonable reimbursement of professional fees in connection with 
such agreements.

Treatment of incentives 
for bad leavers

Any outstanding awards under any incentive plans will lapse in the event of the Committee determining the departing 
individual to be a bad leaver as defined by the Plan Rules.

Leaver provisions  
for Annual Bonus  
for good leavers

Bonus payments may be receivable at the normal date, pro-rated for time, and taking into account performance 
achieved. Bonus deferral still applies.

Deferred Bonus awards vest on the normal date in full.

Performance Share Plan 
for good leavers 

Where the participant ceases to be employed as a result of death, the Deferred Bonus award will vest in full shortly 
after the company is notified.

The Committee retains the ultimate discretion to make bonus payments and determine the basis upon which 
they are made (including if bonus deferral still applies) and their vehicle and value, taking into account the individual 
circumstances of the departure. The Committee may, in its discretion, accelerate vesting of the Deferred Bonus 
award up to the point of departure.

Awards will vest on the normal date, pro-rated for time, and will take into account performance achieved.

The Committee retains discretion to further reduce the awards granted to reflect any personal performance issues or 
accelerate vesting.

Where the participant ceases to be employed as a result of death, the award will vest shortly after the company 
is notified, pro-rated for time, and taking into account the Committee’s assessment of performance achieved to 
that date.

The Committee may decide, acting fairly and reasonably, that any adjustment set out above to reduce the vesting of 
the award would be inappropriate.

Shareholding 
requirements

Upon leaving the company, the shareholding requirement will continue to apply for two years.

The shareholding requirement will be 100% of the shareholding requirement for two years after departure.

Chair and non-executive 
directors’ contractual 
termination payment

Shareholding requirements will no longer apply in the case of death. At its discretion, the Committee may apply the 
same treatment in cases of ill health.

Non-executive directors are appointed under letters of engagement.

Appointments have historically been for an initial period of three years and invitations to act for subsequent three-year 
terms are subject to a review of performance and take into account the need to progressively refresh the Board.

The appointment may be terminated by either party giving the other not less than three months’ prior written notice, 
unless terminated earlier in accordance with the company’s Articles of Association.

The company has no obligation to pay compensation when the appointment terminates.

Leavers will be treated for all-employee share plans in line with the plan rules of the relevant share plan. Good leaver is defined under the plan 
rules, and relates to individuals who leave as a result of:
 — ill health, injury or disability;
 — death;
 — redundancy;
 — transfer of employer or employing business out of Group;
 — retirement; or
 — any other reason that the Committee decides.

A bad leaver is any leaver not defined as a good leaver.

86

Kingfisher 2022/23 Annual Report and Accounts

Strategic ReportGovernanceFinancial StatementsIllustration of the application of the Remuneration Policy
The tables and charts below provide estimates of the potential total future remuneration for each executive director based on the 
remuneration opportunity expected to be granted in 2023/24. Potential outcomes for each executive director, based on three 
different performance scenarios, are shown.

Value of 
package (£’000)

0

500

1,000

1,500

2,000

2,500

3,000

3,500

4,000

4,500

5,000

5,500

i

r
e
n
r
a
G
y
r
r
e
h
T

i

Maximum

17%

Target

28%

2%

1%

4%

1%

11%

Below
threshold

85%

£1,033

4%

34%

46%

£5,225

28%

39%

£3,129

Maximum

18%

Target

29%

t
o
B
d
r
a
n
r
e
B

2%

1%

4%

2%

11%

33%

46%

£3,540

27%

38%

£2,137

Below
threshold

85%

£735

4%

Base salary

Pension

Beneﬁts  

Annual Bonus

Performance Share Plan

Notes:
Base salary: reflects the salary effective from 1 April 2023.
Benefits: estimate based upon benefits received during 2022/23 as recorded in the single total figure of remuneration table (excluding the relocation allowance 
for Thierry Garnier).
Pension: shown as a percentage of salary in line with Policy.
Fixed remuneration: comprises base salary, benefits and pension.
Short-term variable compensation comprises the Annual Bonus including the deferred element. Long-term variable compensation comprises the PSP.
The Committee has also calculated the implied maximum remuneration scenario with the overlay of 50% share price increase on any vested PSP awards.  
This would equate to a total value of £6,438k for Thierry Garnier’s package and £4,350k for Bernard Bot’s package.

Below threshold

On-target

Maximum

Only the fixed pay elements (base salary, 
benefits and pension) of the package 
are received.

Minimum performance targets for the Annual 
Bonus and PSP are not achieved, therefore 
no payments are made, and awards will lapse.

Fixed pay elements plus target Annual Bonus 
are received and target PSP vest.

Fixed pay elements plus maximum Annual Bonus 
are received and full vesting under the PSP.

Annual Bonus on-target performance is 
achieved, 50% of the bonus paying out (100% 
of salary for CEO, 95% of salary for CFO).

PSP vesting at 50% of maximum (137.5% 
of salary for CEO, 130% of salary for CFO).

Annual Bonus maximum performance 
achieved, resulting in a bonus of 200% 
and 190% of salary for the CEO and 
CFO respectively.

Full vesting under the PSP (275% of salary 
for CEO, 260% of salary for CFO).

Kingfisher 2022/23 Annual Report and Accounts

87

 
 
Directors’ remuneration report continued

Annual Report on Remuneration

This section of the report outlines how the Committee implemented the Directors’ Remuneration Policy (the Policy) in the financial 
year. This report, together with the Annual Statement from the Chair of the Remuneration Committee will be put to shareholders for 
approval at the 2023 AGM. Shareholder approval in respect of the Annual Report on Remuneration is on an advisory basis only.

These reports have been prepared in accordance with the Large and Medium-sized Companies and Groups (Accounts and 
Reports) Regulations 2008 (as amended) and include the items required to be disclosed under 9.8.6R and 9.8.8R of the Financial 
Conduct Authority’s Listing Rules. Where information disclosed has been subject to audit by the Group’s auditor, Deloitte LLP, 
this is highlighted.

The Remuneration Committee

The Committee has delegated authority from the Board over the company’s remuneration framework and Policy. The role of the 
Committee is set out in the terms of reference, which are reviewed annually and are available on the website.

The 2022/23 effectiveness evaluation was facilitated by external provider, Independent Audit, and concluded that the Committee 
operates effectively and raised no areas of immediate concern. Further detail on the evaluation process can be found on page 69.

Committee composition
The Committee comprised the following members during the year:

Claudia Arney*

Catherine Bradley

Jeff Carr

Andrew Cosslett

Rakhi Goss-Custard

 * Chair of the Committee.

Date appointed  
to the Committee

1 November 18

2 November 20

29 January 19

13 June 17

13 March 18

Eligible

Attended 

4

4

4

4

4

4

4

4

4

4

Non-executive directors, who are not members, may also attend Committee meetings. The CEO, CFO, CPO, Group Reward Director, 
Executive Reward Manager and the Committee’s remuneration advisers were regular attendees at Committee meetings held during 
the year. No individual was present when his or her own remuneration or benefits were discussed.

88

Kingfisher 2022/23 Annual Report and Accounts

Strategic ReportGovernanceFinancial Statements 
Activities during the year

The significant matters considered by the Committee during the year are set out below:

Areas of Committee 
focus 

Directors’ Remuneration 
Policy

Items discussed

Approved the Remuneration Policy (approved at the 2022 AGM) following consultation with shareholders. 

Salary review and 
remuneration decisions

Reviewed and approved the salary proposals in respect of the Group Executive and executive directors, effective 
from April 2023. Also reviewed and approved salary proposals for the Chair of the Board and the Company Secretary.

Annual Bonus 

Judged performance against the 2021/22 strategic measures and agreed the 2021/22 Annual Bonus outturn and 
final level of payment for the members of the Group Executive and executive directors.

Approved measures for the 2022/23 Annual Bonus.

Assessed performance against the 2022/23 Annual Bonus measures and reviewed the year-end forecast.

Approved amendments to the Annual Bonus Plan Rules effective for the 2022/23 Annual Bonus.

Alignment Shares

Reviewed the performance of the 2019 Alignment Share awards and determined that the awards would vest in full.

Delivering Value 
Incentive

Assessed performance to date of the 2020 and 2021 Alignment Shares, which will vest in 2023 and 2024 respectively. 

Reviewed performance of the first performance period of the 2019 DVI award and determined the formulaic outturn.

Monitored performance of the second performance period of the 2019 DVI award. 

Performance Share Plan 

Approved the Kingfisher Performance Share Plan Rules which were submitted to shareholders for approval at the 
2022 AGM.

Approved the performance measures and targets of the 2022 PSP following consultation with shareholders. 
Approved subsequent grant of awards.

Assessed performance to date of the 2022 PSP award which will vest in 2025.

Considered and approved the measures and targets of the 2023 PSP. 

Governance and other 
areas of focus

Kept under review the company’s approach to wider workforce remuneration and the company’s response to 
pressures on cost of living.

Considered and approved the company’s guidelines on share ownership.

Monitored developments in corporate governance and market practice in respect of executive remuneration.

Reviewed the output of the annual evaluation of the Committee.

Reviewed and approved the 2021/22 Directors’ remuneration report.

Reviewed the principles of the executive travel and expenses policy.

Received updates on and considered Kingfisher’s gender pay gap reporting.

Advisers to the Committee

During the financial year ended 31 January 2023, PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP (PwC) provided services to the Committee. The 
advice received from PwC by the Committee was considered, and it was determined that PwC provides objective and independent 
advice to the Committee. The Committee is satisfied that the PwC engagement partner and team, who provide remuneration advice 
to the Committee, do not have connections with the Group that may impair their objectivity and independence.

PwC was appointed by the Committee as its principal adviser on 1 February 2013 following a robust tender process. PwC is a member of, 
and adheres to, the Code of Conduct for Remuneration Consultants (which can be found at www.remunerationconsultantsgroup.com). 
During the year, PwC provided the Committee with executive remuneration advice. PwC also provided Kingfisher with reward advice 
for below-Board staff, tax advice, accounting advice, and legal advice during the year. For services provided to the Remuneration 
Committee, the fees paid to PwC were £155,750. These fees were incurred through a retainer, and on a time and expenses basis.

Voting at the 2022 Annual General Meeting (AGM)

The following table shows the results of the advisory vote on the Annual Report on Remuneration and the binding vote on the 
Remuneration Policy at the 2022 AGM.

Resolution

Annual Report on Remuneration

Directors’ Remuneration Policy

Votes for
(and % of  
votes cast)

Votes against
(and % of  
votes cast)

Proportion  
shares  
voted

Shares on  
which votes  
were withheld

1,676,791,695
(96.36%)

63,391,071 
(3.64%)

1,620,253,983
(93.11%)

119,882,346
(6.89%)

86.57%

150,191

86.57%

195,473

Kingfisher 2022/23 Annual Report and Accounts

89

Directors’ remuneration report continued

Single total figure of remuneration for the executive directors (audited information)

The table below sets out the remuneration of each of the executive directors for the financial year ended 31 January 2023 and the 
comparative figures for the financial year ended 31 January 2022. The Committee did not exercise any discretion in determining the 
incentive outcomes for the year being reported on.

Name 

Executive director

Thierry Garnier

Bernard Bot

Total

1. Base  
salary  
£’000

2. Taxable 
benefits 
£’000

3. Annual 
Bonus  
£’000

4. Alignment 
Shares  
£’000

5. Pension 
£’000

6. Total  
Fixed pay 
£’000

7. Total 
Variable 
Pay 
£’000

8. Total 
Pay  
£’000

2022/23

2021/22

2022/23

2021/22

2022/23

2021/22

836.4

813.3

590.7

574.4

1,427.1

1,387.8

52.0

43.3

33.7

35.3

85.8

78.7

265.2

634.4

177.9

448.0

443.2

1,082.4

680.01

816.12

480.31

295.12

1,160.31

1,111.22

104.6

101.7 

73.8

71.8 

178.4

173.5 

993.0

958.3

698.3

681.6

1,691.3

1,639.9

945.3

1,938.3

1,450.5

2,408.9

658.2

743.2

1,356.5

1,424.7

1,603.5

3,294.8

2,193.7

3,833.6

1. 

100% of the 2020 Alignment Share award granted to Thierry Garnier and Bernard Bot will vest on 28 July 2023. These awards in the table above have been 
valued based on the average share price during the three-month period to 31 January 2023 of 246.1p. Values include dividend equivalents accrued since the 
date of grant. The difference between the share price at the date of grant of the 2020 Alignment Shares (of 249.3p) and the three-month share price average 
is -0.3p. No value was attributable to share price growth. No discretion has been exercised as a result of the share price change.

2.  The value of the 2019 Alignment Share award for Thierry Garnier and Bernard Bot has been updated using the share price at date of vesting (30 July 2022) of 
258.6p and includes values of dividend equivalents accrued from date of grant to vesting. The difference between the share price at the date of grant of the 
2019 Alignment Shares (215.4p) and the date of vesting (258.6p) is 43.2p which means that £136k and £49k of 2019 Alignment Shares values detailed in the table 
above have been delivered through share price growth performance for Thierry Garnier and Bernard Bot respectively. No discretion has been exercised as 
a result of the share price change.

Notes to the single total figure of remuneration table

1. Base salary (audited information)
A 3% salary increase was awarded to the executive directors for the 2022/23 financial year which was in line with the increase 
awarded to the wider UK workforce based in head offices.

 Name

Executive director

Thierry Garnier 

Bernard Bot 

As at 1 April 2022 
£’000

As at 1 April 2021  
£’000

% increase

840.5

593.6

816.0

576.3

3%

3%

2. Taxable benefits (audited information)
The benefits provided to executive directors for both 2022/23 and 2021/22 included car benefit (or cash allowance), private medical 
insurance, life assurance, tax advice and where applicable, relocation support.

Name

Executive director

Thierry Garnier 

Bernard Bot

1.  Both directors opt for a cash allowance.

Car benefit1
£’000

Medical  
£’000

Relocation
support2
£’000

Tax
advice3
£’000

Life  
assurance 
£’000

Total  
2022/23  
£’000

Total  
2021/22  
£’000

25

25

9.9

6.4

11.9

n/a

1.9

n/a

3.4

2.4

52.0

33.7

43.3

35.3

2.  As Thierry Garnier moved from China to the UK as part of his appointment as CEO, in line with the Remuneration Policy, he was entitled to relocation support 

of up to 50% of salary. The majority of support was provided to him in 2019 and 2020. He continued to receive residual relocation support in 2022.

3.  This benefit relates to ongoing annual tax preparation assistance provided to the CEO. This assistance is limited to income tax return preparation required in 

respect of the CEO’s employment income. Note that this figure is inclusive of tax payable on expenses reimbursed.

90

Kingfisher 2022/23 Annual Report and Accounts

Strategic ReportGovernanceFinancial Statements 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
3. Annual Bonus (audited information)
The purpose of the Annual Bonus is to focus executives on the achievement of measures that are critical to the Kingfisher strategy. 
The 2022/23 Annual Bonus for the executive directors was based on the following measures:

 — 40% Adjusted pre-tax profit;

 — 40% Like-for-like sales growth (LFL sales growth);

 — 10% Own exclusive brands (OEB) sales growth; and

 — 10% Digital sales growth.

The following table sets out the targets that were set in respect of each of these measures, the corresponding achievement against 
those targets during the year ending 31 January 2023, and the resulting payout.

Measure

Adjusted pre-tax profit (40%)

LFL sales growth (40%)

OEB sales growth (10%)

Digital sales growth (10%)

Total Outturn

Threshold 
(10% of max)

£761m

(4.8)%

(4.8)%

(3.6)%

Targets

Target
(50% of max) 

£855m

0.2%

0.2%

6.4%

Stretch  
(100% of max)

£949m

5.2%

5.2%

16.4%

Achievement

£757.8m

(2.1)%

(2.1)%

(8.8)%

Outturn

0.0%

12.7%

3.2%

0.0%

15.9%

At the Remuneration Committee meeting in March 2023, the Committee considered performance against all measures and targets 
set at the beginning of the year and concluded that all remain relevant over the performance period. Note for Adjusted pre-tax profit, 
for bonus purposes, this is calculated on constant currency which is why this value slightly differs from the rest of the Annual Report.

This means that the total outturn under the 2022/23 annual bonus for executive directors is 15.9% of maximum. The final payout 
equates to 31.7% of salary for the CEO and 30.1% of salary for the CFO which is £265,218 and £177,944 respectively. In line with the 
Policy, as the bonus is less than 100% of salary, it was wholly delivered in cash.

In determining whether this level of bonus outturn is appropriate, the Committee has considered a wide range of factors including 
financial performance, the value delivered to shareholders, the treatment of the wider workforce as well as other stakeholders. The 
Committee concluded that a bonus of 15.9% of maximum for 2022/23 is appropriate and that there are no factors which would call for 
discretion or judgement to be applied. This level of performance against the relevant measures will also apply to our bonused 
colleagues throughout the Group as appropriate.

4. Alignment Shares (audited information)
At the March 2023 Remuneration Committee meeting, the Committee reviewed performance against the underpins attached to the 
Alignment Shares awarded in 2020 that are due to vest in 2023. Both the executive directors have a 2020 Alignment Share award. 
The ratio of net debt to EBITDA for 2022/23 is 1.6 times. This means the underpin of a net debt to EBITDA ratio of below 2.5 times has 
been met. The proposed total year dividend for 2022/23 is 12.40p. This is more than 3.33p required for the maintenance of dividend 
underpin to be met. The dividend cover calculated as the ratio of reported adjusted EPS to full year ordinary dividend per share is 
also above the required underpin of 1.75 times at 2.40 times. This means that 100% of the executive directors’ awards will vest on 
28 July 2023. The Committee believes this outturn is appropriate and is reflective of performance over the performance period. 
The Committee reviewed the vesting of the Alignment Share awards to determine whether it included any windfall gains. However, 
as the Alignment Share awards were granted after the share price had recovered from the immediate impacts of the pandemic, 
it determined that there was no windfall gain to account for, and therefore no adjustment was necessary. This is evidenced by the 
fact that the share price at grant was 249.3p, significantly above the share price, pre-pandemic, and at the start of the financial year 
of 204p. The vested awards are subject to a two-year holding period.

The number and value of the awards vested for the current executive directors are as follows:

 Name

Executive director

Thierry Garnier 

Bernard Bot

Number of  
shares  
vested1

Number of  
dividend  
equivalents2

Value of  
shares vested3
£’000

255,013

180,103

21,317

15,054

680.0

480.3

1.  The number of shares shown represents the proportion of the Alignment Share award granted in July 2020, which is expected to vest on 28 July 2023.

2.  Based on dividends accrued to date of publication of the report.

3.  Calculated using the three-month average share price to 31 January 2023 of 246.1p. No value was attributable to share price growth.

Kingfisher 2022/23 Annual Report and Accounts

91

 
 
 
Directors’ remuneration report continued

5. Pensions (audited information)
Executive directors based in the UK are eligible to join the UK defined contribution pension plan (the DC Scheme). No executive 
director has a prospective right to a defined benefit pension.

The company operates a policy for all employees to limit the combined employer and member pension contributions during a tax 
year to the annual allowance, with the excess employer contribution being directed into a taxable monthly cash allowance. In addition, 
employees may opt out of the scheme completely. The executive directors have both opted to receive a cash allowance of 12.5% of 
salary in lieu of pension employer contribution. This is aligned to the offering to the wider UK workforce as detailed in Remuneration 
Policy on page 80.

A summary of the arrangements for the executive directors is set out below.

Name

Executive director

Thierry Garnier 

Bernard Bot 

Pension benefits paid during the year

Name

Executive director

Thierry Garnier

Bernard Bot

Notional employer contribution rate into 
defined contribution pension scheme 
for which the individual is eligible

Member of the  
UK DC Scheme?

Cash allowance 
in lieu of employer 
contributions 
into DC Scheme

Cash allowance rate  
as % of salary

14%

14%

No

No

Yes, in full

Yes, in full

12.5%

12.5%

Employer contributions 
into DC Scheme  
£’000

Cash alternative  
£’000

Total 2022/23  
£’000

Total  
pension benefit as  
a % of base salary

n/a 

n/a 

104.6

73.8

104.6

73.8

12.5%

12.5%

Payments to past directors (audited information)

As communicated in the 2021/22 Remuneration Report part of Véronique Laury’s 2019 Alignment Share award vested in 2022. The 
number of shares and the values of these awards on the vesting date are as follows:

Awards

Vesting date

Number of shares 
vested1

Number of dividend 
equivalents2

Value of shares vested3
£’000

2019 Alignment Share Award (based on performance underpins)

30 July 2022

166,291

11,294

459.2

1. 

100% of the 2019 Alignment Share grant vested based on achievement of performance underpins.

2.  Based on dividends accrued to vesting date.

3.  Values have been calculated using the closing share price on the vesting date which is 258.6p for the 2019 Alignment Share Award.

These awards are subject to a two-year holding period.

Payments for loss of office (audited information)

There were no payments made to directors for loss of office.

Outside appointments for executive directors

Subject to the rules governing conflicts of interest, Kingfisher is supportive of its executive directors holding one external  
non-executive position. The exercise of such roles can provide valuable insight for the executive directors, which can be of 
benefit to Kingfisher. Subject to the Committee’s agreement, the individual may retain any fees applicable for these roles.

Thierry Garnier was appointed a non-executive director and a member of the remuneration committee at Tesco plc on 30 April 2021. 
Thierry receives £98,250 per annum for fulfilling this role. Bernard Bot is a non-executive director and a member of the audit 
committee at A.P. Møller–Mærsk A/S. Bernard receives 1,300,000DKK per annum for fulfilling this role.

Both executive directors retain their fees.

92

Kingfisher 2022/23 Annual Report and Accounts

Strategic ReportGovernanceFinancial Statements 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Performance graph

The graph below shows Kingfisher’s total shareholder return for the 10 years to 31 January 2023, which assumes that £100 was 
invested in Kingfisher on 1 February 2013. The company chose the FTSE 100 Index as an appropriate comparator for this graph,  
as Kingfisher has been a constituent of that index for the majority of the period.

200

150

)
£
(

l

e
u
a
V

100

1 Feb 2013

31 Jan 2014

31 Jan 2015

31 Jan 2016

31 Jan 2017

31 Jan 2018

31 Jan 2019

31 Jan 2020

31 Jan 2021

31 Jan 2022

31 Jan 2023

Kingﬁsher

FTSE 100

CEO’s remuneration over the last 10 years

The table below sets out the total remuneration of the holder of the office of CEO for the period from 1 February 2013 to 
31 January 2023.

Year

CEO 

2013/14 Sir Ian Cheshire

2014/15 Sir Ian Cheshire/Véronique Laury4

2015/16 Véronique Laury

2016/17 Véronique Laury

2017/18 Véronique Laury

2018/19 Véronique Laury

2019/20 Véronique Laury/Thierry Garnier7

2020/21 Thierry Garnier

2021/22 Thierry Garnier

2022/23 Thierry Garnier

Value of 
bonus 
awarded 
£’000

Original 
Alignment 
Share grant 
as a % of
salary2

Bonus % of 
maximum
awarded1

Alignment 
Share % of 
maximum
vesting2

Value of 
shares vested 
£’000 

Original LTIP 
grant level as 
a % of
salary3

LTIP % of 
maximum 
vesting

Value of 
vested 
shares 
£’000

CEO’s single 
figure £’000

32.0

12.3

69.1

90.0

87.0

82.0

0

79.8

97.5

15.9

532.7

202.6

967.4

537.0

534.2

522.0

–

–

–

205

205

506

–

–

–

100

100

62.5

–

–

–

151.1

156.9

323.8

0

206/n/a8 25.0/n/a

136.2/n/a

510.7

634.4

265.2

n/a8

809

8010

n/a

100

100

n/a

816.1

680.0

500

n/a

n/a

200

200

n/a

n/a

n/a

n/a

n/a

1,799.4

3,455.4

31.1

n/a

n/a

n/a

n/a

24.5

100.1

0.0

n/a

n/a

n/a

n/a

n/a

0.0

n/a

n/a

n/a

n/a

n/a

1,306.1

1,983.0

1,715.1

1,582.6

1,761.3

1,178.7

1,656.2

2,408.9

1,938.3

1.  The maximum bonus opportunity was 200% of base salary up to the end of the 2015/16 financial year. The maximum bonus opportunity from 2016/17 to 

2021/22 was 80% of salary. The maximum bonus opportunity from 2022/23 onwards is 200% of salary.

2.  Element of reward introduced under the Remuneration Policy approved by shareholders at the 2016 AGM.

3.  The original LTIP grant shows the award level at the point of grant, three years prior to the date the vesting percentage was determined.

4.  Sir Ian Cheshire stepped down as CEO on 8 December 2014, at which point Véronique Laury took over the position. Sir Ian Cheshire’s remuneration in the table 
is from the start of the financial year up until 8 December 2014, and Véronique Laury’s is from 8 December 2014 to the end of the financial year. The single total 
figure in the table above shows the combined total remuneration for both Sir Ian Cheshire and Véronique Laury.

5.  This represents 25% of the total Alignment Share award (equivalent to 80% of salary) granted in 2016 and 2017 respectively. This portion vested upon grant. 
The remaining 75% of this award (equivalent to 60% of salary) may vest three years after the date of grant, subject to performance against the underpin 
measures set out in the corresponding Remuneration report.

6.  This represents 25% of the total Alignment Share award (equivalent to 80% of salary) granted in 2018 or 2019 (that vested upon grant) and 75% of the total 
Alignment Share award granted in 2016 (that partially vested in June 2019) and in 2017 (which lapsed in full) for Véronique Laury and which were subject to 
performance against the underpin measures set out in the corresponding Remuneration report.

7.  Véronique Laury stepped down as CEO on 24 September 2019, at which point Thierry Garnier took over the position. Véronique Laury’s remuneration in the 
table is from the start of the financial year up until 24 September 2019, and Thierry Garnier’s is from 25 September 2019 to the end of the financial year. The 
single total figure in the table above shows the combined total remuneration for both Véronique Laury and Thierry Garnier.

8.  100% of the Alignment Share award granted to Thierry Garnier (equivalent to 80% of salary) in 2019 and 2020 is subject to performance against the underpin 

measures set out in the corresponding Remuneration report.

9.  The figure for 2021/22 represents 100% of the 2019 Alignment Share Award granted to Thierry Garnier vesting based on performance against the underpins 
as detailed in this Remuneration report. 100% of the Alignment Share award granted to Thierry Garnier (equivalent to 80% of salary) in 2021 is subject to 
performance against the underpin measures set out in the corresponding Remuneration report.

10.  The figure for 2022/23 represents 100% of the 2020 Alignment Share Award granted to Thierry Garnier vesting based on performance against the underpins 

as detailed in this Remuneration report.

Kingfisher 2022/23 Annual Report and Accounts

93

 
Directors’ remuneration report continued

Change in the remuneration of the directors

The table below shows how the percentage change in each director’s (including the non-executive directors’) salary, fees, taxable 
benefits and bonus between 2020/21 and 2022/23 compared with the average percentage change of each of those components 
for all full-time equivalent employees based in Kingfisher plc (as required by regulations). In line with prior years, the percentage 
change for each director has also been compared to the UK employee workforce (the UK entities, including B&Q and Screwfix). 
The UK employee workforce is deemed to be a suitable comparator group as the executive directors are based in the UK 
(albeit with global roles and responsibilities) and pay changes across Kingfisher vary widely depending on local market conditions.

Base salary/fees1

Taxable benefits 

Bonus

2022/23

2021/22

2020/21

2022/23

2021/22

2020/21

2022/23

2021/22

2020/21

Executive directors

Thierry Garnier2

Bernard Bot2

Non-executive directors

Andrew Cosslett 

Claudia Arney

Catherine Bradley5

Jeff Carr

Sophie Gasperment7

Rakhi Goss-Custard

Bill Lennie8 

All Kingfisher plc employees 

All UK employees10

2.8%

2.8%

8.9%

8.9%

-6.7%

-6.7%

20.1%/
1.2%3

-4.5%

-85.8%/
-10.9%3

-1.0%

112%/
15.2%3

1.0%

-58.2%

-60.3%

24.2%

24.2%

3.0%

0.0%

23.2%6

11.6%6

0.0%

45.2%6

n/a

7.4%

11.0%

10.0%

12.8%

47.3%

12.8%

47.5%

13.3%

n/a

-9.1%

17.7%4

n/a

-10%

-10%

-10%

n/a

6.6%

1.1%

8.6%

n/a

n/a

n/a

n/a

n/a

n/a

n/a

n/a

n/a

n/a

n/a

n/a

n/a

n/a

n/a

n/a

n/a

n/a

n/a

n/a

n/a

n/a

n/a

n/a

n/a

n/a

n/a

n/a

n/a

n/a

n/a

n/a

-2.6%

-13.8%

7.1%

-0.6%

27.4%

12.5%

-31.8%9

-33.0%

-6.3%

-19.1%

-60.8%

-55.6%

70.1%

97.66%

3.4%

128.8%

n/a

n/a

n/a

n/a

n/a

n/a

n/a

n/a

n/a

1.  Percentages reflect cuts in salary and fees made between April 2020 and July 2020 for executive directors and between April 2020 and September 2020 for 

non-executive directors.

2.  Joined on 25 September 2019 and 19 October 2019: percentages between 2020/21 and 2019/20 have been calculated on a full-time basis. No bonus was paid 

for 2019/20 so percentage change between 2020/21 and 2019/20 could not be calculated.

3.  First figure includes relocation paid during 2022/23, 2021/22 and 2020/21, the second excludes it.

4.  Became Chair of the Remuneration Committee on 21 January 2020. Fee for this role is £20,000 on top of non-executive director fees.

5.  Joined on 2 November 2020 and became Senior Independent Director on 29 January 2021. Fee for this role is £20,000 on top of non-executive director fees. 

Percentages for 2021/22 have been calculated assuming full-time basis.

6.  The percentage change between 2021/22 and 2022/23 for the non-executive directors reflect that members of the Audit, Remuneration and Responsible 

Business Committee receive a fee of £10,000 from 1 February 2022.

7.  Started to receive a fee of £20,000 for Chair of Responsible Business Committee from 1 February 2021.

8.  Joined on 1 May 2022.

9.  The % change in the taxable benefits for employee population is related to the impact Covid-19 had on expenses and benefits claimed during the year.

10.  Includes all UK employees including those in B&Q and Screwfix.

Relative importance of spend on pay

The table below shows the relative importance of spend on employee remuneration when compared with distributions to shareholders.

Overall expenditure on pay

Share buybacks undertaken during the year1 

Total dividends paid in the year

2022/23 
£m

2,002

337

246

2021/22 
£m

2,049

157

254

Percentage change

-2.3%

114.6%

-3.1%

1.  During the year the Group purchased 131 million of the company’s own shares for cancellation at a cost of £337 million as part of its capital returns programme.

94

Kingfisher 2022/23 Annual Report and Accounts

Strategic ReportGovernanceFinancial Statements 
 
Pay ratio analysis

Year

Method

2022/23

2021/22

2020/21

2019/20

2018/19

Option B (i.e. 25th percentile, median and 75th percentile individual identified 
from our April 2022 gender pay gap analysis)

Option B1

Option B

Option B

Option B

25th percentile 
pay ratio

Median  
pay ratio

75th percentile 
pay ratio

92:1

127:1 

95:1

71:1

106:1

84:1

116:1

93:1

64:1

97:1

79:1

113:1

71:1

56:1

81:1

1.  Ratios for 2021/22 have been restated using actual share price at vesting of 2019 Alignment Share Award (258.6p) rather than the three month average share 

price, between November 2021 and January 2022, used at disclosure.

We have used Option B in the legislation to leverage the analysis completed as part of our UK gender pay gap reporting exercise. 
We have determined our 25th, median and 75th percentile individual using data from the respective 5 April snapshots. While gender 
pay gap legislation and CEO pay ratio legislation employ different calculations, the three identified UK employees receive similar 
remuneration structures, and therefore we are confident that they also represent broadly the same respective percentiles when 
calculated using the single figure of total remuneration methodology required in the CEO pay ratio calculation. Where relevant, each 
colleague’s pay and benefits were calculated on a full-time equivalent basis, and no further adjustments were made. The values for 
total remuneration for the 25th, median and 75th percentile were £21.1k, £23.0k and £24.6k respectively comprising salary and 
employer contribution to pension. The salaries for these employees were £20.1k, £21.7k and £23.7k respectively.

The majority of the Group’s workforce are store based. Given this workforce profile, the pay and benefits data used to calculate the 
CEO pay ratio are from colleagues who are store based. These colleagues’ reward structure comprises primarily fixed components 
while the CEO’s total remuneration is strongly linked to performance with a significant variable component. The year-on-year change 
at median can be attributed to the outturns of variable pay elements of the CEO in any given year. The year-on-year change for 
CEO can be explained by the change in vesting of Annual Bonus between 2021/22 and 2022/23. The remuneration structures for our 
colleagues are aligned to the market and to our remuneration principles. It is, therefore, the Committee’s view that the ratios remain 
consistent with pay and progression policies for UK employees.

Executive directors’ shareholdings and share interests (audited information)

Executive directors are required to build a significant shareholding in the company. Unvested awards are not included when assessing 
holding requirements. Vested awards are included when assessing holdings but are adjusted to take into account the tax liability 
arising on exercise.

The table below sets out the beneficial interests of the executive directors (or any connected persons) in the ordinary shares of the 
company and a summary of the outstanding share awards as at 31 January 2023. Calculations are based on a share price of 279.0p 
per share (being the closing price of a Kingfisher share on 31 January 2023).

Name

Executive director

Thierry Garnier5

Bernard Bot5

Shares held

Awards over nil-cost options

Vested  
but not
exercised1

Unvested and 
subject to 
continued
employment

Unvested and 
subject to 
performance 
conditions and 
continued
employment2

Shareholding 
requirement 
(% of base
salary)3

Shareholding  
31 Jan 23 
(% of base
salary)4

Number of shares  
held outright

31 Jan 23

31 Jan 22

100,000

100,000

320,224

80,000

80,000

115,791

– 

– 

4,809,189

2,822,064

350%

270%

90%

66%

1.  Nil-cost options and awards that have vested but have yet to be exercised are considered to count towards the shareholding requirement, other than any 
such shares that correspond to the estimated income tax and national insurance contributions that would arise on their exercise (estimated at 47% of the 
award). For Thierry Garnier and Bernard Bot, these awards include the 2019 Alignment Share awards which vested in 2022.

2.  These awards include nil-cost options to Thierry Garnier and Bernard Bot in respect of the 2020 and 2021 Alignment Share awards, the 2019 Delivering Value 

Incentive award and the 2022 Performance Share Plan award.

3.  Shareholding requirement as of 31 January 2023.

4.  Between 1 February 2023 and the date of this report, there were no changes in the beneficial interests of the executive directors’ shareholdings.

5.  As potential beneficiaries of the Kingfisher Employee Benefit Trust (the Trust), Thierry Garnier and Bernard Bot are deemed to have an interest in the 

company’s ordinary shares held by the Trust. The Trust held 6,580,388 ordinary shares at 31 January 2023.

Kingfisher 2022/23 Annual Report and Accounts

95

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Directors’ remuneration report continued

Share awards made during the financial year (audited information)

Options and awards over shares were made during the year ended 31 January 2023 under the Kingfisher Performance Share Plan 
rules (KPSP) in respect of the 2022 Performance Share Plan award (PSP).

2022 Performance Share Award

Name

Thierry Garner

Bernard Bot

1.  Vesting date of 24 June 2025.

Date of grant1

Number of shares

24 June 2022

24 June 2022

958,944

640,309

Face value of award2
£’000

End of performance
period3 

2,333

1,558

31 Jan 25

31 Jan 25

Final exercise
date4

24 May 32

24 May 32

2.  The number of shares, at the time of grant, was based on 275% and 260% of base salary for the CEO and CFO respectively and the three-day average closing 
share price preceding the date of grant. The awards were made under the KPSP and the value above is based on the closing share price as at the date of 
grant, of 243.3 p per share for 24 June 2022.

3.  The shares will vest subject to performance against the performance conditions over the period to the end of the 2024/25 financial year.

4.  The awards are structured as nil-cost options and have an exercise period of seven years less one month.

The performance conditions attached to the 2022 Performance Share Award are as follows:

Target

Threshold (25% vesting)

Stretch (100% vesting)

2024/25 EPS (25%)

2024/25 ROCE (25%)

36.5p

47.5p

12.85%

16.30%

TSR Percentile vs. relative  
TSR peer group (25%)

50th 

75th 

ESG  
(25% weighting)

Target

Threshold (25% vesting)

Target (50% vesting)

Stretch (100% vesting)

Climate Change  
(reduction in scope 1 and 2 emissions)

Forest Positive  
(% of wood and paper responsibly  
sourced as a % of SKUs purchased)

Gender Diversity  
(% of women in senior leadership)

31.0% 

34.0%

37.8%

95.0%

98.0%

99.5%

30%

33%

35%

For the EPS, ROCE and Relative TSR measures, there will be straight-line vesting between Threshold and Stretch. For the ESG 
measures, there will be straight-line vesting between Threshold and Target and Target and Stretch.

TSR will be measured against the combined group of the constituents of the FTSE 350 Retailers, FTSE 350 Drug and Grocery Stores 
as well as the STOXX 600 Drug and Grocery Stores as at 1 February 2022.

2023 Performance Share Plan Award

The Committee intends to grant Thierry Garnier and Bernard Bot a PSP award with a maximum opportunity of 275% and 260% of 
base salary respectively at the next grant date (expected to be late April 2023).

The performance conditions attached to the vesting of the 2023 grant remain the same as for the 2022 award and are EPS, ROCE, 
Relative TSR and a basket of three ESG measures. The performance conditions and targets attached to the vesting of the 2023 
award are as follows:

Target

Threshold (25% vesting)

Stretch (100% vesting)

2025/26 EPS (25%)

2025/26 ROCE (25%)

29.7p

37.7p

9.70%

11.95%

TSR Percentile vs. relative  
TSR peer group (25%)

50th

75th

ESG  
(25% weighting)

Target

Threshold (25% vesting)

Target (50% vesting)

Stretch (100% vesting)

Climate Change  
(reduction in scope 1 and 2 emissions)

Forest Positive  
(% of wood and paper responsibly  
sourced as a % of SKUs purchased)

Gender Diversity  
(% of women in senior leadership)

45.0%

46.0%

47.0%

98.0%

99.0%

99.5%

31%

34%

36%

96

Kingfisher 2022/23 Annual Report and Accounts

Strategic ReportGovernanceFinancial StatementsFor the EPS, ROCE and Relative TSR measures, there will be straight-line vesting between Threshold and Stretch. For the ESG 
measures, there will be straight-line vesting between Threshold and Target and Target and Stretch. These measures have been 
chosen for the PSP as EPS, ROCE and ESG are aligned to the strategy while relative TSR ensures that payouts for participants are 
aligned to long-term value creation for shareholders. ESG in particular was chosen to reflect the importance of our Responsible 
Business agenda and to recognise our long-term goals and commitments. The chosen ESG measures are all core elements of 
our agenda. These will be weighted equally within the ESG basket of measures.

The primary reference point for setting the EPS and ROCE targets is the Group’s internal three-year plan. The Group’s current 
internal plan takes into account the changes in the Group’s operating environment since 2022. This has meant a reduction in the EPS 
and ROCE targets for the 2023 awards versus the targets set for the 2022 awards. The Committee has also reviewed the target 
ranges versus consensus and is confident that the ranges are highly stretching with maximum vesting only being possible for 
exceptional performance. EPS will be based on ‘pence’ in line with last year.

For ESG measures, targets have been set using our long-term public commitments and internal targets as well as 2022/23 outturns. 
All target ranges demonstrate a progression in the target ranges versus. the target ranges in the 2022 PSP.

 — The target range for our climate change measure, which is a reduction in scope 1 and 2 carbon emissions from a 2016/17 baseline, 

has been set taking into account our already substantial progress against targets approved by the Science Based Targets 
initiative as well as our new net zero commitment. Further details can be found on page 24.

 — For our Forest Positive measure, which is % of wood and paper products responsibly sourced, targets were set taking into 
account our long-term aim for 100% of our wood and paper products to be responsibly sourced, as well as our progress to 
date on this measure.

 — Improving the % of women in our senior leadership population (top 300) remains an important and ongoing area of focus. The 
target range has been set taking into account our current outturn and the significant progress required to achieve to achieve 
our long-term aims.

The Relative TSR measure remains unchanged. Kingfisher’s TSR will be measured against the combined group of the constituents of 
the FTSE 350 Retailers, FTSE 350 Drug and Grocery Stores as well as the STOXX 600 Drug and Grocery Stores as at 1 February 2023.

Scheme interests exercised during the financial year (audited information)

No awards were exercised by executive directors during the year.

Dilution limits
The terms of the company’s share plans set limits on the number of newly issued shares that may be issued to satisfy awards. 
In accordance with guidance from the Investment Association, these limits restrict overall dilution under all plans to under 10% of 
the issued share capital over a 10-year period, with a further limitation of 5% in any 10-year period on executive plans.

Only those awards granted under the Kingfisher Sharesave plan are satisfied by newly issued shares.

Any awards that are satisfied by market-purchased shares are excluded from these calculations, including all awards made under 
the Kingfisher Alignment Share and Transformation Incentive Plan (KASTIP) and Kingfisher Performance Share Plan (KPSP).

No treasury shares were held or utilised in the year ended 31 January 2023.

Kingfisher 2022/23 Annual Report and Accounts

97

Directors’ remuneration report continued

Single total figure of remuneration for the non-executive directors (audited information)

Fees payable to non-executive directors
The table below sets out the remuneration of each non-executive director during the financial year ended 31 January 2023 and the 
comparative figures for the year ended 31 January 2022. During the year, no payments were made to non-executive directors for 
expenses other than those incurred in the ordinary course of their appointments.

 Name

Additional responsibilities

Andrew Cosslett2

Chair, Nomination Committee Chair

Claudia Arney

Remuneration Committee Chair

Catherine Bradley

Senior Independent Director

Jeff Carr

Audit Committee Chair

Sophie Gasperment

Responsible Business Committee Chair

Rakhi Goss-Custard

Bill Lennie4

Total 

Committee
membership1

R, N

R, N

A, R, N

A, R, N

N, RB

A, R, N, RB

A, N

Fees 
2022/23
£’000

509.9

86.3

106.3

96.3

86.3

96.3

57.2

Fees 
2021/22 
£’000

495

86.3

86.3

86.3

86.3

66.3

n/a

Taxable 
benefits 
2022/23
£’000

Taxable 
benefits 
2021/22
£’000

1.33

1.23

Total 
2022/23 
£’000

511.1

86.3

106.3

96.3

86.3

96.3

57.2

Total 
2021/22
£’000

496.2

86.3

86.3

86.3

86.3

66.3

n/a

1,039.8

907.7

–

–

–

–

–

n/a

1.2

–

–

–

–

–

–

1,038.6

906.5

1.3

1. 

Indicates which directors served on each committee during the year: Audit Committee = A; Nomination Committee = N; Remuneration Committee = R; 
Responsible Business Committee = RB.

2.  For his role as Chair, Andrew Cosslett receives a fee of £463,500 per annum. The fees paid to Andrew Cosslett include a contribution of £46,350 towards the 

costs of an assistant.

3.  These relate to private medical cover for Andrew Cosslett and his family.

4.  Bill Lennie was appointed to the Board on 1 May 2022.

Notes to the single total figure of remuneration for the non-executive directors (audited information)

Fees
Fees paid to the Chair and non-executive directors for 2022/23 and 2021/22 are shown below. No benefits are provided except for a 
store discount card of up to 20%.

Chair1

Non-executive director fee

Senior Independent Director

Audit Committee Chair

Remuneration Committee Chair

Responsible Business Committee Chair

Audit Committee member2

Remuneration Committee member2

Responsible Business Committee member2

Fees  
£’000 

As at 1 February  
2022

As at 1 February 
2021

% increase

509.9

495.0

66.3

20.0

20.0

20.0

20.0

10.0

10.0

10.0

66.3

20.0

20.0

20.0

20.0

n/a

n/a

n/a

3%

0%

0%

0%

0%

0%

n/a

n/a

n/a

1.  The Committee reviewed the fee for the company Chair in 2022 and agreed to increase the fee by 3%.

2.  The Board reviewed the non-executive fees in 2022 and agreed effective 1 February 2022, a fee will be introduced for the membership of each of the Audit 
Committee, Remuneration Committee, and Responsible Business Committee of £10,000 per annum. Committee Chairs do not receive Committee member 
fees in addition to their Chair fees.

98

Kingfisher 2022/23 Annual Report and Accounts

Strategic ReportGovernanceFinancial Statements 
 
 
Non-executive directors’ shareholdings (audited information)

The table below sets out the current shareholdings of the non-executive directors (including beneficial interests and interests of persons 
closely associated) as at 31 January 2023. The company does not operate a share ownership policy for the non-executive directors but 
encourages non-executive directors to acquire shares on their own account.

Andrew Cosslett

Catherine Bradley

Claudia Arney

Jeff Carr

Sophie Gasperment

Rakhi Goss-Custard

Bill Lennie 

Number of shares  
held outright as at
31 January 2023*

Number of shares 
held outright as at 
31 January 2022

388,556 

20,000

27,460 

210,000

10,110

6,124

100,000

388,556

10,000

27,460

10,000

10,110

6,124

n/a

 * There have been no changes to the beneficial interests of the non-executive directors between 1 February 2023 and 20 March 2023. 

Statement on the implementation of the Remuneration Policy for 2023/24

Implementation of the Policy for executive directors for the year ahead

Base salary

Benefits 

Pension

A 5% salary increase will be awarded to the executive directors effective from 1 April 2023. The new salaries are 
£882,525 for the CEO and £623,280 for the CFO. This is in line with the Policy and the increase offered to the wider 
UK head office workforce. 

Will be implemented in line with the Policy.

12.5% of salary cash allowance in lieu of pension contributions, which is in line with the offering to the wider UK 
workforce. This is in line with the Policy.

Annual Bonus 

Will be awarded in line with the Policy

The 2023/24 Annual Bonus will have a maximum opportunity of 200% of salary for the CEO and 190% of salary for 
the CFO and will be judged based on the achievement of financial and strategic output measures, as set out below:

 — 40% Like-for-like sales growth;
 — 40% Adjusted pre-tax profit; and
 — 20% Strategic measures which for 2023/24 are OEB sales penetration and digital sales penetration both with  

a 10% weighting.

A holistic assessment of Group performance will also be taken into consideration.

Any bonus earned over 100% of salary will be deferred into shares for three years.

In the opinion of the Committee, the details of the Annual Bonus measures and targets for 2023/24 are commercially 
sensitive as they closely align with annual business priorities and accordingly are not disclosed. These will be 
disclosed in the 2023/24 Annual Report and Accounts. 

Performance Share Plan 

Will be awarded in line with the Policy.

The 2023 Performance Share Plan awards will be granted at the next available grant date. The CEO will be granted an 
award of the value 275% of salary at date of grant with the CFO receiving a grant of 260% of salary. The performance 
conditions attached to the vesting of award are as follows:

 — 25% EPS;
 — 25% ROCE;
 — 25% Relative TSR; and
 — 25% ESG measures (Climate Change, Forest Positive, Gender Diversity).

Details of the target ranges for the 2023 PSP are detailed on page 96.

Performance will be measured over three years, with awards vesting three years after the grant date. Any vested 
awards will be subject to an additional two-year holding period. 

Kingfisher 2022/23 Annual Report and Accounts

99

 
Directors’ remuneration report continued

Implementation of the Remuneration Policy for non-executive directors for the year ahead

Fees £’000

Chair*

Non-executive director fee

Senior Independent Director fee

Audit Committee Chair

Remuneration Committee Chair

Responsible Business Committee Chair

Audit Committee member

Remuneration Committee member

Responsible Business Committee member

As at  
1 February 2023

As at  
1 February 2022

% increase

530.3

509.9

69.0

20.0

20.0

20.0

20.0

10.0

10.0

10.0

66.3

20.0

20.0

20.0

20.0

10.0

10.0

10.0

4%

4%

0%

0%

0%

0%

0%

0%

0%

 * Part of the Chair’s fee relates to a contribution to the cost of his assistant per annum. He additionally receives private medical insurance for himself and his family. 

The Board reviewed the non-executive director fee in 2022/23 and agreed to award a 4% increase, increasing the fee to £68,960. 
This is to reflect the continuing significant time commitment required from the non-executive directors. This increase is lower than 
the increase being implemented for the wider UK workforce. There are no changes to the Senior Independent Director and 
Committees’ chair or member fees.

Separately, in respect of the company Chair’s fee, the Committee has agreed to award a 4% increase to the total current combined 
fee of £509,850 (comprising of a core £463,500 fee plus £46,350 towards the cost of an assistant). This increases the combined fee 
to £530,250 (core fee of £482,040 plus £48,210 towards an assistant). This increase is lower than the increase being implemented for 
the wider UK workforce.

Service contracts/letters of appointment

Date of service contract/letter of 
appointment 

Expiry of  
current term

Length of service at 
31 January 2023

Andrew Cosslett

Claudia Arney

Bernard Bot

Catherine Bradley 

Jeff Carr

Thierry Garnier

Sophie Gasperment

Rakhi Goss-Custard

Bill Lennie

1 April 17

1 November 18

21 October 19

2 November 20

1 June 18

31 March 26

31 October 24

12 months rolling

1 November 23

31 May 24

25 September 19

12 months rolling

1 December 18

30 November 24

5 years

4 years

3 years

2 years

4 years

3 years

4 years

7 years

1 February 16

1 May 22

31 January 25

30 April 25

0 years/9 months 

Copies of the executive directors’ service contracts and the non-executive directors’ letters of appointment are held at the 
company’s registered office address and are available to shareholders for inspection on request. Requests should be sent by email 
to shareholderenquiries@kingfisher.com

Claudia Arney
Chair of the Remuneration Committee

20 March 2023

100 Kingfisher 2022/23 Annual Report and Accounts

Strategic ReportGovernanceFinancial Statements 
Directors’ report

This report sets out the information the company and the 
Group are required to disclose in the Directors’ report in 
compliance with the Companies Act 2006 (the Act), the Financial 
Conduct Authority’s Listing Rules (Listing Rules), the Disclosure 
Guidance and Transparency Rules (DTRs), and the UK Corporate 
Governance Code 2018 (the Code). This report should be read 
in conjunction with the Strategic Report on pages 1 to 61 and 
the Corporate governance report on pages 62 to 100. In 
accordance with Section 414C(11) of the Act, the company has 
decided to include certain matters in its Strategic Report that 
would otherwise be required to be disclosed in this Directors’ 
report. Together, the Strategic Report, this Directors’ report, 
and other sections of the Corporate governance report 
incorporated by reference, when taken as a whole, form the 
Management Report as required under Rule 4.1.5R of the DTRs.

The table below sets out the location of applicable disclosures 
incorporated into the Directors’ report, by reference. The 
majority of the disclosures required under Listing Rule 9.8.4 R 
are not applicable to the Group. The table below includes the 
location of the disclosures for those requirements that do apply:

Disclosure

Allotment of equity securities (LR9.8.4 R)

Annual General Meeting (AGM)

Corporate Governance report, including 
reports from Board committees

Directors’ interests

Directors’ statement of responsibility

Diversity and inclusion

Employee share schemes

Equal opportunities including 
disabled employees

Financial instruments and financial 
risk management

Financial review (LR9.8.4 R)

Future developments

Viability statement and going concern

Governance and risk management 
for climate change

Interest capitalised by the Group  
(LR9.8.4 R)

Important events since the end of the 
financial year 

Key performance indicators

People and development

Risk management and internal control

Statement on engagement with employees 

Statement on engagement with external 
stakeholders 

Streamlined Energy and Carbon Reporting 

Waiver of dividends 

Page

103

185

62 – 100

88 - 100

104

14 – 15

note  31

15

note 25

39 – 50

52

 59 - 61

27 – 38

note  7

note  37

10 – 11

14 – 15

51 – 58

16, 18, 68

16 – 22

27 – 35

102

Articles of Association (Articles)

The Articles of the company may only be amended by special 
resolution at a meeting of the shareholders. The Articles are 
available on the company’s website.

Branches

The Kingfisher Group, through various subsidiaries, has 
established branches in a number of countries in which the 
business operates.

Directors

The Board and their biographical details are set out on pages 
64 to 65. Details of the directors’ interests in the shares of 
the company can be found in the Directors’ remuneration report 
on page 95. Directors are appointed and replaced 
in accordance with the Articles, the Act, and the Code. Under 
the Articles, all directors will retire from office at the next AGM 
where they will submit themselves for election or re-election by 
shareholders. During the year, the following change was made to 
the Board:

Bill Lennie

Non-executive director  
(Appointed 1 May 2022) 

Directors’ indemnity arrangements

The directors who served on the Board during the year have 
been granted a qualifying third-party indemnity, under the Act, 
which remains in force. The Group also maintains Directors’ 
and Officers’ liability insurance in respect of its directors and 
officers, and the directors of the Group’s subsidiary companies. 
Neither the company’s indemnity nor insurance provide cover in 
the event that an indemnified individual is proved to have acted 
fraudulently or dishonestly.

Directors’ powers

Subject to provisions of the Act, the Articles, and to any directions 
given by special resolution, the business of the company shall be 
managed by the Board, which may exercise all the powers of 
the company.

Borrowing powers

The directors may exercise all the powers of the company to 
borrow money.

Issue of ordinary shares

The directors were authorised by shareholders at the 2022 AGM 
to allot shares, as permitted by the company’s Articles. During the 
year, 4,845,421 shares were issued under the terms of the Sharesave 
Plan at prices between 159.0 pence and 306.0 pence per share.

This resolution was in line with guidance issued by the Investment 
Association and remains in force until the conclusion of the  
2023 AGM, or if earlier, until close of business on 31 July 2023. 
The company will seek to renew this standard authority at the 
2023 AGM.

Kingfisher 2022/23 Annual Report and Accounts

101

Directors’ report continued

Purchase of own shares

Shareholders further approved a resolution at the 2022 AGM 
for the company to make purchases of its own shares up to a 
maximum of 10% of its issued share capital.

In line with Kingfisher’s Capital Allocation policy, the Board was 
pleased to announce the additional return of £300 million of 
surplus capital to shareholders via a share buyback programme 
on 23 May 2022 (following the initial £300 million buyback 
programme that was announced on 21 September 2021 and 
completed on 28 April 2022). This decision was reflective of the 
ongoing balance sheet strength and the Board’s confidence in 
the outlook for the 2022/23 financial year. This form of return 
of capital was selected to increase shareholder returns and 
net asset value per share, while supporting an efficient 
balance sheet.

During the year the company purchased 131,153,879 ordinary 
shares of 155/7 pence per share at an average price of £2.56 per 
share, for a total consideration of £336 million (excluding stamp 
duty). This represents 6.8% of the company’s issued share 
capital for the year ended 31 January 2023.

Between 31 January and 17 March 2023, being the latest 
practicable date for inclusion in this report, 1,239,440 ordinary 
shares of 155/7 pence per share have been purchased, bringing 
the total shares purchased at 17 March 2023 to 132,393,319, at an 
average price of £2.56 per share, and for a total consideration 
of £339 million (excluding stamp duty). The total shares purchased 
to 17 March 2023 represents 6.8% of the company’s issued 
share capital. It is expected that the additional share buyback 
programme will be completed by the end of the 2023/24 
financial year.

All shares purchased under this authority have been cancelled. 
This resolution is in line with guidance issued by the Investment 
Association and remains in force until the conclusion of the 
2023 AGM, or if earlier, until close of business on 31 July 2023. 
The company will seek to renew this standard authority at the 
2023 AGM.

Conflicts of interest

The company has robust procedures in place to identify, 
authorise and manage potential or actual conflicts of interest, 
and these procedures have operated effectively during the 
year. Where potential conflicts arise, they are reviewed, and if 
appropriate, approved by the Board. Processes for managing 
such conflicts are put in place to ensure no conflicted director 
is involved in any decision related to their conflict.

Directors’ other key appointments are set out in the directors’ 
biographies on pages 66 to 67.

Dividends

The interim dividend of 3.80 pence per ordinary share was 
paid on 11 November 2022. The Board is recommending a 
final dividend of 8.60 pence per ordinary share, making a total 
ordinary dividend for the year of 12.40 pence per ordinary share. 
Subject to the approval of shareholders at the 2023 AGM, the 
final dividend will be paid on 3 July 2023 to shareholders on the 
register at 26 May 2023.

102 Kingfisher 2022/23 Annual Report and Accounts

The Kingfisher Employee Benefit Trust, Wealth Nominees Limited 
(the Trust), waived the following dividends payable by the company 
in respect of the ordinary shares it held. The Trustee has agreed to 
waive its rights to all dividends payable on the ordinary shares held 
in the Trust:

Dividend

Final 2021/22  
(paid June 2022)

Interim 2022/23
(paid November 2022)

Total for year to 31 January 2023 

Major shareholdings

Number of
shares waived
(% of holding)

11,432,001
100%

8,352,570
100%

Total value  
of dividends  
waived 

£983,152.09

£317,397.66

£1,300,549.75

As at 31 January 2023 and the date of this report, the company 
had been notified under Rule 5 of the DTRs of the following 
interests in voting rights in its shares. The information below 
was calculated at the date on which the relevant disclosures 
were made in accordance with the DTRs, however, the 
percentage of total voting rights held by each may have 
changed since the company was notified.

Silchester International Investors LLP

BlackRock, Inc.*

Mondrian Investment Partners Limited

Templeton Global Advisors Limited

Norges Bank

% of total  
voting rights

11.009

9.850

5.00

4.97

4.405

 * Part of the shares held by BlackRock, Inc. are in the form of American 

Depositary Receipts (ADRs).

Political donations

The company made no political donations during the year 
(2021/22: £nil) and does not intend to make any political 
donations in the future.

As is our policy and practice, the company will continue to seek 
shareholder approval annually to enable us to make donations or 
incur expenditure in relation to EU political parties, other political 
organisations, or independent election candidates. This is on a 
precautionary basis to avoid any unintentional breach of the 
relevant provisions set out in the Act.

Research and development

The company undertakes research and development activities 
in order to develop its digital capability. In addition, the company 
undertakes product development activities using learnings gained 
by understanding our customer’s challenges living and working 
at home and engaging with home improvement projects.

More information is available on pages 6 to 11 of the Strategic Report.

Strategic ReportGovernanceFinancial Statements 
There are no agreements in place with any director or 
officer that would provide compensation for loss of office or 
employment resulting from a takeover, except that provisions 
of the company’s share incentive schemes may cause options 
and awards granted under such schemes to vest on a takeover.

Disclosure of information to auditor

Each person who is a director at the date of approval of this 
report confirms that:

 — So far as he or she is aware, there is no relevant audit 

information of which the company’s auditor is unaware; and
 — Each director has taken all the steps that he or she ought to 
have taken as a director in order to make himself or herself 
aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that 
the company’s auditor is aware of that information.

This confirmation is given and should be interpreted in 
accordance with the provisions of s418 of the Act.

Directors’ report approval

The Directors’ report was approved by a duly authorised 
committee of the Board of Directors on 20 March 2023 and 
signed on its behalf by

Chloe Barry
Company Secretary

20 March 2023

Share capital

The share capital of the company comprises ordinary shares of 
155/7 pence per share. All of the company’s issued shares are fully 
paid up and each share carries the right to one vote at general 
meetings of the company. The authorised and issued share capital 
of the company, together with movements in the company’s issued 
share capital during the year, are shown in note 29 to the 
consolidated financial statements. The Articles contain provisions 
governing the ownership and transfer of shares.

The holders of ordinary shares are entitled to receive the 
company’s Annual Report and Accounts, to attend and ask 
questions at general meetings, to appoint proxies and to 
exercise voting rights. There are no restrictions on the transfer 
of ordinary shares or on the exercise of voting rights attached 
to them, except (i) where the company has exercised its right 
to suspend voting rights or to prohibit their transfer following 
the omission of their holder or any person interested in them 
to provide the company with information requested by it in 
accordance with Part 22 of the Act, or (ii) where their holder 
is precluded from transferring or otherwise dealing with the 
shares or exercising voting rights by the Listing Rules, the City 
Code on Takeovers and Mergers, or applicable Government 
sanctions. No person has any special rights of control over 
the company’s share capital and all issued shares are fully paid.

The company has a Sponsored Level 1 American Depositary 
Receipt programme in the United States.

Significant agreements – change of control

There are a number of agreements that take effect, alter or 
terminate upon a change of control of the company following 
a takeover bid. These are deemed to be significant in terms of 
their potential impact on the business of Kingfisher as a whole. 
These are:

 — the £550 million revolving credit facility dated 28 May 2021 
between the company, National Westminster Bank plc (as 
the facility agent) and the banks named therein as lenders, 
which provides that, subject to certain exceptions, in the 
event of a change of control of the company, a lender 
will not be obliged to fund a utilisation request and may 
notify the agent that they wish to cancel their commitment 
resulting in the commitment of that lender being cancelled 
and all outstanding loans, together with accrued interest, 
becoming immediately due and payable to that lender.
 — the £50 million loan facility dated 23 December 2022 

between the company and National Westminster Bank plc, 
which contains a provision such that in the event of a 
change of control, the bank will not be obliged to fund 
a utilisation request and may cancel its commitment 
whereupon all outstanding loans together with accrued 
interest will become immediately due and payable; and

 — the £50 million loan facility dated 16 January 2023 between 
the company and Caixabank, S.A., United Kingdom Branch, 
which contains a provision such that in the event of a 
change of control, the bank will not be obliged to fund 
a utilisation request and may cancel its commitment 
whereupon all outstanding loans together with accrued 
interest will become immediately due and payable.

Kingfisher 2022/23 Annual Report and Accounts

103

Statement of directors’ responsibility

Responsibility for preparing the financial statements

The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report 
and the financial statements in accordance with applicable law 
and regulations.

Company law requires the directors to prepare financial 
statements for each financial year. Under that law, the directors 
are required to prepare the Group financial statements in 
accordance with international accounting standards in conformity 
with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 (the ‘Act’). 
The financial statements also comply with International Financial 
Reporting Standards (IFRSs) as issued by the IASB. The directors 
have elected to prepare the parent company financial statements 
in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted 
Accounting Practice (United Kingdom Accounting Standards 
and applicable law) including FRS 101 ‘Reduced Disclosure 
Framework’. Under company law, the directors must not 
approve the financial statements unless they are satisfied 
that they give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of 
the company and of the profit or loss of the company for 
that period.

In preparing the parent company financial statements, the 
directors are required to:

 — Select suitable accounting policies and then apply 

them consistently.

 — Make judgements and accounting estimates that are 

reasonable and prudent.

 — State whether applicable UK Accounting Standards have 

been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed 
and explained in the financial statements.

 — Prepare the financial statements on the going concern 

basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the company 
will continue in business.

In preparing the Group financial statements in accordance with 
IAS 1, ‘Presentation of financial statements’, the directors are 
required to:

 — Select suitable accounting policies and then apply 

them consistently.

 — Present information, including accounting policies, in a 

manner that provides relevant, reliable, comparable and 
understandable information.

 — Provide additional disclosures when compliance with the 

specific requirements of the financial reporting framework 
are insufficient to enable users to understand the impact 
of particular transactions, other events and conditions on 
the entity’s financial position and financial performance.
 — Make an assessment of the company’s ability to continue 

as a going concern.

The directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting 
records that are sufficient to show and explain the company’s 
transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time 
the financial position of the company and enable them to ensure 
that the financial statements comply with the Act. They are 
responsible for safeguarding the assets of the company and 
for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection 
of fraud and other irregularities.

The directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity 
of the corporate and financial information included on the 
company’s website. Legislation, regulation and practice in the 
United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination 
of financial statements may differ from legislation, regulation 
and practice in other jurisdictions.

Responsibility statement

The directors confirm that to the best of their knowledge:

 — The financial statements, prepared in accordance with the 
relevant financial reporting framework, give a true and fair 
view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit or 
loss of the parent company and the undertakings included 
in the consolidation taken as a whole.

 — The Strategic Report includes a fair review of the 

development and performance of the business and the 
position of the company and the undertakings included 
in the consolidation taken as a whole, together with a 
description of the principal risks and uncertainties 
they face.

 — The Annual Report and Accounts, taken as a whole, are fair, 
balanced, and understandable and provide the information 
necessary for shareholders to assess the company’s 
position, performance, business model and strategy.

Statement of directors’ responsibility approval
The statement of directors’ responsibility was approved  
by a duly authorised committee of the Board of Directors  
on 20 March 2023 and signed on its behalf by

Chloe Barry
Company Secretary

20 March 2023

104 Kingfisher 2022/23 Annual Report and Accounts

Strategic ReportGovernanceFinancial StatementsIndependent auditors’ report

Report on the audit of the financial statements

1. Opinion

2. Basis for opinion

We conducted our audit in accordance with International 
Standards on Auditing (UK) (ISAs (UK)) and applicable law. 
Our responsibilities under those standards are further 
described in the auditor’s responsibilities for the audit  
of the financial statements section of our report.

We are independent of the group and the parent company 
in accordance with the ethical requirements that are relevant 
to our audit of the financial statements in the UK, including the 
Financial Reporting Council’s (the ‘FRC’s’) Ethical Standard as 
applied to listed public interest entities, and we have fulfilled 
our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with these 
requirements. The non-audit services provided to the group 
and parent company for the year are disclosed in note 8 to the 
financial statements. We confirm that we have not provided any 
non-audit services prohibited by the FRC’s Ethical Standard to 
the group or the parent company.

We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is 
sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion.

In our opinion:

 — the financial statements of Kingfisher plc (the ‘parent 
company’) and its subsidiaries (the ‘group’) give a 
true and fair view of the state of the group’s and of 
the parent company’s affairs as at 31 January 2023 
and of the group’s profit for the year then ended;
 — the group financial statements have been properly 

prepared in accordance with United Kingdom 
adopted international accounting standards and 
International Financial Reporting Standards 
(IFRSs) as issued by the International 
Accounting Standards Board (IASB);

 — the parent company financial statements have 

been properly prepared in accordance with United 
Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice, 
including Financial Reporting Standard 101 
“Reduced Disclosure Framework”; and

 — the financial statements have been prepared 
in accordance with the requirements of the 
Companies Act 2006.

We have audited the financial statements which comprise:

 — the consolidated income statement;
 — the consolidated statement of comprehensive income;
 — the consolidated and parent company statements of 

changes in equity;

 — the consolidated and parent company balance sheets;
 — the consolidated cash flow statement; and
 — the related notes 1 to 37 to the group financial statements 

and notes 1 to 15 to the parent company financial statements.

The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the 
preparation of the group financial statements is applicable law, 
United Kingdom adopted international accounting standards and 
IFRSs as issued by the IASB. The financial reporting framework 
that has been applied in the preparation of the parent company 
financial statements is applicable law and United Kingdom 
Accounting Standards, including FRS 101 “Reduced Disclosure 
Framework” (United Kingdom Generally Accepted 
Accounting Practice).

Kingfisher 2022/23 Annual Report and Accounts

105

Independent auditors’ report continued

3. Summary of our audit approach

Key audit matters

The key audit matters that we identified in the current year were:

 — Impairment of store-based assets: B&Q UK and France (charges and reversals);
 — Taxation matters: transfer pricing and EU state aid; and
 — Inventory valuation.

Within this report, key audit matters are identified as follows:

 Newly identified

 Increased level of risk

 Similar level of risk

 Decreased level of risk

Materiality

Scoping

Significant changes in our 
approach

The materiality that we used for the group financial statements was £35 million which was determined 
on the basis of c. 5% of adjusted profit before tax.

We focused our group audit scope on all significant trading entities and the group’s head office and 
support functions. These accounted for 94% of the group’s revenue, 92% of the group’s profit before 
tax and 89% of the group’s net assets

In the prior year, we identified a key audit matter relating to the classification and presentation of 
adjusting items. For the current year we have assessed there to be a lower level of judgement for 
items included as adjusting and we note, excluding the group’s net store-based impairment charge 
(£139 million) and Romania goodwill impairment (£16 million), the remaining level of aggregated 
adjusting items are immaterial. 
No other significant changes in approach were noted in the current year.

4. Conclusions relating to going concern

In auditing the financial statements, we have concluded that the 
directors’ use of the going concern basis of accounting in the 
preparation of the financial statements is appropriate.

Our evaluation of the directors’ assessment of the group’s and 
parent company’s ability to continue to adopt the going concern 
basis of accounting included:

 — recalculating the amount of headroom in the forecasts 

(liquidity and covenants);

 — evaluating the integrity of the model used to prepare the 
forecasts, which includes testing of clerical accuracy of 
those forecasts and our assessment of the historical 
accuracy of forecasts prepared by management; and
 — assessing whether the disclosures in relation to going 

concern are appropriate.

 — understanding the relevant controls relating to the 
assessment of the appropriateness of the going 
concern assumptions;

 — assessing the entity’s financing facilities including nature 
of facilities, repayment terms, covenants and available 
undrawn committed facilities;

 — considering the linkage of management’s forecasts to 

the group’s business model and identified principal risks;

 — assessing the key assumptions used in the 

group’s forecasts;

 — assessing the impact of reasonably possible downside 

scenarios on the group’s funding position including forecast 
financial covenants and their compliance over the going 
concern period;

 — assessing under what circumstances the group would 

require additional funding and determining whether such 
a scenario was likely to occur;

Based on the work we have performed, we have not identified 
any material uncertainties relating to events or conditions that, 
individually or collectively, may cast significant doubt on the 
group’s and parent company’s ability to continue as a going 
concern for a period of at least twelve months from when 
the financial statements are authorised for issue.

In relation to the reporting on how the group has applied the UK 
Corporate Governance Code, we have nothing material to add 
or draw attention to in relation to the directors’ statement in the 
financial statements about whether the directors considered it 
appropriate to adopt the going concern basis of accounting.

Our responsibilities and the responsibilities of the directors with 
respect to going concern are described in the relevant sections 
of this report.

106 Kingfisher 2022/23 Annual Report and Accounts

Strategic ReportGovernanceFinancial Statements5. Key audit matters

Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional judgement, were of most significance in our audit of the financial 
statements of the current period and include the most significant assessed risks of material misstatement (whether or not due to 
fraud) that we identified. These matters included those which had the greatest effect on: the overall audit strategy, the allocation of 
resources in the audit; and directing the efforts of the engagement team.

These matters were addressed in the context of our audit of the financial statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, 
and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters.

5.1. Impairment of store-based assets: B&Q UK and France (charges and reversals) 

Key audit matter 
description

As at 31 January 2023, property, plant and equipment totalled £3,205 million (31 January 2022: £3,078 
million) and right-of-use assets totalled £1,947 million (31 January 2022: £1,885 million), as disclosed in 
notes 15 and 17 to the financial statements.

In the current year, the group recorded a net store-based asset impairment charge of £139 million 
(2021/22: net impairment reversal of £33 million) across the stores or Cash Generating Units (‘CGUs’). 
Of this total net charge, £149 million (2021/22: £29 million) represented an impairment charge and 
£10 million (2021/22: £62 million) impairment reversals.

Of this total, £124 million of the net store-based asset impairment charge (2021/22: £21 million net 
impairment reversal) related to B&Q UK and the group’s banners in France. Given the significance 
of the net impairment charge and in line with the classification of impairment reversals in 2021/22, 
the group has classified the net impairment charge as an adjusting item. Given the quantum of 
impairment in the current year, the level of risk associated with this key audit matter has increased 
in the current year.

At each reporting date, in accordance with the requirements of IAS 36 ‘Impairment of Assets’, an 
assessment is performed as to whether there are any indicators that property, plant and equipment 
and right-of-use assets, including the group’s stores, may be impaired or whether there is any indication 
that an impairment loss recognised in a previous period either no longer exists or a portion of the 
previously recognised loss should be reversed. Should such indicators exist, the assets’ recoverable 
amounts are subsequently estimated. For the current year the group concluded that the impact 
of rising interest rates on discount rates was a pervasive indicator of impairment for the group’s 
store-based assets and an all-store impairment assessment was conducted (2021/22 – assessment 
conducted on an indicator basis only).

Impairment of store-based assets is primarily evaluated with reference to the value in use of stores, 
which is calculated as the net present value of future cash flows, driven by the group’s board-approved 
three-year plan. The group also uses vacant possession valuations to approximate fair value less costs 
to sell when considering the recoverable amount of freehold and certain long leasehold stores.

There are several judgements in assessing value in use that are set out below and there is a risk that 
the net impairment charge recorded is not supportable based on the inputs used in the model. Cash 
flow forecasting, impairment modelling and assessing property values are all inherently judgemental. 
We have determined that there is potential fraud risk associated with the cash flow forecast 
assumptions used in the impairment model.

The key assumptions applied by management, which form part of our significant risk, in the group’s 
store-based asset impairment assessments are:

 — forecast short term cash flows, which include the stores sales assumptions and margin/contribution, 
store costs, including staff payroll, general operating costs and the identification and allocation of a 
proportion of central overhead costs to stores; and

 — country-specific discount rates.

Other assumptions assessed as part of our audit procedures relating to the group store-based asset 
impairment include:

 — long-term growth rates; and
 — determining the vacant possession value of freehold properties throughout the group.

Kingfisher 2022/23 Annual Report and Accounts

107

Independent auditors’ report continued

How the scope of our 
audit responded to the 
key audit matter

Our audit focused on whether store-based asset impairment charges in B&Q UK and the group’s 
banners in France have been appropriately calculated in accordance with the requirements of IAS 36, 
‘Impairment of Assets’. In doing so we carried out the following procedures with respect to the CGUs 
across the B&Q and French banners:

 — obtained an understanding of the relevant controls in respect of the impairment reviews across 

the group and key review controls associated with the group’s budgeting process, the impairment 
models and the determination of discount rates to be used in the models;

 — assessed the mechanical accuracy of the impairment models;
 — in addressing the fraud risk associated with these cash flow forecasts we challenged the key 

inputs into the value in use computation, namely forecast sales growth and margin by evaluating 
both past performance, our understanding of the group’s strategic initiatives, benchmarking 
against external information and the rationale for future assumptions. We also assessed the 
level of past store performance to assess whether assumptions applied were appropriate at 
the store level;

 — assessed management’s reconciliation of CGU-level cash flows to the board-approved  

three-year plan in order to test the allocation of those cash flows;

 — evaluated the discount rate and long-term growth rates applied by management against 

external economic data with the involvement of our valuation specialists;

 — considered the structure of the business and recent changes in group strategy to evaluate 

the identification and allocation of central overheads into store impairment models;

 — agreed the vacant possession value of freehold property to third party valuation reports 
and assessed the inputs and valuation methodology applied by involving our real estate 
specialists; and

 — assessed the appropriateness of the financial statements disclosures made.

Key observations

We are satisfied that the net impairment charge recorded in the year and the carrying value of 
store-based assets at the year-end within B&Q UK and the French banners are appropriate and 
that disclosures have been made in accordance with IFRS requirements.

5.2. Taxation matters: transfer pricing and EU state aid 

Key audit matter 
description

The group files tax returns in many jurisdictions and is periodically subject to tax audits in the ordinary 
course of its business, including matters relating to cross-border intra-group services, brand royalties 
and interest. Applicable tax laws and regulations are subject to differing interpretations and the 
resolution of a final tax position can take several years.

Where it is considered that future tax liabilities are more likely than not to arise, an appropriate 
provision is recognised in the financial statements and is held as a tax liability on the balance sheet.

In addition, the group received a charging notice from HMRC in 2020/21 in relation to EU state 
aid for £57 million (and subsequently for £7 million interest) as set out in note 35. The group settled 
the amount but appealed the notice on the grounds that there was no state aid and subsequently 
recognised a corresponding debtor of £64 million as they expect the appeal in an associated case to 
be successful. The outcome of the case is currently unknown and therefore there is judgement as to 
the recoverability of the debtor. Refer to note 35 in the group financial statements which disclose 
the developments in the year relating to this judgement.

Our key audit matter focused on the completeness and valuation of the transfer pricing provisions 
associated with ongoing cases and the uncertain tax position relating to EU state aid. There is 
judgement in determining whether a provision should be recorded, and if it is recorded, what the 
value of the provision should be with reference to the facts and circumstances of the individual case. 
There is also judgement associated with the recoverability of the EU state aid debtor and whether any 
impairment is required.

108 Kingfisher 2022/23 Annual Report and Accounts

Strategic ReportGovernanceFinancial StatementsHow the scope of our 
audit responded to the 
key audit matter

Our audit focused on uncertain tax positions relating to transfer pricing provisions and the EU state aid 
debtor. In respect of these areas, we performed the following procedures:

 — we obtained an understanding of the relevant controls, which included management’s review and 

challenge of the judgements taken in regards to taxation matters;

 — in conjunction with our tax specialists including transfer pricing specialists and EU state aid 

specialists, we evaluated the tax positions taken by management in the context of local tax law 
and assessed the valuation and completeness of transfer pricing provisions and the debtor held 
in relation to EU state aid;

 — involved our transfer pricing specialists to assist in understanding the approach taken to transfer 

pricing, the transactions that flow between group entities including any changes in approach 
during the year; and

 — in conjunction with our tax specialists, assessed the disclosures in the financial statements in 

relation to taxation matters. 

Key observations

We consider the provisions recorded for transfer pricing and the valuation of the debtor in respect 
of EU state aid to be appropriate in the context of the group’s overall potential tax exposures.

We consider the overall level of disclosure in relation to transfer pricing provisions and the disclosure 
for EU state aid in note 35 to be appropriate.

5.3. Inventory valuation 

Key audit matter 
description

As at 31 January 2023, net inventory, after recognising relevant provisions, is £3,070 million 
(2021/22: £2,749 million) as disclosed in note 19 to the financial statements.

Assessing the valuation of inventory, in accordance with IAS 2 ‘Inventories’, requires significant 
judgement in estimating the eventual selling price of items held, as well as assessing which items 
may be slow-moving or obsolete and as a result may need providing for.

We have determined the key audit matter to be specifically in relation to the judgements and 
methodology applied in determining the level of inventory provisioning required. Given the judgement 
required in determining this provisioning which relies on forward-looking information, and that the 
effects of changes in inventory provisioning could have a significant impact on gross profit and 
margin, we consider that there is potential fraud risk associated with this key audit matter.

How the scope of our 
audit responded to the 
key audit matter

Our audit focused on whether the valuation of year-end inventory was in accordance with IAS 2 
‘Inventories’. This included challenging the judgements taken regarding the obsolescence and net 
realisable value of inventory and the appropriateness of provisions for such items.

We carried out the following procedures in assessing the appropriateness of the valuation of 
inventories:

 — obtained an understanding of the relevant controls, which included a review of the inventory 

provision recorded at a banner level by members of the finance team and assessed inventory 
controls in the group’s most significant locations;

 — assessed the group’s inventory provisioning policy, with specific consideration of its ongoing 
appropriateness in light of changes in the business and the macroeconomic environment, the 
risk profile of inventory and consideration of any expected clearance activity;

 — assessed the existence and condition of inventory by attending a sample of inventory counts 

throughout the year across all in-scope components;

 — checked the value of a sample of inventory to assess whether it is held at the lower of cost 

and net realisable value, through comparison to vendor invoices and current sales prices; and
 — in addressing the fraud risk, we re-calculated the provisions recorded to evaluate whether they 
are in line with group policy and IAS 2. This was done in conjunction with our IT specialists for 
some components where a manual re-computation was not possible.

Key observations

The results of our audit work were satisfactory and we conclude that the level of inventory provisions 
is appropriate.

Kingfisher 2022/23 Annual Report and Accounts

109

Independent auditors’ report continued

6. Our application of materiality

6.1. Materiality
We define materiality as the magnitude of misstatement in the financial statements that makes it probable that the economic 
decisions of a reasonably knowledgeable person would be changed or influenced. We use materiality both in planning the scope 
of our audit work and in evaluating the results of our work.

Based on our professional judgement, we determined materiality for the financial statements as a whole as follows:

Materiality

£35 million (2021/22: £47 million)

£32 million (2021/22: £42 million)

Group financial statements

Parent company financial statements

Basis for determining 
materiality

c. 5% of adjusted profit before tax (2021/22: c. 5%). 
Adjusted items are defined in note 2a with analysis 
included in note 6.

0.6% of net assets (2021/22: 0.7%), which is 
capped at 90% (2021/22: 90%) of group materiality. 

The company is non-trading and contains the 
investments in all the trading components of 
the group.

Rationale for the 
benchmark applied

We have determined materiality on a basis that 
is consistent with FY21/22.

Adjusted profit before tax was selected as the 
basis of materiality because this is the primary 
measure by which stakeholders and the market 
assesses performance of the group.

In coming to this judgement, we also considered 
further benchmarks including revenue and net 
assets as alternative benchmarks.

We excluded adjusted items when determining 
the basis for materiality because the items, 
primarily relating to net impairment charges 
of assets, do not form part of the underlying 
trading performance of the group.

Materiality

£35m

£758m

  Group materiality
  Adjusted PBT

Group materiality
£35m

Component
materiality range
£18m - £35m

Audit committee 
reporting threshold
£1.75m

110

Kingfisher 2022/23 Annual Report and Accounts

Strategic ReportGovernanceFinancial Statements6.2. Performance materiality
We set performance materiality at a level lower than materiality to reduce the probability that, in aggregate, uncorrected and 
undetected misstatements exceed the materiality for the financial statements as a whole.

Group financial statements

Parent company financial statements

Performance materiality

70% (2021/22: 70%) of group materiality

70% (2021/22: 70%) of parent company materiality

Basis and rationale for 
determining performance 
materiality

In determining performance materiality for both group and the parent company, we considered the 
following factors:

 — our risk assessment, including our assessment of the group’s overall control environment; and
 — the nature, volume and size of misstatements (corrected and uncorrected) in the previous audit, 
which has indicated a low number of corrected and uncorrected misstatements identified in 
prior periods

6.3. Error reporting threshold
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to 
the Committee all audit differences in excess of £1.75 million 
(2021/22: £2.0 million), as well as differences below that threshold 
that, in our view, warranted reporting on qualitative grounds. We 
also report to the Audit Committee on disclosure matters that 
we identified when assessing the overall presentation of the 
financial statements.

7. An overview of the scope of our audit

7.1. Identification and scoping of components
Our approach to scoping the group audit was to understand the 
group and its environment, including group-wide controls, and 
assess the risks of material misstatement at the group level. The 
group operates over 1,500 stores (2021/22: over 1,400 stores) 
in eight countries (2021/22: eight countries) across Europe.

We focused our group audit scope primarily on all significant 
trading entities as well as head office entities. In the prior year 
full scope audit procedures were performed over the following 
components: B&Q UK, Screwfix UK, Castorama France, Brico 
Dépôt France, Castorama Poland, and the parent company.

We have reviewed our audit scope in the current year with 
due consideration of the risk profile, control environment, the 
changes in the group structure and how much coverage we will 
obtain. As such we concluded that full scope audit procedures 
would continue to be performed for B&Q UK, Screwfix UK, 
Castorama France, Brico Dépôt France, Castorama Poland 
and the parent company. Kingfisher Information Technology 
Services UK and B&Q Properties were subject to specified 
audit procedures on prescribed balances associated with 
defined audit risks. All other entities were subject to analytical 
procedures at the group level. All financial reporting is managed 
by local finance functions with group oversight from the head 
office in London.

In scope entities include both full scope entities and entities 
subject to specified procedures. These entities account for 94% 
(2021/22: 94%) of the group’s revenue, 92% (2021/22: 85%) of the 
group’s profit before tax and 89% (2021/22: 98%) of the group’s 
net assets.

Revenue

Profit before tax

Net assets

6%

8%

94%

92%

  Full audit scope
  Review at group level

  Full audit scope
  Review at group level

11%

16%

73%

  Full audit scope
  Specified audit procedures
  Review at group level

Kingfisher 2022/23 Annual Report and Accounts

111

Independent auditors’ report continued

7.2. Our consideration of the control environment
7.2.1. IT environment
We identified the main finance systems (SAP, CODA, HFM) and 
certain other systems including in-store transaction processing 
systems as the key IT systems relevant to our audit. SAP and 
CODA are enterprise resource planning systems used for 
day-to-day financial management at the local level. HFM is 
a financial reporting system used internally to facilitate the 
reporting of financial information between the local and group 
finance teams. IT systems are primarily managed from the 
centralised Kingfisher IT Services function and therefore we 
involved a central IT audit team to evaluate the IT systems to 
support our audit.

We planned to rely on IT controls associated with SAP and 
CODA across certain full scope entities. We identified general IT 
controls relevant to the audit as well as specific IT controls that 
supported our controls reliance approach for certain business 
processes. Across the in-scope entities, IT controls were 
relied on in the trading businesses to support audit work on 
the revenue, expenditure and inventory processes as detailed 
in Section 7.2.2.

In order to evaluate the operating effectiveness of IT controls, 
we performed walkthrough procedures to understand whether 
the purpose of the control was effectively designed to address 
the IT related risk and then performed testing of the control 
across the audit period, to determine whether the control 
had been consistently applied.

Our procedures enabled us to place reliance on IT controls, 
as planned, in the audit approach.

7.2.2. Controls reliance
We sought to adopt a controls reliance approach over the 
revenue, expenditure and inventory processes across certain 
components of the group.

Our ability to adopt a controls reliance approach relied on 
the evaluation of testing of the relevant controls in the above 
business processes throughout the year.

For components that were not subject to full scope audit 
procedures, we were not able or chose not to adopt a controls 
reliance approach in the business processes above, having 
given due consideration to the risk and controls profile of 
that component. This did not affect our ability to conclude 
in these areas at either the component or group level.

7.3. Our consideration of climate-related risks
As part of our audit we made enquiries of management to 
understand the process they have adopted to assess the 
potential impact of climate change on the financial statements. 
In 2022/23 the group has elevated climate change as a principal 
risk of the business (2021/22 – emerging risk). The group 
currently considers climate to have limited impact over its three 
year planning horizon (as stated on page 52 and Note 3) but 
has assessed that, without effective mitigation and adaptation, 
climate change solutions could have longer-term negative 
consequences for the group’s strategy and trading operations.

112

Kingfisher 2022/23 Annual Report and Accounts

Our procedures have also included the following:

 — assessing management’s risk assessment associated with 

climate change;

 — assessing whether the risks identified by the group are 

complete and consistent with our understanding of the group;
 — considering the impact of climate on the group’s three year 
planning horizon and whether the cash flow forecasts used 
for the group’s store-based asset impairment assessment, 
goodwill impairment assessment and going concern 
assessment appropriately include the impact of 
climate change on the business in the short-term;

 — involving an Environmental, Social and Governance (“ESG”) 

specialist to assist in evaluating whether appropriate 
disclosures have been made in the financial statements with 
reference to the Task Force on Climate-Related Financial 
Disclosures (“TCFD”) requirements and climate related 
disclosures in the notes to the financial statements; and,
 — reading the disclosures in the strategic report to consider 
whether they are materially consistent with the financial 
statements and our knowledge obtained in the audit.

7.4. Working with other auditors
We worked closely with the Deloitte component auditors to 
involve them in our planning procedures and also to maintain 
oversight throughout the audit process. We communicated our 
requirements of the component auditors regularly throughout 
the year and issued referral instructions formalising our 
requirements of the component teams. We held an internal 
group wide team meeting to discuss the planned audit 
approach and the risks within each component.

A senior member of the group audit team maintained 
regular contact with the component audit teams and discussed 
significant audit matters arising from the performance of local 
audit procedures. Periodic meetings with group and component 
management were held throughout the year to build on the 
understanding of the significant audit matters within 
components to inform our group audit approach.

The most significant components of the group are its retail 
businesses in the UK, France and Poland. As such, there was a 
high level of communication between these teams to ensure 
an appropriate level of group audit team involvement in the 
component audit work.

For each of these most significant components, a senior 
member of the group audit team reviewed the component 
working papers, including key planning and reporting documents, 
the procedures performed to address group significant risks 
and the procedures performed to respond to other areas of 
focus and local significant risks, in order to satisfy ourselves 
that we had obtained sufficient appropriate audit evidence in 
response to the identified risks.

The Group Engagement Partner and other senior members 
of the group audit team attended the audit close meeting of 
every component subject to a full scope audit. In performing 
the procedures detailed above the group audit team reviewed, 
considered and challenged the key matters relevant to our 
conclusion in relation to the group audit and assessed the 
impact on our group audit.

Strategic ReportGovernanceFinancial Statements8. Other information

The other information comprises the information included in 
the annual report being the strategic reports on pages 1 to 61 
and the governance reports on pages 62 to 106, other than 
the financial statements and our auditor’s report thereon. 
The directors are responsible for the other information 
contained within the annual report.

Our opinion on the financial statements does not cover the 
other information and, except to the extent otherwise explicitly 
stated in our report, we do not express any form of assurance 
conclusion thereon.

Our responsibility is to read the other information and, in 
doing so, consider whether the other information is materially 
inconsistent with the financial statements, or our knowledge 
obtained in the course of the audit, or otherwise appears to 
be materially misstated.

If we identify such material inconsistencies or apparent material 
misstatements, we are required to determine whether this gives 
rise to a material misstatement in the financial statements 
themselves. If, based on the work we have performed, we 
conclude that there is a material misstatement of this other 
information, we are required to report that fact.

We have nothing to report in this regard.

9. Responsibilities of directors

As explained more fully in the directors’ responsibilities 
statement, the directors are responsible for the preparation of 
the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a 
true and fair view, and for such internal control as the directors 
determine is necessary to enable the preparation of financial 
statements that are free from material misstatement, whether 
due to fraud or error.

In preparing the financial statements, the directors are 
responsible for assessing the group’s and the parent company’s 
ability to continue as a going concern, disclosing as applicable, 
matters related to going concern and using the going concern 
basis of accounting unless the directors either intend to 
liquidate the group or the parent company or to cease 
operations, or have no realistic alternative but to do so.

10. Auditor’s responsibilities for the audit of the 
financial statements

Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about 
whether the financial statements as a whole are free from 
material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to 
issue an auditor’s report that includes our opinion. Reasonable 
assurance is a high level of assurance but is not a guarantee 
that an audit conducted in accordance with ISAs (UK) will always 
detect a material misstatement when it exists. Misstatements 
can arise from fraud or error and are considered material if, 
individually or in the aggregate, they could reasonably be 
expected to influence the economic decisions of users 
taken on the basis of these financial statements.

A further description of our responsibilities for the audit of 
the financial statements is located on the FRC’s website at:  
www.frc.org.uk/auditorsresponsibilities. This description 
forms part of our auditor’s report.

11. Extent to which the audit was considered capable 
of detecting irregularities, including fraud

Irregularities, including fraud, are instances of non-compliance 
with laws and regulations. We design procedures in line with 
our responsibilities, outlined above, to detect material 
misstatements in respect of irregularities, including fraud. 
The extent to which our procedures are capable of 
detecting irregularities, including fraud is detailed below.

11.1. Identifying and assessing potential risks related 
to irregularities
In identifying and assessing risks of material misstatement in 
respect of irregularities, including fraud and non-compliance 
with laws and regulations, we considered the following:

 — the nature of the industry and sector, control environment 

and business performance including the design of the 
group’s remuneration policies, key drivers for directors’ 
remuneration, bonus levels and performance targets;
 — results of our enquiries of management, internal audit 
and the audit committee about their own identification 
and assessment of the risks of irregularities, including 
those that are specific to the group’s sector;

 — any matters we identified having obtained and reviewed 

the group’s documentation of their policies and procedures 
relating to:

 — identifying, evaluating and complying with laws and 
regulations and whether they were aware of any 
instances of non-compliance;

 — detecting and responding to the risks of fraud and 

whether they have knowledge of any actual, suspected 
or alleged fraud; and

 — the internal controls established to mitigate risks of 
fraud or non-compliance with laws and regulations;

 — the matters discussed among the audit engagement team 
including significant component audit teams and relevant 
internal specialists, including tax, valuations, financial 
instruments, pensions and IT specialists regarding how 
and where fraud might occur in the financial statements 
and any potential indicators of fraud.

As a result of these procedures, we considered the 
opportunities and incentives that may exist within the 
organisation for fraud and identified the greatest potential for 
fraud in the following areas: impairment of store-based assets: 
B&Q UK and France (charges and reversals) and inventory 
valuation. In common with all audits under ISAs (UK), we are also 
required to perform specific procedures to respond to the 
risk of management override.

We also obtained an understanding of the legal and regulatory 
frameworks that the group operates in, focusing on provisions 
of those laws and regulations that had a direct effect on the 
determination of material amounts and disclosures in the 
financial statements. The key laws and regulations we considered 
in this context included the UK Companies Act, Listing Rules, 
pensions legislation, and UK and overseas tax legislation.

Kingfisher 2022/23 Annual Report and Accounts

113

Independent auditors’ report continued

In addition, we considered provisions of other laws and 
regulations that do not have a direct effect on the financial 
statements but compliance with which may be fundamental 
to the group’s ability to operate or to avoid a material penalty. 
These included General Data Protection Regulation, 
government grants and Energy and Carbon regulations.

11.2. Audit response to risks identified
As a result of performing the above, we identified impairment of 
store-based assets: B&Q UK and France (charges and reversals) 
and inventory valuation as key audit matters related to the 
potential risk of fraud. The key audit matters section of our 
report explains the matters in more detail and also describes 
the specific procedures we performed in response to those 
key audit matters.

In addition to the above, our procedures to respond to risks 
identified included the following:

 — reviewing the financial statement disclosures and testing 
to supporting documentation to assess compliance with 
provisions of relevant laws and regulations described as 
having a direct effect on the financial statements;
 — enquiring of management, the audit committee and 

in-house legal counsel concerning actual and potential 
litigation and claims;

 — performing analytical procedures to identify any unusual or 
unexpected relationships that may indicate risks of material 
misstatement due to fraud;

 — reading minutes of meetings of those charged with 

governance, reviewing internal audit reports and reviewing 
correspondence with HMRC and other tax authorities; and

 — in addressing the risk of fraud through management 

override of controls, testing the appropriateness of journal 
entries and other adjustments; assessing whether the 
judgements made in making accounting estimates are 
indicative of a potential bias; and evaluating the business 
rationale of any significant transactions that are unusual 
or outside the normal course of business.

We also communicated relevant identified laws and regulations 
and potential fraud risks to all engagement team members 
including internal specialists and significant component audit team 
and remained alert to any indications of fraud or non-compliance 
with laws and regulations throughout the audit.

114

Kingfisher 2022/23 Annual Report and Accounts

Report on other legal and 
regulatory requirements

12. Opinions on other matters prescribed by the 
Companies Act 2006

In our opinion the part of the directors’ remuneration 
report to be audited has been properly prepared in 
accordance with the Companies Act 2006.

In our opinion, based on the work undertaken in the 
course of the audit:

 — the information given in the strategic report and 
the directors’ report for the financial year for 
which the financial statements are prepared is 
consistent with the financial statements; and
 — the strategic report and the directors’ report 

have been prepared in accordance with 
applicable legal requirements.

In the light of the knowledge and understanding of the 
group and the parent company and their environment 
obtained in the course of the audit, we have not 
identified any material misstatements in the strategic 
report or the directors’ report.

13. Corporate Governance Statement

The Listing Rules require us to review the directors’ statement in 
relation to going concern, longer-term viability and that part of 
the Corporate Governance Statement relating to the group’s 
compliance with the provisions of the UK Corporate 
Governance Code specified for our review.

Based on the work undertaken as part of our audit, we 
have concluded that each of the following elements of 
the Corporate Governance Statement is materially 
consistent with the financial statements and our 
knowledge obtained during the audit:

 — the directors’ statement with regards to the 

appropriateness of adopting the going concern 
basis of accounting and any material uncertainties 
identified set out on page 61;

 — the directors’ explanation as to its assessment of 
the group’s prospects, the period this assessment 
covers and why the period is appropriate set out 
on page 59-60;

 — the directors’ statement on fair, balanced and 

understandable set out on page 104;

 — the board’s confirmation that it has carried out a 
robust assessment of the emerging and principal 
risks set out on page 51-58;

 — the section of the annual report that describes the 
review of effectiveness of risk management and 
internal control systems set out on page 76; and

 — the section describing the work of the audit 

committee set out on page 73-76.

Strategic ReportGovernanceFinancial Statements14. Matters on which we are required to report 
by exception

14.1. Adequacy of explanations received and accounting 
records
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to 
you if, in our opinion:

 — we have not received all the information and explanations 

we require for our audit; or

 — adequate accounting records have not been kept by the 
parent company, or returns adequate for our audit have 
not been received from branches not visited by us; or

 — the parent company financial statements are not in 
agreement with the accounting records and returns.

We have nothing to report in respect of these matters.

16. Use of our report

This report is made solely to the company’s members, as a 
body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies 
Act 2006. Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might 
state to the company’s members those matters we are required 
to state to them in an auditor’s report and for no other purpose. 
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or 
assume responsibility to anyone other than the company and 
the company’s members as a body, for our audit work, for this 
report, or for the opinions we have formed.

As required by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) Disclosure 
Guidance and Transparency Rule (DTR) 4.1.14R, these financial 
statements will form part of the European Single Electronic 
Format (ESEF) prepared Annual Financial Report filed on the 
National Storage Mechanism of the UK FCA in accordance 
with the ESEF Regulatory Technical Standard (‘ESEF RTS’). This 
auditor’s report provides no assurance over whether the annual 
financial report has been prepared using the single electronic 
format specified in the ESEF RTS.

14.2. Directors’ remuneration
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are also required to report if 
in our opinion certain disclosures of directors’ remuneration 
have not been made or the part of the directors’ remuneration 
report to be audited is not in agreement with the accounting 
records and returns.

Nicola Mitchell FCA (Senior statutory auditor)
For and on behalf of Deloitte LLP

Statutory Auditor 
London, United Kingdom  
20 March 2023

We have nothing to report in respect of these matters.

15. Other matters which we are required to address

15.1. Auditor tenure
Following the recommendation of the audit committee, we were 
appointed as auditor of the group by the Board of Directors on 
5 October 2009 to audit the financial statements for the year 
ending 31 January 2010 and subsequent financial periods. The 
period of total uninterrupted engagement including previous 
renewals and reappointments of the firm is 14 years, covering 
the period 31 January 2010 to 31 January 2023.

15.2. Consistency of the audit report with the additional 
report to the audit committee
Our audit opinion is consistent with the additional report to the 
audit committee we are required to provide in accordance with 
ISAs (UK).

Kingfisher 2022/23 Annual Report and Accounts

115

Consolidated income statement

Year ended 31 January 2023

£ millions

Sales

Cost of sales

Gross profit

Selling and distribution expenses 

Administrative expenses

Other income

Share of post-tax results of joint ventures and 
associates

Operating profit 

Finance costs

Finance income 

Net finance costs

Profit before taxation

Income tax expense

Profit for the year

Earnings per share 

Basic

Diluted

Adjusted basic

Adjusted diluted

Before 
adjusting  
items

13,183

(8,248)

4,935

(3,041)

(836)

23

5

1,086

(148)

11

(137)

949

(212)

737

 Adjusting  
items
(note 6)

–

–

–

42

13

3

–

58

–

–

–

58

48

106

Before 
adjusting 
items

13,059

(8,264)

4,795

(3,087)

(868)

25

5

870

(129)

17

(112)

758

(169)

589

Adjusting  
items
(note 6)

–

–

–

(136)

(12)

1

–

(147)

–

–

–

(147)

29

(118)

Notes

4

18

5

7

8

10

11

2022/23

Total

13,059

(8,264)

4,795

(3,223)

(880)

26

5

723

(129)

17

(112)

611

(140)

471

23.8p

23.5p

29.7p

29.4p

2021/22

Total

13,183

(8,248)

4,935

(2,999)

(823)

26

5

1,144

(148)

11

(137)

1,007

(164)

843

40.3p

39.8p

35.2p

34.8p

The proposed dividend for the year ended 31 January 2023, subject to approval by shareholders at the Annual General Meeting, is 
12.40p per share, comprising an interim dividend of 3.80p in respect of the six months ended 31 July 2022 and a final dividend of 8.60p.

116

Kingfisher 2022/23 Annual Report and Accounts

Strategic ReportGovernanceFinancial Statements 
 
Consolidated statement of comprehensive income

Year ended 31 January 2023

£ millions

Profit for the year

Remeasurements of post-employment benefits

Inventory cash flow hedges – fair value gains

Tax on items that will not be reclassified

Total items that will not be reclassified subsequently to profit or loss

Currency translation differences 

Group

Joint ventures and associates

Inventory cash flow hedges – gains transferred to income statement

Other cash flow hedges

Fair value gains

Gains transferred to income statement

Total items that may be reclassified subsequently to profit or loss

Other comprehensive loss for the year

Total comprehensive income for the year

Notes

2022/23

2021/22 

28

471

(278)

58

85

(135)

129

11

(5)

–

–

135

–

471

843

21

59

(18)

62

(218)

(7)

–

1

(1)

(225)

(163)

680

Kingfisher 2022/23 Annual Report and Accounts

117

Consolidated statement of changes in equity

Share  
capital
(note 29)

Share  
premium

Own  
shares 
held

Retained 
earnings

Capital 
redemption 
reserve

Other 
reserves 
(note 30)

Notes

325

2,228

(46)

4,025

50

–

–

–

–

–

1

–

(21)

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

24

–

–

–

471

(181)

290

–

19

7

(24)

(275)

(246)

–

305

2,228

(22)

3,796

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

21

–

–

71

31

29

12

196

–

181

181

–

–

–

–

–

25

285

(117)

(117)

Share  
capital
(note 29)

Share 
premium

Own  
shares  
held

Retained 
earnings

Capital 
redemption 
reserve

Other 
reserves 
(note 30)

Notes

332

2,228

(23)

3,630

43

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

(7)

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

15

–

(38)

–

–

843

16

859

–

27

5

(15)

(226)

–

(254)

(1)

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

7

–

–

–

325

2,228

(46)

4,025

50

361

–

(179)

(179)

16

–

–

–

–

–

–

(2)

196

2022/23

Total  
equity

6,778

471

–

471

19

8

–

(275)

(246)

25

6,663

2021/22

Total  
equity

6,571

843

(163)

680

16

27

5

–

(226)

(38)

(254)

(3)

6,778

Year ended 31 January 2023

£ millions

At 1 February 2022

Profit for the year

Other comprehensive (loss)/income for the year

Total comprehensive income for the year

Inventory cash flow hedges – gains transferred to 
inventories

Share-based compensation

New shares issued under share schemes

Own shares issued under share schemes

Purchase of own shares for cancellation

Dividends

Tax on equity items

At 31 January 2023

£ millions

At 1 February 2021

Profit for the year

Other comprehensive income/(loss) for the year

Total comprehensive income/(loss) for the year

Inventory cash flow hedges – losses transferred 
to inventories

Share-based compensation

New shares issued under share schemes

Own shares issued under share schemes

Purchase of own shares for cancellation

Purchase of own shares for ESOP trust

Dividends

Tax on equity items

At 31 January 2022

31

29

12

118

Kingfisher 2022/23 Annual Report and Accounts

Strategic ReportGovernanceFinancial Statements 
Consolidated balance sheet

At 31 January 2023

£ millions

Non-current assets
Goodwill
Other intangible assets
Property, plant and equipment
Investment property
Right-of-use assets
Investments in joint ventures and associates
Post-employment benefits
Deferred tax assets
Other tax authority asset
Derivative assets
Other receivables

Current assets
Inventories
Trade and other receivables
Derivative assets
Current tax assets
Cash and cash equivalents
Assets held for sale

Total assets

Current liabilities

Trade and other payables

Borrowings

Lease liabilities

Derivative liabilities

Current tax liabilities

Provisions

Non-current liabilities
Other payables
Borrowings
Lease liabilities
Derivative liabilities
Deferred tax liabilities
Provisions
Post-employment benefits

Total liabilities

Net assets

Equity
Share capital
Share premium
Own shares held in ESOP trust
Retained earnings
Capital redemption reserve
Other reserves

Total equity

Notes

2022/23

2021/22

13
14
15
16
17
18
28
26
35
24
20

19
20
24

21

22

23

33

24

27

22
23
33
24
26
27
28

5

29

30

2,408
371
3,205
30
1,947
30
251
16
64
–
19
8,341

3,070
347
16
40
286
3
3,762
12,103

2,424
330
3,078
33
1,885
17
540
10
64
1
22
8,404

2,749
300
37
33
823
6
3,948
12,352

(2,483)

(2,674)

(16)

(343)

(47)

–

(10)
(2,899)

(4)
(102)
(2,101)
(5)
(205)
(10)
(114)
(2,541)
(5,440)

(14)

(347)

(12)

(46)

(23)
(3,116)

(10)
(2)
(2,029)
(1)
(276)
(10)
(130)
(2,458)
(5,574)

6,663

6,778

305
2,228
(22)
3,796
71
285
6,663

325
2,228
(46)
4,025
50
196
6,778

The financial statements were approved by the Board of Directors on 20 March 2023 and signed on its behalf by:

Thierry Garnier
Chief Executive Officer

Bernard Bot
Chief Financial Officer

Kingfisher 2022/23 Annual Report and Accounts

119

 
Consolidated cash flow statement

Year ended 31 January 2023

£ millions

Operating activities 

Cash generated by operations

Income tax paid

French tax authority payments

Other tax authority payments

Net cash flows from operating activities

Investing activities 

Notes

2022/23

2021/22

32

984

(130)

(34)

–

820

1,411

(169)

–

(64)

1,178

Purchase of property, plant and equipment and intangible assets

5

(449)

(397)

Disposal of property, plant and equipment, intangible assets, and assets held for sale 

Disposal of businesses, net of cash disposed

Interest received

Interest element of lease rental receipts

Principal element of lease rental receipts

Advance payments on right-of-use assets

Advance receipts on right-of-use assets

Dividends received from joint ventures and associates

Net cash flows used in investing activities

Financing activities 

Interest paid

Interest element of lease rental payments

Principal element of lease rental payments

Repayment of bank loans

Issue of fixed term debt

Repayment of fixed term debt

New shares issued under share schemes

Purchase of own shares for cancellation

Purchase of own shares for ESOP trust

Ordinary dividends paid to equity shareholders of the Company

Net cash flows used in financing activities

Net decrease in cash and cash equivalents and bank overdrafts

Cash and cash equivalents and bank overdrafts at beginning of year

Exchange differences

Cash and cash equivalents and bank overdrafts at end of year

12

33

2

8

5

1

3

(7)

2

3

9

7

2

1

3

(11)

–

1

(432)

(385)

(5)

(124)

(329)

–

99

–

8

(337)

(9)

(246)

(943)

(555)

809

16

270

(22)

(135)

(341)

(2)

–

(95)

5

(157)

(29)

(254)

(1,030)

(237)

1,136

(90)

809

120 Kingfisher 2022/23 Annual Report and Accounts

Strategic ReportGovernanceFinancial StatementsNotes to the consolidated financial statements

1  General information

Kingfisher plc (‘the Company’), its subsidiaries, joint ventures 
and associates (together ‘the Group’) supply home improvement 
products and services through a network of retail stores and 
other channels, located mainly in the United Kingdom and 
continental Europe. The nature of the Group’s operations 
and its principal activities are set out in the Strategic Report 
on pages 1 to 61.

The Company is incorporated in England and Wales, United 
Kingdom, and is listed on the London Stock Exchange. The 
address of its registered office is One Paddington Square, 
London, W2 1GG. A full list of related undertakings of the 
Company and their registered offices is given in note 14 
of the Company’s separate financial statements.

These consolidated financial statements have been approved 
for issue by the Board of Directors on 20 March 2023.

2  Principal accounting policies

The principal accounting policies applied in the preparation 
of these consolidated financial statements are set out below. 
These policies have been consistently applied to the years 
presented, except for the new/amended policies set out below:

 — Application of hyperinflation accounting under IAS 29 to the 
Group’s Turkish joint venture (see b. Basis of consolidation, 
ii) Joint ventures and associates)

a.  Basis of preparation
The consolidated financial statements of the Company, its 
subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates are made up to 
31 January, except as disclosed in note 18 of the consolidated 
financial statements. The current financial year is the year ended 
31 January 2023 (‘the year’ or ‘2022/23’). The comparative 
financial year is the year ended 31 January 2022 (‘the prior year’ 
or ‘2021/22’). The consolidated income statement and related 
notes represent results from continuing operations, there being 
no discontinued operations in the years presented.

The consolidated financial statements have been prepared 
in accordance with international accounting standards in 
conformity with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 
and International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS Standards) 
as issued by the IASB.

The consolidated financial statements have been prepared 
under the historical cost convention, as modified by the use 
of valuations for certain financial instruments, share-based 
payments and post-employment benefits. A summary of 
the Group’s principal accounting policies is set out below.

The preparation of financial statements in accordance with 
IFRS requires the use of certain accounting estimates and 
assumptions. It also requires management to exercise its 
judgement in the process of applying the Group’s accounting 
policies. The areas involving critical accounting judgements 
and key estimation uncertainties, which are significant to the 
consolidated financial statements, are outlined in note 3.

Going concern
Based on the Group’s liquidity position and cash flow 
projections, including a forward looking remote downside 
scenario, the Directors have a reasonable expectation that the 
Company and the Group have adequate resources to continue 
in operational existence for the foreseeable future and they 
continue to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in 
preparing the consolidated financial statements for the year 
ended 31 January 2023.

The Group’s business activities, together with the factors likely 
to affect its future development, performance and position 
are set out in the strategic report on pages 1 to 61. The financial 
position of the Group, its cash flows, liquidity position and 
borrowing facilities are described in the Financial Review on 
pages 39 to 46. The principal risks and viability statement of the 
Group are set out on pages 51 to 60. In addition, note 25 includes 
the Group’s financial risk management objectives and exposures 
to liquidity and other financial risks. The Directors have 
considered these areas alongside the principal risks and how 
they may impact the going concern assessment.

The new financial year has started encouragingly, and despite 
the volatile trading environment, underlying sales trends remain 
resilient across all our banners (Q1 LFL sales (to 28 February 
2023) +0.5%).

As of 31 January 2023, Kingfisher had access to over £800m 
of liquidity, comprising cash and cash equivalents (net of bank 
overdrafts) of £270m and access to an undrawn Revolving 
Credit Facility (RCF) of £550m (expiring at the end of May 2025). 
The ratio of net debt to EBITDA on an IFRS 16 basis was 1.6 as of 
31 January 2023.

In considering whether the Group’s financial statements can be 
prepared on a going concern basis, the Directors have reviewed 
the Group’s business activities together with factors likely to 
affect its performance, financial position and access to liquidity 
(including consideration of financial covenants and credit ratings).

While trading continues to be resilient, in forming their outlook 
on the future financial performance, the Directors considered 
the risk of higher business volatility and the potential negative 
impact of the general economic environment on household 
and trade spend.

The Directors’ review also included consideration of a remote 
scenario that models the impact of a significant demand or 
supply shock preventing the Group from realising a large part 
of its sales over the period of a month followed by subdued 
demand for the remainder of the year. The total loss of sales 
in this scenario is c.£2.2bn (16% over the impacted period). The 
scenario assumes the impact of lost sales is partially offset by 
a limited set of mitigating actions on variable and discretionary 
costs, capital expenditure and the suspension of capital returns 
to shareholders. Even under this remote scenario, which 
requires drawing on the RCF for a few months, the Group 
retains headroom on its credit facilities.

Given current trading and expectations for the business, the 
Directors believe that this scenario reflects a remote outcome 
for the Group. Should a more extreme scenario occur than 
currently modelled by the Directors under this remote scenario, 
the Group would need to implement additional operational or 
financial measures.

Kingfisher 2022/23 Annual Report and Accounts

121

Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued

2  Principal accounting policies continued

Changes to accounting policies as a result of new 
standards issued and effective
The following new or amended accounting standards are in issue 
and effective for the current reporting period:

 — Amendments to IFRS 3 – Reference to the 

Conceptual Framework

 — Amendments to IAS 16 – Property, Plant and Equipment 

-Proceeds before Intended Use

 — Amendments to IAS 37 – Onerous Contracts – Cost of 

Fulfilling a Contract

 — Annual Improvement to IFRS Standards 2018-2020  

Cycle – Amendments to IFRS 1 First-time Adoption of 
International Financial Reporting Standards, IFRS 9 Financial 
Instruments, IFRS 16 Leases and IAS 41 Agriculture

The above new or amended accounting standards did not have 
a material impact on the consolidated financial statements.

Following the International Monetary Fund’s classification of 
Turkey as a hyperinflationary economy during the year, the 
IASB prescribed the application of IAS 29 – Financial reporting 
in hyper-inflationary economies for entities with the currency 
of Turkey as their functional currency. The Group’s Turkish 
joint venture, Koctas, has prepared its financial statements 
under IAS 29.

Standards issued but not yet effective
At the date of the approval of these financial statements, 
the following standards which have not been applied in these 
financial statements were in issue, but not yet effective:

 — IFRS 17 (including the June 2020 Amendments to IFRS 17) 

– Insurance Contracts

 — Amendments to IFRS 10 and IAS 28 – Sale or Contribution of 
Assets between an Investor and its Associate or Joint Venture

 — Amendments to IAS 1 – Classification of Liabilities as 

Current or Non-current

 — Amendments to IAS 8 – Definition of Accounting Estimates
 — Amendments to IAS 12 – Deferred Tax related to Assets and 

Liabilities arising from a Single Transaction

These new standards are not expected to have a material 
impact on the consolidated financial statements.

Risks and uncertainties
The principal risks and uncertainties to which the Group is 
exposed are set out in the Strategic Report on pages 51 to 58.

Use of non-GAAP measures
In the reporting of financial information, the Group uses 
certain measures that are not required under IFRS, the generally 
accepted accounting principles (‘GAAP’) under which the Group 
reports. Kingfisher believes that retail profit, adjusted pre-tax 
profit, adjusted effective tax rate, and adjusted earnings per 
share provide additional useful information on performance and 
trends to shareholders. These and other non-GAAP measures 
(also known as ‘Alternative Performance Measures’), such as net 
debt, are used by Kingfisher for internal performance analysis 
and incentive compensation arrangements for employees. 

The terms ‘retail profit’, ‘adjusting items’, ‘adjusted’, ‘adjusted 
effective tax rate’, ‘net cashflow’ and ‘net debt’ are not defined 
terms under IFRS and may therefore not be comparable with 
similarly titled measures reported by other companies. They are 
not intended to be a substitute for, or superior to, GAAP measures.

Retail profit is defined as continuing operating profit before 
central costs, the Group’s share of interest and tax of joint 
ventures and associates and adjusting items. Central costs 
principally comprise the costs of the Group’s head office 
before adjusting items.

Adjusting items, which are presented separately within their 
relevant income statement category, include items which by 
virtue of their size and/or nature, do not reflect the Group’s 
ongoing trading performance. Adjusting items may include, 
but are not limited to:

 — non-trading items included in operating profit such 

as profits and losses on the disposal, closure, exit or 
impairment of subsidiaries, joint ventures, associates and 
investments which do not form part of the Group’s ongoing 
trading activities;

 — the costs of significant restructuring and incremental 

acquisition integration costs;

 — profits and losses on the disposal/exit of properties, 
impairments of goodwill and significant impairments 
(or impairment reversals) of other non-current assets;

 — prior year tax items (including the impact of changes in tax 
rates on deferred tax), significant one-off tax settlements 
and provision charges/releases and the tax effects of other 
adjusting items;

 — financing fair value remeasurements i.e. changes in the fair 
value of financing derivatives, excluding interest accruals, 
offset by fair value adjustments to the carrying amount 
of borrowings and other hedged items under fair value 
(or non-designated) hedge relationships. Financing 
derivatives are those that relate to hedged items of 
a financing nature.

The term ‘adjusted’ refers to the relevant measure being 
reported for continuing operations excluding adjusting items.

The adjusted effective tax rate is calculated as continuing 
income tax expense excluding prior year tax items (including 
the impact of changes in tax rates on deferred tax), significant 
one-off tax settlements and provision charges/releases and the 
tax effects of other adjusting items, divided by continuing profit 
before taxation excluding adjusting items. Prior year tax items 
represent income statement tax relating to underlying items 
originally arising in prior years, including the impact of changes in 
tax rates on deferred tax. The exclusion of items relating to prior 
years, and those not in the ordinary course of business, helps 
provide a better indication of the Group’s ongoing rate of tax.

Net debt comprises lease liabilities, borrowings and financing 
derivatives (excluding accrued interest) less cash and cash 
equivalents and short-term deposits, including such balances 
classified as held for sale.

Refer to the Financial Review for definitions of all of the Group’s 
Alternative Performance Measures, including further information 
on why they are used and details of where reconciliations to 
statutory measures can be found where applicable.

122 Kingfisher 2022/23 Annual Report and Accounts

Strategic ReportGovernanceFinancial Statementsb.  Basis of consolidation
The consolidated financial statements incorporate the financial 
statements of the Company, its subsidiaries, joint ventures 
and associates.

(i)  Subsidiaries
Subsidiaries are all entities (including structured entities) over 
which the Group has control. The Group controls an entity when 
the Group is exposed to, or has rights to, variable returns from 
its involvement with the entity and has the ability to affect 
those returns through its power over the entity.

Subsidiaries acquired are recorded under the acquisition 
method of accounting and their results included from the date 
of acquisition.

The results of subsidiaries which have been disposed are 
included up to the effective date of disposal.

The consideration transferred for the acquisition of a subsidiary 
is the fair values of the assets transferred, the liabilities incurred 
and the equity interests issued by the Group. The consideration 
transferred includes the fair value of any asset or liability 
resulting from a contingent consideration arrangement. 
Acquisition-related costs are expensed as incurred. Identifiable 
assets acquired and liabilities and contingent liabilities assumed 
in a business combination are measured initially at their fair 
values at the acquisition date. On an acquisition-by-acquisition 
basis, the Group recognises any non-controlling interest in the 
acquiree either at fair value or at the non-controlling interest’s 
proportionate share of the acquiree’s net assets. Subsequent 
to acquisition, the carrying amount of non-controlling interests 
is the amount of those interests at initial recognition plus the 
non-controlling interests’ share of subsequent changes 
in equity. Total comprehensive income is attributed to  
non-controlling interests even if this results in the  
non-controlling interests having a deficit balance.

The excess of the consideration transferred, the amount 
of any non-controlling interests in the acquiree and the 
acquisition-date fair value of any previous equity interests 
in the acquiree over the fair value of the identifiable net assets 
acquired is recorded as goodwill. If this is less than the fair value 
of the net assets of the subsidiary acquired in the case of a 
bargain purchase, the difference is recognised directly in 
the income statement.

Intercompany transactions, balances and unrealised gains 
on transactions between Group companies are eliminated on 
consolidation. Unrealised losses are also eliminated unless the 
transaction provides evidence of an impairment of the asset 
transferred. Accounting policies of acquired subsidiaries have 
been changed where necessary to ensure consistency with 
the policies adopted by the Group.

(ii)  Joint ventures and associates
Joint ventures are entities over which the Group has joint 
control. Joint control is the contractually agreed sharing of 
control of an arrangement, which exists only when decisions 
about the relevant activities require the unanimous consent 
of the parties sharing control. The equity method is used 
to account for the Group’s investments in joint ventures.

Associates are entities over which the Group has the ability 
to exercise significant influence but not control or joint control, 
generally accompanied by a shareholding of between 20% and 
50% of the voting rights. The equity method is used to account 
for the Group’s investments in associates.

Under the equity method, investments are initially recognised 
at cost. The Group’s share of post-acquisition profits or losses 
is recognised in the income statement within operating profit, 
and its share of post-acquisition movements in other 
comprehensive income is recognised in other comprehensive 
income. The cumulative post-acquisition movements are 
adjusted against the carrying amount of the investment. When 
the Group’s share of losses equals or exceeds its interest, 
including any other long-term receivables, the Group does not 
recognise any further losses, unless it has incurred obligations 
or made payments on behalf of the joint venture or associate.

Unrealised gains on transactions between the Group and its 
joint ventures and associates are eliminated to the extent of 
the Group’s interest. Unrealised losses are also eliminated unless 
the transaction provides evidence of an impairment of the asset 
transferred. Accounting policies of joint ventures and associates 
have been changed where necessary to ensure consistency 
with the policies adopted by the Group.

The equity method of accounting is discontinued from the date 
an investment ceases to be a joint venture or associate, that is 
the date on which the Group ceases to have joint control or 
significant influence over the investee or on the date it is 
classified as held for sale.

In March 2022, the three-year cumulative inflation in Turkey 
exceeded 100% and as a result, hyperinflationary accounting 
was applied for the year ended 31 January 2023 in respect of 
the group’s joint venture in Turkey.

The group’s consolidated financial statements include the 
equity accounted results and financial position of its Turkish joint 
venture restated to the current purchasing power at the end of 
the period, with hyperinflationary gains and losses in respect of 
monetary items being reported in operating profit.

Note, IAS 29 does not require the restatement of prior year 
comparative figures in the consolidated financial statements. 
For 2022/23, the application of IAS 29 has resulted in a £9m 
increase in the Group’s investment in the joint venture, a £4m 
charge to the consolidated income statement and a £13m 
credit to Other Comprehensive Income.

c.  Foreign currencies
(i)  Presentation and functional currencies
The consolidated financial statements are presented in Sterling, 
which is the Group’s presentation currency. Items included in the 
financial statements of each of the Group’s entities are measured 
using the currency of the primary economic environment in 
which the entity operates (i.e. its functional currency).

(ii)  Transactions and balances
Transactions denominated in foreign currencies are translated 
into the functional currency at the exchange rates prevailing on 
the date of the transaction or, for practical reasons, at average 
monthly rates where exchange rates do not fluctuate significantly.

Kingfisher 2022/23 Annual Report and Accounts

123

Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued

2  Principal accounting policies continued

Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign 
currencies are translated into Sterling at the rates of exchange 
at the balance sheet date. Exchange differences on monetary 
items are taken to the income statement. Exceptions to this 
are where the monetary items form part of the net investment 
in a foreign operation or are designated and effective net 
investment hedges. Such exchange differences are initially 
deferred in equity.

(iii)  Group companies
The balance sheets of overseas subsidiaries are expressed 
in Sterling at the rates of exchange at the balance sheet date. 
Profits and losses of overseas subsidiaries are expressed in 
Sterling at average exchange rates for the period. Exchange 
differences arising on the retranslation of foreign operations, 
including joint ventures and associates, are recognised in a 
separate component of equity.

On consolidation, exchange differences arising from the 
retranslation of the net investment in foreign entities, and of 
borrowings, lease liabilities and other currency instruments 
designated as hedges of such investments, are taken to equity. 
When a foreign operation is sold, such exchange differences 
recorded since 1 February 2004 (being the date of transition 
to IFRS) are recognised in the income statement as part of 
the gain or loss on disposal.

Goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on the acquisition 
of a foreign entity are treated as assets and liabilities of the 
foreign entity and translated at the rates of exchange at the 
balance sheet date. Goodwill arising prior to 1 February 2004 
is denominated in Sterling, and not subsequently retranslated.

(iv)  Principal rates of exchange against Sterling

Euro 

US Dollar 

Polish Zloty

Romanian Leu

Turkish Lira*

2022/23

2021/22

Average rate Year end rate Average rate Year end rate

1.17

1.23

5.48

5.76

1.13

1.23

5.34

5.58

1.17

1.38

5.34

5.76

1.20

1.34

5.49

5.92

23.18

23.18

12.92

18.06

 * The 2022/23 Turkish Lira average exchange rate represents the 
closing rate for the year, due to the application of hyperinflation 
accounting in Turkey.

d.  Revenue recognition
Sales represent the supply of home improvement products and 
services, including commission from sales of third party products 
through Kingfisher websites (i.e. ‘marketplace’ arrangements). 
Sales exclude transactions made between companies within the 
Group, Value Added Tax, other sales-related taxes and are net 
of returns, trade and staff discounts.

Revenue is recognised when control of the goods or services 
are transferred to the customer at an amount that reflects the 
consideration to which the Group expects to be entitled in 
exchange for those goods or services.

Revenue from in-store product sales is recognised when the 
customer takes possession of the products (i.e. on payment). 
Revenue from online ‘click & collect’ product sales is recognised 
on collection of the products. Where customers have a right to 
return purchased goods in exchange for a refund, a liability for 
returns is recognised based on historic trends and offset against 
revenue in the period in which the sale was made. An asset (with 
a corresponding adjustment to cost of sales) is also recognised 
for goods expected to be returned from customers. Where 
award credits such as vouchers or loyalty points are provided as 
part of the sales transaction, the amount allocated to the credits 
is deferred and recognised when the credits are redeemed and 
the Group fulfils its obligations to supply the awards.

Revenue from sales of delivered products is recognised on 
delivery. Supply of delivered products is judged to be one single 
performance obligation.

Service sales typically comprise kitchen and bathroom 
installations. Revenue from these services is recognised 
on completion of the relevant installation.

Commission revenue is earned from the sale of third-party 
products through Kingfisher websites. This is referred to as a 
marketplace arrangement. Kingfisher acts as an agent in such 
arrangements and recognises the net commission receivable 
within sales, generally when an order is placed.

Sales from delivered products, installation services and 
marketplace arrangements represent only a small component 
of the Group’s sales as the majority relates to in-store and 
online ‘click & collect’ purchases of products.

Other income includes external rental income and gains on 
disposal of assets. Rental income from operating leases is 
recognised on a straight-line basis over the term of the 
relevant lease.

e.  Rebates
Rebates received from suppliers mainly comprise volume 
related rebates on the purchase of inventories. Contractual 
volume related rebates are accrued as units are purchased 
based on the percentage rebate applicable to forecast total 
purchases over the rebate period, where it is probable the 
rebates will be received and the amounts can be estimated 
reliably. Discretionary rebates are not anticipated and only 
recognised once earned. Rebates relating to inventories 
purchased but still held at the balance sheet date are deducted 
from the carrying value so that the cost of inventories is recorded 
net of applicable rebates. Such rebates are credited to the cost 
of sales line in the income statement when the goods are sold.

Other rebates received, such as those related to advertising 
and marketing, are credited to cost of sales in the income 
statement when the relevant conditions have been fulfilled.

f.  Dividends
Interim dividends are recognised when they are paid to the 
Company’s shareholders. Final dividends are recognised 
when they are approved by the Company’s shareholders.

124 Kingfisher 2022/23 Annual Report and Accounts

Strategic ReportGovernanceFinancial StatementsIntangible assets

g. 
(i)  Goodwill
Goodwill represents the future economic benefits arising 
from assets acquired in a business combination that are not 
individually identified and separately recognised. Such benefits 
include future synergies expected from the combination and 
intangible assets not meeting the criteria for separate recognition.

Goodwill is carried at cost less accumulated impairment losses. 
Goodwill is not amortised and is tested annually for impairment 
at country level (except for NeedHelp), representing the lowest 
level at which it is monitored for internal management purposes, 
by assessing the recoverable amount of each cash generating 
unit or groups of cash generating units to which the goodwill 
relates. The recoverable amount is assessed by reference 
to the net present value of expected future pre-tax cash 
flows (‘value-in-use’) or fair value less costs to sell if higher. 
The pre-tax discount rates are derived from the Group’s 
weighted average cost of capital, taking into account the cost 
of equity and debt, to which specific market-related premium 
adjustments are made for each country in which the cash 
generating unit (‘CGU’) operates. When the recoverable amount 
of the goodwill is less than its carrying amount, an impairment 
loss is recognised immediately in the income statement which 
cannot subsequently be reversed. Gains and losses on the 
disposal of an entity include the carrying amount of goodwill 
relating to the entity sold.

(ii)  Computer software
Where software is not an integral part of a related item of 
computer hardware, it is classified as an intangible asset. Costs 
that are directly associated with the acquisition or production of 
identifiable software products controlled by the Group, which 
are expected to generate economic benefits exceeding 
costs beyond one year, are recognised as intangible assets. 
Capitalised costs include those of software licences and 
development, including costs of employees, consultants 
and an appropriate portion of relevant overheads.

Costs related to the configuration and customisation in cloud 
computing arrangements, where they do not give the Group 
power to control the future economic benefits and to restrict 
access of others to those benefits, are not capitalised as they 
do not meet the definition of intangible benefits under IAS 38. 
Such costs are expensed as incurred. Configuration and 
customisation in cloud computing arrangements are only 
capitalised where a separate asset is created and 
capitalisable under IAS 38.

Costs associated with identifying, sourcing, evaluating or 
maintaining computer software are recognised as an expense 
as incurred.

Software under development is held at cost less any provisions 
for impairment, with impairment reviews being performed 
annually, or when there is an indication of impairment.

Amortisation commences when the software assets are 
available for use and is over their estimated useful lives of two 
to ten years.

h.  Property, plant and equipment
(i)  Cost
Property, plant and equipment held for use in the business 
are carried at cost less accumulated depreciation and any 
provisions for impairment.

Properties that were held at 1 February 2004 are carried at 
deemed cost, being the fair value of land and buildings as at the 
transition date to IFRS. All property acquired after 1 February 
2004 is carried at cost less accumulated depreciation.

(ii)  Depreciation
Depreciation is provided to reflect a straight-line reduction from 
cost to estimated residual value over the estimated useful life of 
the asset as follows:

Freehold land

Freehold buildings

Leasehold improvements 

Fixtures and fittings

 — not depreciated

 — over remaining useful life 
 — over remaining period of 

the lease

 — between 4 and 20 years

Computers and electronic equipment

 — between 3 and 5 years

Motor cars

 — 4 years

Commercial vehicles

 — between 3 and 10 years

Impairment

(iii) 
At each reporting date an assessment is performed as to 
whether there are any indicators that property, plant and 
equipment, including the Group’s stores, may be impaired 
or whether there is any indication that an impairment loss 
recognised in a previous period either no longer exists or 
has decreased. Should such indicators exist, the assets’ 
recoverable amounts are subsequently estimated. For store 
impairment testing, each individual store is determined to be a 
cash generating unit. The recoverable amount is assessed by 
reference to the net present value of expected future pre-tax 
cash flows (‘value-in-use’) of the relevant cash generating unit 
or fair value less costs to sell if higher. A vacant possession 
valuation basis is used to approximate the fair value less costs 
to sell. The pre-tax discount rates are derived from the Group’s 
weighted average cost of capital, taking into account the cost 
of equity and debt, to which specific market-related premium 
adjustments are made for each country. Long-term growth 
rates are derived from both external long-term inflation 
forecasts for the territories in which the businesses operate 
and internal long-term sales projections. Any impairment or 
impairment reversal is charged or credited to the income 
statement in the period in which it occurs.

(iv)  Disposal
The gain or loss arising on the disposal or retirement of an asset 
is determined as the difference between the sales proceeds 
and the carrying amount of the asset and is recognised in the 
income statement. Sales of land and buildings are accounted 
for when there is an unconditional exchange of contracts.

(v)  Subsequent costs
Subsequent costs are included in the related asset’s carrying 
amount or recognised as a separate asset, as appropriate, only 
when it is probable that future economic benefits associated 
with the item will flow to the Group and the cost of the item 
can be measured reliably.

All other repairs and maintenance are charged to the income 
statement in the period in which they are incurred.

Kingfisher 2022/23 Annual Report and Accounts

125

Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued

2  Principal accounting policies continued

Leased assets

i. 
The Group assesses whether a contract is or contains a lease 
at inception of the contract. Typically, lease contracts relate 
to properties such as stores and distribution centres, and 
equipment leases such as mechanical handling equipment 
and vehicles. The Group recognises a right-of-use asset 
and a corresponding lease liability with respect to all lease 
arrangements in which it is the lessee, except for short-term 
leases (defined as leases with a lease term of 12 months or less) 
and leases of low value assets.

The liability is initially measured as the present value of the lease 
payments not yet paid at the commencement date, discounted 
at an appropriate discount rate. Where the implicit rate in the 
lease is not readily determinable, an incremental borrowing rate 
is calculated and applied. The calculation methodology is based 
upon applying a financing spread to a risk-free rate, with the 
resulting rate including the effect of the creditworthiness of 
the operating company in which the lease is contracted, as 
well as the underlying term, currency and start date of the 
lease agreement.

Lease payments used in the measurement of the lease 
liability principally comprise fixed lease payments (subject to 
indexation/rent reviews) less any incentives. The lease liability 
is subsequently measured using an effective interest method 
whereby the carrying amount of the lease liability is measured 
on an amortised cost basis, and the interest expense is 
allocated over the lease term. The lease term comprises 
the non-cancellable lease term, in addition to optional periods 
when the Group is reasonably certain to exercise an option to 
extend (or not to terminate) a lease.

The Group remeasures the lease liability and makes a 
corresponding adjustment to the related right-of-use asset 
whenever an event occurs that changes the term or payment 
profile of a lease, such as the renewal of an existing lease, 
the exercise of lease term options, market rent reviews and 
indexation. A lease liability which is denominated in a currency 
that is not the functional currency of the relevant Group entity 
(e.g. a Euro-denominated lease in Castorama Poland) is 
translated into that entity’s functional currency with foreign 
exchange gains and losses recorded in the income statement, 
unless the lease liability is able to be designated as a net 
investment hedge with foreign exchange gains and losses 
recorded in other comprehensive income.

The right-of-use assets are initially measured at the amount equal 
to the lease liability, adjusted by any upfront lease payments or 
incentives and any initial direct costs incurred. Subsequently, 
the assets are measured at cost less accumulated depreciation 
and impairment losses. Right-of-use assets are depreciated on 
a straight-line basis over the remaining lease term.

Lessor accounting

Leases for which the Group is a lessor are classified as finance 
or operating leases. Whenever the terms of the lease transfer 
substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership to the lessee, 
the contract is classified as a finance lease. All other leases are 
classified as operating leases.

126 Kingfisher 2022/23 Annual Report and Accounts

When the Group is an intermediate lessor, it accounts for 
the head lease and the sub-lease as two separate contracts. 
The sub-lease is classified as a finance or operating lease by 
reference to the right-of-use asset arising from the head lease.

Rental income from operating leases is recognised on a 
straight-line basis over the term of the relevant lease.

Amounts due from lessees under finance leases are recognised 
as receivables at the amount of the Group’s net investment in 
the leases. Finance lease income is allocated to accounting 
periods so as to reflect a constant periodic rate of return on 
the Group’s net investment outstanding in respect of the leases.

Investment property

j. 
Investment property is property held by the Group to 
earn rental income or for capital appreciation. Investment 
properties are carried at cost less depreciation and provision 
for impairment. Depreciation is provided on a consistent basis 
with that applied to property, plant and equipment.

k.  Capitalisation of borrowing costs
Interest on borrowings to finance the construction of properties 
held as non-current assets is capitalised from the date work 
starts on the property to the date when substantially all the 
activities which are necessary to get the property ready for 
use are complete. Where construction is completed in parts, 
each part is considered separately when capitalising interest. 
Interest is capitalised before any allowance for tax relief.

Inventories

l. 
Inventories are carried at the lower of cost and net realisable 
value, on a weighted average cost basis.

Trade discounts and rebates received are deducted in 
determining the cost of purchase of inventories. Cost includes 
appropriate attributable overheads and direct expenditure 
incurred in the normal course of business in bringing goods 
to their present location and condition. Costs of inventories 
include the transfer from equity of any gains or losses on 
qualifying cash flow hedges relating to purchases.

Net realisable value represents the estimated selling price in the 
ordinary course of business less the estimated costs necessary 
to make the sale. Write downs to net realisable value are made 
for slow moving, display, damaged or obsolete items and other 
events or conditions resulting in expected selling prices being 
lower than cost. The carrying value of inventories reflects 
known and expected losses of product in the ordinary course 
of business.

m.  Employee benefits
(i)  Post-employment benefits
The Group operates various defined benefit and defined 
contribution pension schemes for its employees, some of 
which are required by local legislation. A defined benefit 
scheme is a pension scheme which defines an amount of 
pension benefit which an employee will receive on retirement. 
A defined contribution scheme is a pension scheme under which 
the Group usually pays fixed contributions into a separate entity. 
In all cases other than some of the legally required schemes, 
a separate fund is being accumulated to meet the accruing 
liabilities. The assets of each of these funds are either held 
under trusts or managed by insurance companies and are 
entirely separate from the Group’s assets.

Strategic ReportGovernanceFinancial StatementsThe asset or liability recognised in the balance sheet in respect 
of defined benefit pension schemes is the fair value of scheme 
assets less the present value of the defined benefit obligation 
at the balance sheet date. The defined benefit obligation is 
calculated annually by independent actuaries using the 
projected unit credit method. The present value of the defined 
benefit obligation is determined by discounting the estimated 
future cash outflows using interest rates of high quality 
corporate bonds which are denominated in the currency in 
which the benefits will be paid and which have terms to maturity 
approximating to the terms of the related pension liability.

Remeasurement gains and losses arising from experience 
adjustments and changes in actuarial assumptions are credited 
or charged to the statement of comprehensive income as 
they arise.

For defined contribution schemes, the Group has no further 
payment obligations once the contributions have been paid. The 
contributions are recognised as an employee benefit expense 
when they are due.

(ii)  Share-based compensation
The Group operates several equity-settled, share-based 
compensation schemes. The fair value of the employee 
services received in exchange for the grant of options or 
deferred shares is recognised as an expense and is calculated 
using Black-Scholes and stochastic models. The total amount 
to be expensed over the vesting period is determined by 
reference to the fair value of the options or deferred shares 
granted, excluding the impact of any non-market vesting 
conditions. The value of the charge is adjusted to reflect 
expected and actual levels of options vesting due to  
non-market vesting conditions.

n.  Taxation
The income tax expense represents the sum of the tax currently 
payable and deferred tax. The tax currently payable is based on 
taxable profit for the year.

The Group is subject to income taxes in numerous jurisdictions 
and there are many transactions for which the ultimate tax 
determination is uncertain during the ordinary course of 
business. For uncertain tax positions, on the basis that tax 
authorities have full knowledge of the relevant information it is 
determined whether it is probable that, in aggregate, an outflow 
of economic resources will occur following investigation. The 
potential impact of the relevant tax authority’s examination 
of the uncertain tax positions is measured to make the best 
estimate of the amount of the tax benefit that may be lost, for 
which liabilities are then recorded. Where the final outcome of 
these matters is different from the amounts which were initially 
recorded, such differences will impact the income tax and 
deferred tax liabilities in the period in which such determination 
is made. These adjustments in respect of prior years are 
recorded in the income statement, or directly in equity, 
as appropriate.

Taxable profit differs from profit before taxation as reported in 
the income statement because it excludes items of income or 
expense which are taxable or deductible in other years or 
which are never taxable or deductible.

Deferred tax is the tax expected to be payable or recoverable 
on differences between the carrying amounts of assets and 
liabilities in the financial statements and the corresponding 

tax bases used in the computation of taxable profit and is 
accounted for using the balance sheet liability method.

Deferred tax liabilities are generally recognised for all taxable 
temporary differences. Deferred tax assets are recognised to 
the extent that it is probable that taxable profits will be available 
against which deductible temporary differences or unused tax 
losses can be utilised. Deferred tax liabilities are not recognised 
if the temporary difference arises from the initial recognition 
of goodwill in a business combination. Deferred tax assets and 
liabilities are not recognised if the temporary difference arises 
from the initial recognition (other than in a business combination) 
of other assets and liabilities in a transaction which affects 
neither the taxable profit nor the accounting profit. Deferred 
tax liabilities are recognised for taxable temporary differences 
arising on investments in subsidiaries, joint ventures and 
associates, except where the Group is able to control the 
reversal of the temporary difference and it is probable that the 
temporary difference will not reverse in the foreseeable future.

The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed at each 
balance sheet date and reduced to the extent that it is no longer 
probable that sufficient taxable profits will be available to allow 
all or part of the asset to be recovered.

Current and deferred tax are calculated using tax rates which 
have been enacted or substantively enacted by the balance 
sheet date and are expected to apply in the period when the 
liability is settled or the asset is realised.

Current and deferred tax are charged or credited to the income 
statement, except when they relate to items charged or credited 
to other comprehensive income or directly to equity, in which 
case the current or deferred tax is also recognised in other 
comprehensive income or directly in equity.

Current and deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset against 
each other when they relate to income taxes levied by the same 
tax jurisdiction and when the Group intends to settle its current 
tax assets and liabilities on a net basis.

Operating levies, such as certain revenue, property and 
payroll-based taxes, are not treated as income tax and are 
included within operating profit. The timing of recognition of 
a liability to pay an operating levy is determined by the event 
identified under the relevant legislation that triggers the 
obligation to pay the levy.

o.  Provisions and contingent liabilities
Provisions are recognised when the Group has a present legal 
or constructive obligation as a result of past events, it is more 
likely than not that an outflow of resources will be required to 
settle the obligation and the amount can be reliably estimated.

A provision is recorded if the unavoidable costs of meeting 
the obligations under a contract exceed the economic benefits 
expected to be received under it. The unavoidable costs reflect 
the net cost of exiting the contract.

If the effect of the time value of money is material, provisions 
are determined by discounting the expected future cash flows 
at a pre-tax rate which reflects current market assessments 
of the time value of money and, where appropriate, the risks 
specific to the liability. Credits or charges arising from changes 
in the rate used to discount the provisions are recognised within 
net finance costs.

Kingfisher 2022/23 Annual Report and Accounts

127

Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued

2  Principal accounting policies continued

Contingent liabilities are possible obligations arising from 
past events, whose existence will only be confirmed by future 
uncertain events that are not wholly within the Group’s control, 
or present obligations where it is not probable that an outflow 
of resources will be required or the amount of the obligation 
cannot be reliably measured. If the outflow of economic 
resources is not considered remote, contingent liabilities 
are disclosed but not recognised in the financial statements.

p.  Financial instruments
Financial assets and financial liabilities are recognised on the 
Group’s balance sheet when the Group becomes a party to 
the contractual provisions of the financial instrument. Financial 
assets are derecognised when the contractual rights to the 
cash flows from the financial asset expire or the Group has 
substantially transferred the risks and rewards of ownership. 
Financial liabilities (or a part of a financial liability) are 
derecognised when the obligation specified in the contract is 
discharged or cancelled or expires or are substantially modified.

Financial assets and liabilities are offset only when the Group 
has a currently enforceable legal right to set-off the respective 
recognised amounts and intends either to settle on a net basis, 
or to realise the asset and settle the liability simultaneously.

(i)  Cash and cash equivalents
Cash and cash equivalents include cash in hand, uncleared 
credit card receipts, deposits held on call with banks and other 
short-term highly liquid investments with original maturities 
of three months or less. For cashflow statement reporting 
purposes, the Group considers bank overdrafts as part of 
cash and cash equivalents because they are repayable on 
demand and form part of the Group’s cash management.

(ii)  Borrowings
Interest bearing borrowings are recorded at fair value (which 
is typically equivalent to the proceeds received) net of direct 
issue costs and subsequently measured at amortised cost. 
Where borrowings are in designated and effective fair value 
hedge relationships, adjustments are made to their carrying 
amounts to reflect the hedged risks. Finance charges, including 
premiums payable on settlement or redemption and direct 
issue costs, are amortised to the income statement using 
the effective interest method.

(iii)  Trade receivables
Trade receivables are initially recognised at their transaction 
price and are subsequently measured at amortised cost less 
any allowance for expected credit losses. To measure the 
expected credit losses, trade receivables are grouped based 
on the days past due. Trade receivables are written off when 
there is no reasonable expectation of recovery.

(iv)  Trade payables
Trade payables are initially recognised at fair value and are 
subsequently measured at amortised cost.

(v)  Derivatives and hedge accounting
Derivatives are initially recorded at fair value on the date a 
derivative contract is entered into and are subsequently 
carried at fair value.

Derivatives embedded in other financial instruments or other 
host contracts are treated as separate derivatives when their 
risks and characteristics are not closely related to those of host 
contracts, and the host contracts are not carried at fair value with 
unrealised gains or losses reported in the income statement.

Where hedge accounting is not applied, or to the extent to which 
it is not effective, changes in the fair value of derivatives are 
recognised in the income statement as they arise. Changes in 
the fair value of derivatives transacted as hedges of operating 
items and financing items are recognised in operating profit and 
net finance costs respectively.

The accounting treatment of derivatives and other financial 
instruments classified as hedges depends on their designation, 
which occurs at the start of the hedge relationship. The Group 
designates certain financial instruments as:

 — a hedge of the fair value of an asset or liability or 

unrecognised firm commitment (‘fair value hedge’);
 — a hedge of a highly probable forecast transaction or 
firm commitment if foreign currency risk is hedged 
(‘cash flow hedge’); or

 — a hedge of a net investment in a foreign operation 

(‘net investment hedge’).

Fair value hedges

For an effective hedge of an exposure to changes in fair value, 
the hedged item is adjusted for changes in fair value attributable 
to the risk being hedged with the corresponding entry being 
recorded in the income statement. Gains or losses from 
remeasuring the corresponding hedging instrument are 
recognised in the same line of the income statement.

Cash flow hedges

Changes in the effective portion of the fair value of 
derivatives that are designated as hedges of future cash 
flows are recognised directly in other comprehensive income, 
with any ineffective portion being recognised immediately in 
the income statement where relevant. If the cash flow hedge 
of a firm commitment or forecast transaction results in the 
recognition of a non-financial asset or liability, then, at the time 
it is recognised, the associated gains or losses on the derivative 
that had previously been deferred in equity are included in the 
initial measurement of the non-financial asset or liability. For all 
other hedges, amounts deferred in equity are recognised in the 
income statement in the same period in which the hedged item 
affects net profit or loss.

Net investment hedges

Where the Group hedges net investments in foreign 
operations through foreign currency borrowings or lease 
liabilities, the gains or losses on retranslation are recognised in 
other comprehensive income. If the Group uses derivatives as 
the hedging instrument, the effective portion of the hedge is 
recognised in other comprehensive income, with any ineffective 
portion being recognised immediately in the income statement. 
Gains and losses accumulated in equity are recycled through 
the income statement on disposal of the foreign operation.

128 Kingfisher 2022/23 Annual Report and Accounts

Strategic ReportGovernanceFinancial StatementsIn order to qualify for hedge accounting, the Group documents 
in advance the risk management objective and strategy for 
undertaking the hedge and the relationship between the item 
being hedged and the hedging instrument. The Group also 
documents and demonstrates an assessment of the relationship 
between the hedged item and the hedging instrument, which 
shows that the hedge will be highly effective on an ongoing basis 
and provides an analysis of the sources of hedge ineffectiveness. 
The effectiveness testing is performed at half year and year 
end or upon a significant change in circumstances affecting 
the hedge effectiveness requirements.

Hedge accounting is discontinued when the hedging instrument 
expires or is sold, terminated or exercised, or no longer qualifies 
for hedge accounting. At that time, any cumulative gain or loss 
on the hedging instrument is retained in equity until the highly 
probable forecast transaction occurs. If a hedged transaction 
is no longer expected to occur, the net cumulative gain or loss 
deferred in equity is transferred to the income statement.

q.  Assets and liabilities held for sale
Non-current assets and disposal groups are classified as held 
for sale if their carrying amounts will be recovered through 
a sale transaction rather than through continuing use. This 
condition is regarded as met only when the sale is highly 
probable and the asset or disposal group is available for 
immediate sale in its present condition subject only to 
terms that are usual and customary for sales of such assets.

Management must be committed to the sale, which should 
be expected to qualify for recognition as a completed sale 
within one year from the date of classification as held for sale.

Non-current assets and disposal groups classified as held for 
sale are measured at the lower of carrying amount and fair value 
less costs to sell. This excludes financial assets, deferred tax 
assets and assets arising from employee benefits, which are 
measured according to the relevant accounting policy.

Property, plant and equipment, right-of-use assets and 
intangible assets are not depreciated once classified as held for 
sale. The Group ceases to use the equity method of accounting 
from the date on which an interest in a joint venture or an 
interest in an associate becomes classified as held for sale.

Share repurchases

r. 
Shares purchased for cancellation are deducted from retained 
earnings. The Group uses irrevocable closed period buyback 
programmes. A liability to purchase shares is recognised at 
inception of the programme with any subsequent reduction in 
the obligation credited back to retained earnings at the end of 
the programme. Share capital is reduced and credited to the 
capital redemption reserve once shares are cancelled, 
maintaining non-distributable reserves.

s.  Reserves
The following describes the nature and purpose of each reserve 
within equity:

(i)  Share capital
The nominal value of proceeds received for shares issued.

(ii)  Share premium
Proceeds received in excess of the nominal value of shares 
issued, net of any transaction costs.

(iii)  Own shares held
Shares held by The Employee Share Ownership Plan Trust.

(iv)  Capital redemption reserve
Amounts transferred from share capital on repurchase of 
issued shares.

(v)  Other reserves, comprising:

 — Translation reserve – Gains or losses arising on retranslating 

the net assets of overseas operations into the Group’s 
presentation currency including gains or losses on net 
investment hedges.

 — Cash flow hedge reserve – Cumulative gains and losses 

on ‘effective’ hedging instruments.

 — Other – Represents the premium on the issue 

of convertible loan stock in 1993 and the merger 
reserve relating to the acquisition of Darty in 1993.

(vi)  Retained earnings
All other net gains and losses and transactions with owners that 
are not recognised elsewhere.

3  Critical accounting judgements and key sources 
of estimation uncertainty

The preparation of consolidated financial statements under 
IFRS requires the Group to make estimates and assumptions 
that affect the application of policies and reported amounts. 
Estimates and judgements are continually evaluated and are 
based on historical experience and other factors including 
expectations of future events that are believed to be reasonable 
under the circumstances. Actual results may differ from these 
estimates. The significant judgements applied in the preparation 
of the financial statements, along with estimates and assumptions 
which have a significant risk of causing a material adjustment to 
the carrying amount of assets and liabilities within the next 
financial year, are discussed below.

Key sources of estimation uncertainty

Inventories
The carrying amount of inventories recognised on the balance 
sheet, which are carried at the lower of cost and net realisable 
value, are subject to estimates around rates of provision applied 
to certain inventory items. The level of provisions recorded are 
subject to estimation uncertainty in determining the eventual 
sales price of goods to customers in the future, as well as 
assessing which items may be slow-moving or obsolete. This is 
impacted by factors such as stock turn, range or delisted status, 
shrinkage, damage, obsolescence and range review activity.

Range reviews and resulting clearance activity adds additional 
complexity to assessing the level of inventory that may become 
obsolete and the expected net realisable value of inventory 
which will be sold.

The carrying amount of inventories subject to estimation 
uncertainty is £3,070m (2021/22: £2,749m). A 1% increase in the 
provision as a percentage of gross inventory (before provisions 
and a deduction for rebates), which based on management’s 
judgement represents a reasonably possible change, would 
result in a £33m decrease in the carrying amount of 
inventories (2021/22: £29m).

Kingfisher 2022/23 Annual Report and Accounts

129

Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued

3  Critical accounting judgements and key sources 
of estimation uncertainty continued

The quantity, age and condition of inventories are regularly 
measured and assessed as part of range reviews and inventory 
counts undertaken throughout the year and across the Group.

Impairment of store based assets
The Group applies procedures to ensure that its assets 
are carried at no more than their recoverable amount. These 
procedures, by their nature, require estimates and assumptions 
to be made. The most significant are set out below.

Store assets are reviewed for impairment if events or changes 
in circumstances indicate that their carrying amount may not be 
recoverable, or where there is any indication that an impairment 
loss recognised in a previous period either no longer exists or 
has decreased. When a review for impairment is conducted, 
the recoverable amount of an asset or a cash generating unit 
is determined as the higher of fair value less costs to sell and 
value-in-use.

The determination of value-in-use for store assets requires 
the estimation of future cash flows expected to arise from 
the continuing operation of the store and the determination 
of suitable discount and long-term growth rates in order 
to calculate the present value of the forecast cash flows. 
Judgement is also required around the nature and level of 
overheads that are necessarily incurred to generate cash 
inflows in the context of allocation to individual store cash 
generating units. Note that the estimation of future cash flows 
and determination of suitable discount rates requires a greater 
level of judgement than the determination of long-term growth 
rates, with discount rates also having been subject to greater 
recent volatility.

Sales projections take into consideration both external factors 
such as market expectations, and internal factors such as trading 
plans. For certain stores, they assume sales increases that are 
higher than recent (pre-pandemic) experience and market 
growth expectations, driven by an improved and differentiated 
offer. Assumed margin percentage improvements reflect 
increased sales of the Group’s own exclusive brands (OEB) 
as well as lower cost of sales from leveraging our key vendors, 
and better clearance management. Higher assumed operating 
profit percentages reflect operational leverage from increased 
sales as well as cost savings through operational efficiencies, 
including more efficient organisation and leveraging our goods 
not for resale (GNFR) spend. Actual outcomes could vary 
significantly from these estimates and sensitivity analyses 
are undertaken to assess the impact of projected benefits 
not being realised.

The pre-tax discount rates applied to the cash flow forecasts 
are derived from the post-tax weighted average cost of capital 
for each of the territories in which the Group operates. The 
assumptions used in the calculation of the weighted average 
cost of capital are based on observable external market data.

Cash flows beyond the period of the strategic plans are 
calculated using a long-term growth rate which does not exceed 
the long-term average growth rates for the countries in which 
the Group’s stores operate.

In consideration of the significant increase in discount rates 
resulting from high levels of inflation and wider macroeconomic 
uncertainty, the Group has undertaken a full impairment review 
of its stores in the current year. As a result of this review, the 
Group has recorded net store asset impairment charges 
of £139m (2021/22: £33m net reversals) as adjusting items, 
principally relating to increased discount rates and revised 
financial projections.

The following changes in assumptions, which based on the 
Group’s previous experience and management’s judgement 
represent reasonably possible changes, would lead to the 
following impacts on the net impairment:

Assumption

Change in assumption

Impact on net impairment charge

Operating cash 
flows

Post-tax 
discount rate

– Decrease by 10%

Increase by £44m

– Increase by 10%

Decrease by £32m

– Increase by 1%

Increase by £40m

– Decrease by 1%

Decrease by £33m

In consideration of the recent volatility in discount rates, note 
that a 1.5% increase/decrease in the post-tax discount rate 
assumption would result in an increase/decrease in the net 
impairment charge of £59m and £47m respectively.

Further information relating to store assets is provided in notes 15 
and 17.

Post-employment benefits

The present value of the defined benefit liabilities recognised 
on the balance sheet is dependent on a number of market 
rates and assumptions including interest rates of high quality 
corporate bonds, inflation and mortality rates. The net interest 
expense or income is dependent on the interest rates of high 
quality corporate bonds and the net deficit or surplus position. 
The market rates and assumptions are based on the conditions 
at the time and changes in these can lead to significant 
movements in the estimated obligations. During the year, 
changes in financial and demographic assumptions have 
resulted in a decrease in defined benefit liabilities of £991m 
(2021/22: £127m). To help the reader understand the impact 
of changes in the key market rates and assumptions, a 
sensitivity analysis is provided in note 28.

Critical accounting judgements
Adjusting items
The Group separately reports adjusting items in order to 
calculate adjusted results, as it believes these adjusted measures 
provide additional useful information on continuing performance 
and trends to shareholders.

Judgement is required in determining whether an item should be 
classified as an adjusting item or included within adjusted results.

The Group’s definition of adjusting items is outlined in note 2 (a). 
During the year the Group has recorded, before taxation, a 
charge for adjusting items of £147m (2021/22: £58m credit). 
Total adjusting items after taxation were a charge of £118m 
(2021/22: £106m credit). Refer to note 6 for further information 
on adjusting items.

130 Kingfisher 2022/23 Annual Report and Accounts

Strategic ReportGovernanceFinancial StatementsTo support our net zero ambitions, the Group continues to 
invest in ‘greener’ fixed assets which replace existing fixed 
assets. The Group has not recognised any material impairments 
or accelerated depreciation to existing fixed assets resulting 
from this activity.

Current assets including trade receivables and inventories are 
expected to be received and utilised respectively within a short 
timeframe, and therefore no climate-related risks have been 
identified for these balances, whilst the Group is not currently 
aware of adverse exposures from climate change requiring 
provisions to be recognised.

The Group’s internal three-year financial planning acts as the 
basis for the Viability Statement financial modelling and for 
impairment reviews of non-current assets including goodwill. 
It includes climate-related costs and opportunities expected 
within the internal financial planning time horizon.

Within the Viability Statement modelling, cash flow sensitivities 
are performed, for which the most severe scenario estimates 
the impact of a demand or supply shock preventing the Group 
from realising a large part of its sales during the peak trading 
period. The shock, as described in the Viability Statement on 
pages 59 to 60, would go significantly beyond the expected 
short-term impact from a remote climate-driven extreme 
weather event, such as severe flooding and the resulting 
damage to one or more of the group’s distribution centres.

The financial modelling of climate change scenarios performed 
by an external party, as described in the TCFD disclosure on 
pages 27 to 35, identified significant increases in carbon taxes 
as potentially having the largest adverse impact on the Group’s 
discounted cashflows, at 1-5%. Given that this is below the 10% 
reduction in cash flows performed for impairment sensitivity 
analysis above, combined with the most significant potential 
impact of the carbon tax increase being beyond the Group’s 
three-year financial planning period, it is not judged to be a key 
driver in determining the outcome of this exercise, nor that of 
the Viability Statement.

Therefore, the Group has concluded that climate change 
risk does not represent a critical accounting judgement or key 
source of estimation uncertainty for the current year financial 
statements. This classification will be reassessed in future 
reporting periods as we continue to review the impacts, 
risks and opportunities presented by climate change and the 
Group’s commitments to address the challenges presented.

Income taxes
The Group is subject to income taxes in numerous jurisdictions 
in which it operates and there are many transactions for which 
the ultimate tax determination is open to differing interpretations 
during the ordinary course of business. Significant judgement 
may therefore be required in determining the liability for income 
taxes in each of these territories. Where it is anticipated that 
additional taxes are probable, the Group recognises liabilities 
for the estimate of any potential exposure. These judgements 
are continually reassessed, and where the final outcome of 
these matters is different from the initially recorded amount, 
such differences will impact the income tax and deferred tax 
liabilities in the period in which such determination is made. 
These adjustments in respect of prior years are recorded in 
the income statement, or directly in other comprehensive 
income as appropriate, and are disclosed in the notes to 
the accounts. Refer to notes 10 and 26.

Judgement has continued to be required in determining the 
outcome of the European Commission’s state aid investigation 
into the Group Financing Exemption section of the UK controlled 
foreign company rules. In January 2021, the Group received a 
charging notice from HM Revenue & Customs (HMRC) for £57m, 
which was paid in February 2021, with a further £7m interest paid 
in April 2021.

The UK Government and the Group, along with other UK-based 
multinational groups, appealed the European Commission 
decision to the European Courts. On 8 June 2022, the General 
Court of the European Union dismissed several of those appeals, 
including the UK Government’s. This decision has been appealed 
to the European Court of Justice.

The final impact on the Group remains uncertain but based 
upon advice taken, the Group considers that the amount paid 
of £64m, which is included in non-current assets, will ultimately 
be recovered. Further details are provided in note 35.

Consideration of climate-related matters
In preparing these financial statements, the Group has 
considered the elevation of climate change from an ‘emerging 
risk’ to a ‘principal risk’ and the potential impacts of climate 
change on these financials. As set out on pages 51 to 58 of the 
Strategic Report, the elevation from an emerging risk  
to a principal risk is predominantly driven by operational and 
reputational risk to the group, not by the increase in financial 
risk in the short term. The expectation of limited financial 
impacts is supported by the modelling work described in the 
TCFD disclosures on pages 27 to 35, the financial impacts 
of which are smaller than the results of the Group’s impairment 
sensitivity analysis on operating cash flows, see above.

The potential impacts of climate change on the financials have 
been considered in the following areas:

 — Carrying value and remaining useful economic lives of 

property, plant and equipment;

 — Carrying value of inventories and valuations of other assets 

and of provisions;

 — Viability statement assessment of the Group over the next 

three years; and

 — Cash flow forecasts used for the purposes of impairment 

assessments including goodwill.

Kingfisher 2022/23 Annual Report and Accounts

131

Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued

4  Sales

£ millions

B&Q

Screwfix

UK & Ireland

Castorama 

Brico Dépôt

France

Poland

Iberia

Romania

Other1

Other International

Total Group

1. 

‘Other’ consists of the consolidated results of NeedHelp, Screwfix International and revenue from franchise agreements.

UK & Ireland

6,200

603

France

4,452

195

Poland

1,734

148

Other

673

(23)

Other 
International

2,407

125

UK & Ireland

6,505

794

France

4,498

221

Poland

1,525

135

Other

655

(2)

Other 
International

2,180

133

5  Segmental analysis

Income statement

£ millions

Sales

Retail profit/(loss)

Central costs

Share of interest and tax of joint ventures and associates

Adjusting items

Operating profit

Net finance costs

Profit before taxation

£ millions

Sales

Retail profit/(loss)

Central costs

Share of interest and tax of joint ventures and associates

Adjusting items

Operating profit

Net finance costs

Profit before taxation

132 Kingfisher 2022/23 Annual Report and Accounts

2022/23

2021/22

3,835

2,365

6,200

2,302

2,150

4,452

1,734

373

285

15

2,407

13,059

4,178

2,327

6,505

2,296

2,202

4,498

1,525

366

279

10

2,180

13,183

2022/23

Total

13,059

923

(49)

(4)

(147)

723

(112)

611

2021/22

Total

13,183

1,148

(60)

(2)

58

1,144

(137)

1,007

Strategic ReportGovernanceFinancial StatementsBalance sheet

£ millions

Segment assets

Central assets

Goodwill

Net debt

Net assets

£ millions

Segment assets

Central liabilities

Goodwill

Net debt

Net assets

Other segmental information

UK & Ireland

3,084

France

1,914

Poland

1,106

Other

366

Other 
International

1,472

UK & Ireland

3,052

France

1,682

Poland

942

Other

332

Other 
International

1,274

£ millions

Capital expenditure

Depreciation and amortisation

Impairment losses

Impairment reversals

Non-current assets1

UK & Ireland

France

Poland

Other

Other 
International

Central

251

357

64

–

113

140

70

(10)

4,516

2,217

60

56

1

–

922

18

29

30

–

317

78

85

31

–

1,239

7

–

–

–

19

£ millions

Capital expenditure

Depreciation and amortisation

Impairment losses

Impairment reversals

Non-current assets1

UK & Ireland

France

Poland

Other

Other 
International

Central

221

340

16

(26)

91

138

15

(24)

73

50

–

(1)

4,429

2,172

865

10

27

–

(11)

299

83

77

–

(12)

1,164

2

–

–

–

2

2022/23

Total

6,470

59

2,408

(2,274)

6,663

2021/22

Total

6,008

(82)

2,424

(1,572)

6,778

2022/23

Total

449

582

165

(10)

7,991

2021/22

Total

397

555

31

(62)

7,767

1.  Non-current assets comprise goodwill, other intangible assets, property, plant and equipment, investment property, right-of-use assets and investments in 

joint ventures and associates.

The operating segments disclosed above are based on the information reported internally to the Board of Directors and Group 
Executive, representing the geographical areas in which the Group operates. The Group only has one reportable business segment, 
being the supply of home improvement products and services. The majority of the sales in each geographical area are derived from 
in-store and online sales of products.

The ‘Other International’ segment consists of Poland, Iberia, Romania, the joint venture Koçtaş in Turkey, NeedHelp, Screwfix 
International and results from franchise agreements. Poland has been shown separately due to its significance.

Central costs principally comprise the costs of the Group’s head office before adjusting items. Central assets and liabilities comprise 
unallocated head office and other central items including pensions, insurance, interest and tax.

Kingfisher 2022/23 Annual Report and Accounts

133

Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued

6  Adjusting items

£ millions

Included within selling and distribution expenses

Net store asset impairment (losses)/reversals

Release of France and other restructuring provisions

Included within administrative expenses

Romania goodwill impairment

Release of Castorama Russia disposal warranty liability

Release of France uncertain operating tax position

Commercial operating model restructuring

Included within other income

Profit on exit of properties

Adjusting items before tax

Prior year and other adjusting tax items

Adjusting items

2022/23

2021/22

(139)

3

(136)

(16)

4

–

–

(12)

1

1

(147)

29

(118)

33

9

42

–

–

9

4

13

3

3

58

48

106

In consideration of the significant increase in discount rates resulting from high levels of inflation and wider macroeconomic 
uncertainty, the Group has undertaken a full impairment review of its stores. The significant increase in discount rates, combined with 
revised financial projections, has resulted in the recognition of £139m of net store asset impairment charges in the year. These have 
been recorded principally in the UK and France.

Current year adjusting items include a £3m credit arising due to savings on costs relating to legacy store closure programmes in 
France as compared with the original restructuring provisions recognised as adjusting items.

An impairment charge of £16m has been recorded relating to the remaining goodwill in Romania, principally driven by the significant 
increase in discount rates and revised financial projections.

A £4m liability that was held in relation to warranties as part of the Castorama Russia disposal in 2020 has been released in the year 
following the expiry of the warranty claims period.

A profit of £1m has been recorded on the exit of one property in the UK.

Prior year and other adjusting tax items relate principally to deferred tax credits recorded in respect of the impairments noted above 
and a release of prior year provisions for uncertain tax positions, which reflect a reassessment of expected outcomes, agreed 
positions with tax authorities and items that have time-expired.

7  Net finance costs

£ millions

Bank overdrafts, bank loans and derivatives

Fixed term debt

Lease liabilities

Other interest payable

Finance costs

Cash and cash equivalents and short-term deposits

Net interest income on defined benefit pension schemes

Finance lease income

Finance income

Net finance costs

2022/23

2021/22

(3)

(2)

(124)

–

(129)

5

11

1

17

(7)

(3)

(135)

(3)

(148)

2

8

1

11

(112)

(137)

Interest on bank loans and fixed term debt interest includes amortisation of issue costs on borrowing facilities of £1m (2021/22: £2m).

134 Kingfisher 2022/23 Annual Report and Accounts

Strategic ReportGovernanceFinancial Statements8  Profit before taxation

The following items of expense/(income) have been charged/(credited) in arriving at profit before taxation:

£ millions

Research and development recognised as an expense

Government grants

Amortisation of intangible assets1

Depreciation of property, plant and equipment, investment property and right of use assets

Impairment of goodwill

Impairment of intangible assets

Impairment of property, plant and equipment, right-of-use assets, investment property and assets held for sale 

Reversal of impairment of property, plant and equipment and right-of-use assets

Loss on disposal of land and buildings and investment property

Write-down to recoverable amount of trade and other receivables

2022/23

2021/22

1

–

84

498

16

3

146

(10)

–

7

1

(6)

82

473

–

2

29

(62)

1

1

1.  Of the amortisation of intangible assets charge, £1m (2021/22: £2m) and £83m (2021/22: £80m) are included in selling and distribution expenses and 

administrative expenses respectively.

Auditor’s remuneration

£ millions

Fees payable for the audit of the Company and consolidated financial statements

Fees payable to the Company’s auditor and their associates for other services to the Group:

The audit of the Company’s subsidiaries pursuant to legislation 

Audit fees

Audit-related assurance services

Other assurance services

Non-audit fees

Auditor’s remuneration 

2022/23

2021/22

1.0

1.7

2.7

0.2

0.1

0.3

3.0

0.5

1.2

1.7

0.2

0.1

0.3

2.0

Details of the Group’s policy on the use of auditors for non-audit services, the reasons why the auditor was used rather than another 
supplier and how the auditor’s independence and objectivity were safeguarded are set out in the Audit Committee Report on page 75. 
Audit-related assurance services relate to the interim review. No services were provided pursuant to contingent fee arrangements.

Kingfisher 2022/23 Annual Report and Accounts

135

Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued

9  Employees and Directors

£ millions

Wages and salaries

Social security costs

Post-employment benefits

Defined contribution

Defined benefit (service cost)

Share-based compensation

Employee benefit expenses

Number thousands

Stores

Administration

Average number of persons employed

2022/23

2021/22

1,628

295

47

13

19

1,667

298

43

14

27

2,002

2,049

2022/23

2021/22

73

7

80

76

6

82

The average number of persons employed excludes those employed by the Group’s joint ventures and associates.

Remuneration of key management personnel

£ millions

Short-term employee benefits

Post-employment benefits

Termination benefits

Share-based compensation

2022/23

2021/22

9.1

1.0

0.8

4.3

15.2

10.0

0.6

–

9.8

20.4

The Group defines key management personnel as being those members of the Board of Directors and the Group Executive.

Further detail with respect to the Directors’ remuneration is set out in the Directors’ Remuneration Report on pages 77 to 100. 
Other than as set out in the Directors’ Remuneration Report, there have been no transactions with key management during the year 
(2021/22: £nil).

10  Income tax expense

£ millions

UK corporation tax

Current tax on profits for the year

Adjustments in respect of prior years

Overseas tax

Current tax on profits for the year

Adjustments in respect of prior years

Current tax

Deferred tax

Current year

Adjustments in respect of prior years

Adjustments in respect of changes in tax rates

Deferred tax

Income tax expense

136 Kingfisher 2022/23 Annual Report and Accounts

2022/23

2021/22

(44)

3

(41)

(77)

4

(73)

(114)

(25)

(3)

2

(26)

(80)

2

(78)

(87)

31

(56)

(134)

(56)

1

25

(30)

(140)

(164)

Strategic ReportGovernanceFinancial Statements 
Factors affecting tax charge for the year
The tax charge for the year differs from the standard rate of corporation tax in the UK of 19% (2021/22: 19%). The differences are 
explained below:

£ millions

Profit before taxation

Profit multiplied by the standard rate of corporation tax in the UK of 19% (2021/22: 19%)

Net expense not deductible for tax purposes

Temporary differences:

Losses not recognised

Foreign tax rate differences

Adjustments in respect of prior years

Adjustments in respect of changes in tax rates

Income tax expense

2022/23

611

(116)

(18)

(6)

(6)

4

2

2021/22

1,007

(191)

(8)

(3)

(21)

34

25

(140)

(164)

The adjusted effective tax rate on profit before adjusting items is 22% (2021/22: 22%). The effective tax rate calculation is set out in 
the Financial Review on page 41.

The overall tax rate for the year is 23% (2021/22: 16%). This predominately reflects the blend of tax rates and profits in the Group’s 
various jurisdictions, the applicable tax treatment of adjusting items and losses made by companies which have not been recognised 
for deferred tax. This has been partially offset by a release of prior year provisions which reflect a reassessment of expected 
outcomes, agreed positions with tax authorities and items that have time expired. Net expense not deductible for tax purposes 
does not include any significant values that have been netted off.

In addition to the amounts charged to the income statement, tax of £110m has been credited directly to equity (2021/22: £21m charge) 
of which a £3m credit (2021/22: £4m credit) is included in current tax and a £107m credit (2021/22: £25m charge) is included in 
deferred tax. This principally relates to post-employment benefits.

During the year, a payment of €40m (£34m) was made to the French tax authorities relating to a historic tax liability. This amount was 
fully provided for at the prior year end.

Changes in tax rates
The UK Government announced on 3 March 2021 the intention to increase the corporation tax rate from 19% to 25% with effect from 
1 April 2023, which was substantively enacted on 24 May 2021. This increase in rate had the effect of reducing the net deferred tax 
liability as reported by £25m and was reflected in the prior year financial statements.

French legislation has progressively reduced the applicable corporate tax rate in France for large companies to 25.83% by 2022/23, 
which is reflected in these financial statements (2021/22: 28.41%). There were no significant changes to tax rates announced in the 
year relating to the other overseas territories in which the Group operates.

11  Earnings per share

Pence

Basic earnings per share

Effect of dilutive share options per share

Diluted earnings per share

Basic earnings per share

Adjusting items before tax per share

Prior year and other adjusting tax items per share

Adjusted basic earnings per share

Diluted earnings per share

Adjusting items before tax per share

Prior year and other adjusting tax items per share

Adjusted diluted earnings per share

 2022/23

2021/22 

23.8

(0.3)

23.5

23.8

7.4

(1.5)

29.7

23.5

7.3

(1.4)

29.4

40.3

(0.5)

39.8

40.3

(2.8)

(2.3)

35.2

39.8

(2.7)

(2.3)

34.8

Kingfisher 2022/23 Annual Report and Accounts

137

Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued

11  Earnings per share continued

Basic earnings per share is calculated by dividing the profit for the year attributable to equity shareholders of the Company by 
the weighted average number of shares in issue during the year, excluding those held in the Employee Share Ownership Plan trust 
(‘ESOP trust’) which for the purpose of this calculation are treated as cancelled.

For diluted earnings per share, the weighted average number of shares is adjusted to assume conversion of all dilutive potential 
ordinary shares. These represent share options granted to employees where both the exercise price is less than the average market 
price of the Company’s shares during the year and any related performance conditions have been met.

The calculation of basic and diluted earnings per share is based on the profit for the year attributable to equity shareholders of the 
Company. A reconciliation of statutory earnings to adjusted earnings is set out below:

£ millions

Earnings

Adjusting items before tax

Prior year and other adjusting tax items

Adjusted earnings

2022/23

2021/22

471

147

(29)

589

843

(58)

(48)

737

The weighted average number of shares in issue during the year, excluding those held in the Employee Share Ownership Plan Trust 
(‘ESOP trust’), is set out below:

Weighted average number of shares (millions)

Basic

Diluted

12  Dividends

£ millions

Dividends paid to equity shareholders of the Company

Ordinary interim dividend for the year ended 31 January 2023 of 3.80p per share 
(year ended 31 January 2022: 3.80p per share)

Ordinary final dividend for the year ended 31 January 2022 of 8.60p per share 
(year ended 31 January 2021: 5.50p per share)

Ordinary interim dividend for the year ended 31 January 2021 of 2.75p per share

2022/23

1,980

2,002

2021/22

2,092

2,116

2022/23

2021/22

74

172

–

246

80

116

58

254

The proposed dividend for the year ended 31 January 2023, subject to approval by shareholders at the Annual General Meeting, is 
12.40p per share, comprising an interim dividend of 3.80p in respect of the six months ended 31 July 2022 and a final dividend of 8.60p.

138 Kingfisher 2022/23 Annual Report and Accounts

Strategic ReportGovernanceFinancial Statements 
13  Goodwill

£ millions

Cost

At 1 February 2022

Exchange differences

At 31 January 2023

Impairment

At 1 February 2022

Charge for the year

At 31 January 2023

Net carrying amount

At 31 January 2023

Cost

At 1 February 2021

Exchange differences

At 31 January 2022

Impairment

At 1 February 2021

At 31 January 2022

Net carrying amount

At 31 January 2022

2,457

–

2,457

(33)

(16)

(49)

2,408

2,460

(3)

2,457

(33)

(33)

2,424

An impairment charge of £16m has been recorded in the year (2021/22: £nil) relating to the Romania business, which forms part 
of the ‘Other International’ operating segment. This has arisen due to a significant increase in the discount rate and revised 
financial projections.

Impairment tests for goodwill
Goodwill has been allocated for impairment testing purposes to groups of cash generating units (‘CGUs’) as follows:

£ millions

At 31 January 2023

Cost

Impairment

Net carrying amount

At 31 January 2022

Cost

Impairment

Net carrying amount

UK 

France

Poland

Romania

NeedHelp

Total

1,796

–

1,796

1,796

–

1,796

523

–

523

523

–

523

81

–

81

81

–

81

49

(49)

–

49

(33)

16

8

–

8

8

–

8

2,457

(49)

2,408

2,457

(33)

2,424

The recoverable amounts of the CGUs have been determined based on value-in-use calculations.

The groups of CGUs for which the carrying amount of goodwill is deemed significant are the UK, France and Poland. The key 
assumptions used for value-in-use calculations are set out below.

Kingfisher 2022/23 Annual Report and Accounts

139

Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued

13  Goodwill continued

Assumptions
The cash flow projections are based on approved strategic plans covering a three-year period. These are based on both past 
performance and expectations for future market development. The projections reflect the expected benefits from certain strategic 
initiatives, including an increased offer, an improved digital journey and improved operational efficiency. As required under IFRS, cash 
flows related to uncommitted future restructurings and enhancement capital expenditure are excluded from the projections for 
impairment testing purposes. For further details, refer to the Strategic Report on pages 1 to 61.

Key drivers in the strategic plans are sales growth, margin and operating profit percentages. Sales projections take into consideration 
both external factors such as market expectations, and internal factors such as execution on our strategy. They assume sales 
increases in each country that are driven by an enlarged offer, an improved digital journey and local trading initiatives, supported 
by structural changes in the growth of the home improvement market. Assumed gross margin percentages benefit from increased 
sales of the Group’s higher margin own exclusive brands (OEB), vendor negotiations and operational leverage from increased sales 
on logistics and distribution costs. Assumed operating profit percentages reflect better utilisation of fixed costs as well as cost 
savings through operational efficiencies, including a more efficient organisation and leveraging our goods-not-for-resale spend.

Cash flows beyond the period of the strategic plans are calculated using a growth rate which does not exceed the long-term average 
growth rate for the countries in which the Group’s CGUs operate.

The Board has reviewed a sensitivity analysis and does not consider that a reasonably possible change in the assumptions used in the 
value-in-use calculations would cause the carrying amounts of the UK, France and Poland CGUs to exceed their recoverable amounts.

The pre-tax discount rates are derived from the Group’s weighted average cost of capital, taking into account the cost of equity and 
debt, to which specific market-related premium adjustments are made for each country in which the CGU operates.

The risk adjusted nominal discount rates and long-term nominal growth rates used are as follows:

Annual % rate

Pre-tax discount rate

Post-tax discount rate

Long-term growth rate

UK

11.7

9.3

2.0

France

11.3

9.0

2.3

2022/23

Poland

12.5

10.8

3.5

UK

9.2

7.6

2.7

France

8.9

7.3

2.3

2021/22

Poland

10.6

9.3

3.7

140 Kingfisher 2022/23 Annual Report and Accounts

Strategic ReportGovernanceFinancial Statements14  Other intangible assets

£ millions

Cost

At 1 February 2022

Additions

Disposals

Exchange differences

At 31 January 2023

Amortisation

At 1 February 2022

Charge for the year

Impairment losses

Disposals

Exchange differences

At 31 January 2023

Net carrying amount

At 31 January 2023

Cost

At 1 February 2021

Additions

Disposals

Exchange differences

At 31 January 2022

Amortisation

At 1 February 2021

Charge for the year

Impairment losses

Disposals

Exchange differences

At 31 January 2022

Net carrying amount

At 31 January 2022

Computer 
software

Other

Total

836

127

(78)

3

888

(511)

(84)

–

78

(3)

14

–

–

2

16

(9)

–

(3)

–

(1)

850

127

(78)

5

904

(520)

(84)

(3)

78

(4)

(520)

(13)

(533)

368

3

371

767

95

(22)

(4)

836

(452)

(81)

(2)

22

2

(511)

16

–

(2)

–

14

(11)

(1)

–

2

1

(9)

783

95

(24)

(4)

850

(463)

(82)

(2)

24

3

(520)

325

5

330

Additions in the current and prior year primarily related to the development of IT infrastructure for the benefit of the Group. This 
included expenditure related to the continued roll-out of a common IT platform, which is amortised over its estimated useful life of 
10 years as it becomes available for use in the operating companies.

Computer software cost includes £418m (2021/22: £436m) of internally generated development costs with a £202m (2021/22: £206m) 
net carrying amount. None of the Group’s other intangible assets have indefinite useful lives.

Kingfisher 2022/23 Annual Report and Accounts

141

Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued

15  Property, plant and equipment

£ millions

Cost

At 1 February 2022

Additions

Disposals

Exchange differences

At 31 January 2023

Depreciation

At 1 February 2022

Charge for the year

Impairment reversals

Impairment losses

Disposals

Exchange differences

At 31 January 2023

Net carrying amount

At 31 January 2023

Cost

At 1 February 2021

Additions

Disposals

Reclassified to investment property

Transfers to assets held for sale

Exchange differences

At 31 January 2022

Depreciation

At 1 February 2021

Charge for the year

Impairment reversals

Impairment losses

Disposals

Reclassified to investment property

Transfers to assets held for sale

Exchange differences

At 31 January 2022

Net carrying amount

At 31 January 2022

Assets in the course of construction included above at net carrying amount

At 31 January 2023

At 31 January 2022

142 Kingfisher 2022/23 Annual Report and Accounts

Land and
buildings

Fixtures, fittings
and equipment

Total

2,596

3,186

5,782

45

(2)

98

280

(40)

60

325

(42)

158

2,737

3,486

6,223

(473)

(35)

5

(67)

1

(21)

(590)

(2,231)

(164)

–

(33)

39

(39)

(2,704)

(199)

5

(100)

40

(60)

(2,428)

(3,018)

2,147

1,058

3,205

2,699

55

(2)

(12)

(18)

(126)

2,596

(496)

(35)

34

(18)

2

1

16

23

3,041

262

(43)

(2)

–

(72)

3,186

(2,169)

(153)

11

(6)

41

–

–

45

5,740

317

(45)

(14)

(18)

(198)

5,782

(2,665)

(188)

45

(24)

43

1

16

68

(473)

(2,231)

(2,704)

2,123

955

3,078

24

17

195

176

219

193

Strategic ReportGovernanceFinancial StatementsNet impairment charges of £95m have been recorded in the year (2021/22: £21m net reversals). Current year impairment charges 
principally relate to store property and equipment assets in the UK and France, resulting from increased discount rates and revised 
financial projections. The net store impairment charges of £95m have been recorded as adjusting items.

Total capitalised borrowing costs included within property, plant and equipment, net of depreciation, is £16m (2021/22: £16m).

The Group does not revalue properties within its financial statements. A formal valuation of the portfolio was undertaken by 
external professional valuers in October 2022, with the valuations then updated to 31 January 2023. Based on this exercise the 
value of property is £2.8bn (2021/22: £2.7bn) on a sale and leaseback basis with Kingfisher in occupancy. The key assumption used in 
calculating this is the estimated yields. Property, plant and equipment market valuations are considered to have been determined by 
level 3 inputs as defined by the fair value hierarchy of IFRS 13, ‘Fair value measurement’. A vacant possession valuation basis is used 
to approximate the fair value less costs to sell when reviewing for impairment.

Fixtures, fittings and equipment includes items such as store racking, computers and electronic equipment, motor cars and 
commercial vehicles.

16  Investment property

£ millions

Cost

At 1 February 2022

Reclassified from assets held for sale

At 31 January 2023

Depreciation

At 1 February 2022

Impairment losses

At 31 January 2023

Net carrying amount

At 31 January 2023

Cost

At 1 February 2021

Reclassified from property, plant and equipment

At 31 January 2022

Depreciation

At 1 February 2021

Reclassified from property, plant and equipment

At 31 January 2022

Net carrying amount

At 31 January 2022

39

2

41

(6)

(5)

(11)

30

25

14

39

(5)

(1)

(6)

33

Kingfisher 2022/23 Annual Report and Accounts

143

Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued

17  Leases

The Group is a lessee of various retail stores, offices, warehouses and plant and equipment under lease agreements with varying 
terms, escalation clauses and renewal rights. The Group is also a lessor and sub-lessor of space with freehold and leasehold 
properties respectively.

Right-of-use assets

£ millions 

Land and buildings

Fixtures, fittings and equipment

Net carrying amount

Leased fixtures, fittings and equipment includes items such as mechanical handling equipment and vehicles.

£ millions

At beginning of year

Additions1

Depreciation charge for the year

Impairment reversals

Impairment losses

Other movements

Exchange differences

At end of year

2022/23

1,873

74

1,947

2021/22

1,806

79

1,885

2022/23

2021/22

1,885

339

(299)

5

(41)

34

24

1,845

314

(285)

17

(5)

32

(33)

1,947

1,885

1.  Right-of-use asset additions include new leases, lease renewals and increases in term and/or scope for existing leases.

Net right-of-use asset impairment charges of £36m (2021/22: £12m net reversals) have been recorded resulting from increased 
discount rates and revised financial projections. The net store impairment charges of £36m have been recorded as adjusting items.

Amounts included in profit and loss

£ millions

Short term rentals

Sublease income

Depreciation of right-of-use assets

Property leases

Equipment leases

Interest on lease liabilities

Property leases

Equipment leases

Amounts recognised in the cash flow statement

£ millions 

Interest element of lease rental payments

Property leases

Equipment leases

Principal element of lease rental payments

Property leases

Equipment leases

Total cash outflow for leases 

144 Kingfisher 2022/23 Annual Report and Accounts

2022/23

2021/22

(65)

1

(262)

(37)

(120)

(4)

(43)

1

(246)

(39)

(131)

(4)

2022/23

2021/22

(120)

(4)

(292)

(37)

(453)

(131)

(4)

(303)

(38)

(476)

Strategic ReportGovernanceFinancial StatementsMaturity analysis of operating lease receivables
Undiscounted total future minimum rentals receivable under non-cancellable operating leases are as follows:

£ millions 

Year 1

Year 2

Year 3

Year 4

Year 5

Year 6 and onwards

2022/23

2021/22

4

4

3

3

3

16

33

4

3

3

2

2

11

25

Maturity analysis of finance lease receivables
The following table reconciles the undiscounted sublease rentals receivable under non-cancellable finance leases to the present 
value of sublease receivables as disclosed as part of trade and other receivables (note 20):

£ millions 

Year 1

Year 2

Year 3

Year 4

Year 5

Year 6 and onwards

Total undiscounted sublease receipts receivable 

Unearned finance income

Sublease receivables

2022/23

2021/22

4

5

3

2

1

1

16

(3)

13

4

5

5

3

2

2

21

(4)

17

Other lease disclosures
The maturity analysis of lease liabilities has been reflected in note 25 Financial risk management.

Lease arrangements under which rental payments are contingent upon sales, other performance or usage are not significant for 
the Group.

There are no corporate restrictions imposed by lease arrangements such as those concerning dividends, additional debt and 
further leasing.

Sale and leaseback transactions
No sale and leaseback transactions were entered into in the current or prior year.

Kingfisher 2022/23 Annual Report and Accounts

145

Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued

18  Investments in joint ventures and associates

£ millions

At 1 February 2022

Share of post-tax results

Dividends

Exchange differences

At 31 January 2023

£ millions

At 1 February 2021

Share of post-tax results

Dividends

Exchange differences

At 31 January 2022

2022/23

17

5

(3)

11

30

2021/22

20

5

(1)

(7)

17

No goodwill is included in the carrying amount of investments in joint ventures and associates (2021/22: £nil).

Details of the Group’s significant joint ventures and associates are shown below:

Principal joint venture

Koçtaş Yapi Marketleri Ticaret A.S.1

Principal associate

Crealfi S.A.1

1.  The financial statements of these companies are prepared to 31 December.

Aggregate amounts relating to joint ventures and associates:

Principal place 
of business

% interest held

Class of shares 
owned

Main activity

Turkey

50%

Ordinary

Retailing

France

49%

Ordinary 

Finance

£ millions

Non-current assets

Current assets

Current liabilities

Non-current liabilities

Share of net assets

Sales

Operating expenses

Operating profit

Net finance costs

Profit before taxation

Income tax expense

Share of post-tax results

Joint ventures

Associates

Total

Joint ventures

Associates

2022/23

24

48

(46)

(5)

21

143

(135)

8

–

8

(4)

4

2

43

(35)

(1)

9

3

(2)

1

–

1

–

1

26

91

(81)

(6)

30

146

(137)

9

–

9

(4)

5

8

29

(28)

–

9

110

(103)

7

(2)

5

–

5

2

42

(35)

(1)

8

3

(3)

–

–

–

–

–

2021/22

Total

10

71

(63)

(1)

17

113

(106)

7

(2)

5

–

5

Following the International Monetary Fund’s classification of Turkey as a hyperinflationary economy during the year, the IASB 
prescribed the application of IAS 29 – Financial reporting in hyper-inflationary economies for entities with the currency of Turkey 
as their functional currency. IAS 29 requires affected entities to state their financial statements in terms of the purchasing power at 
the end of the reporting period. The Group’s Turkish joint venture, Koctas, has prepared its financial statements under IAS 29. Note, 
IAS 29 does not require the restatement of prior year comparative figures in the consolidated financial statements. For 2022/23, the 
application of IAS 29 has resulted in a £9m increase in the Group’s investment in the joint venture, a £4m charge to the consolidated 
income statement and a £13m credit to Other Comprehensive Income. 

146 Kingfisher 2022/23 Annual Report and Accounts

Strategic ReportGovernanceFinancial Statements19  Inventories

£ millions 

Finished goods for resale

2022/23

3,070

2021/22

2,749

The cost of inventories recognised as an expense and included in cost of sales for the year ended 31 January 2023 is £7,437m 
(2021/22: £7,401m).

20  Trade and other receivables

£ millions 

Non-current

Prepayments

Sublease receivables

Current

Trade receivables

Allowance for expected credit losses

Net trade receivables

Property receivables

Sublease receivables

Merchandise returns asset

Prepayments

Rebates due from suppliers

Business disposal consideration receivable

Other receivables

Trade and other receivables

2022/23

2021/22

9

10

19

89

(8)

81

5

3

11

64

143

–

40

347

366

8

14

22

71

(7)

64

3

3

11

67

114

8

30

300

322

The fair values of trade and other receivables approximate to their carrying amounts. Refer to note 25 for further information on the 
credit risk associated with trade and other receivables.

Other receivables include items related to other taxation and social security.

21  Cash and cash equivalents

£ millions 

Cash at bank and in hand

Cash equivalents

Cash and cash equivalents

2022/23

2021/22

259

27

286

441

382

823

Included in cash and cash equivalents is restricted cash of £51m (2021/22: £38m) relating to cash held by the Group’s captive 
insurance company and in virtual captive arrangements.

Other cash and cash equivalents, fixed for periods of up to three months, comprise bank deposits and investments in money market 
funds. The carrying value of cash and cash equivalents approximate their fair values.

Kingfisher 2022/23 Annual Report and Accounts

147

Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued

22  Trade and other payables

£ millions 

Current

Trade payables

Other taxation and social security

Deferred income

Contract to purchase own shares for cancellation

Liability to purchase own shares for ESOP trust

Merchandise returns provision

Payroll creditors and accruals

Accruals and other payables

Non-current

Accruals and other payables

Trade and other payables

2022/23

2021/22

1,291

238

179

7

–

21

199

548

2,483

1,352

246

178

69

9

20

253

547

2,674

4

10

2,487

2,684

The fair values of trade and other payables approximate to their carrying amounts.

Included in trade payables are amounts at 31 January 2023 of £146m (2021/22: £193m) due under supply chain finance arrangements 
with third party banks. Suppliers choose to enter into these arrangements, which provide them with the option of access to earlier 
payment at favourable interest rates from the third party banks based on Kingfisher’s investment grade credit rating. If suppliers 
do not choose early payment under these arrangements, their invoices are settled by the third party banks in accordance with the 
originally agreed payment terms. Under certain of these arrangements, Kingfisher has agreed extended payment terms. The total 
amount outstanding on such extended payment terms at 31 January 2023 is £15m (2021/22: £14m). These arrangements do not 
provide the Group with a significant benefit of additional financing and accordingly are classified as trade payables.

The contract to purchase own shares relates to a liability arising under an irrevocable buyback agreement which was in place at the 
balance sheet date (see note 29).

Accruals and other payables include items related to goods not for resale, property, capital expenditure, insurance and interest.

23  Borrowings

£ millions 

Current

Bank overdrafts

Non-current

Bank loans

Fixed term debt

Borrowings

2022/23

2021/22

16

16

3

99

102

118

14

14

2

–

2

16

Bank loans
Non-current bank loans have an average maturity of two years (2021/22: two years) and are arranged at fixed rates of interest with an 
effective interest rate of 1.8% (2021/22: 1.0%).

148 Kingfisher 2022/23 Annual Report and Accounts

Strategic ReportGovernanceFinancial StatementsFixed term debt

GBP Term Loan

GBP Term Loan

Principal 
outstanding

£50m

£50m

Maturity date

Coupon

23/12/241

SONIA + 0.70%

17/01/251

SONIA + 0.75%

2022/23

2021/22

Effective 
interest rate

Carrying amount 
£m

Carrying amount 
£m

4.1%

4.2%

50

49

99

–

–

–

1.  During the year the Group entered into two new £50m bilateral term loans with a maturity tenor of two years. Both loans were fully drawn at 31 January 2023.

As at 31 January 2023, the Group had an undrawn revolving credit facility (RCF) of £550m due to expire in May 2025.

The terms of the committed RCF and term loans require that the ratio of Group operating profit (excluding adjusting items) to net 
interest payable (excluding interest on IFRS 16 lease liabilities) must be no less than 3:1 for the preceding 12 months as at the half and 
full year-ends. At 31 January 2023, Kingfisher was in compliance with this requirement.

Fair values

£ millions 

Bank overdrafts

Bank loans

Fixed term debt

Borrowings

2022/23

16

3

102

121

Fair value

2021/22

14

3

–

17

Fair values of borrowings have been calculated by discounting cash flows at prevailing interest and foreign exchange rates. This has 
resulted in level 2 inputs as defined by the fair value hierarchy of IFRS 13, ‘Fair value measurement’.

24  Derivatives

£ millions 

Current assets

Non-current assets

Current liabilities

Non-current liabilities

The net fair value of derivatives by hedge designation at the balance sheet date is:

£ millions 

Cash flow hedges

Non-designated hedges

The Group holds the following derivative financial instruments at fair value:

£ millions

Foreign exchange contracts

Derivative assets 

Foreign exchange contracts

Derivative liabilities 

2022/23

2021/22

16

–

(47)

(5)

(36)

37

1

(12)

(1)

25

2022/23

2021/22

(36)

–

(36)

28

(3)

25

2022/23

2021/22

16

16

(52)

(52)

(36)

38

38

(13)

(13)

25

The fair values are calculated by discounting future cash flows arising from the instruments and adjusted for credit risk. These fair 
value measurements are all made using observable market rates of interest, foreign exchange and credit risk.

Kingfisher 2022/23 Annual Report and Accounts

149

Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued

24  Derivatives continued

All the derivatives held by the Group at fair value are considered to have fair values determined by level 2 inputs as defined by the 
fair value hierarchy of IFRS 13, ‘Fair value measurement’, representing significant observable inputs other than quoted prices in active 
markets for identical assets or liabilities. There are no non-recurring fair value measurements nor have there been any transfers of 
assets or liabilities between levels of the fair value hierarchy.

At 31 January 2023, net financing derivative assets included in net debt amount to £2m (2021/22: £3m liability).

Cash flow hedges
Forward foreign exchange contracts hedge currency exposures of forecast inventory purchases. At 31 January 2023 the Sterling 
equivalent amount of such contracts is £1,276m (2021/22: £1,236m). These are located in the derivative asset and derivative liability 
lines in the consolidated balance sheet with carrying amounts of £16m asset and £52m liability. The associated fair value gains and 
losses will be transferred to inventories when the purchases occur during the next 18 months. The amount recognised in other 
comprehensive income during the year is a gain of £58m (2021/22: £59m gain). Gains of £117m (2021/22: £16m loss) have been 
transferred to inventories for contracts which matured during the year. During the year, gains of £5m (2021/22: £nil) have been 
transferred to the income statement due to ineffectiveness arising from differences in timing and amount of forecast transactions 
relating to foreign currency inventory purchases. The weighted average hedged rates for derivatives outstanding at  
31 January 2023 for our material currencies are EUR/USD 1.07 and GBP/USD 1.22.

Hedge effectiveness is assessed at the inception of the hedge relationship and on an ongoing basis to ensure that an economic 
relationship exists between the hedged item and the hedging instrument. The Group enters into hedge relationships where the critical 
terms of the hedging instrument match exactly with the terms of the hedged item. The Group performs a qualitative and, where 
necessary, a quantitative assessment of effectiveness.

For foreign currency inventory purchases, ineffectiveness may arise if the timing or amount of the forecast transaction changes 
from what was originally estimated or if there are changes in the credit risk of the Group or the derivative counterparty. Foreign 
currency basis spread of the derivative has been excluded from the hedge designation. The non-designated element is immediately 
recognised in the income statement. The amount is immaterial in both years.

Non-designated hedges
The Group has entered into certain derivatives to provide a hedge against fluctuations in the income statement arising from balance 
sheet positions. At 31 January 2023, the Sterling equivalent amount of such contracts is £481m (2021/22: £852m). These have not 
been accounted for as hedges, since the fair value movements of the derivatives in the income statement offset the retranslation 
of the balance sheet positions. These include short-term foreign exchange contracts.

The Group has reviewed all significant contracts for embedded derivatives and none of these contracts has any embedded derivatives 
which are not closely related to the host contract and therefore the Group is not required to account for these separately.

The Group enters into netting agreements with counterparties to manage the credit and settlement risks associated with  
over-the-counter derivatives. These netting agreements and similar arrangements generally enable the Group and its counterparties 
to settle cash flows on a net basis and set-off liabilities against available assets in the event that either party is unable to fulfil its 
contractual obligations.

Offsetting of derivative assets and liabilities:

£ millions 

At 31 January 2023

Derivative assets

Derivative liabilities

At 31 January 2022

Derivative assets

Derivative liabilities

Gross amounts 
of recognised 
derivatives 

Gross amounts 
offset in the 
consolidated 
balance sheet

Net amounts of 
derivatives 
presented in the 
consolidated 
balance sheet

Gross amounts 
of derivatives 
not offset in the 
consolidated 
balance sheet

Net amount

16

(52)

38

(13)

–

–

–

–

16

(52)

38

(13)

(16)

16

(13)

13

–

(36)

25

–

150 Kingfisher 2022/23 Annual Report and Accounts

Strategic ReportGovernanceFinancial StatementsNet investment hedges
Foreign currency denominated lease liabilities recognised on the adoption of IFRS 16 are designated as hedging the exposure to 
movements in the spot retranslation of the Group’s investment in foreign subsidiaries. The gains and losses on retranslation of the 
hedging instruments are presented in the translation reserve within other reserves to offset gains and losses on the hedged balance 
sheet exposure. The nominal values of these lease liabilities is £197m (2021/22: £166m). The amount recognised in the translation 
reserve is a loss of £3m (2021/22: £1m loss). There is no ineffectiveness for 2022/23. The cumulative total amount recognised in 
the translation reserve in relation to net investment hedges is a loss of £112m (2021/22: £109m).

25  Financial risk management

Kingfisher’s treasury function has primary responsibility for managing certain financial risks to which the Group is exposed. The Board 
reviews the levels of exposure regularly and approves treasury policies covering the use of financial instruments required to manage 
these risks. Kingfisher’s treasury function is not run as a profit centre and does not enter into any transactions for speculative purposes.

In the normal course of business, the Group uses financial instruments including derivatives. The main types of financial instruments 
used are fixed term debt, bank loans and deposits, money market funds, interest rate swaps and foreign exchange contracts.

Interest rate risk
Borrowings arranged at floating rates of interest expose the Group to cash flow interest rate risk, whereas those arranged at fixed 
rates of interest expose the Group to fair value interest rate risk. The Group manages its interest rate risk by entering into certain 
interest rate derivative contracts which modify the interest rate payable on the Group’s underlying debt instruments.

Currency risk
The Group’s principal currency exposures are to the Euro, US Dollar, Polish Zloty and Romanian Leu. The Euro, Polish Zloty and 
Romanian Leu exposures are operational and arise through the ownership of retail businesses in France, Spain, Portugal, the 
Republic of Ireland, Poland and Romania.

In particular, the Group generates a substantial part of its profit from the Eurozone and, as such, is exposed to the economic 
uncertainty of its member states. The Group continues to monitor potential exposures and risks and consider effective risk 
management solutions.

It is the Group’s policy not to hedge the translation of overseas earnings into Sterling. In addition, the Group has significant 
transactional exposure arising on the purchase of inventories denominated in US Dollars, which it hedges using forward foreign 
exchange contracts. Under Group policies, the Group’s operating companies are required to hedge committed inventory 
purchases and a proportion of forecast inventory purchases arising in the next 18 months. This is monitored on an ongoing basis.

The Group also has exposure to certain leases denominated in currencies which are different from the functional (reporting) 
currencies of the lessee. To reduce the Group’s exposure to this, most of the affected lease liabilities have been designated as 
net investment hedges of Group assets held in the same currency.

Kingfisher’s policy is to manage the interest rate and currency profile of its debt and cash using derivative contracts. The effect of 
these contracts on the Group’s net debt is as follows:

£ millions

At 31 January 2023

Net cash/(debt) before financing 
derivatives and lease liabilities

Financing derivatives

Lease liabilities

Net (debt)/cash

£ millions

At 31 January 2022

Net cash/(debt) before financing 
derivatives and lease liabilities

Financing derivatives

Lease liabilities

Net (debt)/cash

Sterling

Euro

US Dollar

Other

Fixed

Floating

Fixed

Floating

Fixed

Floating

Fixed

Floating

Total

2022/23

–

–

(1,821)

(1,821)

9

(425)

–

(416)

(2)

–

(582)

(584)

105

39

–

144

–

–

–

–

28

326

–

354

–

–

(41)

(41)

28

62

–

90

168

2

(2,444)

(2,274)

2021/22

Sterling

Euro

US Dollar

Other

Fixed

Floating

Fixed

Floating

Fixed

Floating

Fixed

Floating

Total

–

–

(1,792)

(1,792)

142

(539)

–

(397)

(2)

–

(548)

(550)

179

372

–

551

–

–

–

–

429

136

–

565

–

–

(36)

(36)

59

28

–

87

807

(3)

(2,376)

(1,572)

Kingfisher 2022/23 Annual Report and Accounts

151

Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued

25  Financial risk management continued

Financial instruments principally affected by interest rate and currency risks, being the significant market risks impacting Kingfisher, 
are borrowings, deposits and derivatives. The following analysis illustrates the sensitivity of net finance costs (reflecting the impact 
on profit) and derivative cash flow hedges (reflecting the impact on other comprehensive income) to changes in interest rates and 
foreign exchange rates.

£ millions

Effect of 1% rise in interest rates on net finance costs

Sterling

Euro

US Dollar

Other

2022/23

2021/22

Net finance 
costs 
income/(costs)

Net finance 
costs 
income/(costs)

(4)

1

4

1

(4)

6

6

1

Due to the Group’s hedging arrangements and offsetting foreign currency assets and liabilities, there is no significant impact on profit 
from the retranslation of financial instruments.

£ millions

Effect of 10% appreciation in foreign exchange rates on derivative cash flow hedges

US Dollar against Sterling

US Dollar against Euro

US Dollar against other

2022/23

2021/22

Derivative cash 
flow hedges 
increase

Derivative cash 
flow hedges 
increase

50

36

20

59

36

16

The impact of changes in foreign exchange rates on cash flow hedges results from retranslation of forward purchases of US Dollars 
used to hedge forecast US Dollar purchases of inventories. The associated fair value gains and losses are deferred in equity until the 
purchases occur. See note 24 for further details.

The sensitivity analysis excludes the impact of movements in market variables on the carrying amount of trade and other payables 
and receivables, due to the low associated sensitivity, and are before the effect of tax. It has been prepared on the basis that the 
Group’s debt, hedging activities, hedge accounting designations, and foreign currency proportion of debt and derivative contracts 
remain constant, reflecting the positions at 31 January 2023 and 31 January 2022 respectively. As a consequence, the analysis relates 
to the position at those dates and is not necessarily representative of the years then ended. In preparing the sensitivity analysis it is 
assumed that all hedges are fully effective.

The effects shown above would be reversed in the event of an equal and opposite change in interest rates and foreign exchange rates.

152 Kingfisher 2022/23 Annual Report and Accounts

Strategic ReportGovernanceFinancial StatementsLiquidity risk
The Group regularly reviews the level of cash and debt facilities required to fund its activities. This involves preparing a prudent cash 
flow forecast for the medium term, determining the level of debt facilities required to fund the business, planning for repayment of 
debt at its maturity and identifying an appropriate amount of headroom to provide a reserve against unexpected outflows and/or 
unexpected impacts to cash inflows.

At 31 January 2023, the Group had an undrawn revolving credit facility of £550m due to expire in May 2025.

The following table analyses the Group’s financial liabilities and derivatives into relevant maturity groupings based on the remaining 
period at the balance sheet date to the contractual maturity date. The amounts disclosed in the table are the contractual 
undiscounted cash flows (including interest) and as such may differ from the amounts disclosed on the balance sheet.

£ millions 

At 31 January 2023

Bank overdrafts

Trade and other payables1

Bank loans and fixed term debt

Lease liabilities

Derivative financial liabilities:

Derivative contracts – receipts

Derivative contracts – payments

Derivative financial assets:

Derivative contracts – receipts

Derivative contracts – payments

£ millions 

At 31 January 2022

Bank overdrafts

Trade and other payables1, 2

Bank loans

Lease liabilities

Derivative financial liabilities:

Derivative contracts – receipts

Derivative contracts – payments

Derivative financial assets:

Derivative contracts – receipts

Derivative contracts – payments

2022/23

Total

(16)

(1,850)

(110)

On demand

Less than 1 
year

1-2 years

2-3 years

3-4 years

4-5 years

More than 
5 years

(16)

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

(1,846)

(5)

(456)

996

(1,043)

658

(643)

–

(4)

(105)

(439)

100

(107)

3

(3)

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

(399)

(353)

(300)

(1,241)

(3,188)

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

1,096

(1,150)

661

(646)

On demand

Less than 1 
year

1-2 years

2-3 years

3-4 years

4-5 years

2021/22 (restated)2

More than 
5 years

Total

(14)

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

(1,977)

(1)

(443)

954

(965)

1,606

(1,573)

–

(10)

(1)

–

–

(1)

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

(14)

(1,987)

(3)

(423)

(382)

(339)

(295)

(1,203)

(3,085)

39

(40)

34

(34)

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

993

(1,005)

1,640

(1,607)

1.  Excluding non-financial items relating to deferred income and merchandise returns provisions and non-contractual items relating to other taxation and social 

security payables and payroll creditors and accruals.

2.  Prior year amounts have been restated to exclude £253m of payroll creditors and accruals which were previously recorded within Trade and other payables 

due in less than 1 year.

Kingfisher 2022/23 Annual Report and Accounts

153

Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued

25  Financial risk management continued

Credit risk
The Group manages credit risk from investing activities in accordance with treasury policy. The Group deposits surplus cash with a 
number of banks with strong long-term credit ratings (BBB and above) and with money market funds with AAA credit ratings offering 
same-day liquidity. An exposure limit for each counterparty is agreed by the Board covering the full value of deposits and the fair 
value of derivative assets. Credit risk is also managed by spreading investments and entering into derivative contracts across 
several counterparties. As of 31 January 2023 the highest total cash investment with a single counterparty was £7m (2021/22: £85m).

The Group applies the low credit risk simplification under IFRS 9 for expected credit losses relating to cash at bank, short-term 
deposits and money market funds. The resulting expected credit losses are not significant.

The Group’s exposure to credit risk at the reporting date is the carrying value of trade and other receivables, cash at bank, short-
term deposits and the fair value of derivative assets. Trade and other receivables mainly relate to trade receivables and rebates 
which comprise low individual balances with short maturity spread across a large number of unrelated customers and suppliers, 
resulting in low credit risk levels. They do not have a significant financing component and therefore the Group measures 
expected credit losses using lifetime expected losses.

The estimated lifetime expected losses are based on historical loss rates adjusted where necessary for expected changes in 
economic conditions.

At 31 January 2023, trade and other receivables that are past due amount to £47m (2021/22: £30m), of which £7m (2021/22: £3m) are 
over 120 days past due.

Capital risk
Capital risk management disclosures are provided in the Financial Review on page 45.

26  Deferred tax

£ millions 

Deferred tax assets

Deferred tax liabilities

2022/23

2021/22

16

(205)

(189)

10

(276)

(266)

154 Kingfisher 2022/23 Annual Report and Accounts

Strategic ReportGovernanceFinancial StatementsDeferred tax assets and liabilities are offset against each other when they relate to income taxes levied by the same tax jurisdiction 
and when the Group intends, and has the legally enforceable right, to settle its current tax assets and liabilities on a net basis.

£ millions

At 1 February 2022

(Charge)/credit to income 
statement

Credit/(charge) to equity

Exchange differences

At 31 January 2023

£ millions

At 1 February 2021

(Charge)/credit to income 
statement

Credit/(charge) to equity

Exchange differences

At 31 January 2022

Accelerated 
tax 
depreciation

Gains on 
property

(170)

(61)

(38)

–

(7)

(215)

7

–

(2)

(56)

Accelerated 
tax 
depreciation

Gains on 
property

(142)

(58)

(37)

–

9

(170)

(5)

–

2

(61)

Short term 
timing 
differences

Post-
employment 
benefits

Investment in
subsidiaries

Tax losses

42

2

(1)

1

44

1

–

–

–

1

(197)

2

94

2

(99)

(1)

–

–

–

(1)

Short term 
timing 
differences

Post-
employment 
benefits

Investment in
subsidiaries

Tax losses

49

(8)

3

(2)

42

1

–

–

–

1

(186)

2

(11)

(2)

(197)

(2)

1

–

–

(1)

Leases

127

–

1

2

130

Leases

111

17

–

(1)

127

2022/23

Total

(266)

(26)

107

(4)

(189)

2021/22

Total

(217)

(30)

(25)

6

(266)

Other

(7)

1

13

–

7

Other

10

–

(17)

–

(7)

At the balance sheet date, the Group has unused trading tax losses of £215m (2021/22: £218m) available for offset against future 
profits. A deferred tax asset of £1m has been recognised in respect of such losses (2021/22: £1m). No deferred tax asset has been 
recognised in respect of the remaining £214m (2021/22: £217m) due to the unpredictability of future profit streams. Included in this 
amount there are tax losses arising in Romania of £141m (2021/22: £139m) which can only be carried forward for a maximum of seven 
years. Of these, £6m will expire in the next twelve months, £94m in the next two to five years, and £41m in the next six to seven years. 
Other unrecognised losses may be carried forward indefinitely.

At the balance sheet date, the Group also has unused capital tax losses of £10m (2021/22: £13m) available for offset against future 
capital gains. No deferred tax asset has been recognised in the year in respect of such losses (2021/22: £nil). All of these losses may 
be carried forward indefinitely.

A deferred tax liability of £1m (2021/22: £1m) has been recognised in the period, reflecting the withholding tax anticipated to arise in 
light of a planned repatriation of certain earnings that were generated in the current year. Except for this liability, all other unremitted 
earnings of overseas subsidiaries and joint ventures are continually reinvested by the Group. Therefore as no tax is expected to be 
payable on these earnings in the foreseeable future, no deferred tax liabilities are recorded in relation to them. Additional earnings 
which could be remitted on which there would be tax to pay total £235m (2021/22: £208m).

Kingfisher 2022/23 Annual Report and Accounts

155

Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued

27  Provisions

£ millions

At 1 February 2022 

Releases to income statement

Utilised in the year

At 31 January 2023

Current liabilities

Non-current liabilities

Onerous 
property 
contracts

Restructuring

Total

6

–

(2)

4

3

1

4

27

(3)

(8)

16

7

9

16

33

(3)

(10)

20

10

10

20

Onerous property contracts exclude contracts related to restructuring programmes which are included in the restructuring provisions. 
The provisions are based on the present value of future cash outflows relating to rates and service charges. Rental obligations under 
onerous property contracts are included within lease liabilities.

Restructuring provisions include both the cost of people change and the cost to exit stores and property contracts.

Restructuring provisions predominately relate to costs in France to restructure the business as part of the Group’s legacy 
transformation and store closure plans. Releases to the income statement in the current year of £3m are principally related to cost 
savings as compared with the original restructuring provisions recognised. The restructuring provision releases of £3m have been 
recorded as adjusting items in line with the original classification of the related provision charges.

The ultimate costs and timing of cash flows related to the above provisions are largely dependent on the timing of the related 
people costs.

156 Kingfisher 2022/23 Annual Report and Accounts

Strategic ReportGovernanceFinancial Statements28  Post-employment benefits

The Group operates a variety of post-employment benefit arrangements covering both funded and unfunded defined benefit 
schemes and defined contribution schemes. The most significant defined benefit and defined contribution schemes are in the UK. 
The principal overseas defined benefit schemes are in France, where they are mainly retirement indemnity in nature.

Defined contribution schemes
Costs for the Group’s defined contribution pension schemes, at rates specified in the individual schemes’ rules, are as follows:

£ millions 

Charge to operating profit

2022/23

2021/22

47

43

From July 2012, an enhanced defined contribution pension scheme was offered to all UK employees. Eligible UK employees have 
been automatically enrolled into the scheme since 31 March 2013.

Defined benefit schemes
The Group’s principal defined benefit arrangement is its funded, final salary pension scheme in the UK. This scheme was closed to 
new entrants from April 2004 and was closed to future benefit accrual from July 2012.

The scheme operates under trust law and is managed and administered by the Trustee on behalf of members in accordance with 
the terms of the Trust Deed and Rules and relevant legislation. The Trustee Board consists of ten Trustee Directors, made up of five 
employer-appointed Directors, one independent Director and four member-nominated Directors. The Trustee Board delegates 
day-to-day administration of the scheme to the Group pensions department of Kingfisher plc.

The main risk to the Group is that additional contributions are required if investment returns and demographic experience are worse 
than expected. The scheme therefore exposes the Group to actuarial risks, such as longevity risk, currency risk, inflation risk, interest 
rate risk and market (investment) risk. The Trustee Board regularly reviews such risks and mitigating controls, with a risk register being 
formally approved on an annual basis. The assets of the scheme are held separately from the Group and the Trustee’s investment 
strategy includes a planned medium-term de-risking of assets, switching from return-seeking to liability-matching assets. Other 
de-risking activities have included the scheme acquiring an interest in a property partnership, as set out further below, and 
entering into bulk annuities.

A full actuarial valuation of the scheme is carried out every three years by an independent actuary for the Trustee and the last full 
valuation was carried out as at 31 March 2022. Following this valuation and in accordance with the scheme’s Statement of Funding 
Principles, the Trustee and Kingfisher have agreed to cease annual employer contributions during the period from August 2022 
to July 2025. This agreement has been reached with reference to a funding objective that targets a longer-term, low risk funding 
position in excess of the minimum statutory funding requirements. This longer-term objective is based on the principle of the scheme 
reaching a point where it can provide benefits to members with a high level of security, thereby limiting its reliance on the employer 
for future support. The Company monitors the scheme funding level on a regular basis and will reassess with the scheme Trustee 
the appropriate level of contributions at future valuations.

The Trust Deed provides Kingfisher with an unconditional right to a refund of surplus assets assuming the full settlement of plan 
liabilities in the event of a plan wind-up. Furthermore, in the ordinary course of business the Trustee has no rights to unilaterally wind 
up, or otherwise augment the benefits due to members of, the scheme. Based on these rights, any net surplus in the UK scheme is 
recognised in full.

Kingfisher 2022/23 Annual Report and Accounts

157

Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued

28  Post-employment benefits continued

UK scheme interest in property partnership
In 2010/11, the Group established a partnership, Kingfisher Scottish Limited Partnership (‘Kingfisher SLP’), as part of an arrangement 
with the UK scheme Trustee to address an element of the scheme deficit and provide greater security to the Trustee. The 
partnership interests are held by the Group and by the scheme, the latter resulting from investments of £78m and £106m made by 
the Trustee in January and June 2011 respectively. These investments followed Group contributions of the same amounts into the 
scheme. In accordance with IAS 19, ‘Employee benefits’, the investments held by the scheme in Kingfisher SLP do not represent plan 
assets for the purposes of the Group’s consolidated financial statements. Accordingly, the reported pension position does not reflect 
these investments.

UK property assets with market values of £83m and £119m were transferred, in January 2011 and June 2011 respectively, into the 
partnership and leased back to B&Q Limited. The Group retains control over these properties, including the flexibility to substitute 
alternative properties. The Trustee has a first charge over the properties in the event that Kingfisher plc becomes insolvent. The 
scheme’s partnership interest entitles it to much of the income of the partnership over the 20-year period of the arrangement. At 
the end of this term, Kingfisher plc has the option to acquire the Trustee’s partnership interest in Kingfisher SLP.

The Group has control over the partnership and therefore it is consolidated in these Group financial statements. Accordingly, 
advantage has been taken of the exemptions provided by Regulation 7 of the Partnerships (Accounts) Regulations 2008 from the 
requirements for preparation, delivery and publication of the partnership’s accounts.

Income statement

£ millions

Amounts charged to operating profit

Current service cost

Administration costs

Amounts (credited)/charged to net finance costs

Net interest (income)/expense

Total (credited)/charged to income statement

UK

Overseas

2022/23

Total

UK

Overseas

2021/22

Total

3

4

7

(12)

(5)

10

–

10

1

11

13

4

17

(11)

6

3

3

6

(8)

(2)

11

–

11

–

11

14

3

17

(8)

9

Of the net charge to operating profit, a £13m charge (2021/22: £14m charge) and £4m charge (2021/22: £3m charge) are included in 
selling and distribution expenses and administrative expenses respectively. Remeasurement gains and losses have been reported in 
the statement of comprehensive income.

158 Kingfisher 2022/23 Annual Report and Accounts

Strategic ReportGovernanceFinancial StatementsBalance sheet

£ millions

Present value of defined benefit obligations

Fair value of scheme assets

Net surplus/(deficit) in schemes

Movements in the surplus or deficit are as follows:

UK

Overseas

(1,979)

2,230

251

(134)

20

(114)

2022/23

Total

(2,113)

2,250

137

UK

Overseas

(2,934)

3,474

540

(150)

20

(130)

2021/22

Total

(3,084)

3,494

410

2022/23

2021/22

£ millions

Net surplus/(deficit) in schemes at beginning of year

Current service cost

Administration costs

Net interest income/(expense)

Net remeasurement (losses)/gains

Contributions paid by employer

Exchange differences

Net surplus/(deficit) in schemes at end of year

UK

540

(3)

(4)

12

(308)

14

–

251

Overseas

(130)

(10)

–

(1)

30

4

(7)

(114)

Total

410

(13)

(4)

11

(278)

18

(7)

137

UK

504

(3)

(3)

8

7

27

–

Overseas

(145)

(11)

–

–

14

3

9

540

(130)

Movements in the present value of defined benefit obligations are as follows:

£ millions

UK

Overseas

Total

UK

Overseas

2022/23

Total

359

(14)

(3)

8

21

30

9

410

2021/22

Total

Present value of defined benefit obligations at beginning of year

(2,934)

(150)

(3,084)

(3,092)

(165)

(3,257)

Current service cost

Interest expense

Remeasurement gains – changes in financial assumptions

Remeasurement (losses)/gains – changes in demographic assumptions

Remeasurement (losses)/gains – experience adjustments

Benefits paid

Exchange differences

(3)

(63)

1,003

(41)

(59)

118

–

(10)

(1)

32

(3)

1

4

(7)

(13)

(64)

1,035

(44)

(58)

122

(7)

(3)

(45)

111

2

(39)

132

–

(11)

–

14

–

–

3

9

(14)

(45)

125

2

(39)

135

9

Present value of defined benefit obligations at end of year 

(1,979)

(134)

(2,113)

(2,934)

(150)

(3,084)

The present value of UK scheme defined benefit obligations is 51% (2021/22: 62%) in respect of deferred members and 49% (2021/22: 
38%) in respect of current pensioners.

The weighted average duration of the UK scheme obligations at the end of the year is 16 years (2021/22: 20 years).

Kingfisher 2022/23 Annual Report and Accounts

159

Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued

28  Post-employment benefits continued

Movements in the fair value of scheme assets are as follows:

£ millions

UK

Overseas

Fair value of scheme assets at beginning of year

Administration costs

Interest income

Remeasurement losses – actual return less interest income 

Contributions paid by employer

Benefits paid

Fair value of scheme assets at end of year

The fair value of scheme assets is analysed as follows:

£ millions

Government bonds1

Corporate bonds

Derivatives

Equities

Annuities

Cash and other

Total fair value of scheme assets

2,230

1. 

Including LDI repurchase agreement liabilities.

UK

Overseas

750

322

(16)

46

842

286

–

–

–

–

–

20

20

3,474

(4)

75

(1,211)

14

(118)

2,230

Total

750

322

(16)

46

842

306

2,250

20

–

–

–

4

(4)

20

2022/23

% of total

33%

14%

(1)%

2%

38%

14%

100%

UK

Overseas

3,596

20

2022/23

Total

3,494

(4)

75

(1,211)

18

(122)

2,250

(3)

53

(67)

27

(132)

3,474

UK

Overseas

849

929

(27)

125

1,181

417

3,474

–

–

–

–

–

20

20

2021/22

Total

3,616

(3)

53

(67)

30

(135)

3,494

2021/22

% of total

24%

27%

(1)%

4%

34%

12%

100%

–

–

–

3

(3)

20

Total

849

929

(27)

125

1,181

437

3,494

All UK scheme assets have quoted prices in active markets, except for £1,078m (2021/22: £1,262m) of annuity and other assets.

To reduce volatility risk a liability driven investment (LDI) strategy forms part of the Trustee’s management of the UK defined benefit 
scheme’s assets, including government bonds, corporate bonds and derivatives. The government bond assets category in the table 
above includes gross assets of £1.2bn (2021/22: £2.1bn) and associated repurchase agreement liabilities of £0.4bn (2021/22: £1.3bn). 
Repurchase agreements are entered into with counterparties to better offset the scheme’s exposure to interest and inflation rates, 
whilst remaining invested in assets of a similar risk profile. Interest rate and inflation rate derivatives are also employed to complement 
the use of fixed and index-linked bonds in matching the profile of the scheme’s liabilities.

Following an agreement with the Trustee as part of the 2022 triennial funding valuation, no contributions are expected to be paid to 
the UK and overseas pension schemes by the Group during the next financial year.

Principal actuarial valuation assumptions
The assumptions used in calculating the costs and obligations of the Group’s defined benefit pension schemes are set by the Directors 
after consultation with independent professionally qualified actuaries. The assumptions are based on the conditions at the time and 
changes in these assumptions can lead to significant movements in the estimated obligations, as illustrated in the sensitivity analysis.

The UK scheme discount rate is derived using a single equivalent discount rate approach, based on the yields available on a portfolio 
of high-quality Sterling corporate bonds with the same duration as that of the scheme liabilities.

Annual % rate

Discount rate

Price inflation

Rate of pension increases

Salary escalation

2022/23

UK

Overseas

4.50

3.25

3.15

n/a

3.50

2.40

–

2.40

UK

2.20

3.50

3.40

n/a

2021/22

Overseas

0.80

2.00

–

2.40

160 Kingfisher 2022/23 Annual Report and Accounts

Strategic ReportGovernanceFinancial StatementsFor the UK scheme, the mortality assumptions used for IAS 19 purposes have been selected with regard to the characteristics 
and experience of the membership of the scheme as assessed from time to time relating to triennial funding valuations. The base 
mortality assumptions have been derived using an analysis of current mortality rates carried out by Club Vita for the Trustee and 
the CMI life expectancy projection model data published by the UK actuarial profession. The latter allowance is in line with CMI 2021 
improvements subject to a long-term rate of 1.5% p.a. for both males and females. The assumptions for life expectancy of UK scheme 
members are as follows:

Years

Age to which current pensioners are expected to live (60 now)

 — Male

 — Female 

Age to which future pensioners are expected to live (60 in 15 years’ time)

 — Male

 — Female

2022/23

2021/22

86.2

88.7

87.5

90.8

86.4

87.3

87.5

90.2

The following sensitivity analysis for the UK scheme shows the estimated impact on the obligation resulting from changes to key 
actuarial assumptions, whilst holding all other assumptions constant.

Assumption

Discount rate

Price inflation

Rate of pension increases

Change in assumption

Impact on defined benefit obligation

Increase/decrease by 1.0%

Increase/decrease by 0.5%

Increase/decrease by 0.5%

Decrease/increase by £320m 

Increase/decrease by £134m 

Increase/decrease by £127m

Increase/decrease by £74m

Mortality

Increase/decrease in life expectancy by one year

In consideration of the recent volatility in discount rates, note that a 2.0% increase/decrease in the discount rate assumption would 
result in a decrease/increase in the defined benefit obligation of approximately £770m. Due to the asset-liability matching investment 
strategy, the above impacts on the obligations of changes in discount rate and price inflation would be significantly offset by 
movements in the fair value of the scheme assets.

29  Share capital

Allotted, called up and fully paid: 

At 1 February 2022

New shares issued under share schemes

Purchase of own shares for cancellation

At 31 January 2023

At 1 February 2021

New shares issued under share schemes

Purchase of own shares for cancellation

At 31 January 2022

Number of 
ordinary shares 
millions

Ordinary share 
capital 
£ millions

2,066

5

(131)

1,940

2,111

2

(47)

2,066

325

1

(21)

305

332

–

(7)

325

Ordinary shares have a par value of 155/7 pence per share and carry full voting, dividend and capital distribution rights.

During the year the Group purchased 131 million of the Company’s own shares for cancellation at a cost of £337m as part of its capital 
returns programme.

Kingfisher 2022/23 Annual Report and Accounts

161

Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued

30  Other reserves

£ millions

At 1 February 2022

Inventory cash flow hedges – fair value gains

Inventory cash flow hedges – gains transferred to income statement

Tax on items that will not be reclassified subsequently to profit or loss 

Currency translation differences

Group

Joint ventures and associates

Other comprehensive income for the year

Inventory cash flow hedges – gains transferred to inventories

Tax on equity items

At 31 January 2023

£ millions

At 1 February 2021

Inventory cash flow hedges – fair value gains

Tax on items that will not be reclassified subsequently to profit or loss 

Currency translation differences

Group

Joint ventures and associates

Other cash flow hedges

Fair value gains

Gains transferred to income statement

Other comprehensive (loss)/income for the year

Inventory cash flow hedges – losses transferred to inventories

Tax on equity items

At 31 January 2022

Translation 
reserve

Cash flow hedge 
reserve

10

–

–

–

129

11

140

–

–

150

27

58

(5)

(12)

–

–

41

(117)

25

(24)

Translation 
reserve

Cash flow hedge 
reserve

234

–

–

(218)

(7)

–

–

(225)

–

1

10

(32)

59

(13)

–

–

1

(1)

46

16

(3)

27

2022/23

Total

196

58

(5)

(12)

129

11

181

(117)

25

285

2021/22

Total

361

59

(13)

(218)

(7)

1

(1)

(179)

16

(2)

196

Other

159

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

159

Other

159

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

159

The ‘other’ category of reserves represents the premium on the issue of convertible loan stock in 1993 and the merger reserve 
relating to the acquisition of Darty in 1993.

31  Share-based payments

Outstanding at beginning of year

Granted during the year1

Forfeited and expired during the year 

Exercised during the year

Outstanding at end of year

Exercisable at end of year

2022/23

2021/22

Number of 
options
thousands

Weighted 
average 
exercise price £

Number of 
options
thousands

Weighted 
average 
exercise price £

50,503

24,133

(3,445)

(12,245)

58,946

5,976

0.62

0.55

1.59

0.68

0.52

0.45

53,298

11,561

(6,854)

(7,502)

50,503

4,155

0.55

0.88

0.35

0.74

0.62

0.52

1.  The weighted average exercise price for options granted during the year represents a blend of nil price Performance Share Plan and Alignment Share awards, 

and discounted Sharesave options (see below)

Information on the share schemes is given in note 12 of the Company’s separate financial statements.

162 Kingfisher 2022/23 Annual Report and Accounts

Strategic ReportGovernanceFinancial StatementsOptions have been exercised on a regular basis throughout the year. On that basis, the weighted average share price during the year, 
rather than at the date of exercise, is £2.53 (2021/22: £3.38). The options outstanding at the end of the year have exercise prices 
ranging from nil to £2.75 and a weighted average remaining contractual life of 5.6 years (2021/22: 5.1 years).

The Group recognised a total expense of £19m in the year ended 31 January 2023 (2021/22: £27m) relating to equity-settled  
share-based payment transactions.

The fair value of share options and deferred shares is determined by independent valuers using Black-Scholes and stochastic option 
pricing models. The inputs of the principal schemes into these models are as follows:

Date of 
grant

Share price 
at grant 
£

Exercise 
price 
£

Expected
life1
years

Expected
volatility2
%

Dividend
yield3
%

Risk free
rate4
%

Fair 
value 
£

Kingfisher Incentive Share Plan 

23/04/15

 — Deferred Bonus Awards

Performance Share Plan

UK and International Sharesave

Alignment Shares

Transformation Incentive

Delivering Value Incentive

21/04/16

03/05/17 

23/04/18 

24/04/19 

24/06/22

21/10/22

01/11/16

31/10/17

31/10/17

01/11/18

01/11/18

01/11/19

01/11/19

29/10/20

29/10/20

28/10/21

28/10/21

28/10/22

28/10/22

19/07/16

24/04/17

23/10/17

23/04/18

29/10/18

24/04/19

30/07/19

21/10/19

28/07/20

23/10/20

22/04/21

21/10/21

19/07/16

30/07/19

04/05/21

3.52

3.61

3.40

3.09

2.63

2.14

2.04

3.64

3.13

3.13

2.62

2.62

2.07

2.07

2.88

2.88

3.31

3.31

2.15

2.15

3.32

3.37

3.03

3.09

2.50

2.63

2.23

2.15

2.49

3.20

3.60

3.41

3.32

2.24

3.57

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

3.06

2.42

2.42

2.06

2.06

1.59

1.59

2.37

2.37

2.75

2.75

1.77

1.77

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

7

7

7

7

7

10

10

5.5

3.5

5.5

3.5

5.5

3.5

5.5

3.5

5.5

3.5

5.5

3.5

5.5

10

10

10

10

10

10

10

10

10

10

10

10

10

10

10

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

23.5%

22.8%

22.3%

23.2%

23.0%

25.7%

25.1%

37.0%

32.4%

37.4%

32.6%

38.1%

34.0%

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

2.8%

3.4%

3.4%

4.1%

4.1%

5.2%

5.2%

2.8%

2.8%

3.6%

3.6%

5.8%

5.8%

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

0.7%

0.6%

0.8%

1.1%

0.8%

0.4%

0.4%

0.0%

0.0%

0.7%

0.8%

3.3%

3.5%

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

3.52

3.61

3.40

3.09

2.63

2.43

2.43

0.39

0.43

0.34

0.33

0.27

0.39

0.35

0.80

0.77

0.88

0.82

0.56

0.53

3.32

3.37

3.03

3.09

2.50

2.55

2.04

2.05

2.38

3.20

3.46

3.41

3.32

1.75

3.19

1.  Expected life is disclosed based on the UK schemes. For the Kingfisher Incentive Share Plan scheme in the UK, the expiry date is 7 years from the date of 

grant. For the Performance Share Plan, Transformation Incentive award and Alignment Share award the expiry date is 10 years from the date of grant. Expiry 
of the overseas Alignment Share award is 3 years from the date of grant.

2.  Expected volatility was determined for each individual award (or relevant components of an award), by calculating the historical volatility of the Group’s share 

price (plus reinvested dividends) immediately prior to the grant of the award, over the same period as the vesting period of each award, adjusted by 
expectations of future volatility.

3.  As these awards are made under an approved SAYE scheme, option holders cannot be compensated for dividends foregone. As such the historical dividend 

yield is used, calculated as dividends announced in the 12 months prior to grant as a percentage of the share price on the date of grant.

4.  Risk free rate was determined for each individual award (or relevant components of an award).

Kingfisher 2022/23 Annual Report and Accounts

163

Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued

32  Cash generated by operations

£ millions

Operating profit

Share of post-tax results of joint ventures and associates

Depreciation and amortisation 

Net impairment losses/(reversals)

Loss on disposal of property, plant and equipment, intangible assets and assets held for sale 

Lease gains

Share-based compensation charge

Increase in inventories

Increase in trade and other receivables

(Decrease)/increase in trade and other payables

Movement in provisions

Movement in post-employment benefits

Cash generated by operations

33  Net debt

£ millions

Cash and cash equivalents

Bank overdrafts

Cash and cash equivalents and bank overdrafts

Bank loans

Fixed term debt

Net financing derivatives

Lease liabilities

Net debt

£ millions

Net debt at beginning of year

Net decrease in cash and cash equivalents and bank overdrafts

Repayment of bank loans

Issue of fixed term debt

Repayment of fixed term debt

Net cashflow1

Movements in lease liabilities

Exchange differences and other non-cash movements 

Net debt at end of year

1.  Refer to the glossary for the definition of net cashflow.

164 Kingfisher 2022/23 Annual Report and Accounts

2022/23

723

(5)

582

155

–

(2)

19

(234)

(44)

(196)

(13)

(1)

984

2021/22

1,144

(5)

555

(31)

1

(1)

27

(359)

(23)

158

(42)

(13)

1,411

2022/23

2021/22

286

(16)

270

(3)

(99)

2

823

(14)

809

(2)

–

(3)

(2,444)

(2,274)

(2,376)

(1,572)

2022/23

2021/22

(1,572)

(555)

–

(99)

–

(654)

(41)

(7)

(1,394)

(237)

2

–

95

(140)

7

(45)

(2,274)

(1,572)

Strategic ReportGovernanceFinancial Statements£ millions

At 1 February 2022

Issue of fixed term debt

Lease rental payments

Shares purchased for cancellation

Interest paid

 Cash (inflow)/outflow relating to financing liabilities

 Interest charge

Lease liability additions

Other movements in lease liabilities 

Recognised liability due to share purchase commitments

Amortisation of issue costs

Fair value movements and exchange differences 

At 31 January 2023

£ millions

At 1 February 2021

Repayment of bank loans

Repayment of fixed term debt

Lease rental payments

Shares purchased for cancellation

Interest paid

Cash outflow relating to financing liabilities

Interest charge

Lease liability additions

Other movements in lease liabilities

Recognised liability due to share purchase commitments

Amortisation of issue costs

Fair value movements and exchange differences 

At 31 January 2022

Borrowings
(excluding bank 
overdrafts)

Net financing 
derivatives 

Lease liabilities

Contract to 
purchase own 
shares for 
cancellation

2022/23

Total
financing
liabilities

(2)

(99)

–

–

1

(98)

(1)

–

–

–

(1)

–

(102)

Borrowings
(excluding bank 
overdrafts)

(97)

2

95

–

–

1

98

(1)

–

–

–

(2)

–

(2)

(3)

(2,376)

(69)

(2,450)

–

–

–

3

3

(3)

–

–

–

–

5

2

–

453

–

–

453

(124)

(335)

(35)

–

–

(27)

(2,444)

Net financing 
derivatives

Lease liabilities

(12)

(2,421)

–

–

–

–

7

7

(7)

–

–

–

–

9

–

–

476

–

–

476

(135)

(303)

(31)

–

–

38

–

–

337

–

337

–

–

–

(275)

–

–

(7)

(99)

453

337

4

695

(128)

(335)

(35)

(275)

(1)

(22)

(2,551)

2021/22 (restated)1

Contract to 
purchase own 
shares for 
cancellation

–

–

–

–

157

–

157

–

–

–

(226)

–

–

Total
financing
liabilities

(2,530)

2

95

476

157

8

738

(143)

(303)

(31)

(226)

(2)

47

(3)

(2,376)

(69)

(2,450)

1.  Prior year amounts have been restated to include amounts related to the purchase of own shares for cancellation.

34  Commitments

Capital commitments contracted but not provided for by the Group at 31 January 2023 amount to £19m (2021/22: £31m).

Kingfisher 2022/23 Annual Report and Accounts

165

Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued

35  Contingent liabilities

The Group is subject to claims and litigation arising in the ordinary course of business and provision is made where liabilities are 
considered likely to arise on the basis of current information and legal advice.

The Group files tax returns in many jurisdictions around the world and at any one time is subject to periodic tax audits in the ordinary 
course of its business. Applicable tax laws and regulations are subject to differing interpretations and the resolution of a final tax 
position can take several years to complete. Where it is considered that future tax liabilities are more likely than not to arise, an 
appropriate provision is recognised in the financial statements.

In October 2017, the European Commission opened a state aid investigation into the Group Financing Exemption section of the UK 
controlled foreign company rules. While the Group has complied with the requirements of UK tax law in force at the time, in April 2019 
the European Commission concluded that aspects of the UK controlled foreign company regime partially constitute illegal state aid. 
In January 2021, the Group received a charging notice from HM Revenue & Customs for £57m, which was paid in February 2021, with 
a further £7m interest paid in April 2021.

The UK Government and the Group, along with other UK-based multinational groups, appealed the European Commission decision to 
the European Courts. On 8 June 2022, the General Court of the European Union dismissed several of those appeals, including the UK 
Government’s. This decision has been appealed to the European Court of Justice.

The final impact on the Group remains uncertain but, based upon advice taken, the Group continues to consider that the amount paid 
of £64m, which is included in non-current assets, will ultimately be recovered.

Whilst the procedures that must be followed to resolve these types of tax issues make it likely that it will be some years before the 
eventual outcome is known, the Group does not currently expect the outcome of these contingent liabilities to have a material effect 
on the Group’s financial position.

36  Related party transactions

During the year, the Group carried out a number of transactions with related parties in the normal course of business and on an arm’s 
length basis. The names of the related parties, the nature of these transactions and their total value are shown below:

£ millions

Transactions with Koçtaş Yapi Marketleri Ticaret A.S. in which the Group  
holds a 50% interest

Commission and other income

Transactions with Crealfi S.A. in which the Group holds a 49% interest

Provision of employee services

Commission and other income

Transactions with the Kingfisher Pension Scheme

Provision of administrative services

2022/23

2021/22

Income

Receivable

Income

Receivable

0.3

0.2

3.9

0.9

–

–

1.1

0.2

0.2

0.2

4.9

0.8

–

–

0.1

0.3

Services are usually negotiated with related parties on a cost-plus basis. Goods are sold or bought on the basis of the price lists in 
force with non-related parties.

The remuneration of key management personnel is given in note 9.

Other transactions with the Kingfisher Pension Scheme are detailed in note 28.

37  Post balance sheet events

During the period since the balance sheet date, the Group purchased 1 million of the Company’s own shares for cancellation at a cost 
of £3m. This amount was deducted from equity in 2022/23 as a result of an irrevocable buyback agreement which was in place at 
31 January 2023.

166 Kingfisher 2022/23 Annual Report and Accounts

Strategic ReportGovernanceFinancial StatementsCompany balance sheet

At 31 January 2023

£ millions

Non-current assets

Property, plant and equipment

Right-of-use assets

Trade and other receivables

Investment in subsidiary

Post-employment benefits

Deferred tax assets

Current assets

Trade and other receivables

Derivative assets

Current tax assets

Cash and cash equivalents

Total assets

Current liabilities

Trade and other payables

Lease liabilities

Derivative liabilities

Provisions

Non-current liabilities

Borrowings

Lease liabilities

Total liabilities

Net assets

Equity 

Share capital

Share premium

Own shares held in ESOP trust

Retained earnings

Capital redemption reserve

Other reserves

Total equity

Notes

2022/23

2021/22 restated 
(note 6)

4

6

5

10

6

9

7

4

9

8

4

11

8

13

3,472

6,833

10

6

–

1

3,411

6,830

20

–

10,342

10,262

1,295

2,022

2

77

93

1,467

11,809

5

59

194

2,280

12,542

(6,518)

(6,834)

–

–

–

(1)

(9)

(2)

(6,518)

(6,846)

(99)

(13)

(112)

–

–

–

(6,630)

(6,846) 

5,179

5,696

305

2,228

(22)

1,886

71

711

5,179

325

2,228

(46) 

2,428

50

711

5,696

The Company’s loss for the year was £18m (2021/22: loss of £34m).

The classification of trade and other receivables between non-current and current in the comparative balance sheet has been 
restated. Refer to note 6.

The financial statements of Kingfisher plc (company number 01664812) were approved by the Board of Directors on 20 March 2023 
and signed on its behalf by:

Thierry Garnier
Chief Executive Officer

Bernard Bot
Chief Financial Officer

Kingfisher 2022/23 Annual Report and Accounts

167

 
Company statement of changes in equity

Year ended 31 January 2023

£ millions

At 1 February 2022

Loss for the year

Other comprehensive loss for the year 

Total comprehensive loss for the year

Share-based compensation

12

Capital contributions given relating to 
share-based payments

New shares issued under share schemes

Own shares issued under share schemes

Purchase of own shares for cancellation

Dividends

At 31 January 2023

£ millions

At 1 February 2021

Loss for the year

Other comprehensive income for the year 

Total comprehensive loss for the year

Share-based compensation

12

Capital contributions given relating to 
share-based payments

New shares issued under share schemes

Own shares issued under share schemes

Purchase of own shares for cancellation

Purchase of own shares for ESOP trust

Dividends

Tax on equity items

At 31 January 2022

Notes

Share capital

Share 
premium

Own shares 
held

Retained 
earnings

2022/23

Capital 
redemption 
reserve

Other
reserves1

Total equity

325

2,228

(46)

2,428

50

711

5,696

–

–

–

–

–

1

–

(21)

–

305

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

24

–

–

2,228

(22)

(18)

(7)

(25)

3

18

7

(24)

(275)

(246)

1,886

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

21

–

71

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

711

(18)

(7)

(25)

3

18

8

–

(275)

(246)

5,179

2021/22

Notes

Share capital

Share  
premium

Own shares 
held

Retained 
earnings

Capital 
redemption 
reserve

Other
reserves1

Total equity

332

2,228

(23)

2,924

43

711

6,215

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

(7)

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

 –

–

–

–

15

–

(38)

–

–

(34) 

 –

(34)

7

20

5

(15)

(226)

–

(254)

1

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

7

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

(34)

–

(34)

7

20

5

–

(226)

(38)

(254)

1

325

2,228

(46)

2,428

50

711

5,696

1.  The other reserves represent the premium on the issue of convertible loan stock in 1993 and the merger reserve relating to the acquisition of Darty in 1993.

168 Kingfisher 2022/23 Annual Report and Accounts

Strategic ReportGovernanceFinancial StatementsNotes to the Company financial statements

1  General information

The Company is a public company limited by shares and 
incorporated in England and Wales. The Company is non-trading 
and is the ultimate parent of the Kingfisher plc group (‘the Group’). 
The nature of the Group’s operations and its principal activities 
are set out in the Strategic Report on pages 1 to 61.

The Company is incorporated in England and Wales, United 
Kingdom, and is listed on the London Stock Exchange. The 
address of its registered office is One Paddington Square, 
London W2 1GG. A full list of related undertakings of the 
Company and their registered offices is given in note 14.

2  Principal accounting policies

The financial statements of Kingfisher plc (‘the Company’) are 
for the year ended 31 January 2023 (‘the year’ or ‘2022/23’) 
and were authorised for issue by the Board of Directors on 
20 March 2023. The comparative financial year is the year 
ended 31 January 2022 (‘the prior year’ or ‘2021/22’).

The directors of Kingfisher plc consider that adequate 
resources exist for the Company to continue in operational 
existence for the foreseeable future and they continue to adopt 
the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements 
for the year ended 31 January 2023. Refer to note 2a of 
the consolidated financial statements for details of the 
Directors’ assessment.

The Company meets the definition of a qualifying entity under 
Financial Reporting Standard 100 and as such these financial 
statements have been prepared in accordance with Financial 
Reporting Standard 101 Reduced Disclosure Framework 
(‘FRS 101’) and the provisions of the Companies Act 2006. 
The financial statements have been prepared under the 
historical cost convention, as modified by the use of valuations 
for certain financial instruments, share-based payments and 
post-employment benefits.

As permitted by section 408 of the Companies Act 2006, the 
income statement of the Company has not been presented.

The Company has taken advantage of the following disclosure 
exemptions under FRS 101:

 — the requirements of paragraphs 45(b) and 46 to 52 of IFRS 2  

‘Share-based Payment’;

 — the requirements of IFRS 7 ‘Financial Instruments: Disclosures’;
 — the requirements of paragraphs 91 to 99 of IFRS 13 ‘Fair 

Value Measurement’;

 — the requirement in paragraph 38 of IAS 1 ‘Presentation of 
Financial Statements’ to present comparative information 
in respect of:

 — paragraph 79(a)(iv) of IAS 1;
 — paragraph 73(e) of IAS 16 Property, Plant and Equipment;
 — paragraph 118(e) of IAS 38 Intangible Assets;

Euro

US Dollar

Polish Zloty

 — the requirements of paragraphs 10(d), 10(f), 16, 38A, 38B, 
38C, 38D, 40A, 40B, 40C, 40D, 111 and 134 to 136 of IAS 1 
‘Presentation of Financial Statements’;

 — the requirements of IAS 7 ‘Statement of Cash Flows’;
 — the requirements of paragraphs 30 and 31 of IAS 8 

‘Accounting Policies, Changes in Accounting Estimates 
and Error’;

 — the requirements of paragraphs 17 and 18A of IAS 24 

‘Related Party Disclosures’;

 — the requirements in IAS 24 ‘Related Party Disclosures’ to 
disclose related party transactions entered into between 
two or more members of a group, provided that any 
subsidiary which is a party to the transaction is wholly 
owned by such a member; and

 — the requirements of paragraphs 130(f)(ii), 130(f)(iii), 134(d) to 
134(f) and 135(c) to 135(e) of IAS 36 ‘Impairment of Assets’.

Where required, equivalent disclosures are given in 
the consolidated financial statements of Kingfisher plc.

The principal accounting policies applied in the preparation of 
these financial statements are set out below. These policies 
have been consistently applied to the years presented.

Restatement of amounts owed by Group Companies
The Company’s receivables balances with Group Companies 
have been reassessed against the classification criteria of 
current assets as set out in ‘IAS 1 Presentation of Financial 
Statements’. The Company reassessed the amounts owed 
by Group Companies classified as current assets based on 
timings that the amounts due were expected to be received 
and concluded that £3,411m of the amounts owed by Group 
companies as at 31 January 2022 should be classified as 
non-current assets. Comparatives have therefore been 
restated. Please refer to note 6 for further details.

Changes to accounting policies as a result of new 
standards issued and effective
Changes to accounting policies as a result of new standards 
issued and effective do not have a material impact on the 
Company’s financial statements.

Foreign currencies

a. 
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies 
are translated into Sterling at the rates of exchange at the 
balance sheet date. Exchange differences on monetary items 
are taken to the income statement.

Principal rates of exchange against Sterling:

2022/23

2021/22

Year end rate Year end rate

1.13

1.23

5.34

1.20

1.34

5.49

The financial statements are presented in Sterling, which is 
the Company’s presentation currency and the currency of the 
primary economic environment in which the entity operates 
(i.e. its functional currency).

Kingfisher 2022/23 Annual Report and Accounts

169

Notes to the Company financial statements continued

Leased assets

b. 
The Company assesses whether a contract is or contains a 
lease at inception of the contract. Typically, lease contracts 
relate to properties such as the Company’s Head Office. 
For leases in which the Company is a lessee, the Company 
recognises a right-of-use asset and a lease liability, except 
for short-term leases (defined as leases with a lease term of 
12 months or less) and leases of low value assets.

The liability is initially measured at the present value of the lease 
payments not yet paid at the commencement date, discounted 
at an appropriate discount rate. Where the implicit rate in the 
lease is not readily determinable, an incremental borrowing rate 
is calculated and applied. The calculation methodology is based 
upon applying a financing spread to a risk-free rate, with the 
resulting rate including the effect of the creditworthiness of 
the Company, as well as the underlying term, currency and 
start date of the lease agreement.

Lease payments used in the measurement of the lease 
liability principally comprise fixed lease payments (subject to 
indexation/rent reviews) less any incentives. The lease liability 
is subsequently measured using an effective interest method 
whereby the carrying amount of the lease liability is measured 
on an amortised cost basis, and the interest expense is allocated 
over the lease term. The lease term comprises the non-
cancellable lease term, in addition to optional periods when the 
Company is reasonably certain to exercise an option to extend 
(or not to terminate) a lease.

The Company remeasures the lease liability and makes a 
corresponding adjustment to the related right-of-use asset 
whenever an event occurs that changes the term or payment 
profile of a lease, such as the renewal of an existing lease, the 
exercise of lease term options, market rent reviews and indexation.

The right-of-use assets are initially measured at the amount 
equal to the lease liability, adjusted by any upfront lease 
payments or incentives and any initial direct costs incurred. 
Subsequently, the assets are measured at cost less 
accumulated depreciation and impairment losses.

Lessor accounting
Leases for which the Company is a lessor are classified as 
finance or operating leases. Whenever the terms of the lease 
transfer substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership to 
the lessee, the contract is classified as a finance lease. All other 
leases are classified as operating leases.

When the Company is an intermediate lessor, it accounts for 
the head lease and the sub-lease as two separate contracts. 
The sub-lease is classified as a finance or operating lease by 
reference to the right-of-use asset arising from the head lease.

Rental income from operating leases is recognised on 
a straight-line basis over the term of the relevant lease.

Investments

c. 
Investments in subsidiaries are included in the balance sheet at 
cost, less any provisions for impairment.

d.  Employee benefits
(i)  Post-employment benefits
The Company operates defined benefit and defined 
contribution pension schemes for its employees. A defined 
benefit scheme is a pension scheme which defines an amount 
of pension benefit which an employee will receive on retirement. 
A defined contribution scheme is a pension scheme under which 
the Company usually pays fixed contributions into a separate 
entity. In all cases a separate fund is being accumulated to meet 
the accruing liabilities. The assets of each of these funds 
are held under trusts and are entirely separate from the 
Company’s assets.

The asset or liability recognised in the balance sheet in respect 
of defined benefit pension schemes is the fair value of scheme 
assets less the present value of the defined benefit obligation 
at the balance sheet date. The defined benefit obligation is 
calculated annually by independent actuaries using the projected 
unit credit method. The present value of the defined benefit 
obligation is determined by discounting the estimated future 
cash outflows using interest rates of high quality corporate 
bonds which are denominated in the currency in which 
the benefits will be paid and which have terms to maturity 
approximating to the terms of the related pension liability.

Remeasurement gains and losses arising from experience 
adjustments and changes in actuarial assumptions are credited 
or charged to other comprehensive income as they arise.

For defined contribution schemes, the Company has no further 
payment obligations once the contributions have been paid. 
The contributions are recognised as an employee benefit 
expense when they are due.

(ii) Share-based compensation
The Company operates several equity-settled, share-based 
compensation schemes. The fair value of the employee services 
received in exchange for the grant of options or deferred 
shares is recognised as an expense and is calculated using 
Black-Scholes and stochastic models. The total amount to be 
expensed over the vesting period is determined by reference 
to the fair value of the options or deferred shares granted, 
excluding the impact of any non-market vesting conditions. The 
value of the charge is adjusted to reflect expected and actual 
levels of options vesting due to non-market vesting conditions.

The fair value of the compensation given to subsidiaries in 
respect of share-based compensation schemes is recognised 
as a capital contribution over the vesting period. The capital 
contribution is reduced by any payments received from 
subsidiaries in respect of these schemes.

(iii) Employee Share Ownership Plan trust (‘ESOP trust’)
The ESOP trust is a separately administered discretionary trust. 
Liabilities of the ESOP trust are guaranteed by the Company 
and the assets of the ESOP trust mainly comprise shares in 
the Company.

Own shares held by the ESOP trust are deducted from equity 
and the shares are held at historical cost until they are sold. The 
assets, liabilities, income and costs of the ESOP trust are included 
in both the Company’s and the consolidated financial statements.

170 Kingfisher 2022/23 Annual Report and Accounts

Strategic ReportGovernanceFinancial Statementse.  Taxation
The tax currently payable or receivable is based on taxable 
profit or loss for the year.

Taxable profit differs from profit before taxation as reported in 
the income statement because it excludes items of income or 
expense which are taxable or deductible in other years or 
which are never taxable or deductible.

Deferred tax is the tax expected to be payable or recoverable 
on differences between the carrying amounts of assets and 
liabilities in the financial statements and the corresponding 
tax bases used in the computation of taxable profit and is 
accounted for using the balance sheet liability method.

Deferred tax liabilities are generally recognised for all taxable 
temporary differences. Deferred tax assets are recognised to 
the extent that it is probable that taxable profits will be available 
against which deductible temporary differences or unused tax 
losses can be utilised. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are not 
generally recognised if the temporary difference arises from 
the initial recognition (other than in a business combination) of 
other assets and liabilities in a transaction which affects neither 
the taxable profit nor the accounting profit. Deferred tax 
liabilities are recognised for taxable temporary differences 
arising on investments in subsidiaries, joint ventures and 
associates, except where the Company is able to control the 
reversal of the temporary difference and it is probable that the 
temporary difference will not reverse in the foreseeable future.

The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed at each 
balance sheet date and reduced to the extent that it is no longer 
probable that sufficient taxable profits will be available to allow 
all or part of the asset to be recovered.

Current and deferred tax are calculated using tax rates which 
have been enacted or substantively enacted by the balance 
sheet date and are expected to apply in the period when the 
liability is settled or the asset is realised.

Current and deferred tax are charged or credited to the 
income statement, except when they relate to items charged 
or credited directly to equity, in which case the current or 
deferred tax is also recognised directly in equity.

Provisions

f. 
Provisions are recognised when the Company has a present 
legal or constructive obligation as a result of past events, it is 
more likely than not that an outflow of resources will be required 
to settle the obligation and the amount can be reliably estimated. 
Provisions are not recognised for future operating losses.

A provision is recorded if the unavoidable costs of meeting 
the obligations under a contract exceed the economic benefits 
expected to be received under it. The unavoidable costs reflect 
the net cost of exiting the contract.

If the effect of the time value of money is material, provisions 
are determined by discounting the expected future cash flows 
at a pre-tax rate which reflects current market assessments 
of the time value of money and, where appropriate, the risks 
specific to the liability.

g.  Financial instruments
Financial assets and financial liabilities are recognised on the 
Company’s balance sheet when the Company becomes a party 
to the contractual provisions of the instrument. Financial assets 
are derecognised when the contractual rights to the cash flows 
from the financial asset expire or the Company has substantially 
transferred the risks and rewards of ownership. Financial 
liabilities (or a part of a financial liability) are derecognised 
when the obligation specified in the contract is discharged 
or cancelled or expires.

Financial assets and liabilities are offset only when the Group 
has a currently enforceable legal right to set-off the respective 
recognised amounts and intends either to settle on a net basis, 
or to realise the asset and settle the liability simultaneously.

The Company has a number of term loans with its group entities. 
These loans are denominated in Sterling and Euro and are priced 
to SONIA and ESTR respectively.

(i) Cash and cash equivalents
Cash and cash equivalents include cash in hand, deposits held on 
call with banks and other short-term highly liquid investments 
with original maturities of three months or less.

(ii) Borrowings
Interest bearing borrowings are recorded at fair value (which 
is typically equivalent to the proceeds received) net of direct 
issue costs and subsequently measured at amortised cost. 
Where borrowings are in designated and effective fair value 
hedge relationships, adjustments are made to their carrying 
amounts to reflect the hedged risks. Finance charges, including 
premiums payable on settlement or redemption and direct issue 
costs, are amortised to the income statement using the 
effective interest method.

(iii) Trade receivables
Trade receivables are initially recognised at their transaction 
price and are subsequently measured at amortised cost less 
any allowance for expected credit losses. Amounts owed by 
Group companies are recorded as non-current unless there 
is an expectation that they will be received within 12 months.

(iv) Trade payables
Trade payables are initially recognised at fair value and are 
subsequently measured at amortised cost.

(v) Derivatives and hedge accounting
Where hedge accounting is not applied, or to the extent to which 
it is not effective, changes in the fair value of derivatives are 
recognised in the income statement as they arise.

Derivatives are initially recorded at fair value on the date a 
derivative contract is entered into and are subsequently carried 
at fair value. The accounting treatment of derivatives and other 
financial instruments classified as hedges depends on their 
designation, which occurs at the start of the hedge relationship. 
The Company designates certain derivatives as a hedge of the 
fair value of an asset or liability (‘fair value hedge’).

Kingfisher 2022/23 Annual Report and Accounts

171

Notes to the Company financial statements continued

For an effective hedge of an exposure to changes in fair value, 
the hedged item is adjusted for changes in fair value attributable 
to the risk being hedged with the corresponding entry being 
recorded in the income statement.

In order to qualify for hedge accounting, the Company 
documents in advance the risk management objective 
and strategy for undertaking the hedge and the relationship 
between the item being hedged and the hedging instrument. 
The Company also documents and demonstrates an assessment 
of the relationship between the hedged item and the hedging 
instrument, which shows that the hedge will be highly effective 
on an ongoing basis and provides an analysis of the sources of 
hedge ineffectiveness. The effectiveness testing is performed 
at half year and year end or upon a significant change in 
circumstances affecting the hedge effectiveness requirements.

Hedge accounting is discontinued when the hedging instrument 
expires or is sold, terminated or exercised, or no longer qualifies 
for hedge accounting. The fair value adjustment to the carrying 
amount of the hedged item arising from the hedged risk is 
amortised to profit or loss from that date. Amortisation is 
based on recalculated effective interest rate.

The company does not have any cash flow hedging instruments.

h.  Dividends
Interim dividends are recognised when they are paid to the 
Company’s shareholders. Final dividends are recognised 
when they are approved by the Company’s shareholders.

Share repurchases

i. 
Shares purchased for cancellation are deducted from retained 
earnings. The Group uses irrevocable closed period buyback 
programmes. A liability to purchase shares is recognised at 
inception of the programme with any subsequent reduction in the 
obligation credited back to retained earnings at the end of the 
programme. Share capital is reduced and credited to the capital 
redemption reserve, maintaining non-distributable reserves.

Critical accounting judgements and key sources of 
estimation uncertainty

The preparation of the Company financial statements requires 
the Company to make estimates and assumptions that affect 
the application of policies and reported amounts. Estimates 
and judgements are continually evaluated and are based on 
historical experience and other factors including expectations 
of future events that are believed to be reasonable under the 
circumstances. Actual results may differ from these estimates.

There have been no critical accounting judgements made by the 
Directors or key sources of estimation uncertainty identified 
during the year.

172 Kingfisher 2022/23 Annual Report and Accounts

Strategic ReportGovernanceFinancial Statements3 

Income statement disclosures

The audit fee for the Company and the consolidated financial statements is disclosed in note 8 of the Kingfisher plc consolidated 
financial statements. Fees payable to Deloitte LLP and their associates for audit and non-audit services to the Company are not 
required to be disclosed because the Group financial statements disclose such fees on a consolidated basis. Details of the Company’s 
policy on the use of auditors for non-audit services, the reasons why the auditor was used rather than another supplier and how the 
auditor’s independence and objectivity were safeguarded are set out in the Audit Committee Report on pages 73 to 76.

Dividend disclosures are provided in note 12 to the Kingfisher plc consolidated financial statements.

£ millions 

Wages and salaries

Social security costs

Post-employment benefits – defined contribution

Share-based compensation

Employee benefit expenses

Number 

Average number of persons employed 

Administration

2022/23

2021/22

26

4

2

3

35

29

6

2

7

44

2022/23

2021/22

263

243

Directors’ remuneration and details of share option exercises are disclosed in the Directors’ Remuneration Report on pages 77 to 
100. Total Directors’ remuneration for the year is £4m (2021/22: £3m).

As permitted by s408 of Companies Act 2006, no separate income statement or statement of comprehensive income is presented 
in respect of the parent Company. The profit attributable to the Company is disclosed in the footnote to the Company’s balance sheet.

4  Leases

The Company is a lessee of office space.

Right-of-use assets

£ millions 

Land and buildings

Net carrying amount

Additions to right-of-use assets during the year were £13m (2021/22: £nil).

Amounts included in profit and loss

£ millions

Depreciation of right-of-use assets

Land and buildings

2022/23

2021/22

13

13

1

1

2022/23

2021/22

(1)

(2)

Other lease disclosures
Lease arrangements under which rental payments are contingent upon sales, other performance or usage are not significant for 
the Company.

There are no corporate restrictions imposed by lease arrangements such as those concerning dividends, additional debt and 
further leasing.

Lease liabilities

£ millions 

Current

Non-current

2022/23

2021/22

–

(13)

(13)

(1)

–

(1)

Kingfisher 2022/23 Annual Report and Accounts

173

Notes to the Company financial statements continued

5 

Investments

£ millions 

At 1 February 2022

Capital contributions given relating to share-based payments

Contributions received relating to share-based payments

At 31 January 2023

Investment in 
subsidiary

6,830

18

(15)

6,833

The more significant subsidiary undertakings of the Company at 31 January 2023 and the ultimate percentage holding are set out 
below. For a full list of subsidiaries and related undertakings, see note 14.

Company name

B&Q Limited 

B&Q Properties Limited 

Halcyon Finance Limited

Kingfisher Digital Limited

Kingfisher Holdings Limited

Kingfisher International Products Limited

Country of  
incorporation and  
operation

% interest held  
and voting rights

United Kingdom

United Kingdom

United Kingdom

United Kingdom

United Kingdom

United Kingdom

Kingfisher Information Technology Services (UK) Limited

United Kingdom

Screwfix Direct Limited

Sheldon Holdings Limited

Zeus Land Investments Limited

B&Q Ireland Limited

Brico Dépôt S.A.S

Castorama France S.A.S 

Euro Dépôt Immobilier S.A.S 

Kingfisher Investissements S.A.S

L’Immobiliere Castorama S.A.S

SCREWFIX S.A.S 

We Share Trust S.A.S

Kingfisher Asia Limited

Castim Sp z o.o.

Castorama Polska Sp. z o.o.

Brico Depot Portugal, S.A.

Bricostore Romania S.A.

Euro Depot España SAU

United Kingdom

United Kingdom

United Kingdom

Ireland

France

France

France

France

France

France

France

Hong Kong

Poland

Poland

Portugal

Romania

Spain

100%

100%

100%

100%

100%

100%

100%

100%

100%

100%

100%

100%

100%

100%

100%

100%

100%

100%

100%

100%

100%

100%

100%

100%

Class of share held

Ordinary & Special1

Main activity

Retailing

 Ordinary

Property investment

 Ordinary

 Ordinary

Ordinary

Ordinary

 Ordinary

 Ordinary

Ordinary

Ordinary

Ordinary

 Ordinary

 Ordinary

Financing

Digital services

Holding company

Sourcing

IT services

Retailing

Holding company 

Financing

Retailing

Retailing

Retailing

 Ordinary

Property investment

Ordinary

Holding company

 Ordinary

Property investment

Ordinary

Retailing

Ordinary Services marketplace

Ordinary

Sourcing

 Ordinary

Property investment

 Ordinary

Ordinary

Ordinary

 Ordinary

Retailing

Retailing

Retailing

Retailing

1.  The special shares in B&Q Limited are owned 100% by Kingfisher plc and are non-voting.

At each reporting date an assessment is performed as to whether there are any indicators that the Company’s investments may be 
impaired and, should such indicators exist, the recoverable amounts are estimated. At the balance sheet date, the Company’s market 
capitalisation was less than the carrying amount of its investments which is an indicator of impairment.

Impairment reviews have been performed for the Company’s investments with no resulting impairments. The Board has reviewed a 
sensitivity analysis and does not consider that a reasonably possible change in the assumptions used in the value-in-use calculations 
would cause the carrying amount of the Company’s investments to exceed their recoverable amounts. See note 13 to the 
consolidated financial statements for further details on the assumptions used.

174 Kingfisher 2022/23 Annual Report and Accounts

Strategic ReportGovernanceFinancial Statements6  Trade and other receivables

£ millions 

Non-current

Owed by Group Companies

Current

Owed by Group undertakings

Trade and other receivables

2022/23

2021/22  
restated

3,472

3,472

1,295

1,295

3,411

3,411

2,022

2,022

4,767

5,433

Following a reassessment of when certain amounts owed by group undertakings are expected to be realised, the Company has 
determined that it did not intend to require settlement for certain amounts within 12 months of the balance sheet date. The 
comparatives have been restated, reclassifying £3,411m to non-current.

Amounts owed by Group undertakings are repayable on demand and any interest due thereon is at current market rates. The 
amounts owed are not secured with collateral or guarantees. The Company has intercompany term loan receivables from other 
Group undertakings of £307m (2021/22: £304m) and £983m (2021/22: £1,817m). Both intercompany loans mature on 30 April 2025 
and are priced to 3.24% interest. The prior year loans matured on 21 January 2022 and were rolled over for a further three months 
and repriced to SONIA plus margin before being settled.

Amounts owed by subsidiary undertakings have been considered for impairment using the 12 months expected credit loss model 
because there have been no changes in credit risk since initial recognition. The expected credit losses on amounts owed by Group 
companies is nil (2021/22: nil).

7  Trade and other payables

£ millions 

Current

Owed to Group undertakings

Other taxation and social security

Contract to purchase own shares for cancellation

Liability to purchase own shares for ESOP trust

Accruals and other payables

2022/23

2021/22

6,484

6,716

5

7

–

22

6,518

5

69

9

35

6,834

Amounts owed to Group undertakings are repayable on demand and any interest due thereon is at current market rates. The amounts 
owed are not secured with collateral or guarantees.

8  Borrowings

£ millions 

Non-current

Fixed term debt

The fixed term debt represents two GBP term loans maturing in December 2024 and January 2025.

See notes 23 and 33 to the consolidated financial statements for further details.

2022/23

2021/22

99

99

–

–

Kingfisher 2022/23 Annual Report and Accounts

175

Notes to the Company financial statements continued

9  Derivatives

The fair value of derivatives at the balance sheet date is:

£ millions 

Foreign exchange contracts

Derivative assets

Foreign exchange contracts 

Derivative liabilities

2022/23

2021/22

2

2

–

–

5

5

(9)

(9)

The fair values are calculated by discounting future cash flows arising from the instruments and adjusted for credit risk. These fair 
value measurements are all made using observable market rates of interest, foreign exchange and credit risk.

10  Post-employment benefits

The Company participates in both a funded defined benefit scheme and a funded defined contribution scheme.

Defined contribution scheme
Pension costs for the defined contribution scheme, at rates specified in the scheme’s rules, are as follows:

£ millions 

Charge to operating profit

2022/23

2021/22

2

2

From July 2012, an enhanced defined contribution scheme was offered to all Company employees. Eligible Company employees 
have been automatically enrolled into the defined contribution scheme since 31 March 2013.

Defined benefit scheme
Kingfisher plc is one of a number of Group companies that participate in the Kingfisher Pension Scheme, and therefore the Company 
has accounted for its share of the scheme assets and liabilities. The Group’s policy is for each entity to recognise its share of assets 
and liabilities based on the proportion of the scheme contributions payable by that entity. The valuation of the scheme has been 
based on the most recent actuarial valuation as at 31 March 2022. Following this valuation and in accordance with the scheme’s 
Statement of Funding Principles, the Trustee and Kingfisher have agreed to cease annual employer contributions during the 
period from August 2022 to July 2025. See note 28 to the consolidated financial statements for further detail on the Kingfisher 
Pension Scheme.

The final salary pension scheme was closed to future benefit accrual with effect from July 2012.

The Trust Deed provides Kingfisher with an unconditional right to a refund of surplus assets assuming the full settlement of plan 
liabilities in the event of a plan wind-up. Furthermore, in the ordinary course of business the Trustee has no rights to unilaterally 
wind up, or otherwise augment the benefits due to members of, the scheme. Based on these rights, any net surplus in the scheme 
is recognised in full.

In 2010/11 and 2011/12 the Company entered into two phases of a property partnership arrangement with the scheme Trustee to 
address an element of the scheme deficit. Further details on this arrangement are given in note 28 to the consolidated financial 
statements. The reported pension position reflects the Company’s share of the resulting scheme asset. 

176

Kingfisher 2022/23 Annual Report and Accounts

Strategic ReportGovernanceFinancial StatementsBalance sheet
Movements in the present value of the defined benefit obligation and the fair value of scheme assets are as follows:

£ millions

At 1 February 2022

Interest (expense)/income

Remeasurement gains/(losses)1

Benefits paid

At 31 January 2023

At 1 February 2021

Interest (expense)/income

Remeasurement gains/(losses)1

Contributions paid by employer

Benefits paid

At 31 January 2022

1.  Remeasurement gains/(losses) are recognised in Other Comprehensive Income (net of related deferred tax).

The fair value of scheme assets is analysed as follows:

£ millions 

Equities

Government and corporate bonds 

Annuities

Cash and other

Total fair value of scheme assets

11  Called up share capital

Allotted, called up and fully paid:

At 1 February 2022

New shares issued under share schemes

Purchase of own shares for cancellation

At 31 January 2023

At 1 February 2021

New shares issued under share schemes

Purchase of own shares for cancellation

At 31 January 2022

Defined benefit 
obligation

Scheme  
assets

(86)

(2) 

27 

3 

(58)

 (91)

 (1)

 2

 –

 4

(86)

106

3

(38)

(3)

68

110

1

(2)

1

(4)

106

Total

20

1

(11)

–

10

19

–

–

1

–

20

2022/23

2021/22

1

32

25

10

68

3

52

35

16

106

Number of 
ordinary  
shares  
millions

Ordinary  
share  
capital  
£ millions

2,066

5

 (131)

1,940

2,111

2

(47)

2,066

325

1

(21)

305

332

–

(7)

325

Ordinary shares have a par value of 155/7 pence per share and carry full voting, dividend and capital distribution rights.

During the year the Company purchased 131 million of the Company’s own shares for cancellation at a cost of £337m as part of its 
capital returns programme.

Kingfisher 2022/23 Annual Report and Accounts

177

Notes to the Company financial statements continued

12  Share-based payments

The Company operates a number of share incentive plans including the Performance Share Plan (‘PSP’), Kingfisher Alignment Share 
and Transformation Incentive Plan (‘KASTIP’), Kingfisher Incentive Share Plan (‘KISP’), Sharesave plans in the UK and Ireland, and the 
‘1+1’ all-colleague share plan across each of our territories.

Options have been exercised on a regular basis throughout the year. On that basis, the weighted average share price during the year, 
rather than at the date of exercise, is £2.53 (2021/22: £3.38). The options outstanding at the end of the year have exercise prices 
ranging from nil to £2.75 and a weighted average remaining contractual life of 6.6 years (2021/22: 6.9 years).

In the current year the Company recognised a total expense of £3m (2021/22: £7m) relating to equity-settled share-based 
payment transactions.

The Executive Directors’ awards are disclosed in the Directors’ Remuneration Report on pages 77 to 100. The KASTIP awards are 
described as part of the Directors’ Remuneration Report.

PSP awards are based on service and performance conditions over a three-year period. The KASTIP was granted based on a 
three-year service condition. Under the KISP, share awards are deferred for three years. The awards are granted as nil cost options. 
Vesting dates may vary according to individual grants.

Under the UK Sharesave scheme, eligible UK employees have been invited to enter into HMRC-approved savings contracts for 
a period of three or five years, whereby shares may be acquired with savings under the contract. The option price is the average 
market price over three days shortly before the invitation to subscribe, discounted by 20%. Options are exercisable within a six-
month period from the conclusion of a three- or five-year period. The Irish Sharesave plan, which operates along similar lines to 
the UK Sharesave scheme, includes eligible employees in the Republic of Ireland.

The 1+1 share plan provided all our colleagues with the opportunity to purchase shares up to a specified maximum total contribution. 
Following a holding period of one year, Kingfisher matched each participant’s investment (awarding one free share for every share 
bought) up to the specified maximum.

The rules of all schemes include provision for the early exercise of options in certain circumstances.

The Employee Share Ownership Plan trust (‘ESOP trust’)
The ESOP trust is funded by an interest free loan from the Company of £81m (2021/22: £98m) to enable it to acquire shares in 
Kingfisher plc. The shares are used to satisfy options awarded under the PSP, Delivering Value Incentive award, Transformation 
Incentive Award, Alignment Share award, KISP, and 1+1 share plan.

The ESOP trust’s shareholding at 31 January 2023 is 7 million shares (2021/22: 14 million shares) with a nominal value of £1m (2021/22: 
£2m) and a market value of £19m (2021/22: £46m). Dividends on these shares were waived for the interim and final dividends.

13  Related party transactions

During the year, the Company carried out a number of transactions with related parties in the normal course of business and on an 
arm’s length basis. The names of the related parties, the nature of these transactions and their total value are shown below:

£ millions

Transactions with Koçtaş Yapi Marketleri Ticaret A.S. in which the Kingfisher plc 
Group holds a 50% interest 

Commission and other income

Transactions with the Kingfisher Pension Scheme

Provision of administrative services

2022/23

2021/22

Income

Receivable

Income

Receivable

0.3

0.9

–

0.2

0.2

0.8

–

0.3

Services are usually negotiated with related parties on a cost-plus basis. Goods are sold or bought on the basis of the price lists in 
force with non-related parties. Directors’ remuneration and details of share option exercises are disclosed in the Directors’ 
Remuneration Report on pages 77 to 100. Other transactions with the Kingfisher Pension Scheme are detailed in note 10.

178

Kingfisher 2022/23 Annual Report and Accounts

Strategic ReportGovernanceFinancial Statements14  Related undertakings of the Group

In accordance with Section 409 of the Companies Act 2006, a full list of related undertakings, the address of their registered 
office and their country of incorporation as at 31 January 2023 is shown below. Changes to the list of related undertakings since the 
year-end date are detailed in the footnotes below. All undertakings are indirectly owned by the Company unless otherwise stated.

Wholly owned Subsidiary undertakings
All subsidiary undertakings, unless otherwise noted, are consolidated in the Group’s financial statements, have only one class of share 
in issue (being ordinary shares), and have all their shares held by companies within the Group other than the Company (Kingfisher plc). 
The undertakings denoted with an asterisk (*) will take advantage of the audit exemption set out within Section 479A of the Companies 
Act 2006 for the year ended 31 January 2023.

ADSR-Real Estate S.A.S.1

Alcedo Finance Limitede, 2, *

Eijsvogel Finance Limitede, 2

Kingfisher Marketplaces Limitede, 2

Electricfix Limited8, *

Kingfisher Pension Trustee Limitede, 2, *

B&Q (Retail) Guernsey Limited3

Euro Depot España SAU14

Kingfisher Properties Investments Limitede, 2

B&Q (Retail) Jersey Limited4

Euro Dépôt Immobilier S.A.S.10

Kingfisher Sourcing, Eastern Europe, Sp. z o.o.12

B&Q Ireland Limited6 

B&Q Limiteda, 5

Geared Up Limited8, *

Kingfisher TMB Limited5

Good Home Products Limitede, 2, *

KSO Istanbul Sourcing Ev Geliştirme Ürünleri 
ve Hizmetleri Ltd Sti21

B&Q Properties Chesterfield Limited5

Halcyon Finance Limitede, 2

L’Immobiliere Castorama S.A.S.13

B&Q Properties Chestnut Retail Park Limited5 Horizons 1000 S.A.S10

Martin Pecheur Holdings Limited22

B&Q Properties Farnborough Limited5, *

KFL8 S.A.S.1

MELANI 1 Sp. z o.o12

B&Q Properties Investments Limited7

KFS Sp. z o.o.15

B&Q Properties Limited5

Kingfisher (Shanghai) Sourcing Consultancy 
Co. Ltd16

New England Paint Company Limited2

Owl Development Sp. z.o.o12

B&Q Properties New Malden Limited5

Kingfisher Asia Limited17

Paddington Investment Ireland Limited22

B&Q Properties Nursling Limited5

Kingfisher Développement S.A.S.1

Plumbfix Limited8, *

B&Q Properties South Shields Limited5

Kingfisher Digital Limitede, f, 2

Screwfix Direct (Ireland) Limited6

B&Q Properties Sutton-in-Ashfield Limited5, * Kingfisher France Limitede, 2

Screwfix Direct Limited d,8

B&Q Properties Swindon Limited5

Kingfisher Group Finance B.V.18

B&Q Properties Witney Limited5, *

Kingfisher Group Limitede, 2

B&Q Properties Wrexham Limited5

Kingfisher Holdings Limitede, b, 2

Screwfix Limited8, *

SCREWFIX S.A.S.1

SFD Limited8, *

Bargain Bob’s Limited8, *

Brico Depot Portugal, S.A.9

Brico Dépôt S.A.S.10

Kingfisher Information Technology Services 
(France) S.A.S.1

Kingfisher Information Technology Services 
(UK) Limitede, 2

Kingfisher Insurance Designated Activity 
Company19

Sheldon Euro Investments Limitede, 2

Sheldon Holdings Limitede, 2

Sheldon Poland Investments Limitede, 2

Bricostore Romania S.A.11

Kingfisher International Holdings Limitede, 2

Société Letranne S.A.S10

Castim Sp z o.o.12

Kingfisher International Products B.V.18

SOCODI S.A.R.L.1

Castorama Polska Sp. z o.o12

Kingfisher International Products France S.A.S.1 Street Club Limitedf, 5, *

Castorama France S.A.S13

Kingfisher International Products Limitede, 2

Trade Point Limited5, *

Dickens Limited5, *

Kingfisher Investissements S.A.S13

Zeus Land Investments Limitede, 2

Related undertakings other than wholly owned subsidiaries
The undertakings denoted with an asterisk (**) are charitable entities/partnerships and do not have a share capital.

B&Q Foundation5, **

Kingfisher Services S.A.S (France, 80%)1

CREALFI S.A.S (France, 49%)23

Kingfisher Scottish Limited Partnership c,20

Fondation de France27, **

Fondation Castorama27, **

Koçtas Yapi Marketleri Ticaret A.S. (Turkey, 49.77%)24

We Share Trust (Suisse) S.A.R.L (Suisse, immediate parent undertaking 100%, Group undertaking 80%) 

Fondation Brico Dépôt27, **

The Screwfix Foundation8, **

Fundacja Castorama12, **

We Share Trust S.A.S (France, immediate parent undertaking 94.08%, Group undertaking 75.26%)26

Fundación Brico Depôt Iberia14, **

We Share Trust Limited (UK, immediate parent undertaking 100%, Group undertaking 80%)e, 2, *

Kingfisher 2022/23 Annual Report and Accounts

179

Notes to the Company financial statements continued

14  Related undertakings of the Group continued

a.  Kingfisher plc holds 1,000 Special Shares of £0.05 each, and 1,000 Special A Shares of £0.05 each – both representing 100% of 

the nominal value of each class of share.
b.  The shares are held directly by Kingfisher plc.
c.  Kingfisher Properties Investments Limited and Kingfisher Pension Trustee Limited are the limited partners; B&Q Properties 

Investments Limited is the general partner.

d.  Kingfisher International Holdings Limited holds 4,083 Ordinary A shares of £1 each, 45,917 Ordinary C shares of £1 each and 
4,591,700 Ordinary D Shares of £0.0001 each – each representing 100% of the nominal value of each class of share. These 
represent 100% of the total issued share capital.

e.  On 13 March 2023, the Registered Office changed to 1 Paddington Square, London W2 1GG.
f. 

Entities in process of strike off.

1 Paddington Square, London, W2 1GG, United Kingdom

124-125 Princess Street, Edinburgh, EH2 4AD, Scotland, United Kingdom

1-3 Calea Giulesti, 2nd Floor, Bricostore Commercial Centre, District 6, Bucharest, Romania

Registered offices and country of incorporation:
1.  Parc d’Activités, Zone Industrielle, Templemars, 59175, France
2. 
3.  Dorey Court, Admiral Park, St Peters Port, GY1 3BQ, Guernsey
4.  Gaspe House, 66-72 Esplanade, St. Helier, Jersey, JE2 3QT, Jersey
5.  B&Q House, Chestnut Avenue, Chandlers Ford, Eastleigh, Hampshire, SO53 3LE, United Kingdom
6.  6th Floor, 2 Grand Canal Square, Dublin 2, D02 A342, Ireland
7. 
8.  Trade House, Mead Avenue, Houndstone Business Park, Yeovil, BA22 8RT, United Kingdom
9.  Rua Elias García,Estrada Nacional 294, km 14, Freguesia de Rio de Mouro, Concelho de Sintra, Lisboa, Portugal
10.  30-32 Rue de la Tourelle, 91310 Longpont-sur-Orge, France
11. 
12.  ul. Krakowiaków 78, 02-255, Warszawa, Poland
13.  Zone Industrielle, 59175 Templemars, France
14.  C/la Selva, 10 Inblau Edificio A 1a, Barcelona, 08820 El Prat de Llobregat, Spain
15.  ul. Wielicka 28, 30-552, Krakow, Poland
16.  B&Q China, 4th Floor, B&Q Pudong Commercial Building, No. 393 Yin Xiao Road, Pudong New Area, Shanghai, 201204, China
17.  2/F, Koho, 73 – 75 Hung To Road, Kwun Tong, Hong Kong
18.  Rapenburgerstraat 175, E, 1011 VM, Amsterdam, Netherlands
19.  Willis Towers Watson House, Elm Park, Merrion Road, Dublin 4, Ireland
20.  c/0 Womble Bond Dickinson (UK) LLP, 2 Semple Street, Edinburgh, EH3 8BL, Scotland
21.  Barbaros Mahallesi Mor Sümbül Sokak, Nidakule Blok No: 7/3, İçkapı no: 127, Ataşehir/İstanbul, Turkey
22.  1st – 2nd Floors, 1-2 Victoria Buildings, Haddington Road, Dublin 4, D04 XN32, Ireland
23.  1 rue Victor Basch, CS 70001, MASSY CEDEX, 91068, France
24.  Tasdelen Mahallesi Sirri Celik Bulvari Oto Koc Blok No:9 Cekmekoy, Istanbul, Turkey
25.  Rue Saint-Léger, 19, c/o FIDUCIOR SA, Genève, 1204, Switzerland
26.  46, rue Saint-Lazare, Paris, 75009, France
27.  40 Avenue Hoche, Paris, 75008, France

15   Post balance sheet events

During the period since the balance sheet date, the Group purchased 1 million of the Company’s own shares for cancellation at a cost 
of £3m. This amount was deducted from equity in 2022/23 as a result of an irrevocable closed season buyback agreement which was 
in place at 31 January 2023.

180 Kingfisher 2022/23 Annual Report and Accounts

Strategic ReportGovernanceFinancial StatementsGroup five year financial summary

£ millions

Income statement

Sales

Retail profit

Central costs 

Share of interest and tax of joint ventures and associates before 
adjusting items

Net finance costs before adjusting items 

Adjusted pre-tax profit

Adjusting items (before tax)

Profit before taxation

Income tax expense (including adjusting items)

Profit for the year 

Balance sheet

Goodwill and other intangible assets

Property, plant and equipment and investment property

Right-of-use assets

Investments in joint ventures and associates

Assets and liabilities (excluding net debt) held for sale 

Other net current assets1

Post-employment benefits

Other net non-current liabilities1

Capital employed

Equity shareholders’ funds

Net debt

Capital employed

Other financial data

Like-for-like sales growth

Adjusted effective tax rate 

Basic earnings per share (pence)

Adjusted basic earnings per share (pence)

Ordinary dividend per share (pence)

Gross capital expenditure2

Number of stores3

2018/19

2019/20

2020/21

2021/22

2022/23

11,685

11,513

824

(69)

(5)

(176)

574

(274)

300

(107)

193

2,807

3,310

2,017

15

89

429

205

(181)

8,691

6,149

2,542

8,691

(1.6)%

27%

9.1

19.8

10.82

331

1,331

786

(62)

(7)

(173)

544

(441)

103

(95)

8

2,755

2,996

1,916

16

138

424

277

(194)

8,328

5,802

 2,526

8,328

(1.5)%

26%

0.4

19.1

3.33

342

1,367

12,343

1,003

(54)

(3)

(160)

786

(30)

756

(164)

592

2,747

3,095

1,845

20

12

105

359

(218)

7,965

6,571

 1,394

7,965

7.1%

23%

28.1

28.7

8.25

281

1,386

13,183 

1,148 

(60) 

(2)

(137)

949 

58 

1,007 

(164) 

843 

2,754 

3,111 

1,885 

17 

6 

367 

410 

13,059

923

(49)

(4)

(112)

758

(147)

611

(140)

471

2,779

3,235

1,947

30

3

931

137

(200) 

(125)

8,350 

6,778 

1,572 

8,350 

9.9%

22%

40.3

35.2

12.40

397

1,474

8,937

6,663

2,274

8,937

(2.1)%

22%

23.8

29.7

12.40

449

1,572

1.  Other net current assets and other net non-current liabilities reported above exclude any components of net debt.
2.  Excluding business acquisitions.
3.  Excluding joint ventures and associates.

Kingfisher 2022/23 Annual Report and Accounts

181

 
Shareholder information

Financial calendar

Q1 results*

Annual General Meeting

Half-year results* 

Q3 results*

Dividends

24 May 2023

27 June 2023

19 September 2023

22 November 2023

The company pays all cash dividends through direct payment  
to shareholder bank accounts. Shareholders who have not yet 
notified our Registrar of their preferred bank account details 
should do so without delay. This does not affect those 
shareholders who have subscribed for the Dividend 
Reinvestment Plan.

 * These dates are provisional and may be subject to change.

Annual General Meeting (AGM)

We consider the AGM to be an important event in our calendar 
and a significant opportunity to engage with our shareholders.

The 2023 AGM will be held at Storey Club, 4 Kingdom Street, 
London W2 6BD on Tuesday 27 June 2023 at 2pm.

Details of how to participate at the AGM are set out in the 
Notice of AGM and on our website.

Company Secretary

Chloe Barry

Registered office

Kingfisher plc  
1 Paddington Square,
London, W2 1GG

Telephone: +44 (0) 20 7372 8008

Website: www.kingfisher.com

Registered in England and Wales 
Registered Number 01664812

Registrars

Computershare Investor Services PLC 
The Pavilions  
Bridgwater Road  
Bristol 
BS99 6ZZ

Telephone: +44 (0) 370 702 0129

Shareholders can also visit our online Investor Centre,  
www.investorcentre.co.uk

The interim dividend for the financial year ended 31 January 2023 
of 3.80 pence per ordinary share was paid on 11 November 2022.

The table below provides the payment information for the final 
dividend of 8.60 pence per ordinary share, subject to 
shareholder approval at the 2023 AGM.

Ex-dividend date

Record date

Final date for return of DRIP mandate forms/
currency elections

Euro exchange rate notification

Payment date and DRIP purchase

25 May 2023

26 May 2023

12 June 2023

13 June 2023

3 July 2023

American Depositary Receipts (ADR)

The company has a Sponsored Level 1 ADR programme in the 
US, which trades on the OTCQX Platform.

Each ADR represents two Kingfisher plc ordinary shares. The 
company’s ADR programme is administered by Citibank, N.A.

ADR investor contact

Telephone: +1 877 248 4237 
Email: citibank@shareholders-online.com

ADR broker contact

Telephone: +1 212 723 5435/+44 (0) 20 7500 2030 
Email: michael.oleary@citi.com/michael.woods@citi.com

182 Kingfisher 2022/23 Annual Report and Accounts

Strategic ReportGovernanceFinancial StatementsShare dealing facilities

Shareholders wishing to sell or purchase shares in the company 
may do so through a bank or a stockbroker. Alternatively, please 
go to www.computershare.com/dealing/uk for a range of 
Dealing services made available by Computershare.

ShareGift

If you would like to consider donating your shareholding to  
the charity ShareGift (Registered charity 1052686), further 
information may be obtained by calling 020 7930 3737 or  
from www.ShareGift.org

Shareholder security

Details of any share dealing facilities that the company endorses 
will be included in company mailings only. If you receive any 
unsolicited investment advice, whether over the telephone, 
through the post or by email, you should:

 — Make sure you get the name of the person and organisation;
 — Check that they are properly authorised by the FCA before 

getting involved by visiting register.fca.org.uk/s/; and

 — Report the matter to the FCA either by calling 0800 111 6768 

or by completing an online form at www.fca.org.uk/
consumers/report-scam-us.

More detailed information on this or similar activity can be found 
on the FCA website www.fca.org.uk/scamsmart

Share price information

The company’s ordinary shares are listed on the London Stock 
Exchange. Share price history and the latest share price are 
available on the company’s website.

Electronic communications

Shareholders who have not yet elected to receive 
shareholder documentation in electronic form can sign up 
by visiting www.investorcentre.co.uk/ecomms and registering 
their details.

Forward-looking statements

All statements in this Annual Report and Accounts, other than 
historical facts, may be forward-looking statements (including 
within the meaning of the safe harbour provisions of the United 
States Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995). Such 
statements are therefore subject to inherent risks, assumptions 
and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ 
materially from those expressed or implied, because they 
relate to future events.

Forward-looking statements can be identified by the use of 
relevant terminology including the words: ‘believes’, ‘estimates’, 
‘anticipates’, ‘expects’, ‘intends’, ‘plans’, ‘goal’, ‘target’, ‘aim’, ‘may’, 
‘will’, ‘would’, ‘could’, ‘should’, ‘project’, ‘continue’ or ‘forecast’, in 
each case, their negative or other variations or comparable 
terminology and include all matters that are not historical facts. 
These forward-looking statements are based on currently 
available information and our current assumptions, 
expectations and projections about future events.

These forward-looking statements appear in a number of 
places throughout this Annual Report and Accounts and include 
statements which look forward in time or statements regarding 
our intentions, beliefs or current expectations and those of our 
officers, directors and employees concerning, among other 
things, our results of operations, financial condition, changes 
in tax rates, liquidity, prospects, growth strategies and the 
businesses we operate.

Other factors that could cause actual results to differ materially 
from those estimated by the forward-looking statements include, 
but are not limited to, global economic business conditions, global 
and regional trade conditions (including a downturn in the retail or 
financial services industries), the state of the housing and home 
improvement markets, share repurchases and dividends, capital 
expenditure and capital allocation, liquidity, prospects, growth 
and strategies, litigation or other proceedings to which we are 
subject, monetary and interest rate policies, foreign currency 
exchange rates, equity and property prices, the impact of 
competition, inflation and deflation, changes to regulations, taxes 
and legislation, changes to consumer saving and spending habits, 
acts of war or terrorism worldwide, work stoppages, slowdowns 
or strikes, public health crises (including but not limited to 
the Covid pandemic), outbreaks of contagious disease or 
environmental disaster, political volatility and our success 
in managing these factors.

Consequently, our actual future financial condition, 
performance and results could differ materially from the 
plans, goals and expectations set out in our forward-looking 
statements. Reliance should not be placed on any forward-
looking statement. Nothing in this Annual Report and Accounts 
or on the Kingfisher website should be construed as a profit 
forecast or an invitation to deal in the securities of Kingfisher. 
For further information regarding risks to Kingfisher’s business, 
consult the Risks section on pages 53 to 60.

The forward-looking statements contained herein speak  
only as of the date of this Annual Report and Accounts and 
the company undertakes no obligation to publicly update 
any forward-looking statement, whether as a result of 
new information, future events or otherwise, other than in 
accordance with its legal or regulatory obligations (including 
under the UK Listing Rules and the Disclosure Guidance and 
Transparency Rules of the Financial Conduct Authority).

You are not to construe the content of this Annual Report and 
Accounts as investment, legal or tax advice and you should 
make your own evaluation of the Company and the market. 
If you are in any doubt about the contents of this Annual Report 
and Accounts or the action you should take, you should consult 
a person authorised under the Financial Services and Markets 
Act 2000 (as amended) (or if you are a person outside the UK, 
otherwise duly qualified in your jurisdiction). Nothing in this 
Annual Report and Accounts should be construed as either 
an offer or invitation to sell or any offering of securities or any 
invitation or inducement to any person to underwrite, subscribe 
for or otherwise acquire securities in any company within the 
Group or an invitation or inducement to engage in investment 
activity under section 21 of the Financial Services and Markets 
Act 2000 (as amended) (or, otherwise under any other law, 
regulation or exchange rules in any other applicable jurisdiction).

Kingfisher 2022/23 Annual Report and Accounts

183

Glossary

Alternative Performance Measures (APMs)

In the reporting of financial information, the Directors have adopted various Alternative Performance Measures (APMs), also known 
as non-GAAP measures, of historical or future financial performance, position or cash flows other than those defined or specified 
under International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS). These measures are not defined by IFRS and therefore may not be directly 
comparable with other companies’ APMs, including those used by other retailers. APMs should be considered in addition to, and are 
not intended to be a substitute for, or superior to, IFRS measurements.

Closest equivalent 
IFRS measure 

Reconciling items  
to IFRS measure 

Definition and purpose 

Adjusted basic earnings per share represents profit after tax attributable to the 
owners of the parent, before the impact of adjusting items (see definition below), 
divided by the weighted average number of shares in issue during the period. 
The exclusion of adjusting items helps provide an indication of the Group’s 
ongoing business performance.

The adjusted effective tax rate is calculated as continuing income tax expense 
excluding tax adjustments in respect of prior years (including the impact of 
changes in tax rates on deferred tax), significant one-off tax settlements and 
provision charges/releases and the tax effects of adjusting items, divided by 
continuing profit before taxation excluding adjusting items. Prior year tax items 
represent income statement tax relating to underlying items originally arising in 
prior years, including the impact of changes in tax rates on deferred tax. The 
exclusion of items relating to prior years, and those not in the ordinary course 
of business, helps provide a better indication of the Group’s ongoing rate of tax.

Adjusted pre-tax profit is used to report the performance of the business at 
a Group level. This is stated before adjusting items. The exclusion of adjusting 
items helps provide an indication of the Group’s ongoing business performance. 

Adjusted pre-tax profit is used to report the performance of the business  
at a Group level and is separately defined. Adjusted pre-tax profit margin % 
represents adjusted pre-tax profit as a percentage of sales. It is a measure 
of overall business profitability.

Adjusted post-tax profit is used to report the after-tax performance of the 
business at a Group level. This is stated before adjusting items. The exclusion 
of adjusting items helps provide an indication of the Group’s ongoing after-tax 
business performance. 

Adjusting items, which are presented separately within their relevant income 
statement category, include items which by virtue of their size and/or nature, 
do not reflect the Group’s ongoing trading performance. Adjusting items may 
include, but are not limited to: non-trading items included in operating profit such 
as profits and losses on the disposal, closure, exit or impairment of subsidiaries, 
joint ventures, associates and investments which do not form part of the Group’s 
ongoing trading activities; the costs of significant restructuring and incremental 
acquisition integration costs; profits and losses on the exit of properties, 
impairments of goodwill and significant impairments (or impairment reversals) of 
other non-current assets; prior year tax items (including the impact of changes 
in tax rates on deferred tax), significant one-off tax settlements and provision 
charges/releases and the tax effects of other adjusting items; financing fair value 
remeasurements i.e., changes in the fair value of financing derivatives, excluding 
interest accruals, offset by fair value adjustments to the carrying amount of 
borrowings and other hedged items under fair value (or non-designated) hedge 
relationships. Financing derivatives are those that relate to hedged items of 
a financing nature.

Central costs principally comprise the costs of the Group’s head office before 
adjusting items. This helps provide an indication of the Group’s ongoing head 
office costs.

APM 

Adjusted 
basic 
earnings per 
share (EPS)

Basic 
earnings 
per share

Adjusted 
effective 
tax rate

Effective tax 
rate

Adjusted 
pre-tax profit 

Profit before 
taxation

Adjusted 
pre-tax profit 
margin %

No direct 
equivalent

Adjusted 
post-tax 
profit

Profit after 
tax

A reconciliation of 
adjusted basic earnings 
per share is included in 
the Financial Review 
(Section 5) and note 11 
of the consolidated 
financial statements

A reconciliation to the 
statutory effective tax 
rate is set out in the 
Financial Review 
(Section 5)

A reconciliation of 
adjusted pre-tax profit 
is set out in the Financial 
Review (Section 5) 

Refer to definition 

A reconciliation of 
adjusted post-tax profit 
is set out in the Financial 
Review (Section 5) 
and note 11 of 
the consolidated 
financial statements

Adjusting 
items

No direct 
equivalent

Not applicable 

Central costs No direct 
equivalent

Not applicable

184 Kingfisher 2022/23 Annual Report and Accounts

Strategic ReportGovernanceFinancial StatementsAPM 

Closest equivalent 
IFRS measure 

Reconciling items  
to IFRS measure 

Constant 
currency

No direct 
equivalent

Not applicable

Dividend 
cover

No direct 
equivalent

Not applicable

Digitally-
enabled 
sales±

E-commerce 
sales 
penetration 
%±

First-party 
e-commerce 
sales±

No direct 
equivalent

Refer to definition 

No direct 
equivalent

Refer to definition 

No direct 
equivalent

Refer to definition 

Total 
e-commerce 
sales±

No direct 
equivalent

Refer to definition 

Definition and purpose 

Constant currency changes in total sales, LFL sales, gross profit, gross margin %, 
retail profit, retail profit margin % and operating costs reflect the year-on-year 
movements after translating the prior year comparatives at the current year’s 
average exchange rates. These are presented to eliminate the effects of 
exchange rate fluctuations on the reported results.

Dividend cover represents the ratio of earnings to dividends. It is calculated as 
adjusted basic earnings per share divided by the total (full year) dividend per 
share. It is used as an indication of how sustainable dividend payments are. 

Digitally-enabled sales are e-commerce sales plus sales associated with 
customer orders placed in stores or via contact centres for collection from 
store or home delivery (via central home delivery or via store-to-home). It is 
used to help track how well we are responding to changing customer behaviours.

E-commerce sales penetration % represent total e-commerce sales as a 
percentage of sales. For the purpose of this calculation only, sales are adjusted 
to replace marketplace net sales with marketplace gross sales. It is used to track 
the success of our e-commerce strategy.

First-party e-commerce sales are total first-party sales (excluding VAT) derived 
from online transactions, including click & collect (C&C). This includes sales 
transacted on any device, however not sales through a call centre. Sales (and 
related commissions/fees) from products supplied by third-party e-commerce 
marketplace vendors are excluded. It is used to measure the performance of 
our first-party e-commerce business across the Group.

Total e-commerce sales are first-party e-commerce sales plus marketplace 
gross sales. References to digital or e-commerce sales growth relates to growth 
in constant currency. It is used to measure the performance of all e-commerce 
business (first-party and third-party) across the Group.

EBITDA

Profit before 
taxation

A reconciliation of 
EBITDA is set out in 
the Financial Review 
(Section 5)

EBITDA (earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortisation) is 
calculated as retail profit less central costs and before depreciation and 
amortisation. This measure is widely used in calculating the ratio of net debt 
to EBITDA, and is used to reflect the Group’s leverage. 

Free cash 
flow

Net increase 
in cash 
and cash 
equivalents 
and bank 
overdrafts

A reconciliation of free 
cash flow is set out in 
the Financial Review 
(Section 5)

Free cash flow represents the cash generated from operations (excluding 
adjusting items) less the amount spent on interest, tax and capital expenditure 
during the year (excluding asset disposals). This provides a measure of how much 
cash the business generates that can be used for expansion, capital returns and 
other purposes.

Gross margin 
% 

No direct 
equivalent

Refer to definition 

LFL

Sales

Refer to definition

3-year LFL

Sales

Refer to definition

Gross profit represents sales from the supply of home improvement products 
and services (excluding VAT), less the associated cost of those sales. Gross 
margin % represents gross profit as a percentage of sales. It is a measure of 
operating performance.

LFL (like-for-like) sales growth represents the constant currency, YoY 
sales growth for stores that have been open for more than one year. Stores 
temporarily closed or otherwise impacted due to COVID are also included.  
It is a measure to reflect the Group’s performance on a comparable basis.

3-year LFL is calculated by compounding the current and prior two periods’ 
LFL growth. For example, FY 22/23 LFL growth of 5%, FY 21/22 LFL growth of 
4%, and FY 20/21 LFL growth of 3%, results in 3-year LFL growth of 12.5%. Russia 
(sale completed on 30 September 2020) is excluded from Group and Other 
International 3-year LFL calculations. It is a measure of the Group’s performance 
on a comparable basis. In FY 23/24, 3-year LFL measures will no longer 
be reported.

Marketplace 
gross 
merchandise 
value (GMV)±

No direct 
equivalent

Refer to definition 

Marketplace GMV is the total transaction value (including VAT) from the sale of 
products supplied by third-party e-commerce marketplace vendors. It is used to 
measure the performance of our e-commerce marketplace, and is the basis on 
which our commissions from third-party vendors are determined.

Kingfisher 2022/23 Annual Report and Accounts

185

Glossary continued

APM 

Closest equivalent 
IFRS measure 

Reconciling items  
to IFRS measure 

Definition and purpose 

Marketplace 
gross sales±

No direct 
equivalent

Refer to definition 

Marketplace 
net sales±

No direct 
equivalent

Refer to definition 

Marketplace gross sales is the transaction value (excluding VAT) from the sale of 
products supplied by third-party e-commerce marketplace vendors. Returned 
and cancelled orders are excluded. It is used to measure the performance of 
our e-commerce marketplace.

Marketplace net sales are commissions (excluding VAT) earned on e-commerce 
marketplace transactions, together with other service fees. This is included 
within sales. Commissions are determined based on GMV. It is used to 
measure the performance of our e-commerce marketplace.

Marketplace 
participation 
%±

Net debt

No direct 
equivalent

No direct 
equivalent

Net cash flow Net increase 

in cash 
and cash 
equivalents 
and bank 
overdrafts

No direct 
equivalent

No direct 
equivalent

Operating 
costs

Own 
exclusive 
brands 
(OEB) sales±

Retail profit 

Profit before 
taxation

Refer to definition 

Marketplace participation % represent B&Q’s marketplace gross sales as a 
percentage of B&Q’s total e-commerce sales. It is used to track the success 
of our marketplace strategy and performance.

Net debt comprises lease liabilities, borrowings and financing derivatives 
(excluding accrued interest), less cash and cash equivalents and short term 
deposits, including such balances classified as held for sale. 

Net cash flow is a measure to reflect the total movement in the net debt balance 
during the year excluding the movement in lease liabilities, exchange differences 
and other non-cash movements. 

Operating costs represent gross profit less retail profit. This is the Group’s 
operating cost measure used to report the performance of our retail businesses.

OEB refers to our portfolio of own exclusive brands across seven core 
categories – surfaces & décor, tools & hardware, bathroom & storage, kitchen, 
EPHC (electricals, plumbing, heating & cooling), building & joinery, and outdoor.
OEB sales are sales of own exclusive brand products. It is used to measure the 
performance of OEB across the Group.

Retail profit is stated before central costs, adjusting items and the Group’s share 
of interest and tax of JVs and associates. This is the Group’s operating profit 
measure used to report the performance of our retail businesses.

A reconciliation of this 
measure is provided 
in note 33 of the 
consolidated 
financial statements

A reconciliation of net 
cash flow is set out in 
the Financial Review 
(Section 5) and in note 33 
of the consolidated 
financial statements

Not applicable

Refer to definition 

A reconciliation of Group 
retail profit to profit 
before taxation is set out 
in the Financial Review 
(Section 5) and note 5 of 
the consolidated financial 
statements. There is no 
statutory equivalent to 
retail profit at a retail 
banner level

Retail profit 
margin %

No direct 
equivalent

Refer to definition 

ROCE

No direct 
equivalent

Refer to definition

Same-store 
net inventory

Inventory

Refer to definition

Retail profit is the Group’s operating profit measure used to report the 
performance of our retail businesses and is separately defined above. Retail 
profit margin % represents retail profit as a percentage of sales. It is a measure 
of operating performance.

ROCE (return on capital employed) is the post-tax retail profit less central 
costs, excluding adjusting items, divided by capital employed excluding historic 
goodwill, net debt and adjusting restructuring provision. The measure provides an 
indication of the ongoing returns from the capital invested in the business. Capital 
employed is calculated as a two-point average. The calculation excludes 
disposed businesses.

Same-store net inventory movement represents the constant currency, 
YoY change in net inventory before the impact of store openings and closures. 
Stores temporarily closed or otherwise impacted due to COVID are also 
included. It is a measure to reflect the Group’s inventory management on 
a comparable basis.

± Indicates the inclusion of new APMs during FY 22/23. The new APMs in the table above have been introduced to track the performance of our own exclusive 
brands (OEB) and our e-commerce businesses and digital products and services.

186 Kingfisher 2022/23 Annual Report and Accounts

Strategic ReportGovernanceFinancial StatementsOther definitions

Banque de France data for DIY retail sales (non-seasonally adjusted). Includes relocated and extended stores. https://webstat.
banque-france.fr/fr/#/node/5384398. As of and including January 2023, we have taken the decision to no longer communicate 
Castorama France and Brico Dépôt France monthly sales figures to Banque de France and the internal index of FMB (Fédération 
des Magasins de Bricolage – our trade association), until further notice.

‘Do It Yourself’ (DIY) sales include products that facilitate self-undertaken home improvement projects and tasks, including paint, 
lighting, tools and hardware, and garden maintenance.

‘Do It For Me’ (DIFM) sales include products and services used in home improvement projects and tasks that predominantly require 
a tradesperson to undertake, including kitchens, bathrooms, tiling, wardrobes, windows and doors, certain electrical and plumbing 
activities, and installation services.

France consists of Castorama France and Brico Dépôt France.

GNFR (Goods Not For Resale) covers the procurement of all goods and services a retailer consumes (including ocean freight, 
energy, media buying, cleaning, and security).

Iberia consists of Brico Dépôt Spain and Brico Dépôt Portugal.

Other International consists of Poland, Iberia, Romania, ‘Other’, and Turkey (Koçtaş JV). ‘Other’ consists of the consolidated results 
of Screwfix International, NeedHelp, and results from franchise agreements.

SKU (Stock Keeping Unit) is defined as the number of individual variants of products sold or remaining in stock. It is a distinct type of 
item for sale, such as a product and all attributes associated with the item type that distinguish it from others. These attributes could 
include, but are not limited to, manufacturer, description, material, size, colour, packaging and warranty terms.

UK & Ireland consists of B&Q in the UK & Ireland and Screwfix in the UK & Ireland.

Kingfisher 2022/23 Annual Report and Accounts

187

Printed by Park Communications on FSC® certified paper.

Park works to the EMAS standard and its Environmental Management System is 
certified to ISO 14001.

This publication has been manufactured using 100% offshore wind electricity sourced 
from UK wind.

100% of the inks used are vegetable oil based, 95% of press chemicals are recycled 
for further use and, on average 99% of any waste associated with this production will 
be recycled and the remaining 1% used to generate energy. 

This document is printed on Edixion Offset, a paper made of material from well-
managed, FSC®-certified forests and other controlled sources. 

Designed and produced by Black Sun.

www.blacksunplc.com

Kingfisher plc

1 Paddington Square
London
W2 1GG
+44 (0)20 7372 8008
www.kingfisher.com

