Deutsche Bank  
Annual Report 2023 

Strategy 

Investment Bank 

The Investment Bank is a key pillar of Deutsche Bank’s business. Across FIC and Origination and Advisory, corporate and 
institutional clients access a comprehensive range of services, encompassing, financing, market making/liquidity provision, 
risk management solutions, advisory, and debt and equity issuance. The segment regionally encompasses EMEA, Americas 
and APAC across both Investment Bank businesses and client footprint. 

In  2023,  underlying  markets  were  less  conducive  to  client  flows  versus  a  very  strong  2022  and  the  resulting  uncertainty 
continued to depress levels of capital market and advisory activity. Despite this, the Investment Bank continued to execute 
against its strategic priorities, delivering an enhanced service offering to its clients and building on the progress made since 
the formation of the business in 2019. 

The development of the Investment Bank’s FIC business has been pronounced, with the long-term growth in revenue and 
market share reflecting the successful delivery against strategic objectives across multiple areas of the business. This success 
has been driven by a wide range of factors. A strong and stable management team is in place, with the segment demonstrating 
its ability to attract leading talent via a number of specific and targeted senior hires into sub-business leadership positions 
through 2023. A defined technology strategy is delivering simplified and sustainable capability – with over 175 applications 
decommissioned in the past two years – and investment into areas across the business is enabling product enhancements 
and the development of new capability for the division’s clients. This has been demonstrated by workflow solutions, which 
provide clients access to Deutsche Bank’s product suite in a simplified and operationally efficient manner. The continued focus 
on the division’s clients has been enhanced via the creation of dedicated relationship management and client enablement 
functions within the Institutional Coverage Group. This ensures deeper strategic relationships with clients, whilst providing 
them with the most efficient ways of working with Deutsche Bank. This is further enhanced by the significant increase in client 
engagement  following  the  recent  rating  upgrades.  The  continued  success  has  also  been  recognized  externally.  As  an 
example, Euromoney recognized Deutsche Bank as the leading global FX provider for a second year in a row. 

In  an  environment  where  fee  pools  continued  to  be  restricted,  the  focus  of  Origination  &  Advisory  has  been  building  the 
platform to ensure the business is positioned to benefit when activity is expected to return in 2024. A significant number of 
targeted senior hires have been made, with a focus upon sectors and regions where Deutsche Bank is able to compete but is 
currently underweight. Alongside this organic growth, the acquisition of Numis will further enhance Origination & Advisory’s 
depth of offering in the UK, the largest EMEA fee pool, whilst also enabling the cross-sell of other segmental products into the 
client base. To ensure that strong relationships are maintained with clients, the business has established a Client Strategy 
and Analytics team which will drive the depth of relationships with its client base and ensure close monitoring of performance 
at the most granular level. 

In 2024, the strategy of the Investment Bank is focused on working towards its vision of being the leading non-U.S. global 
investment  bank  and  delivering  upon  the  segment’s  growth  and  return  targets.  This  is  aimed  to  be  achieved  via  targeted 
growth investments and the continued development of its client strategy, combined with a focus on technology, data enabled 
capability, capital efficiency and control. 

The investments made into the Origination & Advisory franchise are expected to increase the weighting of strategic advisory 
revenues as a percentage of total revenues over time. Within FIC, investment into existing businesses in areas where the 
division  has  a  competitive  advantage  will  continue.  This  will  be  complemented  by  the  expansion  into  a  small  number  of 
adjacent businesses where the existing platform and client base can be leveraged to enable growth at low marginal costs. 
The result of each of these will be a further diversification of revenue streams, whilst also ensuring an enhanced and relevant 
product offering for the client base. 

Finally, ESG remains a priority across the Investment Bank as the segment continues supporting its clients globally. Deutsche 
Bank held its second Sustainability Deep Dive in March 2023, providing insight into the different approaches that the bank has 
developed with clients across the globe. From a transaction perspective there were a number of key events in 2023 including 
completing a bespoke deal-contingent interest rate hedge and a tailored financing for Hai Long, Taiwan’s largest offshore wind 
project  to  date,  and  acting  as  global  coordinator  and  joint  active  bookrunner  on  Air  France-KLM’s  € 1 billion  inaugural 
sustainability-linked long 3-year and long 5-year bond offering. 

XXVII 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Deutsche Bank  
Annual Report 2023 

Strategy 

Private Bank 

Private Bank is structured along two core businesses: Private Bank Germany and International Private Bank. Private Bank 
serves  personal  and  private  clients,  wealthy  individuals,  entrepreneurs  and  families.  Within  the  segment,  the  international 
businesses  also  focus  on  commercial  clients.  With  over  20 million  clients  and  a  broad  range  of  financial  services  in 
19 countries, Private Bank significantly contributes to Deutsche Bank’s global businesses. The segment continued to drive a 
disciplined  approach  towards  achieving  its  strategic  and  financial  objectives.  The  achievements  throughout  2023  enabled 
Private Bank to further close the gap towards its 2025 targets. Private Bank’s progress in evolving its businesses was also in 
line with the Group’s ambition across growth, operational and capital efficiency. 

Private Bank Germany is positioned as the market leading private bank in Germany and serves 19 million customers with its 
two  major  brands  Deutsche  Bank  and  Postbank.  While  Deutsche  Bank  continues  to  offer  private  customers  high-quality 
advisory services with outstanding individual product solutions, the customers of the Postbank brand benefit from non-complex 
and standardized product offerings alongside postal and parcel services in cooperation with Deutsche Post DHL. Across its 
omni-channel offerings, Private Bank customers not only have access to a nationwide branch network but also to diverse 
banking solutions via direct sales, mobile sales and distribution partners. 

In 2023, Private Bank Germany increased its revenues materially versus the prior year, supported by robust growth in deposits 
and successful campaigns for fixed rate products. While mortgage lending business remained at a stable level, Private Bank 
Germany’s assets under management in the investment business increased compared to the prior year, driven by high inflows 
as  a  result  of  the  positive  market  development.  Furthermore,  Private  Bank  Germany  continued  to  work  on  its  strategic 
transformation. This included the continued transformation of the sub-division’s go-to-market model including the reduction of 
Postbank branches to approximately 550 at year end 2023 and the implementation of new branch concepts. In the upcoming 
years, Private Bank Germany plans to further adjust its go-to-market model and strengthen its digital proposition. Additionally, 
Private  Bank  Germany  completed  one  of  the  largest  customer  migrations  in  the  European  banking  market  in  2023. 
Twelve million customers with 19 million contracts were migrated to a unified platform for all customers in Germany paving 
the way for decommissioning all former Postbank Group legacy applications and enabling the bank to further drive its digital 
transformation. The  migration  resulted  in  a  higher  number of  client  requests  leading  to  a  backlog  of  unresolved  requests. 
Private Bank Germany is prioritizing a remediation plan to improve capacities, address client concerns and to return to the 
target operational service levels. 

International  Private  Bank  has  a  well-diversified  revenue  mix  across  regions  with  client  segments  focused  on  Wealth 
Management, Bank for Entrepreneurs and Premium Banking. The business targets ultra-high net worth family entrepreneurs 
globally and affluent clients across Europe focused on a digitally led model, with a larger ambition to be the global house of 
choice for entrepreneurs. 

International Private Bank maintained its strong momentum in attracting client inflows with positive net inflows in assets under 
management in each quarter for four consecutive years despite difficult market conditions in 2023. International Private Bank’s 
flagship  strategic  asset  allocation  and  innovative  private  market/ultra-high  net  worth  focused  solutions  have  significantly 
contributed towards the International Private Bank’s net new assets growth. Furthermore, the business continued its progress 
on  several  targeted  initiatives  to  fulfil  its  strategic  agenda,  e.g.,  strengthening  wealth  management  coverage  and  product 
teams in key markets supported by entrepreneur-focused strategic hires. The business has also applied strict cost discipline, 
thereby successfully managing costs in an inflationary environment. The benefits of both OneBank and Bank for Entrepreneurs 
approaches  were  reflected  in  the  business  successfully  addressing  the  complex  needs  of  wealthy  entrepreneur  clients. 
Furthermore,  in  Premium  Banking,  the  business  continued  its  strategic  transformation  journey  toward  digital-first  remote 
advisory and client engagement services, while optimizing and innovating the branch footprint. 

In ESG, Private Bank announced its strategy for the upcoming years at Deutsche Bank’s Sustainability Deep Dive in March 
2023,  further  substantiating  its  overall  ESG  value  proposition  through  product  portfolio  enhancements,  strategic  thematic 
collaborations and focused inhouse ESG enablement efforts. This was aimed at supporting clients in their overall sustainable 
transition journeys. 

In July 2023, Private Bank announced a new organizational set-up to further enhance the segment’s capabilities and to achieve 
its 2025 targets. Commencing from the first quarter of 2024, the Private Bank will follow a customer-focused approach with 
two client sub-segments: ‘Wealth Management & Private Banking’ and ‘Personal Banking’. Wealth Management & Private 
Banking will combine Private Banking, high-net-worth and ultra-high-net-worth clients globally. ‘Personal Banking’ includes all 
retail and affluent customers as well as commercial banking clients across specific international regions. These commercial 
banking  clients  consist  of  small  business  clients  and  small-sized  corporate  clients  that  are  not  covered  by  the  Wealth 
Management & Private Banking sub-segment. 

XXVIII 

Deutsche Bank  
Annual Report 2023 

Strategy 

Asset Management 

Asset  Management  principally  consists  of  DWS  Group  GmbH  &  Co.,  a  global  asset  manager  with  diverse  investment 
capabilities that spans traditional active and passive strategies, as well as alternative bespoke solutions. 

DWS operates in an ever-changing market environment and faces a variety of economical, fiscal, political and environmental 
challenges.  DWS  strategy  consists  of  the  four strategic  clusters;  Growth,  Value,  Build  and Reduce, and  are aligned  to  its 
capabilities and the growth prospects of the market. The aim is to maintain market leadership in Germany, building on expertise 
and customer relationships, in addition to expanding existing partnerships and developing new distribution channels, to gain 
additional  market  share.  DWS  sees  additional  market  potential  especially  in  Alternatives  investments  and  Passive  funds, 
represented by the Xtrackers brand. The overall strategy also takes account of sustainability and in 2023, DWS updated its 
sustainability strategy to clearly define its priorities. 

The Growth strategy is built on the strength in Passive and Alternatives businesses. The Passive business, with the Xtrackers 
brand, in the division’s view offers sustained and profitable growth potential, which provides sufficient scalability. Building on 
the franchise and European business, DWS has decided to invest in a US growth plan including sustainability, thematic and 
Active ETFs. Further, DWS sees a strong demand for mandates in Asia Pacific, and therefore plans to expand its customized 
mandates business. In addition to regional growth potential, DWS continues to see opportunities for bespoke Passive solutions 
to outperform broad index replication. 

In Alternatives, investor interest in real estate slowed down in 2023, while demand in the infrastructure sector remained strong. 
However,  DWS  expects an  increase  in  demand  within  Alternatives,  and  aims  to  facilitate  closing  the  gap  between  capital 
demand  and  supply  with  private  capital  investment  solutions  in  Europe.  DWS  continues  to  focus  on  its  real  estate  and 
infrastructure investment platforms and positioning the division for growth in the private debt space. 

The Value strategy aims to maintain leadership in mature markets for Active investment strategies, specifically Equity, Fixed 
Income and Multi Asset. In Equity, DWS intends to further grow the platform for Thematic Equities and make progress on 
offerings towards sustainability. Given the changing market environment and higher interest rates, DWS will further focus on 
Fixed Income and institutional investors. In Multi-Asset, the aim is to further strengthen solutions capabilities and enhance the 
modular investment platform to achieve more scale. 

The Build strategy’s emphasis on digitization trends aims to focus on asset management as-a-service and digital assets. DWS 
plans  to  build  a  respective  modular  offering  which  is  scalable  and  integrated  via  application  programming  interfaces  into 
offerings  of  new  and  existing  distribution  partners.  DWS  expects  increasing  tokenization  of  the  economy,  with  resulting 
changes in market structure, and aims to utilize new blockchain infrastructure, develop new products and reach digital native 
clients. In December 2023, DWS agreed to establish a joint venture with Galaxy Digital and Flow Traders, to bring together 
traditional  asset  management  expertise  with  digital  asset  know-how,  with  the  aim  of  issuing  a  fully  collateralized  euro-
denominated stablecoin in a regulated environment. 

The Reduce strategy intends to reallocate financial resources to fund investments in the Build and Growth areas. DWS will 
continuously  analyze  measures  to  increase  efficiency,  including  divesting  from  sub-scale  businesses  and  reduction  of 
management layers, thereby ensuring these measures do not have a negative impact on the ongoing business. In 2023, DWS 
completed the sale of its Private Equity solutions business unit. Additionally, DWS reduced management levels within the 
business as part of a broader efficiency program. 

Based on its strategy, DWS remains committed to deliver on its medium-term financial targets until 2025 of; earnings per 
share  target  of  € 4.50  in  2025,  adjusted  cost/income  ratio  of  below  59%  by  2025  and  AuM  growth  in  Passive,  including 
Xtrackers, and Alternatives of 12% and 10% respectively (compound annual growth rate 2022-2025). 

In 2023, DWS updated its sustainability strategy and refined its sustainability priorities. The ambition is to enable clients to 
navigate the sustainable transformation of the real economy by providing them with investment expertise and solutions. The 
topic of climate change remains the core theme of the updated sustainability strategy, built around three priorities: focus on 
climate related investing, strengthen engagement with investees and other relevant stakeholders, and advance DWS’ own 
corporate transformation to achieve commitment to net zero. 

XXIX 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1

Combined  
Management Report

2 
6 
12 
33 
35 

Operating and Financial Review
Deutsche Bank Group
Results of operations
Financial position
Liquidity and capital resources

37  Outlook

44  Risks and Opportunities

59  Risk Report
Risk and capital overview 
61 
Risk and capital framework 
64 
75 
Risk and capital management
136  Risk and capital performance 

189  Sustainability 

191  Employees

195 

Internal Control over Financial Reporting 

197 

Information pursuant to Section 315a (1) 
of the	German	Commercial	Code	and	
Explanatory Report 

201  Corporate Governance Statement 

pursuant to Sections 289f and 315d of 
the German Commercial Code

202  Standalone parent company information 

(HGB) 

Deutsche Bank  
Annual Report 2023 

Operating and financial review 
Executive summary 

Operating and financial review 

The following discussion and analysis should be read in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements and the related 
notes. Deutsche Bank’s Operating and financial review includes qualitative and quantitative disclosures on Segment results 
of  operations  and  entity-wide  disclosures  on  net  revenue  components  as  required  by  International  Financial  Reporting 
Standard (IFRS) 8, “Operating Segments”. For additional business segment disclosure under IFRS 8 please refer to Note 4 
“Business  Segments  and  related  information”  of  the  consolidated  financial  statements.  Forward-looking  statements  are 
disclosed in the section “Outlook” in this report. 

Executive summary 

Global economy 

Economic growth (in %)¹ 
Global Economy 

2023² 
3.1 

2022³  Main driver 

3.4  The global economy lost some momentum in 2023. Although the bank believes inflation has passed its 
peak, the high price level continued to weigh on demand from private households. The tighter monetary 
policy to combat inflation also slowed down the global economy 

Of which: 
Developed 
countries 

1.6 

2.6  Developments in the developed countries varied. While the U.S. economy remained resilient at the end of 

2023, the Eurozone economy was already slowing down noticeably. Central banks maintained peak interest 
rates and signaled their intention to continue their data-driven monetary policy. Inflation rates continued to 
fall but remained above the central banks' targets at the end of the year 

Emerging markets 

4.2 

3.9  Developments in the emerging markets varied from region to region at the end of 2023. Asian countries 

benefited from the momentum in China, while focus in Latin America was on combating inflation. High 
energy prices and the spillovers of geopolitics continued to be a burden for countries in Central and Eastern 
Europe 

Eurozone Economy 

0.5 

3.4  The Eurozone economy weakened in the second half of 2023. Private consumption continued to be 

negatively impacted by the loss of purchasing power, even though inflation eased significantly. The labor 
market was stable, as a result of companies holding on to staff. The ECB kept its key interest rates 
unchanged in the fourth quarter 2023 

Of which: German 
economy 

(0.3) 

1.8  The German economy continued to weaken until end of 2023, having previously more or less stagnated. 

Private consumption remained weak, although the impact of inflation has eased. The labor market remained 
robust and wage growth has already compensated for some loss of purchasing power 

U.S. Economy 

2.5 

1.9  The U.S. economy slowed somewhat towards the end of 2023, with the labor market becoming more 

Japanese Economy 

2.0 

balanced and inflationary pressure easing. Private household consumption remained robust. The Fed left its 
key interest rates unchanged at a high level 

0.9  The Japanese economy regained some momentum towards the end of the year. Private consumption 
benefited from strong wage growth, while inflation did not weaken noticeably. The Bank of Japan's key 
interest rates remained unchanged at their accommodative level 

Asian Economy4 

5.1 

4.1  The Asian economies benefited from China's recovery. Inflation trends varied regionally and were driven not 

Of which: Chinese 
Economy 

least by food prices. The weakening of global trade had a negative impact on exports 

5.2 

3.0  As a result of fiscal and monetary policy support, the Chinese economy gained additional momentum in the 

final quarter of 2023. Nevertheless, the property sector dampened the recovery in private consumption. 
Inflation rates turned negative in the second half of 2023 

1  Annual Real GDP Growth (% YoY). Sources: National Authorities unless stated otherwise 
2  Sources: Deutsche Bank Research 
3  Some economic data for 2022 were revised by public statistics authorities due to the economic effects of the pandemic. As a result, this data may differ from that previously 

published 

4  Includes China, Hong Kong, India, Indonesia, Malaysia, Philippines, Singapore, Sri Lanka, South Korea, Thailand and Vietnam; excludes Japan 

2 

Deutsche Bank  
Annual Report 2023 

Operating and financial review 
Executive summary 

Banking Industry 

Growth year-over-year 
(in %) 
Eurozone 

Corporate 
Lending 
(0.1) 

Retail 
Lending 
0.2 

Corporate 
Deposits 
(0.5) 

Retail 

Deposits  Main driver 

1.2  Following the previous boom, lending and deposit-taking with both corporates and 
households essentially slowed to a standstill as a result of significantly higher 
interest rates, with volumes largely flat over the course of the year. Corporate 
deposits were slightly more volatile than the other categories 

Dec 31, 2023 

Of which: 
Germany 

1.0 

0.7 

1.4 

2.2  Mortgage lending slowed strongly, to the weakest level since 2012, but remained 

moderately positive despite the surge in rates. This also pulled down total retail 
lending. Similarly, loan growth with non-financial corporations fell to a multi-year 
low, with volumes almost flat year over year. Likewise, outstanding private-sector 
deposits largely stagnated during the year 

U.S. 

0.9 

3.6 

(1.7)1  

(1.7)1   Loan growth with households moderated from the strong dynamics in the previous 

year, but remained solid. Corporate credit volumes were nearly constant 
throughout the year, following even greater momentum in 2022. Total deposits 
contracted until spring and then flattened out, leading to a moderate shrinkage for 
the full year. It is only the second time this has happened since records began in 
1973, and the second time in a row after the mild contraction in 2022, which 
followed the pandemic boom in 2020/2021 

13.7  Corporate loans boomed, while retail loans expanded at less than half that pace. 
Deposit developments were quite the opposite, buoyant inflows from households 
stood in contrast to a subdued increase from companies 

China 

14.4 

6.9 

4.9 

1  Total U.S. deposits as segment breakdown is not available

In 2023, Commercial Real Estate (CRE) markets continued to face headwinds due to the impacts of higher interest rates, 
decreasing market liquidity combined with tightened lending conditions, and structural changes in the office sector. The market 
stress has been more pronounced in the U.S., where property price indices point to a greater decline of CRE asset values 
from recent peaks compared to Europe and APAC. Especially within the office segment, the market weakness is most evident 
in the U.S., reflected in subdued leasing activity and higher vacancy rates compared to Europe.  

The global Origination & Advisory industry fee pool in 2023 fell a further 16%, following a 35% drop in 2022 from record highs 
in 2021, driven by a subdued Mergers & Acquisitions market, challenging primary credit markets, and largely inactive sponsors. 
Mergers & Acquisitions in 2023 fell 23% but was still higher than the pre-COVID-19 pandemic fee pool of € 26 billion, while 
the fourth quarter 2023 had strong volumes. Equity Capital Markets issuance increased in 2023 as equity markets bounced 
back and volatility was low. The high yield market was up over 60% from a decade-long low, while leveraged loan issuance 
fell  17%  with  sponsors  choosing  to  continue  their  pause  on  acquisitions.  The  investment  grade  bond  market  remained 
relatively robust with issuance down 3% in 2023 and has had a strong start to 2024. Within Fixed Income, revenue pools 
remained  at  elevated  levels  compared  to  historical  averages,  although  below  the  levels  seen  in  2022.  Foreign  exchange 
activity  decreased  across  the  ten  most  traded  currencies  globally,  with  Rates  and  Emerging  Markets  each  declining  from 
strong levels in the prior year. Conversely within Credit, an increase year on year was driven by a more favorable environment 
for secondary  trading with  the  general  trend of  tightening  spreads, while  in  Financing  client demand  remained  stable  and 
broadly aligned to prior year. 

3 

Deutsche Bank  
Annual Report 2023 

Sustainability 
Liquidity Risk Exposure 

Sustainability 

Sustainability, which encompasses ESG dimensions, has been a key element of Deutsche Bank’s strategy since 2019 and 
one of the three thematic pillars that underpin Deutsche Bank’s corporate strategy – along with macro-economic shifts and 
technology. In 2023, the bank continued to focus on four pillars of its sustainability strategy: Sustainable Finance, Policies & 
Commitments, People & Own Operations as well as Thought Leadership & Stakeholder Engagement. Making progress along 
these  four  pillars  is  aimed  at  enabling  the  bank  to  maximize  its  contribution  to  the  achievement  of  the  Paris  Climate 
Agreement’s  targets  and  the  United  Nations  (UN)  Sustainable  Development  Goals.  Deutsche  Bank  endorsed  multiple 
universal  sustainability  frameworks  and  initiatives.  The  bank  is  a  member  of  the  UN’s  Environment  Programme  Finance 
Initiative (1992) and signatory to the ten principles of the UN Global Compact (2000), the Principles for Responsible Investment 
(through DWS, 2008), the Principles for Responsible Banking (2019) and the Net-Zero Banking Alliance (2021).  

The bank further integrated the oversight of sustainability-related issues into governance structures on several levels, ranging 
from the Supervisory Board and the Group Sustainability Committee to senior business  leadership, key infrastructure and 
control  functions  as  well  as  specialist  teams.  The  bank’s  sustainability  governance  includes  two  key  committees  and  one 
council devoted entirely to sustainability.  

The Group Sustainability Committee acts as the main governance and decision-making body for sustainability related matters 
across the Deutsche Bank Group. The committee is chaired by the Chief Executive Officer and the Chief Sustainability Officer 
(Vice Chair). Its “run the bank”-mandate has oversight of sustainability strategy implementation across divisions and ensures 
alignment of the sustainability strategy with the bank’s corporate strategy. The Sustainability Strategy Steering Committee 
oversees the implementation of Deutsche Bank’s sustainability strategy as one of the bank’s “Key Deliverables” (“change the 
bank”  priorities).  The  Sustainability  Council  fosters  knowledge  exchange  between  the  bank’s  sustainability  champions  to 
support bank-wide change and to identify new topics.  

Deutsche Bank’s Chief Sustainability Officer reports to the Chief Executive Officer. He has the mandate to develop the bank’s 
sustainability  strategy  across  businesses,  infrastructure  functions  and  regions  and  drive  its  implementation.  The  Chief 
Sustainability  Office  consists  of  three  areas:  the  Strategy  &  Regional  Governance  team,  which  is  responsible  for  the 
development of the corporate sustainability strategy and regional governance set-up. The Regional Governance sub-team 
was  established  in  2023  with  a  mandate  to  define  and  implement  regional  sustainability  governance  structures  globally. 
Furthermore, the Execution, Data & Regulatory team, which is responsible for driving the strategic transformation program 
and identifying and assessing relevant regulations. In 2023, the bank’s Sustainability Regulation function was established as 
a central function focusing on interpretation of key sustainability regulations and standards globally on a group wide basis 
within the Execution, Data & Regulatory team. The third team, Group Sustainability, is responsible for advancing the bank’s 
sustainability policies and commitments, human rights issues and their monitoring and the dialogue with external stakeholders, 
including  ESG  rating  management.  In  2023,  Deutsche  Bank  appointed  a  dedicated  Head  of  Human  Rights  within  Group 
Sustainability to further strengthen its human rights management. Moreover, the bank’s business divisions and infrastructure 
functions established ESG expert teams to foster the sustainability strategy implementation on divisional level and to enable 
swift response to emerging business opportunities and risks.  

The transformation of the bank with regard to sustainability-related targets and goals is a component for the bank's top 
executives' performance-based compensation.  

In DWS, the DWS Executive Board is supported by the DWS Group Sustainability Committee, which is empowered to take 
decisions that implement the sustainability strategy. 

Sustainable Finance 

Deutsche Bank set the target to achieve cumulative sustainable financing and ESG investment volumes of € 500 billion in the 
period from January 2020 to end of 2025 (excluding DWS); which transactions can be classified as sustainable is documented  
in Deutsche Bank’s Sustainable Finance Framework and published on Deutsche Bank’s website.  

189 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Deutsche Bank  
Annual Report 2023 

Sustainability 
Liquidity Risk Exposure 

Policies and Commitments  

In March 2023, Deutsche Bank updated its thermal coal guideline by tightening the criteria when a company is deemed a 
thermal coal company and in scope of the guideline, as well as specifying the requirements to be applied to clients in scope 
of the updated guideline.  

As the first banking partner of the Ocean Risk and Resilience Action Alliance (ORRAA), Deutsche Bank signed the #BackBlue 
ocean  finance  commitment,  which  ensures  that  ocean  protection  is  incorporated  in  finance  and  insurance  decisions,  in 
December 2023. Moreover, the bank engaged in the Impact Disclosure Taskforce along with other financial institutions with 
the aim to scale financing of the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals. 

The bank further enhanced its risk management and related processes to prevent human rights violations in its supply chain 
in accordance with the German Supply Chain Due Diligence Act (SCDDA).  

As part of its Net-Zero Banking Alliance commitment, Deutsche Bank published its initial Transition Plan in 
October 2023, summarizing its decarbonization strategy and actions along three dimensions: own operations (Scope 1 and 2), 
supply chain (disclosed Scope 3: Category 1 to 14); and the financing the bank provides to its clients (Scope 3: Category 15). 
Along  with  this publication,  the  bank  announced  three additional  sectoral  emission  reduction  targets  in  the  corporate  loan 
portfolio for Shipping, Cement and Coal Mining after having published pathway targets for four sectors in the previous year 
(i.e.,  Oil  &  Gas,  Automotive,  Power  Generation  and  Steel).  In  addition  to  that,  the  bank  set  the  ambition  that  from  2026 
onwards, at least 90% of the high emitting clients in the most carbon intensive sectors that engage in new corporate lending 
transactions with Deutsche Bank shall have a net-zero commitment in place.  

People and Own Operations 

From end of 2019 to end of September 2023, Deutsche Bank reduced Scope 1 and 2 emissions by 71%, to 44,814 tones of 
CO2e. In 2023, the bank received 97% of its own global electricity consumption from renewable sources and is on its way to 
achieve its 100% renewable electricity target by 2025. 

Deutsche Bank continued to engage with vendors to reduce Scope 3 carbon emissions focusing on Purchased Goods and 
Services (Scope 3: Category 1), representing 78% of total operational Scope 3 emissions from October 2022 to September 
2023 (excluding financed emissions, Scope 3: Category 15).  

32.3% of Managing Director, Director and Vice President positions were held by women by end of 2023. 

In addition, Deutsche Bank rolled out a “Sustainable Finance” training for client facing staff, contributed to conserve marine 
biodiversity as part of one of the bank’s environmental CSR programs “How We Live” and funded community conservation 
projects in several Asian-Pacific countries by partnering with The Nature Conservancy.  

Thought Leadership and Stakeholder Engagement  

Deutsche Bank’s Chief Executive Officer Christian Sewing became a member in the Glasgow Financial Alliance for Net-Zero 
(GFANZ) Principals Group in July 2023.  

In March 2023, Deutsche Bank hosted its second Sustainability Deep Dive. At the event senior leaders spoke to almost 1,700 
clients, investors, analysts, and employees about the sustainability strategy and how Deutsche Bank supports its clients on 
their way to net-zero. At the 2023 UN climate conference in Dubai (United Arab Emirates), Deutsche Bank co-hosted a client 
event and panel discussions on “Decarbonizing Industry: A German Lense” with six German industry partners as well as the 
Future Institute for Sustainable Transformation of the European School of Management and Technology in Berlin.  

In October 2023, the bank set up a Nature Advisory Panel, which aims to help the bank assess nature-related risks and identify 
new financial product offerings tied to the challenge of reversing biodiversity loss. In addition to that, Deutsche Bank acted as 
Co-Lead of Net-Zero Banking Alliance’s Real Estate Working Group and played a major role in the publication of its emerging 
practice paper on “Climate Target Setting for Real Estate Sector Financing”.  

190 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Deutsche Bank  
Annual Report 2023 

Employees 
Group Headcount 

Employees 

Group Headcount 

As of December 31, 2023, the bank employed a total of 90,130 staff members compared to 84,930 as of December 31, 2022.  
The bank calculates its employee figures on a full-time equivalent basis, meaning it includes proportionate numbers of part-
time employees. 

The following table shows the bank’s numbers of full-time equivalent employees as of December 31, 2023, 2022 and 2021. 

Employees1 
Germany 
Europe (outside Germany), Middle East and Africa 
Asia/Pacific 
North America2 
Latin America 
Total employees 

1  Full-time equivalent employees, numbers may not add up due to rounding 
2  Primarily the United States 

Dec 31, 2023 

Dec 31, 2022 

36,195     
18,609     
27,095     
8,033     
199     
90,130     

35,594     
18,379     
23,236     
7,534     
187     
84,930     

Dec 31, 2021 
35,741 
19,311 
20,215 
7,556 
145 
82,969 

In 2023, the number of the bank’s employees increased by 5,200 or 6.1% mainly due to business growth, strengthening the 
IT and control functions, as well as internalizations.  

–  Germany  (+600;  +1.7%)  mainly  driven  by  increases  in  the  Corporate  Bank  and  by  strengthening  the  IT-  and  control 

functions, partly offset by the implementation of restructuring measures, primarily in the Private Bank 

–  North America (+499; +6.6%) mainly driven by increases in the Investment Bank and by strengthening the IT- and control 

functions 

–  EMEA  ex  Germany  (+230;  +1,3%)  mainly  driven  by  increases  in  the  UK  impacted  by  the  acquisition  of  Numis  and  by 

increases in Romania and its Operations Center, partly offset by the reduction of the bank’s presence in Russia 

–  Asia/Pacific (+3,859; +16.6%) primarily driven by increases in India and its Operations Center 

The following table shows the distribution of full-time equivalent employees by division as of December 31, 2023, 2022 and 
2021. 

Employees1 
Corporate Bank (CB) 
Investment Bank (IB) 
Private Bank (PB) 
Asset Management (AM) 
Infrastructure 
Corporate & Other 

Dec 31, 2023 

Dec 31, 2022 

Dec 31, 2021 

17.4%   
8.9%   
29.1%   
4.9%   
39.6%   
0.1%   

16.4%   
9.0%   
31.7%   
5.0%   
37.7%   
0.2%   

16.0%   
8.6%   
33.8%   
4.9%   
36.5%   
0.2%   

1  Prior year’s comparatives aligned to presentation in the current year, numbers may not add up due to rounding 

–  Corporate Bank (+1,760; +12.6%) mainly driven by increases in Operations and control functions  
–  Investment Bank (+358; +4.7%) mainly driven by increases in Operations and control functions also acquisition of Numis  
–  Private Bank (-672; -2.5%) mainly driven by reductions in Germany  
–  Asset Management (+104; +2.4%) primarily driven by strengthening the IT- and control functions 
–  Infrastructure functions (+3,674; +11.5%) primarily driven primarily driven by strengthening control functions (e.g., Anti-

Financial Crime & Group Audit) and in Technology, Data & Innovation due to the bank’s internalization strategy 

191 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
   
   
   
   
   
     
   
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
     
   
   
 
Deutsche Bank  
Annual Report 2023 

Employees 
Promoting internal career mobility 

Post-Employment Benefit Plans 

The Group sponsors a number of post-employment benefit plans on behalf of the Group’s employees, both defined contribution 
plans and defined benefit plans.  

In  the  Group’s  globally  coordinated  accounting  process  covering  defined  benefit  plans  with  a  defined  benefit  obligation 
exceeding  € 2 million  the  Group’s  global  actuary  reviews  the  valuations  provided  by  locally  appointed  actuaries  in  each 
country. 

By applying the Group’s global principles for determining the financial and demographic assumptions the Group ensures that 
the assumptions are best-estimate, unbiased and mutually compatible, and that they are globally consistent. 

For a further discussion on the Group’s employee benefit plans see Note 33 “Employee Benefits” to the Group’s consolidated 
financial statements.  

Talent acquisition 

In 2023, labor market conditions normalized and as a result employee turnover rates decreased significantly in all regions. 
Voluntary staff turnover rates declined from 10.1% in 2022 to 5.6% in 2023. 

In 2023, recruiting talent remained a key priority for the bank. Hiring focused on filling front office roles in growth areas (such 
as at Corporate Bank, Investment Bank, Private Bank and Asset Management), strengthening the control- and IT-function, 
replacing operation-center employees who left voluntarily and onboarding talents to meet the growing demand for regulatory 
roles (such as Client Lifecycle Management and Anti-Financial Crime). 

The bank remains committed to its strategic priority of hiring university graduates. In 2023, the bank hired 1,177 university 
graduates (2022: 793). The bank also insourced 1,308 external roles (2022: 1,806), particularly in IT. 

Promoting internal career mobility 

Internal  mobility  plays  a  vital  role  in  developing  and  retaining  qualified,  talented  employees  and  ensuring  that  the  bank 
continues  to  benefit  from  their  expertise  and  experience.  The  bank  fosters  mobility  between  divisions,  which  enables 
employees  to  broaden  their  skills  and  experience.  Moreover,  internal  mobility  helps  reduce  the  bank’s  redundancy  and 
recruitment costs. 

In 2023, Deutsche Bank continued to implement its internal mobility strategy and live up to its commitment to filling one-third 
of  all  vacant  positions  with  suitable  candidates  from  within  the  organization.  Vacant  positions  are  typically  first  advertised 
inside the group for at least two weeks. Prioritizing internal candidates helps employees affected by restructuring find new 
roles in the bank. 

In 2023, 29.9% (2022: 27.3%) of all job vacancies were filled internally (2022 excluding Postbank). On average, it took 89 days 
to fill vacant positions (2022: 86 days). 

192 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Deutsche Bank  
Annual Report 2023 

Employees 
Diversity, equity, and Inclusion 

Diversity, equity, and Inclusion 

Diversity, equity and inclusion (DEI) are the foundations on which the bank’s values are built and are pre-requisites for its 
Global Hausbank ambitions. The bank aims to attract, develop, and retain talented employees from all cultures, countries, 
races,  ethnicities,  genders,  sexual  orientations,  disabilities,  beliefs,  backgrounds,  and  experiences.  To  better  reflect  the 
diversity of the societies in which it operates and the clients it serves, the bank has an ambition to increase the number of 
women and people of all ethnicities in senior, decision-making and client facing roles. The bank wants all its employees to feel 
a  sense  of  belonging  by  creating  an  inclusive  work  environment  where  everyone  feels  welcomed,  respected,  listened  to, 
treated fairly, and can contribute and grow. 

Throughout 2023 the bank continued to embed diversity, equity and inclusion in its culture and employee practices by including 
supporting the advancement of women and members of other under-represented, groups. The bank takes a multi-dimensional 
approach including targeted outreach to attract and hire diverse talent, enhanced career planning, leadership development, 
exposure  opportunities  and  senior  leader  sponsorship.  The  bank  continues  to  equip  its  people  with  resources  to  practice 
inclusion and understand how to make equitable people-related decisions. 

At year-end 2023, eight or 40% of Supervisory Board members were women (2022: 30%). This met the statutory requirement 
of 30% for publicly listed and codetermined German companies pursuant to gender quota legislation that took effect in 2015. 

The  current  German  Gender  Quota  Law  (Zweites  Führungspositionen-Gesetz,  FüPoG  II)  requires  appointing  at  least  one 
woman and one man to a management board with more than three members, no additional goals must be laid down. With 
Rebecca Short on the Management Board the bank met this requirement as of December 31, 2023. 

As part of the bank’s 35 by 25 commitment, the bank aims to have women to represent at least 35% of its Managing Director, 
Director,  and  Vice  President  population  by  2025  (Business  Divisions  (excluding  Asset  Management)  and  Infrastructure 
Functions).  This  goal  also  forms  part  of  the  key  performance  indicators  on  the  “Balanced  Scorecard”  assessing  the 
Management Board and Group Management Committee. Gender diversity for senior corporate titles increased by 1.6%-points 
to 32.3% in 2023 (2022: 30.7%).  

The bank also plans to have at least 30% women in the positions one and two levels below the Management Board (Business 
Divisions  (excluding  Asset  Management)  and  Infrastructure  Functions).  Gender  diversity  in  position  one  below  the 
Management  Board  increased  by  2.9%-points  to  20.0%  in  2023  (2022:  17.1%)  and  decreased  in  position  two  below  the 
Management Board by 2.0%-points to 27.6% in 2023 (2022: 29.6%).  

The bank is committed to increasing the proportion of women in senior leadership positions across the organization, but it is 
the bank’s individual businesses that deliver on this commitment. Since cultures and social challenges vary by country and 
type of business, each of the bank’s regions and business has its own diversity, equity, and inclusion efforts. The bank has 
put in place targeted initiatives to accelerate change. These initiatives have been implemented along the full employee life 
cycle, from attracting and hiring talent to developing, retaining, and promoting it. The 35 by 25 program is sponsored and 
actively supported by the Management Board and Group Management Committee. Since 2023, each of the bank's decision-
making  committees  is  required  to  regularly  review  its  composition  to  improve  diversity  of  thought  and  support  the  bank's 
commitment to increase the proportion of women in senior, decision making roles. 

193 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Deutsche Bank  
Annual Report 2023 

Employees 
Key employee figures 

Key employee figures 

A few selected employee figures and KPIs are set forth below. For full details on Deutsche Bank’s people metrics, as well as 
its strategic HR priorities and achievements, please refer to the bank’s Non-Financial Report 2023. 

Female staff (in %, Headcount)1 
Female Managing Directors 
Female Directors 
Female Vice Presidents 
Female Assistant Vice Presidents & Associates 
Female Non Officers 

Total female staff 
Age (in %, headcount)2 

15 - 29 years 
30 - 39 years 
40 - 49 years 
50 - 59 years 
over 59 years 

Part-time employment (in % of total staff) 

Germany 
Europe (outside Germany), Middle East and Africa 
Americas 
Asia/Pacific 

Total part-time employment 
Apprentices ratio in Germany 

Commitment index 
Enablement index 
Voluntary staff turnover rate 

Germany 
Europe (outside Germany), Middle East and Africa 
Americas 
Asia/Pacific 

Total voluntary staff turnover rate 
Health rate (in %)³ 

Dec 31, 2023 

Dec 31, 2022 

Dec 31, 2021 

22.3%   
28.0%   
34.8%   
41.9%   
59.0%   
46.3%   

16.5%   
28.6%   
25.9%   
23.8%   
5.1%   

24.9%   
5.0%   
0.4%   
0.1%   
11.8%   
3.6%   

2023 
70%   
71%   

2.5%   
5.3%   
7.7%   
9.5%   
5.6%   
92.6%   

20.9%   
26.7%   
33.5%   
41.8%   
59.7%   
46.4%   

15.4%   
28.1%   
26.7%   
25.0%   
4.8%   

26.0%   
5.4%   
0.3%   
0.1%   
12.9%   
3.5%   

2022 
69%   
73%   

3.7%   
9.7%   
18.2%   
18.4%   
10.1%   
91.8%   

19.3% 
25.7% 
32.8% 
41.3% 
60.4% 
46.6% 

14.7% 
28.1% 
27.1% 
25.7% 
4.5% 

26.8% 
5.6% 
0.3% 
0.2% 
13.8% 
4.1% 

2021 
71% 
73% 

2.2% 
7.9% 
17.0% 
14.6% 
7.9% 
93.1% 

1  Declared corporate titles of Postbank (incl. subsidiaries) are only alternative, technically derived, and not contractually defined or agreed 
2  Numbers may not add up due to rounding 
3  Health rate: 100 - ((total sickness days x 100)/total regular working days), Germany 

194 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
   
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
     
   
   
Deutsche Bank  
Annual Report 2023 

Internal Control over Financial Reporting 
Risks in Financial Reporting 

Internal Control over Financial Reporting  

General 

Management of Deutsche Bank and its consolidated subsidiaries is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate 
Internal Control over Financial Reporting (ICOFR). Our internal control over financial reporting is a process designed under 
the supervision of our Chairman of the Supervisory Board and our Chief Financial Officer to provide reasonable assurance 
regarding the reliability of financial reporting. In addition to the preparation of the company’s consolidated financial statements 
for  external  reporting  purposes  in  accordance  with  International  Financial  Reporting  Standards  (IFRS)  as  issued  by  the 
International  Accounting  Standards  Board  (IASB)  and  endorsed  by  the  European  Union  (EU).  Our  Internal  control  over 
financial reporting includes our disclosure controls and procedures designed to prevent misstatements. 

Risks in Financial Reporting 

The primary risks in financial reporting are that either financial statements do not present a true and fair view due to inadvertent 
or intentional  errors  (fraud)  or the  publication  of  financial  statements  is  not performed  on  a  timely  basis.  These  risks  may 
reduce investor confidence or cause reputational damage and may have legal consequences including banking regulatory 
interventions.  A  lack  of  fair  presentation  arises  when  one  or  more  financial  statement  amounts,  or  disclosures  contain 
misstatements (or omissions) that are material. Misstatements are deemed material if they could, individually or in aggregate, 
influence economic decisions that users make because of the financial statements. 

To confine those risks of financial reporting, management of the Group has established internal control over financial reporting 
with the aim of providing reasonable but not absolute assurance against material misstatements. In addition, an assessment 
was conducted of the effectiveness of the Group’s internal control over financial reporting. This was based on the Internal 
Control Integrated Framework (2013) issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission 
(COSO).  COSO  recommends  the  establishment  of  specific  objectives  to  facilitate  the  design  and  evaluate adequacy  of  a 
control system. As a result, in establishing internal control over financial reporting, management has adopted the following 
financial statement objectives: 

–  Existence - assets and liabilities exist and transactions have occurred;  
–  Completeness - all transactions are recorded and account balances are included in the financial statements;  
–  Valuation - assets, liabilities and transactions are recorded in the financial statements at the appropriate amounts;  
–  Rights, Obligations and Ownership – rights, obligations and ownership are appropriately recorded as assets and liabilities;  
–  Presentation and Disclosures - classification, disclosure and presentation of financial reporting is appropriate;  
–  Safeguarding of assets - unauthorized acquisition, use or disposition of assets is prevented or detected in a timely manner.  

However, any internal control system, including internal control over financial reporting, no matter how well conceived and 
operated, can provide only reasonable, but not absolute assurance that the objectives of that control system are met. As such, 
disclosure  controls  and  procedures  or  systems  for  internal  control  over  financial  reporting  may  not  prevent  all  errors; 
inadvertent  or  intentional  errors  (fraud).  Furthermore,  projections  of  any  evaluation  of  effectiveness  to  future  periods,  are 
subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance 
with policies or procedures may deteriorate over time. In addition, the design of a control system must reflect the fact that 
there are resource constraints, and the benefits of controls must be considered relative to their costs. 

Controls to Minimize the Risk of Financial Reporting Misstatement 

The system of internal control over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that: 

–  Pertain  to  the  maintenance  of  records,  that,  in  reasonable  detail  accurately  and  fairly  reflect  the  transactions  and 

dispositions of the company’s assets;  

–  Provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in 
accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the company are made 
only in accordance with authorizations of the company’s management and;  

–  Provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use or disposition of 

the company’s assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements. 

195 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Deutsche Bank  
Annual Report 2023 

Internal Control over Financial Reporting 
Risks in Financial Reporting 

Measuring Effectiveness of Internal Control 

Each year, management of the Group undertakes a formal evaluation of the adequacy and effectiveness of the system of 
internal  control  over  financial  reporting.  This  evaluation  incorporates  an  assessment  of  the  effectiveness  of  the  control 
environment as well as individual controls which make up the system of internal control over financial reporting and considers: 

–  The  financial  misstatement  risk  of  the  financial  statement  line  items,  considering  such  factors  as  materiality  and  the 

susceptibility of the financial statement item to misstatement; and,  

–  The susceptibility of identified controls to failure, considering such factors as the degree of automation, complexity, and 

risk of management override, competence of personnel and the level of judgment required.  

These factors determine in their entirety the type and scope of the evidence required by § 315 HGB, which the management 
needs  to  assess  whether  or  not  the  established  internal  control  over  financial  reporting  is  effective.  The  evidence  itself  is 
generated from procedures integrated within the daily responsibilities of staff or from procedures implemented specifically for 
purposes  of  the  internal  control  over financial  reporting  evaluation. Information  from  other sources also  form an  important 
component of the evaluation since such evidence may either bring additional control issues to the attention of management 
or may corroborate findings. Such information sources may include: 

–  Reports on audits carried out by or on behalf of regulatory authorities;  
–  External Auditor reports; and, 
–  Reports commissioned to evaluate the effectiveness of outsourced processes to third parties.  

In  addition,  Group  Audit  evaluates  the  design  and  operating  effectiveness  of  internal  control  over  financial  reporting  by 
performing periodic and ad-hoc risk-based audits. Reports are produced summarizing the results from each audit which are 
distributed to the responsible managers for the activities concerned. These reports also provide evidence to support the annual 
evaluation by management of the overall operating effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting. 

As a result of the evaluation, management has concluded that internal control over financial reporting is appropriately designed 
and operating effectively as of December 31, 2023. 

196 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Deutsche Bank  
Annual Report 2023 

Compensation of the employees (unaudited) 
Material Risk Taker compensation disclosure 

Remuneration of high earners – Material Risk Takers (REM 4) 

in € 
Total Pay2 

1,000,000 to 1,499,999 
1,500,000 to 1,999,999 
2,000,000 to 2,499,999 
2,500,000 to 2,999,999 
3,000,000 to 3,499,999 
3,500,000 to 3,999,999 
4.000,000 to 4,499,999 
4,500,000 to 4,999,999 
5,000,000 to 5,999,999 
6,000,000 to 6,999,999 
7,000,000 to 7,999,999 
8,000,000 to 8,999,999 
9,000,000 to 9,999,999 
10,000,000 to 10,999,999 
11,000,000 to 11,999,999 
12,000,000 to 12,999,999 
13,000,000 to 13,999,999 
14,000,000 to 14,999,999 

Total 

2023 
Number of individuals1 

2022 

Number of individuals 

290     
88     
53     
16     
8     
14     
11     
1     
4     
8     
5     
4     
2     
0     
0     
0     
0     
1     
505     

299 
120 
47 
36 
16 
12 
9 
5 
7 
6 
8 
4 
2 
1 
0 
0 
0 
0 
572 

1  Comprises MRTs only (including 2023 leavers) 
2  Includes all components of FP and VC (including severances); buyouts are not included 

In total, 505 MRTs received a Total Pay of € 1 million or more for 2023. 

Compensation awards 2023 – Material Risk Takers (REM 5) 

in € m. 
(unless stated otherwise)¹ 
Total number of Material Risk Takers3 

of which: Management Body 
of which: Senior Management4 
of which: Other Material Risk Takers 

Total Pay of Material Risk Takers 

of which: variable pay5 
of which: fixed pay 

Management Body Remuneration 

Super- 
visory 
Board2 

Manage- 
ment 
Board2 

Total 
Manage- 
ment 
Body 

Business Areas 

Invest- 
ment 
Banking2 

Retail 
Banking2 

Asset 
Manage- 
ment2 

Corporate 
Functions2 

Control 
Functions2 

20     
N/A     
N/A     
7     
0     
7     

9     
N/A     
N/A     
72     
38     
34     

29     
N/A     
N/A     
79     
38     
41     

N/A     
29     
620     
906     
419     
488     

N/A     
84     
205     
244     
108     
135     

N/A     
5     
0     
29     
20     
9     

N/A     
91     
128     
165     
63     
102     

N/A     
32     
89     
66     
13     
52     

Total 
1,313   
N/A   
241   
1,043   
1,489   
661   
828   

1  The table may contain marginal rounding differences 
2  Supervisory Board represents the Supervisory Board Members of Deutsche Bank AG, Management Board represents the Management Board Members of Deutsche Bank 

AG; Investment Banking = Investment Bank; Retail Banking = Private Bank and Corporate Bank; Asset Management = Asset Management (DWS); Control Functions include 
Chief Risk Office, Group Audit, Compliance and Anti-Financial Crime; Corporate Functions include any Infrastructure function which is neither captured as a Control Function 
nor part of any division 

3  HC as of December 31, 2023 reported for Supervisory Board and Management Board, FTE as of December 31, 2023 reported for the remaining part; therefore, the totals do 

not add up to the 1,477 individuals identified as MRTs; shows remuneration awarded to all MRTs (including 2023 leavers) 

4  Senior Management is defined as Deutsche Bank AG MB-1 positions; voting members of Business Division Top Executive Committees; MB members of Significant and Other 

CRR Institutions and respective MB-1 positions with managerial responsibility 

5  Variable Pay includes Deutsche Bank´s Year-end performance-based VC for 2023, other VC and severance payments; it also includes fringe benefits awarded to 

Management Board Members of Deutsche Bank AG which are to be classified as variable remuneration; the table does not include new hire replacement awards for lost 
entitlements from previous employers (buyouts) 

447 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
     
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
     
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
 
 
 
4

Corporate Governance Statement 
according to Sections 289f and 
315d of the German Commercial 
Code/Corporate Governance 
Report

449  Management Board and Supervisory 

Board 

462  Reporting and Transparency 

462  Related Party Transactions

463  Auditing and Controlling 

466  Compliance with the German Corporate 

Governance Code

Deutsche Bank  
Annual Report 2023 

Management Board and Supervisory Board 
Management Board 

All  information  presented  in  this  Corporate  Governance  Statement  according  to  Sections  289f  and  315d  of  the  German 
Commercial Code is as of February 9, 2024.  

Management Board and Supervisory Board  

Management Board  

Deutsche  Bank’s  Management  Board  is  responsible  for  the  management  of  the  company  in  accordance  with  the  law,  its 
Articles of Association and the Terms of Reference for the Management Board with the objective of creating sustainable value 
in the interests of the company. It considers the interests of shareholders, employees and other company-related stakeholders. 
The members of the Management Board are collectively responsible for managing the bank’s business. The Management 
Board, as the Group Management Board, manages Deutsche Bank Group in accordance with uniform guidelines; it exercises 
general control over all Group companies. 

The Management Board decides on all matters prescribed by law and the Articles of Association and ensures compliance with 
the legal requirements and internal guidelines (compliance). It also takes the necessary measures to ensure that adequate 
internal guidelines are developed and implemented. The Management Board's responsibilities include, in particular, the bank’s 
strategic  management  and  direction,  the  allocation  of  resources,  financial  accounting  and  reporting,  control  and  risk 
management,  the  proper  functioning  of  the  business  organization,  the  systematic  identification  and  assessment  of  the 
environmental and social impacts of the company’s operations as well as corporate control. The Management Board decides 
on the appointments to the senior management level below the Management Board and, in particular, on the appointment of 
Global  Key  Function  Holders.  In  appointing  people  to  management  functions  in  the  Group,  the  Management  Board  takes 
diversity into account and strives, in particular, to achieve an appropriate representation of women (more detailed information 
in  section  “Goals  for  the  proportion  of  women  in  management  positions  /  gender  quota“  in  this  Corporate  Governance 
Statement). 

The Management Board works closely together with the Supervisory Board in a cooperative relationship of trust and for the 
benefit of the company. The Management Board reports to the Supervisory Board at a minimum within the scope prescribed 
by law or administrative guidelines, in particular on all issues with relevance for the Group concerning strategy, the intended 
business  policy,  planning,  business  development,  risk  situation,  risk  management,  staff  development,  reputation  and 
compliance. 

A  comprehensive  presentation  of  the  duties,  responsibilities  and  procedures  of  our  Management  Board  is  specified  in  its 
Terms of Reference, the current version of which is available on our website (www.db.com/ir/en/documents.htm).  

Personnel changes to the Management Board and the current members of the Management 
Board 

The following member of the Management Board was appointed for a three-year period: 
–  Claudio de Sanctis with effect from July 1, 2023.  

The following members left the Management Board: 
–  Christiana Riley as of May 17, 2023. 
–  Karl von Rohr as of October 31, 2023.  

The following information is provided on the current members of the Management Board on the year in which they were born, 
year in which they were first appointed and year in which their term expires as well as their current positions and area of 
responsibility  according  to  the  current  Business  Allocation  Plan  for  the  Management  Board.  Also  specified  are  their  other 
board mandates or directorships outside of Deutsche Bank Group as well as all memberships in legally prescribed supervisory 
boards or other comparable domestic or foreign supervisory bodies of commercial enterprises. Listed companies are marked 
with an “*”. The Terms of Reference for the Management Board specify that the members of our Management Board generally 
should not accept the chair of supervisory boards of companies outside Deutsche Bank Group.  

449 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Deutsche Bank  
Annual Report 2023 

Management Board and Supervisory Board 
Management Board 

Christian Sewing 
Year of birth: 1970 
First appointed: 2015 
Term expires: 2026 

Christian Sewing became a member of the Management Board on January 1, 2015 and is Chief Executive Officer with effect 
from April 8, 2018. He is responsible on the Management Board for Communications & Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR), 
Research and Group Audit. He handed over responsibility for Human Resources on May 31, 2023.  

Prior to assuming his role on the Management Board, Mr. Sewing was Global Head of Group Audit and held a number of 
positions before that in Risk, including Deputy Chief Risk Officer (from 2012 to 2013) and Chief Credit Officer (from 2010 to 
2012) of Deutsche Bank.  

From 2005 until 2007, Mr. Sewing was a member of the Management Board of Deutsche Genossenschafts-Hypothekenbank. 

Before  graduating  with  a  diploma  from  the  Bankakademie  Bielefeld  and  Hamburg,  Mr.  Sewing  completed  a  bank 
apprenticeship at Deutsche Bank in 1989.  

Mr. Sewing does not have any external directorships subject to disclosure. 

James von Moltke 
Year of birth: 1969 
First appointed: 2017 
Term expires: 2026 

James von Moltke became a member of the Management Board on July 1, 2017, and President as of March 25, 2022. He is 
Chief  Financial  Officer  and  in  this  function,  he  is  responsible  for,  among  other  things,  Finance,  Group  Tax,  Treasury  and 
Investor Relations. As of July 1, 2023, he took on responsibility for Asset Management (DWS). 

Before Mr. von Moltke joined Deutsche Bank he served as Treasurer of Citigroup. He started his career at the investment 
bank Credit Suisse First Boston in London in 1992. In 1995, he joined J.P. Morgan, working at the bank for 10 years in New 
York and Hong Kong. After next working at Morgan Stanley in New York for four years, where he led the Financial Technology 
advisory team globally, Mr. von Moltke joined Citigroup as Head of Corporate Mergers and Acquisitions (M&A) in 2009 and 
three years later became the Global Head of Financial Planning.  

He holds a Bachelor of Arts degree from New College, University of Oxford. 

Mr. von Moltke does not have any external directorships subject to disclosure.  

Fabrizio Campelli 
Year of birth: 1973 
First appointed: 2019 
Term expires: 2025 

Fabrizio Campelli became a member of the Management Board on November 1, 2019. He is responsible for the Corporate 
Bank and the Investment Bank and also for the bank’s UK & Ireland region.  

From  November  2019  to  April  2021,  he  was  the  Management  Board  member  responsible  for  transformation,  as  Chief 
Transformation Officer,  and  for  Human Resources.  He  previously  spent  four years as  the  Global  Head  of  Deutsche  Bank 
Wealth Management. Before that, he was Head of Strategy & Organizational Development as well as Deputy Chief Operating 
Officer for Deutsche Bank Group. 

He joined Deutsche Bank in 2004 after working at McKinsey & Company in the firm’s London and Milan offices, focusing on 
strategic assignments mainly for global financial institutions. 

He holds an MBA from MIT Sloan School of Management and a Business Administration degree from Bocconi University in 
Milan. 

Mr. Campelli is a member of the following Supervisory Boards: BVV Versicherungsverein des Bankgewerbes a.G. and BVV 
Versorgungskasse des Bankgewerbes e.V. 

450 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Deutsche Bank  
Annual Report 2023 

Management Board and Supervisory Board 
Management Board 

Bernd Leukert 
Year of birth: 1967 
First appointed: 2020 
Term expires: 2025 

Bernd Leukert became a member of the Management Board on January 1, 2020. He is Chief Technology, Data and Innovation 
Officer and is responsible for the Chief Information Office for the Infrastructure areas and the business divisions, as well as 
for the Chief Technology Office and the Chief Security Office. He is also responsible for Data Governance and Oversight and 
Trade Settlement as well as for Cloud Transformation and Chief Innovation Office.  

He  joined  Deutsche  Bank  on  September  1,  2019.  He  previously  worked  for  many  years  at  SAP  SE,  the  global  software 
company. He joined SAP in 1994 and held various management positions. From 2014 to 2019, he was responsible for product 
development and innovations as well as the Digital Business Services division on the Executive Board.  

Mr.  Leukert  studied  Industrial  Engineering  and  Management  at  the  University  of  Karlsruhe  and  at  Trinity  College  Dublin, 
graduating in 1994 with a Master’s Degree in Business Administration. 

He is member of the Supervisory Board of Bertelsmann SE & Co. KGaA.  

He is a member of the Supervisory Board of DWS Group GmbH & Co. KGaA.*  

Alexander von zur Mühlen 
Year of birth: 1975 
First appointed: 2020 
Term expires: 2026 

Alexander von zur Mühlen became a member of the Management Board on August 1, 2020 and was CEO Asia-Pacific until 
June 30, 2023. As of July 1, 2023, he became the CEO for Asia-Pacific, Europe, the Middle East and Africa (EMEA) and 
Germany. 

Mr. von zur Mühlen joined Deutsche Bank in 1998 and over the years has held a range of management roles in London and 
Frankfurt  across  infrastructure  and  business  divisions.  From  2018  to  2020  he  was  responsible  for  the  Group’s  strategic 
development and was the advisor to the Chief Executive Officer (CEO). Before that, he served as Co-Head of Global Capital 
Markets, with a regional focus on Asia-Pacific and Europe, the Middle East and Africa (EMEA). From 2009 to 2017, he was 
Group Treasurer.  

Alexander von zur Mühlen holds a Diploma in Business Administration from the Berlin School of Economics and Law in Berlin. 

Mr. von zur Mühlen does not have any external directorships subject to disclosure.  

Claudio de Sanctis 
Year of birth: 1972 
First appointed: 2023 
Term expires: 2026 

Claudio de Sanctis became a member of the Management Board on July 1, 2023. He is Head of the Private Bank. 

Mr. de Sanctis was responsible for the International Private Bank since June 2020 and at the same time he was also Chief 
Executive Officer (CEO) of Europe, the Middle East and Africa (EMEA). He had previously been Global Head of Deutsche 
Bank Wealth Management since November 2019 after joining Deutsche Bank in December 2018 as Head of Deutsche Bank 
Wealth Management Europe. In addition, he was also the Chief Executive Officer (CEO) of Deutsche Bank (Switzerland) Ltd 
from February to December 2019. 

Before joining Deutsche Bank, he was Head of Private Banking, Europe, at Credit Suisse, where he started in 2013 as Market 
Area Head Southeast Asia for Private Banking. Before then, he spent seven years at UBS Wealth Management Europe, most 
recently as Market Head Iberia and Nordics. 

Earlier in his career he was at Barclays as Head of Key Clients Unit Europe in Private Banking focusing on UHNW clients. He 
also worked at Merrill Lynch Private Wealth Management in Europe, the Middle East and Africa (EMEA). 

He earned a BA degree in Philosophy at La Sapienza University of Rome. 

Mr. de Sanctis does not have any external directorships subject to disclosure. 

451 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Deutsche Bank  
Annual Report 2023 

Management Board and Supervisory Board 
Management Board 

Rebecca Short 
Year of birth: 1974 
First appointed: 2021 
Term expires: 2027 

Rebecca Short became a member of the Management Board on May 1, 2021. She is Chief Operating Officer with responsibility 
for Human Resources as well as the Bank’s transformation on June 1, 2023. Until May 31, 2023, she was Chief Transformation 
Officer, responsible for the bank’s transformation. Ms. Short was responsible for the Capital Release Unit until January 31, 
2023 and continues to retain oversight for the remaining activities in this context.  

She previously spent almost six years within Finance as Head of Group Planning & Performance Management. 

She joined Deutsche Bank through its graduate program in Auckland in 1998. She moved to London in 2000 with Credit Risk 
Management, where she worked for 12 years and advanced to, become European Head of Corporates. She then set up a 
new Risk-wide team, Strategic Risk Analysis & Reporting in 2012 before moving to a senior central management role in Group 
Audit in 2013, where she spent two years. 

She has a Bachelor of Commerce (Honours) degree in Finance & Accounting from the University of Otago, Dunedin, New 
Zealand. 

Ms. Short does not have any external directorships subject to disclosure.  

Professor Dr. Stefan Simon 
Year of birth: 1969 
First appointed: 2020 
Term expires: 2026 

Professor  Dr.  Stefan  Simon  became  a  member  of  the  Management  Board  on  August  1,  2020.  He  is  Chief  Administrative 
Officer (CAO) and is responsible for Government and Regulatory Affairs as well as for Legal and Governance. Additionally, 
he is responsible for Compliance, Anti-Financial-Crime (AFC) and the Business Selection and Conflicts Office, as well as for 
Controls Testing & Assurance. At the end of the Annual General Meeting on May 17, 2023, he also became responsible for 
the bank’s Americas region. 

Professor Dr. Simon joined Deutsche Bank on August 1, 2019. He was a member of the Supervisory Board from August 2016 
until July 2019 and was Chairman of its Integrity Committee. He is a lawyer and tax consultant and between 1997 and 2016 
worked  at  the  law  firm  Flick  Gocke  Schaumburg,  where  he  became  a  partner  in  2002.  Since  2008  he  has  also  been  an 
Honorary Professor of the University of Cologne. 

He studied law at the University of Cologne and received his doctorate there in 1998. 

Professor Dr. Simon is a member of the Supervisory Board of The Clearing House Payments Company LLC and Chairman 
of the Advisory Council of Leop. Krawinkel GmbH & Co. KG. 

Olivier Vigneron 
Year of birth: 1971 
First appointed: 2022 
Term expires: 2025 

Olivier Vigneron became a member of the Management Board on May 20, 2022. He is Chief Risk Officer responsible for the 
functions managing Credit Risk, Market Risk and Liquidity Risk as well as for other Risk-Infrastructure units.  

Mr. Vigneron re-joined Deutsche Bank on March 1, 2022. From January 2020 until re-joining Deutsche Bank in 2022, Olivier 
Vigneron was Chief Risk Officer of Natixis, where he also served on the Senior Management Committee. From 2008 to 2020, 
he worked at J.P. Morgan, where he served as Chief Risk Officer for Europe, the Middle East and Africa (EMEA) and Firmwide 
Risk Executive for Market Risk. Prior to this, he worked for BNP Paribas, UniCredit, and Goldman Sachs, Between 2002 and 
2005 he worked in Structured Credit Trading for Deutsche Bank in London.  

He has also served on the Supervisory Board of J.P. Morgan Germany and on the board of Natixis Assurances. 

Olivier Vigneron studied at the Lycée Louis-le-Grand in Paris and holds a Diplôme d’Ingénieur (degree in Engineering) from 
France’s École Polytechnique. He also holds a PhD in Economics from the University of Chicago.  

Mr. Vigneron does not have any external directorships subject to disclosure.  

452 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Deutsche Bank  
Annual Report 2023 

Management Board and Supervisory Board 
Supervisory Board 

Supervisory Board  

The Supervisory Board of Deutsche Bank AG appoints and dismisses the members of the Management Board, supervises 
and advises the Management Board and is directly involved in decisions of fundamental importance to the bank. Supervision 
and advice also include in particular, sustainability issues. The Supervisory Board works together closely with the Management 
Board in a cooperative relationship of trust and for the benefit of the company. The internal organization of the Supervisory 
Board and its committees as well as the requirements for its members are subject not only to the regulations of the German 
Banking Act (Kreditwesengesetz (KWG)) and the recommendations of the German Corporate Governance Code (CGCG), but 
also to specific supervisory requirements Such requirements are founded on, among other things, the German Banking Act 
(KWG), the Remuneration Ordinance for Institutions (Institutsvergütungsverordnung (InstitutsVergV)), the  guidelines of the 
European Banking Authority (EBA) and European Securities and Markets Authority (ESMA) and the administrative practices 
of the European Central Bank (ECB) as our prudential supervisory authority. In individual cases, the regulatory requirements 
may diverge from the recommendations of the German Corporate Governance Code (GCGC). 

The  types  of  business  that require the  approval  of  the  Supervisory Board to  be  transacted  are specified  in  the  Articles  of 
Association of Deutsche Bank AG. Furthermore, the Supervisory Board may specify additional transactions that require its 
approval. 

The procedures of the Supervisory Board and the tasks and procedures of the Supervisory Board committees are set out in 
their respective terms of reference, which are published on Deutsche Bank’s website (www.db.com/ir/en/documents.htm) in 
their currently applicable versions. The Supervisory Board meets regularly also without the Management Board. In addition, 
the representatives of the employees and the representatives of the shareholders regularly conduct preliminary discussions 
separately.  The  number  of  meetings  and  their  execution  are  specified  in  the  Report  of  the  Supervisory  Board,  along  with 
details on the work of the Supervisory Board and its committees.  

The Chairman of the Supervisory Board plays a crucial role in the proper functioning of the Supervisory Board and has a 
leadership role in this. He can issue internal guidelines and principles concerning the Supervisory Board’s internal organization 
and communications, the coordination of the work within the Supervisory Board and the Supervisory Board’s interaction with 
the  Management  Board.  The  Chairman  of  the  Supervisory  Board  engages  in  investor  discussions  on  Supervisory  Board-
related topics when necessary and regularly informs the Supervisory Board of the substance of such discussions. These also 
cover Environmental, Social and Governance (ESG) topics. The Chairperson of the Audit Committee furthermore conducts 
regular discussions with the auditor outside the meetings. 

Between meetings, the Chairman of the Supervisory Board and, to the extent expedient, the chairpersons of the Supervisory 
Board committees maintain regular contact with the members of the Management Board, especially with the Chairman of the 
Management Board, and deliberate with them, among other things, on issues of Deutsche Bank Group’s strategy, planning, 
the  development  of  its  business,  risk  situation,  risk  management,  risk  controlling,  governance,  compliance,  compensation 
systems, IT, data and digitalization, sustainability as well as material litigation cases. The Chairman of the Supervisory Board 
and – within their respective functional responsibility – the chairpersons of the Supervisory Board committees are informed 
without delay by the Chairman of  the Management Board or by the respectively responsible Management Board member 
about important events of material significance for the assessment of the situation, development and management of Deutsche 
Bank Group.  

Together  with  the  Management  Board,  the  Supervisory  Board  arranges  for  a  long-term  succession  planning.  Promoting 
diversity on the Management Board is very important to the Supervisory Board, and it is intensively addressing the topic. It is 
actively working on Management Board diversity, e.g., in terms of gender, nationality and age, as well as different backgrounds 
and  mindsets.  The  Nomination  Committee  supports  the  Chairman’s  Committee  and  the  Supervisory  Board  in  identifying 
suitable  candidates  to  fill  a  position  on  the  bank’s  Management  Board.  In  doing  so,  the  Committee  prepares  a  position 
description with a candidate profile and states the expected time commitment. Suitable candidates are identified, in some 
cases in collaboration with external recruiting consultants, and structured interviews are conducted. Besides this succession 
planning with external candidates, the Management Board and Supervisory Board maintain a list of internal candidates. The 
Nomination Committee and Supervisory Board regularly receive reports from the Management Board on internal candidates 
for  succession  planning  and  the  process  from  the  perspective  of  the  Management  Board.  For  the  selection  of  suitable 
candidates, external and internal, the Nomination Committee takes into account the balance and diversity of the knowledge, 
skills and experience of all members of the Management Board. It also seeks to foster diversity on the Management Board, 
for example, with regard to gender, nationality and age.  

453 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Deutsche Bank  
Annual Report 2023 

Management Board and Supervisory Board 
Supervisory Board 

Building on the work of the Nomination Committee, the Chairman’s Committee submits a recommendation for the Supervisory 
Board’s resolution. Based on this, the Supervisory Board decides on the appointment of Management Board members. The 
first appointment period is for a maximum of three years. Management Board members can be reappointed for one or several 
terms of office, which may be for a maximum of five years pursuant to the law, whereby at Deutsche Bank such reappointments 
should generally also be for a maximum of three years. Besides proposals for the appointment of members of the Management 
Board,  the  Chairman’s  Committee  also  submits  proposals  for  the  dismissal  of  Management  Board  members,  which  the 
Supervisory Board decides on. 

The Supervisory Board ensures compliance with the legally required minimum gender participation pursuant to Section 76 (3a) 
of  the  Stock  Corporation  Act  (AktG).  The  Management  Board  comprised  ten  members  until  May 17,  2023,  including  two 
women: Christiana Riley and Rebecca Short. Christiana Riley decided to leave the bank, so the Management Board, reduced 
in size to nine members since then, has one female member: Rebecca Short. Internal and external feedback on the smaller 
Management Board has generally been with very positive in recognition of its efficiency. As stated at the General Meeting 
2023, the Supervisory Board is not satisfied, however, with the current ratio of women and intends to raise the percentage of 
women in the future. To increase the number of suitable internal female candidates, the Supervisory Board set a corresponding 
objective  for  the  Management  Board  for  the  current  financial  year  for  appointing  women  to  senior  management  positions 
directly  below  the  Management  Board  and  embedded  this  objective  within  the  long-term  performance  metrics  of  the  new 
compensation system for the Management Board. To reach a 100% achievement level in this category, at least 32,5% females 
need to be represented below the two levels of the Management Board by end 2026. 

Based on proposals of the Compensation Control Committee, the Supervisory Board determines the total compensation of 
the individual members of the Management Board and also regularly reviews and resolves on the compensation system for 
the Management Board.  

The Supervisory Board receives reports from the Management Board within the scope prescribed by law or administrative 
guidelines,  in  particular  on  all  issues  of  relevance  for  the  Group  concerning  strategy,  intended  business  policy,  planning, 
business development, risk situation, risk management, staff development, reputation and compliance. Furthermore, Group 
Audit informs the Audit Committee of any deficiencies identified regularly and – in the case of severe deficiencies – without 
undue delay. In addition, the Chairman of the Supervisory Board is informed of any serious findings relating to the members 
of  the  Management  Board.  The  Supervisory  Board  and  Management  Board  adopted  an  Information  Regime,  a  general 
engagement  (interaction)  protocol  and  another  engagement  (interaction)  protocol  specifically  for  regulatory  topics.  These 
regulate not only the reporting to the Supervisory Board, but also, among other things the Supervisory Board’s enquiries and 
requests  for  information  from  employees  of  the  company  as  well  as  the  exchange  of  information  in  connection  with 
preparations for the meetings and between the meetings.  

The  Nomination  Committee  and  Supervisory  Board  addressed  the  assessment  of  the  Supervisory  Board  which  is  to  be 
conducted at least annually as prescribed by law pursuant to Section 25d of the German Banking Act (KWG), and which is 
also  the  self-assessment  of  the  Supervisory Board  pursuant  to  Section D.12  of  the  German  Corporate  Governance Code 
(GCGC). The concrete implementation of and the schedule for the assessment were deliberated on and set out at the meeting 
of the Nomination Committee on October 23, 2023. Services of an external advisor were not mandated in this context. The 
assessment was performed essentially on the basis of extensive questionnaires regarding the work of the Supervisory Board, 
of the Supervisory Board committees and of the Management Board, interviews conducted by members of the Nomination 
Committee with the individual members of the Management Board, and an assessment of the individual members of both the 
Management Board and Supervisory Board. The final discussion and approval of the results of the assessment took place at 
the Supervisory Board meeting in plenum on January 31, 2024, and the results were set out in a written final report. The 
Supervisory Board continues to hold the opinion that the Supervisory Board and Management Board have achieved a high 
standard and that there are no reservations, in particular, regarding the professional qualifications, personal reliability and time 
availability of the members of the Management Board and of the Supervisory Board.  

454 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Deutsche Bank  
Annual Report 2023 

Management Board and Supervisory Board 
Supervisory Board 

Members of the Supervisory Board  

The Supervisory Board has 20 members. In accordance with the German Co-Determination Act (Mitbestimmungsgesetz), it 
comprises an equal number of shareholder representatives and employee representatives. 

In  accordance  with  the  Articles  of  Association,  the  members  of  the  Supervisory  Board  are elected  for  the  period  until  the 
conclusion of the General Meeting which adopts the resolutions concerning the ratification of the acts of management for the 
fourth financial year following the beginning of the term of office. For the election of shareholder representatives, the General 
Meeting may establish that the terms of office of individual members may begin or end on differing dates. In accordance with 
the Terms of Reference for the Supervisory Board since July 2020, shareholder representatives are proposed to the General 
Meeting for election for a maximum of approximately four years, i.e. until the conclusion of the General Meeting which adopts 
the resolutions concerning the ratification of the acts of management for the third financial year following the beginning of the 
term of office, whereby the financial year in which the term of office begins is not taken into account. 

The following table shows information on the current members of our Supervisory Board (as of February 9, 2024).  

Member 

Principal occupation 

Alexander Wynaendts 

Chairman of the Supervisory Board, 

Year of birth: 1960 

Deutsche Bank AG 

First elected: May 19, 2022 
Term expires: 2026 

Susanne Bleidt1 

Year of birth: 1967 

First elected: May 17, 2023 

Term expires: 2028 

Mayree Clark 

Year of birth: 1957 

First elected: May 24, 2018 

Term expires: 2027 
Jan Duscheck1 

Staff Council Member 

Supervisory Board Member  

Supervisory board memberships and other directorships 
Air France-KLM Group S.A.2 (Member of the Board of 
Directors); Uber Technologies, Inc.2 (Member of the Board 

of Directors); Uber Payments B.V. (Non-Executive Director, 
Chairman); Puissance Holding B.V. (Non-Executive 
Director, Chairman)  
Postbank Filialvertrieb AG3; Erholungswerk Post Postbank 

Telekom e.V. (Member of the Members’ General Meeting); 

Postbeamtenkrankenkasse (Member of the Advisory 

Board) 
Ally Financial, Inc.2 (Member of the Board of Directors); 

Allvue Systems Holdings, Inc. (Member of the Board of 

Directors)  

Head of National Working Group Banking,  

No memberships or directorships subject to disclosure 

Year of birth: 1984 

ver.di (Vereinte Dienstleistungsgewerkschaft (United 

Appointed by the court: 

Services Union)) 

August 2, 2016 

First elected: 

May 18, 2017 

Term expires: 2028 
Manja Eifert1 

Year of birth: 1971 

Appointed by the court:  

April 7, 2022 

First elected: 

May 17, 2023 

Term expires: 2028 
Claudia Fieber1 

Year of birth: 1966 

First elected: May 17, 2023 

Term expires: 2028 

Sigmar Gabriel 

Year of birth: 1959 

Appointed by the court: 

March 11, 2020 

First elected: 

May 20, 2020 

Term expires: 2025 
Florian Haggenmiller1 

Staff Council Member 

No memberships or directorships subject to disclosure 

Staff Council Member 

No memberships or directorships subject to disclosure 

Former German Federal Government Minister 

Heristo AG (since July 2023); Siemens Energy AG2; 

Siemens Energy Management GmbH; ThyssenKrupp Steel 

Europe AG (Chairman)  

Head of the National Working Group: Information and 

IBM Deutschland GmbH; IBM Central Holding GmbH 

Year of birth: 1982 

Communications Technology, ver.di (Vereinte 

Appointed by the court: 

Dienstleistungsgewerkschaft (United Services Union)) 

January 16, 2024 
Term expires: 2028 

455 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Deutsche Bank  
Annual Report 2023 

Management Board and Supervisory Board 
Supervisory Board 

Timo Heider1 

Year of birth: 1975 

First elected: May 17, 2013 

Term expires: 2028 
Frank Schulze1 

Year of birth: 1968 

First elected: May 17, 2023 

Term expires: 2028 
Gerlinde Siebert1 

Year of birth: 1967 
First elected: May 17, 2023  

Term expires: 2028 

Yngve Slyngstad 

Year of birth: 1962 

First elected: May 19, 2022 
Term expires: 2026 
Stephan Szukalski1 

Year of birth: 1967 
First elected: May 17, 20234 

Staff Council Member 

BHW Bausparkasse AG3 (Deputy Chairman); PCC 
Services GmbH der Deutschen Bank3 (Deputy 
Chairman);Pensionskasse der BHW Bausparkasse VVaG3 

(Deputy Chairman) 

Deputy Chairman of the Supervisory Board, Deutsche Bank 

No memberships or directorships subject to disclosure 

AG;  
Staff Council Member 

Global Head of Governance, Deutsche Bank AG 

Deutsche Holdings (Luxembourg) S.á.r.l.3  
(until December 2023) 

Chief Executive Officer of Aker Asset Management AS 

No memberships or directorships subject to disclosure 

Federal Chairman, Deutscher Bankangestellten-Verband 

PCC Services GmbH der Deutschen Bank3 

e.V. (DBV) (German Association of Bank Employees)) – 

Gewerkschaft der Finanzdienstleister (Financial Services 

Term expires: 2028 

Providers Union) 

John Alexander Thain 

Supervisory Board Member 

Uber Technologies, Inc.2 (Member of the Board of 

Year of birth: 1955 

First elected: May 24, 2018 

Term expires: 2027 
Jürgen Tögel1 

Year of birth: 1968 

First elected: May 17, 2023 

Term expires: 2028 

Directors); Aperture Investors LLC (Member of the Board of 
Directors); Pine Island Capital Partners LLC (Chairman)  

Staff Council Member 

BVV Versicherungsverein des Bankgewerbes a.G.;  

BVV Versorgungskasse des Bankgewerbes e.V.;  
BKK Deutsche Bank AG3 (Member of the Advisory Board) 

Michele Trogni 

Operating Partner Eldridge; Chief Executive Officer, Zinnia 

Everly Life, LLC (Member of the Non-Executive Board) 

Year of birth: 1965 

Corporate Holdings, LLC  

(since September 2023,); Zinnia Corporate Holdings, LLC 

First elected: May 24, 2018 

Term expires: 2027 

((CEO and Chairperson of the Board of Directors)  

Dr. Dagmar Valcárcel 

Supervisory Board Member 

amedes Holding GmbH; Antin Infrastructure Partners S.A.2 

Year of birth: 1966 

Appointed by the court: 

August 1, 2019 

Term expires: 2025 

(Member of the Board of Directors)  

Dr. Theodor Weimer 

Chief Executive Officer, Deutsche Börse AG 

Knorr Bremse AG2  

Year of birth: 1959 

First elected: May 20, 2020 

Term expires: 2025 

Professor Dr. Norbert 

Deputy Chairman of the Supervisory Board of Deutsche 

Bayer AG2 (Chairman); Georgsmarienhütte Holding GmbH; 

Winkeljohann 

Bank AG; Self-Employed Corporate Consultant Norbert 

Sievert SE (Chairman); Bohnenkamp AG (Chairman)  

Year of birth: 1957 

Winkeljohann Advisory & Investments  

First elected: August 1, 2018 

Term expires: 2027 

Frank Witter 

Year of birth: 1959 

First elected: May 27, 2021 
Term expires: 2025 

Supervisory Board Member 

Traton SE2; VfL Wolfsburg-Fußball GmbH (Chairman); CGI 
Inc.2 (Member of the Board of Directors)  

1  Employee representatives 
2  Listed company 
3  Group-internal mandate  
4  Mr. Szukalski already was a member of the Supervisory Board from May 2013 to November 2015 and May 2018 to December 2020.  

456 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Deutsche Bank  
Annual Report 2023 

Management Board and Supervisory Board 
Supervisory Board 

Objectives for the composition of the Supervisory Board, Profile of Requirements, 
diversity concept and status of implementation  

The composition of the Supervisory Board should ensure the effective and qualified control of and advice for the Management 
Board  of  an  internationally  operating,  broadly  positioned  bank.  The  suitability  of  each  individual  member  is  assessed, 
determined  and  continuously  monitored  both  internally  by  the  Nomination  Committee  and  the  Supervisory  Board  and 
externally by the regulatory authorities. This suitability assessment covers the expertise, reliability and time available of each 
individual member (individual suitability). In addition, there is an assessment of the entire Supervisory Board’s knowledge, 
skills  and  experience  that  are  necessary  for  the  performance  of  its  tasks  (collective  suitability).  Passing  the  suitability 
assessment of the European Central Bank (ECB) after the mandate is accepted and the continual suitability of the Supervisory 
Board member during the entire mandate with Deutsche Bank AG are mandatory regulatory prerequisites for the performance 
of the tasks as a member of the Supervisory Board. 

The Supervisory Board confirmed its adopted Profile of Requirements at its meeting on July 27, 2023. The Supervisory Board 
specified general fields of expertise and expanded fields of expertise. 

General fields of expertise:  

Ideally, every member of the Supervisory Board possesses these individual qualifications.  

–  Understanding of commercial business issues  
–  Analytical and strategic mindset  
–  Understanding of the German corporate governance system, and – as a result – an understanding of a Supervisory Board 

member’s responsibilities 

–  Understanding of the business model and the structure of Deutsche Bank AG  
–  Basic understanding of the financial services sector, e. g. (i) knowledge in the areas of banking, financial services, financial 
markets, financial industry, including the bank’s home market as well as Europe and the bank’s key markets outside Europe, 
and (ii) knowledge of the relevant clients for the bank, the market’s expectations and the operational environment. 

The fulfillment of these fields of expertise is reported on in summary in the qualification matrix in the line “General fields of 
expertise”.  

Expanded fields of expertise: 

These  fields  of  expertise  refer  to  the  Supervisory  Board  in  its  entirety  (collective  suitability).  The  Supervisory Board,  as  a 
whole,  must  have  an  understanding  of  the  specified  fields  of  expertise  that  is  appropriate  for  the  size  and  complexity  of 
Deutsche Bank AG. They are derived from the bank’s business model and from specific laws and regulations that apply to the 
bank. The fields of expertise are: 

Accounting, including sustainability reporting: 

–  Accounting (International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) and German Commercial Code (HGB)) and auditing of 

annual financial statements  

–  Taxation  

Regulatory framework and legal requirements: 

–  Understanding of the key legal framework conditions in the countries in which the company has its main operations  
–  Understanding of the key relevant legal systems for the bank  
–  Experience in the executive management / supervisory board of large enterprises  
–  Regulatory framework and legal requirements, in particular, knowledge of the legal systems relevant for the bank 
–  Knowledge of the social, political and regulatory expectations in the home market 

Human capital, compensation and corporate culture:  

–  Human resources and staff management 
–  Compensation and compensation systems  
–  Selection procedure for management body members and assessment of their suitability 
–  Corporate culture 

457 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Deutsche Bank  
Annual Report 2023 

Management Board and Supervisory Board 
Supervisory Board 

Risk management: 

–  Risk  management  (investigation,  assessment,  mitigation,  management  and  control  of  financial  and  non-financial  risks, 

capital and liquidity management, shareholdings) 

–  Combating money laundering and prevention of financial crime and the financing of terrorism 

Information technology, data and digitalization: 

–  Digitalization, including digital banking  
–  Data, including data governance  
–  Information technology (IT), IT systems and IT security, including cyber risks  

Strategy, transformation and Environmental, Social and Governance (ESG) issues:  

–  Strategic planning of business models and risk strategies as well as their implementation 
–  Climate and other environmental aspects 
–  Knowledge  of  social  and  political  expectations (in  particular in the  home market) and  their impacts on  corporate  social 

responsibility  

–  Company’s purpose 

Organizational structure and control of a financial institution 

–  Governance 
–  Management of a large, international regulated company 
–  Internal organization of the bank  
–  Internal audit 
–  Compliance and internal controls 

In order to adequately reflect the bank’s business model, the Supervisory Board shall demonstrate not only these professional 
qualifications but also qualifications and experience in the various client segments and different sales markets.  

Client segments 

–  Private Banking and Wealth Management  
–  Corporate Banking 
–  Investment Banking 
–  Asset Management 

Regional expertise 

–  Germany 
–  Europe 
–  Americas  
–  Asia-Pacific (APAC)  

The Supervisory Board believes that it complies with the specified concrete objectives regarding its composition and the Profile 
of Requirements – as shown in the following qualifications matrix. The members of the Supervisory Board as a whole possess 
the knowledge, ability and expert experience to properly complete their tasks. 

There  are ten independent shareholder representatives  on  the  Supervisory Board. All  members act  with  independence  of 
mind, i.e., all members of the Supervisory Board engage actively in their duties and are able to make their own sound, objective 
and independent decisions and judgements when performing their functions and responsibilities. In the preceding financial 
year, there were no former members of the Management Board on the Supervisory Board.  

458 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Deutsche Bank  
Annual Report 2023 

Management Board and Supervisory Board 
Supervisory Board 

s
t

d
n
e
a
n
y
W

t

l

i

d
e
B
e
n
n
a
s
u
S

l

k
r
a
C
e
e
r
y
a
M

k
c
e
h
c
s
u
D
n
a
J

t
r
e

l

e
i
r
b
a
G

i

r
e
b
e
F
a
d
u
a
C

i

l

f
i

r
e
W
d
n
k
a
n
x
a
e
r
A
F
✓  ✓  ✓  ✓  ✓  ✓  ✓  ✓  ✓  ✓  ✓  ✓  ✓  ✓  ✓  ✓  ✓  ✓  ✓  ✓ 

E
a
n
a
M

r
a
m
g
S

i
l
r
e
G

o
r
P

D

D

D

.
r

.
r

.
r

.
f

i

l

j

l

e
g
ö
T
n
e
g
r
ü
J

i

n
a
h
T
n
h
o
J

i

n
g
o
r
T
e
e
h
c
M

i

l

l

e
z
u
h
c
S
k
n
a
r
F

i

r
e
d
e
H
o
m
T

i

r
e

t
t
i

i

t
r
e
b
e
S
e
d
n

i

l

k
s
a
k
u
z
S
n
a
h
p
e
S

t

l

d
a
t
s
g
n
y
S
e
v
g
n
Y

r
e

l
l
i

m
n
e
g
g
a
H
n
a
i
r
o
F

l

n
n
a
h
o

j
l

e
k
n
W

i

t
r
e
b
r
o
N

l

e
c
r
á
c
a
V

l

r
e
m
e
W

i

r
a
m
g
a
D

r
o
d
o
e
h
T

  No Overboarding* 

-
r
e
b
m
e
M

i

p
h
s

Independent ** 

✓  ER  ✓  ER ER ER  ✓  ER ER ER ER  ✓  ER  ✓  ER  ✓  ✓  ✓  ✓  ✓ 

General fields of expertise 

Accounting and reporting, incl. 
sustainability reporting 
Audit Committee Financial Experts 
*** 
Expertise in the area of accounting 
*** 
  Expertise in the area of auditing *** 
Regulatory framework and Legal 
requirements 
Human Capital, Compensation and 
Corporate Culture 
Compensation Control Committee 
Compensation Experts*** 

e
s
i
t
r
e
p
x
e

l

a
n
o
s
s
e

i

f

o
r
P

✓  ✓  ✓  ✓  ✓  ✓  ✓  ✓  ✓  ✓  ✓  ✓  ✓  ✓  ✓  ✓  ✓  ✓  ✓  ✓ 

✓  ✓  ✓ 

  ✓  ✓  ✓  ✓  ✓  ✓  ✓  ✓  ✓  ✓ 

                                       

                                       

                                       

✓ 

  ✓ 

  ✓ 

  ✓  ✓  ✓ 

  ✓  ✓  ✓ 

  ✓  ✓  ✓  ✓ 

✓  ✓  ✓  ✓  ✓  ✓  ✓  ✓  ✓  ✓  ✓  ✓  ✓  ✓  ✓  ✓  ✓  ✓  ✓  ✓ 

                                       

Risk Management 

✓ 

  ✓  ✓ 

  ✓  ✓ 

  ✓  ✓  ✓  ✓ 

  ✓  ✓  ✓  ✓  ✓ 

Information technology, data and 
digitalization 

✓  ✓  ✓  ✓ 

  ✓ 

  ✓  ✓  ✓ 

  ✓ 

  ✓ 

  ✓ 

Strategy, Transformation and ESG 

✓ 

  ✓  ✓ 

  ✓  ✓  ✓  ✓  ✓  ✓  ✓  ✓  ✓  ✓  ✓  ✓  ✓  ✓ 

Organizational structure and control of 
a financial institution 

✓  ✓  ✓ 

  ✓  ✓  ✓ 

  ✓  ✓  ✓  ✓  ✓  ✓  ✓  ✓  ✓  ✓  ✓  ✓ 

s
s
e
n
s
u
b

i

/
t

n
e

i
l

C

e
s
i
t
r
e
p
x
e

Private Banking and Wealth 
Management 
Corporate Banking 
Investment Banking 
Asset Management 

l

i

a
n
o
g
e
R

e
s
i
t
r
e
p
x
E

  Germany 
Europe 
Americas 
APAC 

✓  ✓  ✓  ✓  ✓  ✓  ✓  ✓  ✓  ✓  ✓ 

  ✓  ✓  ✓  ✓  ✓  ✓  ✓  ✓ 

✓ 
✓ 
✓ 

  ✓ 
  ✓ 

  ✓  ✓ 

  ✓  ✓ 

  ✓  ✓  ✓  ✓  ✓  ✓  ✓  ✓ 
  ✓ 

  ✓ 
  ✓ 

  ✓  ✓  ✓ 
  ✓  ✓ 

  ✓  ✓ 
  ✓ 

  ✓ 

  ✓  ✓  ✓  ✓  ✓  ✓  ✓  ✓ 

  ✓ 

  ✓ 

  ✓  ✓  ✓  ✓ 

✓ 
✓ 
✓ 

  ✓ 
  ✓ 
  ✓ 

  ✓  ✓ 
  ✓ 
  ✓ 

  ✓  ✓ 
  ✓ 
  ✓  ✓ 

  ✓ 
  ✓ 
  ✓ 

  ✓  ✓  ✓  ✓  ✓ 
  ✓  ✓ 
  ✓  ✓ 
  ✓  ✓ 
  ✓  ✓ 

✓ Profound and professional knowledge / expert 
 Regulatory expert / expertise required by law and/or supervisory regulation 
ER Employees representatives 
* Definition of no overboarding: All Supervisory Board members hold an admissible number of board directorships in various companies in addition to Deutsche Bank AG. 

Overboarding, i.e. holding an inadmissible number of board directorships in different companies, is determined on the basis of the statutory regulation in Section 25d (3) of the 
German Banking Act (KWG). A Supervisory Board member may concurrently be a member of the supervisory body of a maximum of five companies (including Deutsche Bank 
AG). If a Supervisory Board member is also an executive director of a company, this Supervisory Board member may concurrently be a member of the supervisory body of a 
maximum of three companies (including Deutsche Bank AG). The decisive factors for determining if this is the case are the supervisory authority’s regulatory requirements in 
consideration of the local laws. Compliance with this statutory regulation is continually monitored by the regulatory authorities. In the event of directorship overboarding, the 
supervisory authorities may require that Deutsche Bank AG revoke a Supervisory Board member’s appointment and prohibit this Supervisory Board member from performing 
his or her work 

** Definition of independence: A Supervisory Board member is independent when there are no personal or business relations with Deutsche Bank or its Management Board that 

may cause a substantial and not merely temporary conflict of interest. The Supervisory Board issued guidelines for the consistent assessment of the independence of its 
members back in 2017 and updates them regularly. These guidelines also take into account the regulatory requirements on independence. The bank has no controlling 
shareholder at present 

*** Definition of experts given in the “Auditing and Controlling” section of this report 

459 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Deutsche Bank  
Annual Report 2023 

Management Board and Supervisory Board 
Supervisory Board 

There is a regular maximum age limit of 70. In well-founded, individual cases, a Supervisory Board member may be elected 
or appointed for a period that extends at the latest until the end of the fourth Ordinary General Meeting that takes place after 
he or she has reached the age of 70. This age limit was taken into account in the election proposals to the General Meeting 
and shall also be taken into account for the next Supervisory Board elections or subsequent appointments for Supervisory 
Board positions that become vacant.  

For shareholder representatives on the Supervisory Board, the length of Supervisory Board membership shall not, as a rule, 
exceed 12 years.  

The Supervisory Board respects diversity when proposing its members for appointment. In light of the international operations 
of Deutsche Bank AG, care should be taken that the Supervisory Board has an appropriate number of members with long-
term international experience. Currently, the professional careers or private lives of six members of the Supervisory Board are 
centered outside Germany. Furthermore, all of the shareholder representatives on the Supervisory Board have many years 
of  international  experience  from  their  current  or  former  activities,  for  example,  as  management  board  members  or  chief 
executive officers or in a comparable executive function of corporations or organizations with international operations. The 
Supervisory Board believes that in these two ways the international activities of the company are sufficiently taken into account. 
The objective is to retain the currently existing international profile.  

Special importance has already been attached to an appropriate consideration of women in the selection process since the 
Supervisory Board elections in 2008. For the election proposals to the General Meeting, the Supervisory Board takes into 
account the recommendations of the Nomination Committee and the legal requirements according to which the Supervisory 
Board shall be composed of at least 30% women and at least 30% men. In reviewing potential candidates for a new election 
or subsequent appointments to Supervisory Board positions that have become vacant, qualified women are included in the 
selection process and appropriately considered in the election proposals. At the end of the financial year, five women and five 
men were members of the Supervisory Board on the employee representatives’ side and three women and seven men on the 
shareholder representatives’ side. The statutory minimum quota of 30% has thus been fulfilled for many years now.  

The  average  age  of  the  Supervisory  Board  members  was  57.25  as  of  December  31,  2023.  The  age  structure  is  diverse, 
ranging from 39 to 68 years of age and spanning three generations, according to the general definition of the term.  

The length of membership on the Supervisory Board of Deutsche Bank AG ranged from under one year to around 10 years 
at the end of the financial year. The average length of membership on the Supervisory Board as of December 31, 2023, was 
3.2 years. 

The  diverse  range  of  the  members’  educational  and  professional  backgrounds  includes  banking,  business  administration, 
economics,  auditing,  law,  German  studies,  political  science,  electrical  engineering  and  healthcare.  The  resumes  of  the 
members of the Supervisory Board are published on Deutsche Bank’s website (www.db.com/ir/en/supervisory-board.htm). 

The members of the Supervisory Board do not exercise functions on a management body of, or perform advisory duties at, 
major competitors. Material conflicts of interest involving a member of the Supervisory Board that are not merely temporary 
shall  result in  the  termination of  that member’s  Supervisory  Board mandate.  Members of  the  Supervisory Board may not, 
according to Section 25d of the German Banking Act (KWG), and shall not, according to the recommendations under C.4 and 
C.5 of the German Corporate Governance Code (GCGC), hold more than the allowed number of supervisory board mandates 
or  mandates  in  supervisory  bodies  of  companies  which  have  similar  requirements.  These  requirements  were  met  in  the 
preceding financial year.  

Some members of the Supervisory Board are, or were last year, in high-ranking positions at other companies that Deutsche 
Bank has business relations with. Business transactions with these companies were conducted under the same conditions as 
those between unrelated third parties. In the opinion of the Management Board and the Supervisory Board, these transactions 
did not affect the independence of the Supervisory Board members involved.  

460 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Deutsche Bank  
Annual Report 2023 

Management Board and Supervisory Board 
Committees of the Supervisory Board 

Committees of the Supervisory Board  

The Supervisory Board has established eight standing committees. The committees coordinate their work and consult each 
other on an ad hoc basis. The committee chairpersons report regularly to the Supervisory Board on the work of the committees.  

The committees and their members are or were: 

Chairman’s Committee: Alexander Wynaendts, Chairman, Timo Heider (since May 17, 2023), Detlef Polaschek (until May 
17, 2023), Frank Schulze (since May 17, 2023), Frank Werneke (until May 17, 2023), Professor Dr. Norbert Winkeljohann 

Nomination  Committee:  Alexander  Wynaendts,  Chairman,  Mayree  Clark,  Timo  Heider  (since  May  17,  2023),  Detlef 
Polaschek (until May 17, 2023), Frank Schulze (since May 17, 2023), Frank Werneke (until May 17, 2023), Professor Dr. 
Norbert Winkeljohann  

Audit Committee: Frank Witter, Chairman, Susanne Bleidt (since May 17, 2023), Manja Eifert, Birgit Laumen (from May 17, 
2023 until January 12, 2024), Gabriele Platscher (until May 17, 2023), Detlef Polaschek (until May 17, 2023), Bernd Rose 
(until May 17, 2023), Gerlinde Siebert (since May 17, 2023), Dr. Dagmar Valcárcel, Stefan Viertel (until May 17, 2023), Dr. 
Theodor Weimer, Professor Dr. Norbert Winkeljohann, Alexander Wynaendts (until May 17, 2023) 

Risk  Committee:  Mayree  Clark,  Chairman,  Ludwig  Blomeyer-Bartenstein  (until  May  17,  2023),  Jan  Duscheck,  Gerlinde 
Siebert (since May 17, 2023), Stephan Szukalski (since May 17, 2023), Michele Trogni, Stefan Viertel (until May 17, 2023), 
Professor Dr. Norbert Winkeljohann, Alexander Wynaendts  

Regulatory Oversight Committee: Dr. Dagmar Valcárcel, Chairman, Ludwig Blomeyer-Bartenstein (until May 17, 2023), Jan 
Duscheck (since May 17, 2023), Sigmar Gabriel, Timo Heider, Gabriele Platscher (until May 17, 2023), Stephan Szukalski 
(since May 17, 2023), Alexander Wynaendts  

Compensation Control Committee: Professor Dr. Norbert Winkeljohann, Chairman, Jan Duscheck (since May 17, 2023), 
Timo Heider (since May 17, 2023), Detlef Polaschek (until May 17, 2023), Bernd Rose (until May 17, 2023), Jürgen Tögel 
(since May 17, 2023), Dr. Dagmar Valcárcel, Frank Werneke (until May 17, 2023), Alexander Wynaendts  

Strategy and Sustainability Committee: John Alexander Thain, Chairman, Mayree Clark, Claudia Fieber (since May 17, 
2023), Florian Haggenmiller (since January 31, 2024), Timo Heider (until May 17, 2023), Birgit Laumen (from May 17, 2023 
until January 12, 2024), Detlef Polaschek (until May 17, 2023), Frank Schulze (since May 17, 2023), Jürgen Tögel (since May 
17, 2023), Michele Trogni, Stefan Viertel (until May 17, 2023), Frank Werneke (until May 17, 2023), Alexander Wynaendts  

Technology,  Data  and  Innovation  Committee:  Michele  Trogni,  Chairman,  Susanne  Bleidt  (since  May  17,  2023),  Jan 
Duscheck (until May 17, 2023), Manja Eifert (since May 17, 2023), Claudia Fieber (from May 17, 2023 until January 31, 2024), 
Florian Haggenmiller (since January 31, 2024), Martina Klee (until May 17, 2023), Bernd Rose (until May 17, 2023), Yngve 
Slyngstad, Alexander Wynaendts  

The Report of the Supervisory Board provides information on the concrete work of the committees over the preceding financial 
year.  In  addition  to  the  eight  standing  committees,  the  Mediation  Committee,  which  is  required  by  German  law,  makes 
proposals to the Supervisory Board on the appointment or dismissal of members of the Management Board in cases where 
the Supervisory Board is unable to reach a two-thirds majority decision. The Mediation Committee only meets if necessary. 
Its members are or were Alexander Wynaendts (Chairman), Timo Heider (since May 17, 2023), Detlef Polaschek (until May 
17, 2023), Frank Schulze (since May 17, 2023), Frank Werneke (until May 17, 2023) and Professor Dr. Norbert Winkeljohann.  

Share Plans 

For information on the employee share plans, please refer to the additional Note 33 “Employee Benefits” to the Consolidated 
Financial Statements. 

461 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Deutsche Bank  
Annual Report 2023 

Related Party Transactions 
Directors’ Share Ownership 

Reporting and Transparency  

Directors’ Share Ownership  

Management  Board:  For  information  on  the  share  ownership  of  the  Management  Board,  please  refer  to  our  detailed 
Compensation Report in the Management Report.  

Supervisory Board: The individual members of the Supervisory Board held the following numbers of shares (and share awards 
under employee share plans).  

Members of the Supervisory Board 
Alexander Wynaendts 
Susanne Bleidt 
Mayree Clark 
Jan Duscheck 
Manja Eifert 
Claudia Fieber 
Sigmar Gabriel 
Florian Haggenmiller 
Timo Heider 
Frank Schulze 
Gerlinde M. Siebert 
Yngve Slyngstad 
Stephan Szukalski 
John Alexander Thain 
Jürgen Tögel 
Michele Trogni 
Dr. Dagmar Valcárcel 
Dr. Theodor Weimer 
Professor Dr. Norbert Winkeljohann 
Frank Witter 
Total 

Number of 
shares 

0     
0     
109,444     
0     
158     
360     
0     
0     
0     
577     
4,056     
0     
0     
100,000     
1,052     
15,000     
0     
108,000     
0     
0     
338,647     

Number of 
share awards 
0 
0 
0 
0 
10 
10 
0 
0 
0 
0 
1,1171 
0 
0 
0 
10 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
1,147 

1  Restricted Equity Awards. Ms Siebert has an entitlement to 1,117 shares through Restricted Equity Awards as part of her variable compensation as an employee. These 

share awards will be due for delivery in the years 2024 to 2026 

As of February 9, 2024, the members of the Supervisory Board held 338,647 shares, which is less than 0.02% of the shares 
issued as of the reporting day.  

The  “Number  of  share  awards”  column  in  the  table  lists  share  awards  granted  under  the  Global  Share  Purchase  Plan  to 
Supervisory Board members who are employees of Deutsche Bank (“Matching Awards”), which are scheduled to be delivered 
to them on November 1, 2023, as well as Restricted Equity Awards (deferred share awards), which are granted to employees 
with  deferred variable  compensation.  The  Restricted  Equity  Awards  are indicated  with  a  footnote  in  the  table,  and  further 
details on them as a compensation instrument are provided in the “Employee compensation report”. 

As described in the “Management Report: Compensation of members of the Supervisory Board”, the General Meeting on May 
17,  2023,  adopted  new  compensation  provisions.  The  members  of  the  Supervisory  Board  receive  a  fixed  annual 
compensation.  Chairs  of  the  committees  are  paid  additional  fixed  annual  compensation.  Apart  from  that  there  is  no 
compensation in shares. For members of the Supervisory Board whose current term of office began before May 17, 2023, 
there are transitional regulations.  

The Compensation Report on the preceding financial year and the auditor’s report pursuant to Section 162 of the German 
Stock Corporation Act (AktG), the currently applicable compensation system pursuant to Section 87a (1) and (2) sentence 1 
AktG as well as the last resolution on compensation pursuant to Section 113 (3) AktG are available from the bank’s website 
www.db.com (under the Investor Relations headings “Reports and Events”, “Annual Reports”).  

Related Party Transactions 

For information on related party transactions please refer to Note 36 “Related party transactions “. 

462 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
     
   
Deutsche Bank  
Annual Report 2023 

Auditing and Controlling 
Audit Committee Financial Expert 

Auditing and Controlling  

Audit Committee Financial Expert  

The Supervisory Board determined that the following members of the Audit Committee are “Audit Committee Financial Experts 
“, as such term is defined by the implementation rules of the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission issued pursuant to 
Section 407  of  the  Sarbanes-Oxley  Act  of 2002:  Dr.  Dagmar  Valcárcel,  Dr.  Theodor  Weimer,  Professor  Dr.  Norbert 
Winkeljohann  and  Frank  Witter.  These  Audit  Committee  Financial  Experts  are  “independent”  of  the  bank,  as  defined  in 
Rule 10A-3 under the U.S. Securities Exchange Act of 1934.  

Furthermore, the Supervisory Board determined in accordance with Sections 107 (4) and 100 (5) of the Stock Corporation Act 
(AktG) and Section 25d (9) of the German Banking Act (KWG) that Dr. Dagmar Valcárcel, Dr. Theodor Weimer, Professor 
Dr. Norbert  Winkeljohann  and  Frank  Witter  have  expert  knowledge  in  financial  accounting  and  the  auditing  of  financial 
statements. 

Dr. Dagmar Valcárcel has expertise in the areas of accounting and auditing through her many years of experience as Chair 
of  the  Management  Board  of  Andbank  Asset  Management  Luxembourg S.A.  and  Barclays  Vida  y  Pensiones,  S.A.U.  and 
through her current work as member of the Board of Directors of Antin Infrastructure Partners S.A. Dr. Theodor Weimer has 
expertise  in  the  areas  of  accounting  and  auditing  through  his  many  years  of  experience  as  Chief  Executive  Officer  of 
HypoVereinsbank / UniCredit AG and as a former member of the Audit Committee of ERGO Gruppe AG as well as through 
his current work as Chairman of the Executive Board of Deutsche Börse AG. Professor Dr. Norbert Winkeljohann has expertise 
in the areas of accounting and auditing through his education and training as an auditor and his many years of experience as 
an auditor at various auditing firms and as Chairman of the Management Board of PwC Europe SE. Frank Witter has expertise 
in the areas of accounting and auditing through his many years of experience as Chief Financial Officer of Volkswagen AG 
and as Chairman of the Board of Management of Volkswagen Financial Services AG.  

Compensation Control Committee Compensation Experts  

Pursuant to Section 25d (12) of the German Banking Act (KWG), at least one member of the Compensation Control Committee 
must have sufficient expertise and professional experience in the field of risk management and risk controlling, in particular, 
with regard to the mechanisms to align compensation systems to the company’s overall risk appetite and strategy and the 
bank’s capital base. Based on the recommendation of the Compensation Control Committee, the Supervisory Board resolved 
to  specify  by  name  Dr.  Dagmar  Valcárcel,  Mr.  Alexander  Wynaendts  and  Professor  Dr.  Norbert  Winkeljohann  as 
Compensation Control Committee Compensation Experts. All of them have expertise and professional experience in the field 
of risk management and risk controlling, in particular with regard to mechanisms to align the compensation systems to the 
company’s overall risk appetite and strategy and its capital base. They therefore fulfill the requirements of Section 25d (12) of 
the German Banking Act (KWG). Dr Valcárcel has comprehensive legal experience with compensation frameworks, including 
reputational  risks,  from  her  time  as,  among  other  things,  Head  of  the  Legal  Department  of  Barclays  PLC  for  Western 
Europe.Based on their years of experience as Management Board Chairman and/or Chief Executive Officer, Mr. Alexander 
Wynaendts and Professor Dr. Norbert Winkeljohann have sufficient expertise and professional experience in the area of risk 
management and risk controlling. 

463 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Deutsche Bank  
Annual Report 2023 

Auditing and Controlling 
Values and leadership principles of Deutsche Bank AG and Deutsche Bank Group  

Values and leadership principles of Deutsche Bank AG and 
Deutsche Bank Group  

Deutsche Bank Group Code of Conduct and Code of Ethics for Senior Financial 
Officers 

Deutsche Bank Group’s Code of Conduct sets out Deutsche Banks’s purpose, values and beliefs and minimum standards of 
conduct that the bank expects all members of the Management Board and employees to follow. These values and standards 
govern employee interactions with the bank’s clients, competitors, business partners, government and regulatory authorities, 
and shareholders, as well as with other employees. In addition, the Code forms the cornerstone of the bank’s policies, which 
provide guidance on compliance with applicable laws and regulations.  

In accordance with Section 406 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, the bank adopted a Code of Ethics for Senior Financial 
Officers of Deutsche Bank AG and Deutsche Bank Group with special obligations that apply to the “Senior Financial Officers”, 
which currently consist of Deutsche Bank’s Chairman of the Management Board and the Chief Financial Officer as well as 
certain other Senior Financial Officers. There were no amendments or waivers to this Code of Ethics in 2023.  

The current versions of the Code of Conduct as well as the Code of Ethics for Senior Financial Officers of Deutsche Bank AG 
and Deutsche Bank Group are available from Deutsche Bank’s website: www.db.com/ir/en/documents.htm. 

Corporate Governance at Deutsche Bank AG and Deutsche Bank Group 

Deutsche  Bank  established  a  Group  Governance  function  to  define,  implement  and  monitor  the  corporate  governance 
framework of Deutsche Bank AG and Deutsche Bank Group and to perform this governance function throughout the Group. 
Group Governance addresses corporate governance issues in Deutsche Bank AG and Deutsche Bank Group, while focusing 
closely on clear organizational structures aligned to the key elements of good corporate governance. 

Deutsche Bank AG and Deutsche Bank Group are committed to ensuring a corporate governance framework in accordance 
with  international  standards  and  statutory  provisions.  In  support  of  this  objective,  Deutsche  Bank  AG  and  Deutsche  Bank 
Group have instituted clear corporate governance principles. 

Further  details  on  corporate  governance  are  published  on  Deutsche  Bank’s  website  (www.db.com/ir/en/corporate-
governance.htm). 

464 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Deutsche Bank  
Annual Report 2023 

Auditing and Controlling 
Principal accountant fees and services 

Principal accountant fees and services  

In accordance with German law, Deutsche Bank’s principal accountant is appointed at the Annual General Meeting based on 
a recommendation of Deutsche Bank’s Supervisory Board. The Audit Committee of the Supervisory Board prepares such a 
recommendation. Subsequent to the principal accountant’s appointment, the Audit Committee awards the contract and in its 
sole authority approves the terms and scope of the audit and all audit engagement fees as  well as monitors the principal 
accountant’s independence. EY GmbH & Co. KG Wirtschaftsprüfungsgesellschaft („EY“) was the bank’s principal accountant 
for the 2022 and 2023 fiscal years, respectively. 

The tables set forth below contain the aggregate fees billed for each of the last two fiscal years by EY in each of the following 
categories: (1) Audit fees, which are fees for professional services for the audit of Deutsche Bank’s annual financial statements 
or services that are normally provided by the accountant in connection with statutory and regulatory filings or engagements 
for those fiscal years, (2) Audit-related fees, which are fees for assurance and related services that are reasonably related to 
the  performance  of  the  audit  or  review  of  the  bank’s  financial  statements  and  are  not  reported  as  Audit  fees,  (3) Tax-
related fees,  which  are  fees  for  professional  services  rendered  for  tax  compliance,  tax  consulting  and  tax  planning,  and 
(4) All other fees, which are fees for products  and services other than Audit fees, Audit-related fees and Tax-related fees. 
These amounts include expenses and exclude Value Added Tax (VAT). 

Fees billed by EY 

Fee category in € m. 
Audit fees 
Audit-related fees 
Tax-related fees 
All other fees 
Total fees 

2023 

66     
12     
0     
0     
78     

2022 
59 
8 
0 
1 
68 

1  

The  Audit  fees  include  fees  for  professional  services  for  the  audit  of  Deutsche  Bank’s  annual  financial  statements  and 
consolidated financial statements and do not include audit fees for DWS and its subsidiaries that are not audited by EY. The 
Audit-related fees include fees for other assurance services required by law or regulations, in particular for financial service 
specific attestation, for quarterly reviews, for spin-off audits and for merger audits, as well as fees for voluntary assurance 
services, like voluntary audits for internal management purposes and the issuance of comfort letters. The bank’s Tax-related 
fees include fees for services relating to the preparation and review of tax returns and related compliance assistance and 
advice, tax consultation and advice relating to Group tax planning strategies and initiatives and assistance with assessing 
compliance with tax regulations.  

Under SEC regulations, the principal accountant fees are required to be presented as follows: audit fees were € 68 million in 
2023 compared to € 61 million in 2022, audit-related fees were € 10 million in 2023 compared to € 6 million in 2022, tax-related 
fees  were  € 0 million  in  2023  compared  to  € 0 million  in  2022,  and  all  other  fees  were  € 0 million  in  2023  compared  to 
€ 1 million in 2022.  

United States law and regulations, and the bank’s own policies, generally require that all engagements of Deutsche Bank’s 
principal accountant be pre-approved by the Audit Committee or pursuant to policies and procedures adopted by it. The bank’s 
Audit Committee has adopted the following policies and procedures for consideration and approval of requests to engage the 
principal  accountant  to  perform  non-audit  services.  Engagement  requests  must  in  the  first  instance  be  submitted  to  the 
Accounting  Engagement  Team.  If  the  request  relates  to  services  that  would  impair  the  independence  of  the  principal 
accountant, the request must be rejected. The bank’s Audit Committee has given its pre-approval for specified assurance, 
financial  advisory  and  tax  services,  provided  the  expected  fees  for  any  such  service  do  not  exceed  € 1 million.  If  the 
engagement request relates to such specified pre-approved services, it may be approved by the Accounting Engagement 
Team and must thereafter be reported to the Audit Committee. If the engagement request relates neither to prohibited non-
audit  services  nor  to  pre-approved  non-audit  services,  it  must  be  forwarded  to  the  Audit  Committee  for  consideration.  In 
addition, to facilitate the consideration of engagement requests between its meetings, the Audit Committee has delegated 
approval authority to several of its members who are “independent” as defined by the Securities and Exchange Commission 
and the New York Stock Exchange. Such members are required to report any approvals made by them to the Audit Committee 
at its next meeting. 

Additionally, United States law and regulations permit the pre-approval requirement to be waived with respect to engagements 
for non-audit services aggregating to no more than five percent of the total amount of revenues the bank paid to the principal 
accountant, if such engagements were not recognized by the bank at the time of engagement and were promptly brought to 
the attention of the bank’s Audit Committee or a designated member thereof and approved prior to the completion of the audit. 
In 2022 and 2023, the percentage of the total amount of revenues Deutsche Bank paid to its principal accountant for non-
audit services that was subject to such a waiver was less than 5% for each year.  

465 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
   
   
   
     
   
 
Deutsche Bank  
Annual Report 2023 

Compliance with the German Corporate Governance Code 
Declaration pursuant to Section 161 German Stock Corporation Act (AktG) (Declaration of Conformity 
2023) 

Compliance with the German Corporate Governance 
Code  

Declaration pursuant to Section 161 German Stock Corporation 
Act (AktG) (Declaration of Conformity 2023) 

In updating the  Declaration of  Conformity issued on October 26, 2022, the  Management Board and Supervisory Board of 
Deutsche Bank AG approved the following Declaration of Conformity on October 25, 2023. 

“The Management Board and Supervisory Board of Deutsche Bank Aktiengesellschaft state pursuant to Section 161 German 
Stock Corporation Act (AktG):  

1.  The last Declaration of Conformity was issued on October 26, 2022. Since then, Deutsche Bank Aktiengesellschaft has 
complied with the recommendations of the “Government Commission on the German Corporate Governance Code” in 
the version of the Code dated April 28, 2022, published in the Federal Gazette (Bundesanzeiger) on June 27, 2022, and 
will continue to will continue with them in the future, with the exception of the following deviation:  

With regard to recommendation G.10 second sentence, according to which long-term variable remuneration components 
shall be accessible to a Management Board member only after a period of four years. 
The compensation system for the Management Board provides that the long-term components of variable compensation 
vest over a deferral period of five years. As this involves share-based compensation elements, these are subject to an 
additional holding period of one year after their vesting. With regard to the structure of the deferral period, the Supervisory 
Board members will in future already be able to dispose over a first part after three years and over the last part of the 
long-term  components  after  six  years.  The  Supervisory  Board  thus  remains  within  the  requirements  for  financial 
institutions set out in the Remuneration Ordinance for Institutions (Institutionsvergütungsverordnung). We do not consider 
a  further  tightening  of  the  bank-specific  regulatory  requirements  to  be  appropriate.  We  declare  a  deviation  from  the 
recommendation, just like last year, although the Management Board members will not be able to dispose over the first 
part of the long-term component granted for the 2021 financial year until 2025 and for the 2022 financial year until 2026. 

2.  The German Corporate Governance Code limits the applicability of the Code’s recommendations to the credit institutions 
and insurance companies to the extent that the recommendations apply to them only insofar as there are no statutory 
provisions to the contrary. Deutsche Bank Aktiengesellschaft last reported on the statutory regulations and the effects for 
the Declaration of Conformity in its Corporate Governance Statement in the Annual Report 2022.  

Frankfurt am Main, in October 2023 

The Management Board 
of Deutsche Bank Aktiengesellschaft 

The Supervisory Board 
of Deutsche Bank Aktiengesellschaft” 

466 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Deutsche Bank  
Annual Report 2023 

Compliance with the German Corporate Governance Code 
Inapplicable Code recommendations due to the precedence of statutory provisions  

Inapplicable Code recommendations due to the precedence of 
statutory provisions  

Pursuant to the recommendation in Section F.4 of the German Corporate Governance Code in the version of April 28, 2022, 
companies  subject  to  special  legal  regulations  shall  specify  in  the  Corporate  Governance  Statement  which  Code 
recommendations were not applicable due to over-riding legal stipulations. 

For Deutsche Bank Aktiengesellschaft, this currently applies to the recommendation in Section D.5 of the German Corporate 
Governance Code in the version of April 28, 2022, which states that the Supervisory Board shall form a Nomination Committee 
which is composed exclusively of shareholder representatives. 

Deutsche Bank Aktiengesellschaft, as a supervised credit institution, is subject to the special legal regulations of the German 
Banking Act (KWG). The Supervisory Board of Deutsche Bank Aktiengesellschaft established a Nomination Committee in 
accordance with Section 25d (11) of the German Banking Act (KWG) whose tasks are to support the Supervisory Board in the 
following tasks:  

• 

• 

• 

• 

• 

identifying candidates to fill a position on the Management Board and preparing proposals for the election of members of 
the Supervisory Board;  

drawing up an objective to promote the representation of the under-represented gender on the Supervisory Board as well 
as a strategy for achieving this; 

the regular assessment, to be performed at least once a year, of the structure, size, composition and performance of the 
Management Board and of the Supervisory Board and making recommendations regarding this to the Supervisory Board; 

the regular assessment, to be performed at least once a year, of the knowledge, skills and experience of the individual 
members of the Management Board and of the Supervisory Board as well as of the respective body collectively; and 

the review of the Management Board’s principles for selecting and appointing persons to the upper management level 
and the recommendations made to the Management Board in this respect. 

The Nomination Committee to be established in accordance with the German Banking Act (KWG) therefore has numerous 
tasks that go beyond the preparation of the election proposals for the shareholder representatives on the Supervisory Board. 
A general exclusion of a supervisory board’s employee representatives from a membership on a committee is only admissible, 
according to prevailing opinion, if there is a material reason for this. Whereas such a material reason can exist for a committee 
that solely handles the preparation of the proposals to the General Meeting for the election of shareholder representatives, a 
justification  for  the  exclusion  of  employee  representatives  is  lacking  for  a  nomination  committee  with  the  range  of  tasks 
assigned to it by the German Banking Act (KWG). Due to the Nomination Committee’s range of mandatory tasks stipulated 
by  the  German  Banking  Act  (KWG)  and  the  inadmissibility  of  discriminating  against  employee  representatives  in  the 
composition of the committees, the recommendation in Section D.4 of the German Corporate Governance Code is therefore 
not applicable to Deutsche Bank Aktiengesellschaft. Nonetheless, in order to take this recommendation into account, Section 
2 (3) of the Terms of Reference for the Nomination Committee provides that the election proposals to the General Meeting 
are prepared only by the shareholder representatives on the Nomination Committee.  

467 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Deutsche Bank  
Annual Report 2023 

Compliance with the German Corporate Governance Code 
Goals for the proportion of women in management positions/gender quota 

Goals for the proportion of women in management 
positions/gender quota  

As of December 31, 2023 the percentage of women on the Supervisory Board of Deutsche Bank AG is 40%. The statutory 
minimum of 30% pursuant to Section 96 (2) of the German Stock Corporation Act (AktG) is thereby exceeded. 

 The current German Act to Supplement and Amed Regulations on the Equal Participation of Women and Men in Management 
Positions in the Private and Public Sectors (Equal Participation Act II (FüPoG II)) requires that at least one woman and one 
man are to be appointed to a management board with more than three members; however, no additional goals must be set. 
With one woman, Rebecca Short, on the Management Board of Deutsche Bank AG, the bank fulfilled the requirement as of 
December 31, 2023. 

Deutsche Bank is firmly convinced that an improved gender balance in leadership roles will meaningfully contribute to its future 
success. 

In accordance with the legal framework conditions and based on the bank’s own strategy on diversity, equity and inclusion, 
the bank is working on making progress on its ambitious goals of the “35 by 25” program that the Management Board set on 
May 4, 2021. By 2025 women should represent a minimum of 35% of Managing Director, Director and Vice President positions 
combined. 

The goals for the representation of women on the two management levels below the Management Board are now for at least 
30% women on the first management level and at least 30% women on the second management level below the Management 
Board. These goals are to be reached by December 31, 2025.  

The  population  of  staff  on  the  first  management  level  below  the  Management  Board  comprises  Managing  Directors  and 
Directors who report directly to the Management Board and managers with comparable responsibilities. The population of 
staff on the second management level comprises Managing Directors and Directors who report to the first management level. 

Implementing German gender quota legislation at Deutsche Bank AG  

Level (headcount, in %)1 
Supervisory Board 
Management Board2 
Management Board level -13 
Management Board level -23 

Senior Corporate Titles (headcount, in %)4,5 

Managing Directors, Directors, Vice Presidents 

Dec 31, 2023 

Dec 31, 2022 

Dec 31, 2021 

Goal 

Result 

Result 

Result 

30.0     
1.0     
30.0     
30.0     

40.0     
1.0     
20.0     
27.6     

30.0     
2.0     
17.1     
29.6     

35.0     

32.3     

30.7     

30.0 
2.0 
20.0 
27.5 

29.9 

1  German Gender Quota Law (Zweites Führungspositionen-Gesetz, FüPoG II 
2  Goal reflects requirement of German Gender Quota Law (Zweites Führungspositionen-Gesetz, FüPoG II 
3  Goal reflects December 2025 
4  Goal reflects December 2025 including the following year’s promotions 
5  Excluding Asset Management and Corporate & Other 

As  of  December  31,  2023,  the  proportion  of  women  was  20.0%  (2022:  17.1%)  on  the  first  management  level  below  the 
Management Board and 27.6% (2022: 29.6%) on the second management level below the Management Board. 

While the bank’s commitment to increase the representation of women in senior management positions is global, the bank’s 
implementation is local. Each region and each business have their own diversity and inclusion needs because cultures and 
current social challenges differ from nation to nation and from business area to business area. However, the Management 
Board remains committed to these goals and focused initiatives are put in place to accelerate change. These initiatives apply 
to all phases of career development, spanning across talent recruitment, development, retention and promotions. 

Within this framework, the bank’s decisions on promotions and appointments are aligned, in particular, to the suitability of the 
candidates for the respective roles, their demonstrated performance and their future potential. In line with the bank’s basic 
diversity concept, the bank also take into account the knowledge and skills required for the proper performance of tasks and 
the necessary experience of the employees for the composition of the two levels below the Management Board. 

468 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
     
   
   
   
Deutsche Bank  
Annual Report 2023 

Compliance with the German Corporate Governance Code 
Diversity concept 

Diversity concept  

As an integral part of Deutsche Bank’s strategy as a leading European bank with a global reach and a strong home market in 
Germany, diversity is a decisive factor for the bank’s success. Diversity, equity and inclusion help Deutsche Bank in forming 
and strengthening relationships with its clients and partners in the societies where the bank does business. 

Age and gender as well as educational and professional backgrounds have long been accepted as key aspects of the far 
more comprehensive understanding of diversity at Deutsche Bank. 

The bank is convinced that diversity, equity and inclusion stimulate innovation, for example, and helps the bank to take more 
balanced  decisions  and  thus  play  a  decisive  role  for the  success  of  Deutsche Bank.  Diversity  and  inclusion are therefore 
integral components of the bank’s values and beliefs and its Code of Conduct. 

The Supervisory Board and Management Board strive to and should serve as role models for the bank regarding diversity, 
equity and inclusion. In accordance with the bank’s values and beliefs specified above, diversity in the composition of the 
Supervisory Board and the Management Board also facilitates the proper performance of the tasks and duties assigned to 
them by law, Articles of Association and Terms of Reference. 

Based on Deutsche Bank’s understanding of diversity, equity and inclusion, the values and beliefs and the measures described 
in  the  following  for  their  implementation  also  apply  –  to  the  extent  legally  admissible  –  to  the  Supervisory  Board  and  the 
Management Board of Deutsche Bank AG. The Supervisory Board considers diversity in the company, in particular, when 
filling positions on the Management Board and Supervisory Board. 

On July 27, 2023, the Supervisory Board of Deutsche Bank AG updated the Suitability Guideline for selecting members of the 
Supervisory Board and Management Board of Deutsche Bank AG, which also continues to comprise diversity principles. This 
Suitability Guideline implements the “Guidelines on the assessment of the suitability of members of the management body 
and key function holders” issued jointly by the European Banking Authority and European Securities and Markets Authority. 

Diversity concept for the Supervisory Board  

The diversity concept for the Supervisory Board and its implementation are described above in the section “Objectives for the 
composition of the Supervisory Board, Profile of Requirements, diversity concept and status of implementation”. 

Diversity concept and succession planning for the Management Board  

Through  the  composition  of  the  Management  Board,  it  is  to  be  ensured  that  its  members  have,  at  all  times,  the  required 
knowledge,  skills  and  experience  necessary to  properly  perform  their tasks.  Accordingly, when  selecting  members  for the 
Management Board, care is to be taken that they collectively have sufficient expertise and diversity within the meaning of the 
objectives specified above. Furthermore, the Supervisory Board and Management Board are to ensure long-term succession 
planning. 

The current German Act to Supplement and Amend Regulations on the Equal Participation of Women and Men in Management 
Positions in the Private and Public Sectors (Equal Participation Act II (FüPoG II) requires that at least one woman and one 
man be appointed to a management board with more than three members; however, no additional goals must be set. The 
bank  fulfilled  this  requirement  as  of  December  31,  2023,  as  it  has  one  woman  on  the  Management  Board.  In  general,  a 
Management Board member should not be older at the end of his or her appointment period than the regular retirement age 
according to the rules of the statutory pension insurance scheme applicable in Germany for the long-term insured to claim an 
early retirement pension.  

469 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Deutsche Bank  
Annual Report 2023 

Compliance with the German Corporate Governance Code 
Diversity concept 

Implementation  

In accordance with the law, the Articles of Association and Terms of Reference, the Supervisory Board adopted a candidate 
profile for the members of the Management Board, based on a proposal from the Nomination Committee. This profile takes 
into  account  an  “Expertise  and  Capabilities  Matrix”,  specifying,  among  other  things,  the  required  knowledge,  skills  and 
experience to perform the tasks as Management Board member, in order to successfully develop and implement the bank’s 
strategy in the respective market or the respective division and as a management body collectively. The Management Board 
reviews succession plans for Management Board positions, both individually and as a group. Individual succession plans are 
reviewed and internal succession candidates are discussed in detail based on potential, leadership skills and experience as 
well as fit and proper suitability. As gender diversity is a key focus of Deutsche Bank, the respective succession metrics and 
data analytics support this process. After approval by the Management Board these plans are submitted to the Nomination 
Committee and the Supervisory Board in principle at a meeting for extensive deliberation. 

In identifying candidates to fill a position on the bank’s Management Board, the Supervisory Board’s Nomination Committee 
takes  into  account  the  appropriate  diversity  balance  of  all  Management  Board  members  collectively.  Furthermore,  it  also 
considers the targets set by the Supervisory Board in accordance with statutory requirements for the percentage of women 
on the Management Board.  

The Nomination Committee supports the Supervisory Board with the periodic assessment, to be performed at least once a 
year, of the knowledge, skills and experience of the individual members of the Management Board and of the Management 
Board in its entirety.  

Results achieved in the 2023 financial year  

As of December 31, 2023, the Management Board comprised one woman (11%) and eight men.  

The  age  structure  is  diverse,  ranging  from  48  to  56  years  of  age  as  of  December  31,  2023.  The  length  of  experience  as 
member of the Management Board of Deutsche Bank as of December 31, 2023, ranged from less than one year to around 
eight years.  

In light of the bank’s strategy as a leading European bank with a global reach and a strong home market in Germany, five of 
the nine Management Board members as of December 31, 2023 have a German background. Furthermore, the Management 
Board members come from Italy, the United Kingdom, France, Australia, New Zealand and Switzerland. However, the ethnic 
diversity of the Management Board does not currently reflect the full diversity of the markets where the bank does business 
or the diversity of Deutsche Bank’s employees.  

The  diverse  range  of  the  Management  Board  members’  educational  and  professional  backgrounds  includes  accounting, 
banking, business administration, economics, engineering finance, literature law and philosophy.  

The bank transparently reports on Management Board diversity in addition to the information presented above in this Corporate 
Governance Report in the section “Management Board and Supervisory Board:  

Management Board” as well as on the bank’s website: www.db.com (Heading: Investor Relations, “Corporate Governance”, 
“Management Board”). 

470 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
5

Supplementary Information 
(Unaudited)

472  Non-GAAP Financial Measures

480  Declaration of Backing 

481  Group Five-Year Record

482	

Imprint / Publications

Deutsche Bank  
Annual Report 2023 

Non-GAAP Financial Measures 
Return on Equity Ratios 

Non-GAAP Financial Measures 

This document and other documents the Group has published or may publish contain non-GAAP financial measures. Non-
GAAP financial measures are measures of the Group’s historical or future performance, financial position or cash flows that 
contain adjustments that exclude or include amounts that are included or excluded, as the case may be, from the most directly 
comparable measure calculated and presented in accordance with IFRS in the Group’s financial statements.  

Return on Equity Ratios 

The Group reports a post-tax return on average shareholders’ equity and a post-tax return on average tangible shareholders’ 
equity, each of which is a non-GAAP financial measure. 

The post-tax returns on average shareholders’ equity and average tangible shareholders' equity are calculated as profit (loss) 
attributable to Deutsche Bank shareholders after profit (loss) attributable to additional equity components (AT1 coupon) as a 
percentage of average shareholders’ equity and average tangible shareholders' equity, respectively. 

Profit (loss) attributable to Deutsche Bank shareholders after profit (loss) attributable to additional equity components (AT1 
coupon)  for  the  segments  is  a  non-GAAP  financial  measure  and  is  defined  as  profit  (loss)  excluding  post-tax  profit  (loss) 
attributable to noncontrolling interests and after profit (loss) attributable to additional equity components (AT1 coupon), which 
are allocated to segments based on their allocated average tangible shareholders’ equity. For the Group, it reflects the reported 
effective tax rate, which was 14% for the full year 2023, (1)% for 2022 and 26% for 2021. For the segments, the applied tax 
rate was 28% for 2023, 2022 and 2021.  

At  the  Group  level,  tangible  shareholders'  equity  is  shareholders’  equity  as  reported  in  the  Consolidated  Balance  Sheet 
excluding  goodwill  and  other intangible  assets.  Tangible  shareholders’  equity  for the  segments  is  calculated  by  deducting 
goodwill and other intangible assets from shareholders’ equity as allocated to the segments. Shareholders’ equity and tangible 
shareholders’ equity are presented on an average basis. 

The Group believes that a presentation of average tangible shareholders’ equity makes comparisons to its competitors easier 
and refers to this measure in the return on equity ratios presented by the Group. However, average tangible shareholders’ 
equity is not a measure provided for in IFRS, and the Group’s ratios based on this measure should not be compared to other 
companies’ ratios without considering differences in the calculations. 

The reconciliation of the aforementioned ratios is set forth in the table below: 

in € m. 
(unless stated otherwise) 
Profit (loss) before tax 
Profit (loss) 
Profit (loss) attributable to 
noncontrolling interests 
Profit (loss) attributable to DB 
shareholders and additional 
equity components 

Profit (loss) attributable to additional equity 
components 
Profit (loss) attributable to Deutsche Bank 
shareholders 

Average allocated shareholders' equity 
Deduct: Average allocated goodwill and other 
intangible assets1 
Average allocated tangible shareholders' equity 
Post-tax return on average 
shareholders’ equity 
Post-tax return on average 
tangible shareholders’ equity 

Corporate 
Bank 
2,984     
2,148     

Investment 
Bank 
1,836     
1,322     

Private 
Bank 
1,015     
731     

Asset 
Management 

396     
285     

Corporate & 
Other 
(553)     
405     

2023 

Total 
5,678 
4,892 

0     

0     

0     

0     

120     

120 

2,148     

1,322     

731     

285     

286     

4,772 

121     

262     

132     

23     

23     

560 

2,027     

1,060     

599     

263     

263     

4,212 

13,306     

27,593     

14,477     

5,318     

2,318     

63,011 

1,059     
12,247     

1,246     
26,346     

1,094     
13,383     

2,989     
2,328     

45     
2,273     

6,434 
56,577 

15.2%   

3.8%   

4.1%   

4.9%     

N/M   

6.7% 

16.6%   

4.0%   

4.5%   

11.3%     

N/M   

7.4% 

N/M – Not meaningful 
1  Goodwill and other intangible assets related to the share of DWS that is not held by Deutsche Bank are excluded since the first quarter of 2018 

472 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
 
 
   
 
 
     
   
   
   
   
   
  
Deutsche Bank  
Annual Report 2023 

Non-GAAP Financial Measures 
Return on Equity Ratios 

in € m. 
(unless stated otherwise) 
Profit (loss) before tax 
Profit (loss) 
Profit (loss) attributable to 
noncontrolling interests 
Profit (loss) attributable to DB 
shareholders and additional 
equity components 

Profit (loss) attributable to additional equity 
components 
Profit (loss) attributable to Deutsche Bank 
shareholders 

Average allocated shareholders' equity 
Deduct: Average allocated goodwill and other 
intangible assets1 
Average allocated tangible shareholders' equity 
Post-tax return on average 
shareholders’ equity 
Post-tax return on average 
tangible shareholders’ equity 

Corporate 
Bank 
1,814     
1,306     

Investment 
Bank 
3,217     
2,316     

Private 
Bank 
1,722     
1,240     

Asset 
Management 

584     
421     

Corporate & 
Other 
(1,743)     
376     

2022 

Total 
5,594 
5,659 

0     

0     

0     

0     

134     

134 

1,306     

2,316     

1,240     

421     

242     

5,525 

103     

232     

116     

22     

28     

500 

1,203     

2,084     

1,124     

399     

214     

5,025 

12,015     

26,036     

13,557     

5,395     

2,991     

59,994 

953     
11,062     

1,139     
24,897     

1,108     
12,449     

3,067     
2,328     

61     
2,929     

6,328 
53,666 

10.0%   

8.0%   

8.3%   

7.4%     

N/M   

8.4% 

10.9%   

8.4%   

9.0%   

17.1%     

N/M   

9.4% 

N/M – Not meaningful 
Prior year’s comparatives aligned to presentation in the current year 
1  Goodwill and other intangible assets related to the share of DWS that is not held by Deutsche Bank are excluded since the first quarter of 2018 

in € m. 
(unless stated otherwise) 
Profit (loss) before tax 
Profit (loss) 
Profit (loss) attributable to 
noncontrolling interests 
Profit (loss) attributable to DB 
shareholders and additional 
equity components 

Profit (loss) attributable to additional equity 
components 
Profit (loss) attributable to Deutsche Bank 
shareholders 

Average allocated shareholders' equity 
Deduct: Average allocated goodwill and other 
intangible assets1 
Average allocated tangible shareholders' equity 
Post-tax return on average 
shareholders’ equity 
Post-tax return on average 
tangible shareholders’ equity 

Corporate 
Bank 
609     
438     

Investment 
Bank 
3,458     
2,490     

Private 
Bank 
(133)     
(96)     

Asset 
Management 

809     
583     

Corporate & 
Other 
(1,353)     
(906)     

2021 

Total 
3,390 
2,510 

0     

0     

0     

0     

144     

144 

438     

2,490     

(96)     

583     

(1,050)     

2,365 

81     

207     

103     

17     

18     

426 

358     

2,282     

(199)     

566     

(1,067)     

1,940 

11,101     

25,281     

13,041     

5,128     

1,883     

56,434 

893     
10,208     

1,072     
24,208     

1,105     
11,936     

2,936     
2,192     

42     
1,841     

6,049 
50,385 

3.2%   

9.0%   

(1.5)%   

11.0%     

N/M   

3.4% 

3.5%   

9.4%   

(1.7)%   

25.8%     

N/M   

3.8% 

N/M – Not meaningful 
Prior year’s comparatives aligned to presentation in the current year 
1  Goodwill and other intangible assets related to the share of DWS that is not held by Deutsche Bank are excluded since the first quarter of 2018 

473 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
 
 
   
 
 
     
   
   
   
   
   
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
 
 
   
 
 
     
   
   
   
   
   
  
