Serving our customers,  
communities and planet  
a little better every day.

Annual Report and 
Financial Statements  
2023.

Contents

2023 highlights

Strategic report
2023 highlights ...............................................................................IFC
Introduction .......................................................................................1
Tesco at a glance ...............................................................................2
Supporting stakeholders through the cost-of-living crisis ...............4 
Purpose and values ...........................................................................6
Chairman’s statement ...................................................................... 7
Group Chief Executive’s review ........................................................8
Our market context .......................................................................... 11
Our strategic priorities  ....................................................................12
Key performance indicators ............................................................14
Our business model .........................................................................15
Our colleagues..................................................................................16
Climate .............................................................................................18
Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures .....................20
Section 172 statement .....................................................................25
Stakeholder engagement ................................................................26
Non-financial information statement .............................................28
Financial review ...............................................................................30
Principal risks and uncertainties .....................................................38
Longer term viability statement ......................................................46
Corporate governance
Governance introduction ................................................................48
Governance at a glance ...................................................................50
Board of Directors ...........................................................................51
Executive Committee ......................................................................55
Corporate governance, purpose and culture .................................56
Board effectiveness .........................................................................61
Board leadership in action ..............................................................62
Board activity ..................................................................................64
Nominations and Governance Committee .....................................66
Corporate Responsibility Committee .............................................69
Audit Committee ..............................................................................71
Directors’ remuneration report ...................................................... 77
Directors’ report ............................................................................102

Financial statements
Independent auditor’s report ........................................................107
Group income statement ...............................................................120
Group statement of comprehensive income/(loss) .......................121
Group balance sheet ......................................................................122
Group statement of changes in equity ..........................................123
Group cash flow statement ...........................................................124
Notes to the Group financial statements ......................................125
Tesco PLC – Parent Company balance sheet ................................ 191
Tesco PLC – Parent Company statement  
of changes in equity .......................................................................192
Notes to the Parent Company financial statements .....................193
Related undertakings of the Tesco Group .....................................199

Other information
Supplementary information (unaudited) .......................................204
Glossary – Alternative performance measures ............................207
Five-year record ............................................................................213
Shareholder information ................................................................214

Performance highlights
Group salesΔ(a) 

£57.7bn
5.3%
(2022: £54.8bn)

Adjusted operating 
profitΔ(b)
£2,630m
(6.9)%
(2022: £2,825m)

Dividend per share
10.90p
Unchanged
(2022: 10.90p)

UK market share  
(sales value)(d)
27.3%
(39)bps
(2022: 27.7%)

Adjusted  
diluted EPSΔ(b)
21.85p
(0.0)%
(2022: 21.86p)

Retail free cash flowΔ(c) 

£2,133m
(6.3)%
(2022: £2,277m)

Net debtΔ(c)
£(10,493)m
(0.2) %
(2022: £(10,516)m)

Group net  
promoter score(e)
15pts
(5)pts
(2022: 20pts)

Statutory measures
Statutory revenue
£65.8bn
7.2%
(2022: £61.3bn)

Operating profit
£1,525m
(40.4)%
(2022: £2,560m)

Statutory profit  
before tax
£1,000m
(50.8)%
(2022: £2,033m)

Statutory diluted EPS 

10.08p
(48.7)%
(2022: 19.64p)

Δ Alternative performance measures (APMs)
All measures apart from Net debt are shown on a continuing operations basis unless 
otherwise stated, with growth stated at actual exchange rates. The Group has defined 
and outlined the purpose of its APMs in the Glossary starting on page 207. 

(a) Group sales exclude VAT and fuel.
(b) Adjusted operating profit and Adjusted diluted EPS exclude the impact of adjusting items.
(c) Net debt and Retail free cash flow exclude the impact of Tesco Bank.
(d) UK market share based on Kantar Grocers Total Till Roll on a 12-week basis ending 

19 February 2023.

(e) Basis – Tesco Global Brand tracker on a three-month rolling basis. 2022 NPS was 

reported on a 12-month rolling basis at 18pts.

Hello.

Tesco was built to be a champion for customers, serving them 
every day with affordable, healthy and sustainable food. 

Our commitment to our customers extends beyond our 
stores, and into every local community we serve – in the UK, 
Republic of Ireland (ROI), Slovakia, the Czech Republic and 
Hungary. We provide extra support to those that need it, 
through food banks, donation schemes and community grants. 

This year, we have been laser-focused on keeping the cost of 
the weekly shop affordable for our customers. At the same time, 
we have invested in our colleagues and worked in partnership 
with our suppliers, providing additional support where needed.

At the heart of Tesco is our fantastic team of more than 330,000 
colleagues, who go above and beyond to make a difference. 
We work hard to be an inclusive workplace, where all colleagues 
can be at their best and build the skills to grow their careers. 

In challenging times, our purpose has guided every part of the 
Group, from Booker and One Stop to Tesco Bank, Tesco Mobile 
and dunnhumby. Serving our customers, communities and 
planet a little better every day is what we do. 

Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2023

1

Tesco at a glance

The Tesco Group.

Tesco is a British grocery retailer, with its headquarters in the 
United Kingdom.

We serve millions of customers every week, in stores and online 
and provide additional services across the Tesco family.

Founded in 1919, Tesco began as a market stall in the East End of 
London. Today we operate 4,859* stores in five markets: the UK, 
the ROI, the Czech Republic, Slovakia and Hungary.

Our businesses

The Tesco Group also 
includes: Tesco Bank; 
Tesco Mobile; a network 
of One Stop convenience 
stores; Booker, the UK’s 
leading wholesale business; 
and our data-science 
business, dunnhumby.

3,712

stores in the  
United Kingdom

166

stores in the  
Republic of Ireland

187

stores in the  
Czech Republic

157

stores in Slovakia

197

stores in Hungary

Key facts

£57.7bn

Group sales
2022: £54.8bn

£2,630m

Adjusted operating profit
2022: £2,825m

£2,133m

Retail free cash flow
2022: £2,277m

To read more about our financial 
performance go to page 30

 * including franchises

2

Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2023

Our businesses

Tesco is a leading multinational grocery retailer, 
which aims to serve customers affordable, healthy 
and sustainable food.

www.tesco.com

Booker is the UK’s leading food and drink wholesaler, 
serving caterers, independent retailers and other 
businesses. Booker also owns symbol brands 
including Budgens, Londis and Premier. 

www.booker.co.uk

dunnhumby is a global leader in customer data 
science. It works with brands, grocery retail, retail 
pharmacy and retail financial services to provide 
technology, software and consultancy services.

www.dunnhumby.com

One Stop is a retail convenience business with more 
than 1,000 shops and a focus on being the best 
store for customers in every neighbourhood.

www.onestop.co.uk

Tesco Bank offers a range of personal banking and 
insurance products with the aim of making financial 
products easier and better value for its customers. 
The Bank helps more than five million customers 
manage their money every day.

www.tescobank.com

Tesco Mobile is a mobile operator serving more than 
five million UK customers. Established in 2003 as a 
joint venture between Tesco and O2, Tesco Mobile 
has grown into an award-winning network with 
more than 500 phone shops. 

www.tescomobile.com

Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2023

3

Strategic reportSupporting stakeholders through the cost-of-living crisis

Helping customers 
spend less.

Our value proposition

UK & ROI

Central Europe

Aldi Price Match and Price Guarantee: price 
matching on the most important products  
means customers can be confident they don’t  
need to shop elsewhere for great value.

Low Everyday Prices: consistent low prices on 
products customers buy regularly, so they can 
confidently plan and manage their spend.

Clubcard Prices: rewarding customers for  
their loyalty with exclusive deals/discounts.

We understand the pressures that our 
customers have faced this year, and 
have been doing everything we can to 
support them. We work relentlessly to 
keep the weekly shop as affordable as 
possible, offering great value in more 
places than anyone else – from grocery  
to mobile to banking.

Our priorities throughout this period have been clear: to help our 
customers spend less; to continue investing in our colleagues;  
and to deliver a positive difference in the communities we serve.  
We have worked closely with our supplier partners to support 
them through these challenging market conditions.

>8,000

value lines in the UK

Customers | Lowering the 
price of the weekly shop 
through our powerful 
combination of Aldi Price 
Match, Low Everyday Prices 
and Clubcard Prices.

~8%

increase in UK hourly  
colleague pay in 2022

Colleagues | Substantial  
investment in colleague  
base pay, on top of  
other benefits. 

4

Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2023

Unwavering support for customers.
Our research with customers told us they wanted help with four key things:

1

Affordable food  
and clothing

2

Healthy, affordable 
choices

3

Fuel and  
travel costs

4

Occasional 
treats

We leveraged our scale 
and capabilities across the 
Group to help customers 
spend less during the year 
and provide help where 
they wanted it most.

CE

UK

Booker

£27.5m

support package

Suppliers | We have invested  
£27.5m in the UK egg sector  
in the past year.

Mobile

ROI

Bank

More than
52 million

meals donated this year

Communities | We have given more than 
52 million meals to food banks and charity  
partners across the Group during  
the past year.

Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2023

5

Strategic reportPurpose and values

Purpose and values.

A clear purpose unites the Tesco Group and supports the 
ambitions and commitments of our business strategy. This 
year, we lived our purpose through the many different ways 
we served customers, stepped up for local communities and 
progressed against our environmental commitments. 

Serving our customers, 
communities and planet  
a little better every day.

Our values.

Our three values underpin our purpose, setting out how we work together as a team 
and guiding the decisions and choices we make across the Group.

No one tries  
harder for 
customers.

We listen to our customers, our 
communities and each other, and use the 
feedback provided to make better 
decisions as a business. With the 
expertise and knowledge of our 
colleagues, we change, innovate and 
adapt to meet customer needs.

We treat people 
how they want  
to be treated.

People will always be at the heart of Tesco 
– a place where everyone is welcome. An 
inclusive, supportive workplace for our 
colleagues, where they feel recognised 
and rewarded for the work they do and 
have opportunities to get on. A business 
where we build strong, long-term 
relationships with our suppliers and other 
external partners. Respect, trust and 
understanding is in our culture.

Every little help 
makes a big 
difference.

Help comes in all shapes and sizes. From 
supporting local food banks and 
community projects via our Community 
Grants programme, to delivering great 
service, our colleagues continue to 
change things for the better. When we 
add up the many things we do at a local 
level, together we make a big difference.

6

Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2023

Chairman’s statement

This has been another significant year for Tesco, once again 
shaped by circumstances outside our control. The business has 
demonstrated incredible resilience, as we stepped up to support 
customers, colleagues, suppliers and communities through the 
impact of rising cost pressures. At the same time, we have made 
further progress towards achieving our strategic priorities and, 
in turn, we have seen strong sales growth across the Group. 

I want to say a big thank you to our colleagues for their hard work 
and dedication throughout the year. Every team and colleague had 
their own challenges to face, and have risen collectively to meet 
those challenges incredibly well. 

Balancing the needs of all our stakeholders
You will see throughout this report what we have done during 
the year to support our customers, colleagues, suppliers 
and communities. 

It has been a year when the Board and the executive team have 
taken great care to ensure we strike the right balance in everything 
we do. In short, that we do the right thing by all our stakeholders.

We have invested in our value offer so we can help our customers 
save money whether they are buying groceries or banking with us. 
Our strong customer focus has meant we are the only full-line 
grocer to grow UK market share in the past three years and our 
brand NPS score is the highest of the full-line grocers.

It has also been important to invest in our colleagues throughout 
these challenging times, improving reward packages delivered 
across the Group. This recognises that our colleagues are at the 
heart of Tesco, playing a vital role in ensuring we remain a strong 
business and continue to deliver for customers. 

It was also important to continue recognising the essential role 
we play in the communities we serve, in particular how we stepped 
up for them when they needed it most.

By getting this balance right, we have been able to deliver  
top-line growth, profit and cash and this approach is delivering 
for all our stakeholders.

Continued growth
This year, we have delivered strong sales performance in all 
segments, with Group sales increasing 5.3% at constant rates 
and Retail like-for-like sales up 5.1%. Retail adjusted operating 
profit decreased by (6.3)% to £2.5 billion. This reflects our 
continued investment in great value and great quality for our 
customers, at the same time as looking after our colleagues.

By delivering value 
for customers, 
we create 
sustainable 
value for 
shareholders too.

Board changes 
In June 2022, we said goodbye to Steve Golsby and Simon 
Patterson who retired from the Board. We thank them for their 
valuable contribution to Tesco over several years. Alison Platt 
succeeded Steve Golsby as Chair of the Remuneration Committee.

Last October, we welcomed Caroline Silver to the Board as an 
independent Non-executive Director and member of the Audit 
Committee. Caroline has a wealth of experience across a number 
of commercial, financial and governance roles and has brought 
valuable knowledge and perspective to the Board.

In September 2023, Dame Carolyn Fairbairn will be joining the 
Board as an independent Non-executive Director. Dame Carolyn 
will also be appointed as a member of the Remuneration 
Committee and Corporate Responsibility Committee.

Lindsey Pownall will be retiring from the Board at the conclusion 
of the 2023 AGM. Lindsey’s retirement from the Board will mean 
that she also steps down from her role as Chair of the Corporate 
Responsibility Committee, where she will be succeeded by 
Stewart Gilliland.

I am pleased that we continue to make progress on gender 
equality on the Board, reaching 42% female representation in line 
with our target. We remain committed to equality across our 
business and continue to work towards that goal.

Looking ahead
In the coming months, we will continue to manage the impact 
of cost-of-living pressures and focus relentlessly on delivering 
value for our customers. Significant uncertainty in the economic 
environment remains, but Tesco is a strong business, with 
more than 330,000 exceptional colleagues guided by the one 
purpose of serving our customers, communities and planet a 
little better every day. 

Whatever the circumstances, I am confident our colleagues will go 
above and beyond to support our customers and that by working 
together we can continue to deliver against our strategy and 
create sustainable long-term value.

John Allan CBE
Non-executive Chair 
12 April 2023

For more information about how we have helped our 
stakeholders see pages 4 to 5, 8 to 13 and 16.

Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2023

7

Strategic reportGroup Chief Executive’s review

Guided by our 
purpose, we are 
building a 
stronger 
business.

Last year we set out our new strategic priorities, and I am pleased 
to say that we have made strong progress against them this year 
as set out on pages 12 and 13. 

We have continued to support our customers and delivered a 
strong performance, responding with speed and agility to the new 
and ongoing challenges we faced during the year. It is testament 
to our resilience as a business, our careful planning, and our 
flexibility that we have been able to do so with such success. 

It is also testament to the brilliant work of the Tesco team, 
and I want to thank each and every colleague for all they have 
done. Individually and collectively, we have been guided by 
our purpose to serve our customers, communities and planet 
a little better every day. This united effort, as well as our 
collaborative and supportive culture, is one of our biggest 
advantages in tough times.

Supporting our customers with a relentless  
focus on value
Inflation is a pressing reality for everyone – customers, 
colleagues, suppliers, and every member of our communities. 
At Tesco, we know it is our job to listen, to understand and then 
to act to help customers through these challenges. We also know 
customers are looking for value but do not want to compromise 
on the other aspects of their shop that are important to them. 
This is why we are focused on keeping the weekly shop not just 
reliably affordable, but also healthy and sustainable, while 
delivering great quality and convenience. 

When it comes to value, we know that customers are looking for 
it wherever, whenever and however they choose to shop with us. 
This is why we have doubled down on value across the whole 
Group, see page 4. 

We have price-matched more than 600 every day items to Aldi in 
the UK, and locked our Low Everyday Prices on hundreds of 
everyday staples until Easter in the UK and ROI. We’ve also fully 
rolled out Clubcard Prices to every market, and launched 
new initiatives via Tesco Bank and Tesco Mobile. And, following the 
launch of our cost-of-living hub through Tesco Bank, we can offer 

8

Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2023

guidance and advice to help people manage their finances. Booker 
has also been a champion of value, supporting customers with a 
price freeze on 450 key catering lines. For further details on all 
these initiatives and more, see pages 4-5.

Recognising our colleagues
Our colleagues are at the heart of everything we do. We recognised 
that with household costs rising in the UK, the ROI and Central 
Europe, we needed to reflect their value in our reward package. 
Colleagues in every market have therefore received substantial 
investments in their base pay. In the UK, this included a nearly 8% 
increase for hourly-paid colleagues in 2022.

Working in partnership with suppliers
Our partnerships with suppliers have been essential this year 
as we all worked hard to keep the weekly shop as affordable as 
possible for customers. We recognise the inflationary pressures 
that suppliers are facing and have therefore been committed to 
working collaboratively to manage all associated impacts.

We’ve always been clear that where there are pressures, we will 
play our part in providing support. For example, we’ve announced 
additional support for a number of agricultural sectors including a 
£27.5m investment in the British egg industry and a 10% increase 
in contract pricing for the 2022 potato harvest. 

As a result, suppliers have voted us the number 1 retailer in 
the independently run Advantage survey for seven years 
running, reflecting our commitment to strong partnerships 
and collaboration.

Supporting our local communities
Having a positive impact on the communities we serve is central 
to our purpose, and it was essential that we stepped up for them 
when they most needed our support. We did this through our £1m 
Golden Grant programme, offering a £10,000 grant to 100 local 
charities chosen by customers. We also introduced Kids Eat Free 
at Tesco Cafés during school holidays, giving away nearly 440,000 
meals to children.

Delivering for shareholders
For shareholders, we have delivered another year of strong 
growth. Regardless of the external challenges, we have remained 
focused on our strategic priorities and have been guided by our 
purpose at all times.

While there is significant uncertainty in the year ahead, we have 
confidence in our ability to continue to generate cash in the 
coming years, and we are committed to a progressive dividend 
policy, this year announcing a full-year dividend of 10.90p per share.

We are building good momentum and have strong plans in place 
that will make the most of our unique strengths. Above all, we have 
a fantastic team of colleagues helping to build a stronger business. 

Ken Murphy
Group Chief Executive 
12 April 2023

Reduced in price. Just as nice.

To help our customers find bargains more easily and 
support our commitment to providing customers with 
great value, we launched our ‘Reduced in price. Just as 
nice.’ areas in over 100 stores. These reduced-to-clear 
sections feature a wide range of products at lower prices, 
including fresh produce like salads, meat, bread and sweet 
treats that are close to their expiry date. They not only 
help customers find something tasty for dinner, or to pop 
in the freezer, at a lower price - they also contribute to 
our goal of halving food waste by 2025.

But it’s the meals we provide to food charities and food banks 
that deliver the greatest positive impact. Tesco is the biggest 
supplier of food distributed by FareShare, and alongside our 
customers we are also the largest single source of food donations 
for food banks for The Trussell Trust. I have been bowled over 
this year by the continued generosity of Tesco colleagues and 
customers in all our markets.

Looking after the planet
While we focused on the rising cost of living during the year, we 
were acutely aware that we could not put the environment on 
hold. We needed to press ahead with urgency on reducing our 
impact on the planet and we did just that. The relentless efforts 
of our teams towards our net zero commitment have helped us 
achieve a 55% reduction in emissions in our own operations 
since our 2015 baseline. 

We also became the first UK retailer to ban plastic wet wipes 
and, in addition, we have removed two billion pieces of plastic 
from the UK business to date. In the UK, by summer 2023, all 
Tesco tea bags will be compostable – that amounts to more 
than one billion bags a year. 

We are working closely with our farmers and suppliers to promote 
biodiversity in farming practices. We were particularly pleased this 
year to launch a large-scale commercial field trial with five major 
fresh produce suppliers to identify the most planet-friendly and 
cost-effective alternatives to conventional fertilisers. This trial will 
help reduce reliance on chemical fertilisers as well as reducing 
greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions in the supply chain. 

We continue to roll out electric vans for customer deliveries, and 
our fleet has now grown to include nearly 300 vans. We also now 
provide 2,500 customer electric vehicle (EV) charging points 
across 600 stores, as we seek to minimise our own emissions 
while working towards our overarching goal of net zero by 2050. 
This remains an ongoing journey, and one where we need to work 
closely with our suppliers and the industry. 

Progress on our strategic priorities
I am delighted with the progress we have made since launching 
our strategic priorities and performance framework last year. 
As we have responded to the various challenges involved, our 
priorities have only become more relevant as we build on our 
unique strengths and focus on doing the basics brilliantly.

We dig into the details of our strategic priorities on pages 12 and 
13, but I do want to say a few words on Clubcard. Since launching 
Clubcard Prices in all our markets, we have had a great response 
from customers. The number of active Clubcard holders we have 
in Central Europe has trebled this year, with sales penetration 
reaching 83%. Penetration in the ROI has risen to nearly 77% 
this year, while we are at nearly 79% in the UK. We are on a 
journey to make Clubcard more personalised, and have rolled 
out individualised digital coupons to four million customers in 
the UK alone. 

Our data science business, dunnhumby, is helping us to access 
new revenue streams from Clubcard. Since launching the Tesco 
Media and Insight platform with dunnhumby last year, we have 
helped 450 leading brands increase the effectiveness of their 
campaigns, build more interactive, two-way relationships with 
customers, and grow loyalty for Tesco and our suppliers.

Visit www.tescoplc.com/news/2022/reduced-to-
clear-signage-revamp

Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2023

9

Strategic reportGroup Chief Executive’s review continued

Q&A  
with Ken.

What is your highlight from this year? 
My highlight is the time I have spent in stores, when I’m able to talk 
to colleagues and customers and see some of the team’s great work 
come to life. It’s also a chance to get some honest feedback about 
what is working and what isn’t. Retail is a fast-moving industry, and 
you learn so much from being on the shop floor. There’s never a 
better time to be in stores than at Christmas. I travelled around 
various stores in the Christmas week and the atmosphere was 
fantastic – I loved every minute.

How has Tesco responded to the cost-of-living 
challenges faced by colleagues this year?
It has been really important to recognise that colleagues have 
faced rising household bills just as much as customers. Of course, 
we have invested in pay, see page 16 for details. But we’ve also 
made a number of smaller changes that colleagues say have made a 
huge difference. These range from doubling our Colleague Clubcard 
discount over Christmas, to ensuring colleagues have plenty of 
good food available for free in colleague rooms – not to mention 
introducing a pay advance for any colleague who might be facing 
an unexpected bill.

How have you balanced the needs of all 
stakeholders? 
This has been a year when all our stakeholders have faced their own 
challenges and balancing those needs has been a delicate task. We 
always strive to make sure we’re doing the right thing and that we’re 
aligned to our purpose of serving our customers, communities and 
planet a little better every day. All that work helps give stakeholders 
confidence in our business, which in turn can create significant 
value for our shareholders. 

How has Tesco managed some of the year’s 
broader macroeconomic and political instability?
In the same way that we’ve managed the various challenges over 
the last three years. We have focused on what we can control. 
Where there was expected disruption, we had excellent plans in 
place to mitigate that. Where we needed to respond quickly, we 
demonstrated just how flexible we can be. In my view, that mixture 
of resilience and flexibility is a great strength of Tesco. 

Has Tesco had to press pause on any 
sustainability initiatives as it focused on serving 
customers through the cost-of-living pressures?
No, and that’s been really important. While the external focus may 
have been on value and prices, it was essential that we didn’t drop 
the ball on sustainability. In fact, we took our plans even further. 
Now is a critical time to take action on climate change, and we’re 
doing that by driving improvements and innovation at every point 
in our value chain. That’s first in our own operations, then in our 
supply chain and for our customers. Our plan on climate action 
focuses on the areas where we can make the biggest difference 
– energy, transport, waste, food production and diets. 

10

Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2023

You have talked previously about food 
security. Is this still a concern?
I believe that people haven’t talked about food security enough 
until now. If you look at the droughts in China, the floods in 
Pakistan, the crop failures in Canada and the US last year, you 
have to assume that we’re going to see an even greater increase 
in food insecurity. After energy, the food system has the greatest 
impact on the environment. We continue to work closely with our 
suppliers to improve food systems around the world and support 
them in making more sustainable choices. We have invested 
significantly in UK agricultural supply chains as they face 
challenging market conditions, aiming to ensure they’re 
sustainable in the long term. We continue to work on tackling 
deforestation in Brazil. During COP27, we joined forces with 
40 UK food companies and soy suppliers in announcing a landmark 
set of actions to ensure all soy used in animal feed in the UK is 
deforestation-free. These commitments will help us to deliver 
against the aims of the UK Soy Manifesto, which was agreed by 
the industry at COP26 in Glasgow.

What progress have you made towards your 
health targets?
Eating a well-balanced, healthy, sustainable diet is one of the best 
ways we can look after our health and the health of the planet 
– and we want to make it easier than ever for our customers to 
do this. We launched our Better Baskets campaign to help to 
make Tesco the easiest place to shop for affordable, healthy, 
sustainable food. This year we’ve driven an improvement in our 
health scores, from 58% to 60% in the UK & ROI and maintained 
the baseline position of 49% in Central Europe. We’ve removed 
more than 71 billion calories since 2018 through reformulation. 
We continue to look for ways to support customers and remove 
barriers to healthier eating, such as the Kids Eat Free offer in our 
cafés that helps children access a nutritionally balanced meal 
outside term time.

What are the key priorities for the 
year ahead? 
I’m excited about the momentum we are building. We have a 
formula that’s working and that we can build on and accelerate. 
For me, it’s about really making progress against those key 
strategic priorities. There’s plenty of exciting innovation in 
the pipeline – in product development, channels and 
customer experience. 

What is your outlook for the year ahead?
As we build on our momentum over the coming year, we believe 
that it’s as important as ever to remain focused on investing in 
our customers and delivering them the great value and quality 
they expect when shopping.

Our market context

Meeting market needs.

Market drivers

How we are responding

Concerns over cost of living

The rise in household costs means that more than ever 
before, customers are looking for affordable solutions while 
maintaining their standard of living. Customers are more 
selective and deliberate on what they spend their money on, 
looking for ways to make their food budget go further. 

For us, that makes it essential to deliver the best quality at the best 
price. Our value proposition of Low Everyday Prices combined with 
exceptional value offered by Clubcard Prices and Aldi Price Match 
means we are at the most competitive position we have been in for 
many years. As customers look for the best value, we offer that right 
across the store – from the volume-driven success of our Price Lock 
campaign through to the growth of our Finest range. For some 
customers, it is trading down from national brands to great value Tesco 
products. For others, it is seeking out Tesco from one of the higher-
priced, premium-focused retailers, or using our great range of ready 
meals instead of a takeaway or restaurant meal. 

Planet protection

With the effects of climate change becoming more pronounced 
and happening more frequently across the globe, customers 
want to take action to reduce their impact on the environment. 
They expect responsible businesses to do the same. As a result, 
many customers are seeking responsibly sourced, less resource-
intensive goods that safeguard the planet.

The efforts of our teams towards our net zero commitment have 
helped us achieve a 55% reduction in emissions in our own operations 
against a 2015/16 baseline, see more on pages 18 and 19. We became 
the first UK retailer to ban plastic wet wipes and, in addition, we have 
removed 2 billion pieces of plastic from the UK business to date. We 
are also taking action to reduce emissions across our supply chains, 
trialling agricultural innovations such as low-carbon fertilisers, 
alternative animal feeds and vertical farming techniques. 

Recognising diversity

As society is projected to become more diverse, the need 
for representation and recognition is growing. Customers 
are increasingly looking to brands that take pride in – and 
champion – differences.

As one of the largest employers in the UK, we recognise the importance 
of representing the communities we serve. Central to achieving this goal 
is our diversity and inclusion strategy, and the support we give to our 
colleagues on their individual career journeys. During the year we 
launched our Black Action Plan and were named among The Times Top 
50 Employers for Women for the second year running. For more 
information, see our Everyone’s Welcome report at www.tescoplc.com/
media/759669/tesco-everyones-welcome-report-2022.

We continue to look for ways to promote inclusivity and increase 
representation for our customers. These include; the launch of a 
basics range with skin tone colours, introducing products specifically 
designed for Black hair, and reflecting the diversity of our customers 
in our advertising.

Digital retail

Recent years have seen a significant increase in the number 
of businesses focusing on online, quick, and checkout-free 
commerce. Customers have access to shopping whenever, 
wherever and however they want it. And they continue to expect 
better, faster, integrated digital retail to make shopping easier.

One of our strategic priorities is to be Easily the most convenient for 
our customers. Our extensive store footprint reached a milestone 
with the opening of our 2,000th UK Tesco Express store in Cambridge 
in March. That, combined with more than 1,000 One Stop stores and 
more than 7,000 Booker fascias, means we have the largest network of 
convenience stores across the UK. This is complemented by the UK’s 
biggest online grocery service and exciting new initiatives such as our 
Whoosh rapid-delivery service and our frictionless GetGo stores.

Local community respect 

The effects of the pandemic led to many people spending more 
time in their local areas. The continued prevalence of 
homeworking has continued this, with a knock-on effect being 
increased care for and prioritisation of local environments. 

Having a positive impact on the communities we serve is central to 
our purpose. We stepped up for them in the past year through our £1m 
Golden Grant programme, offering a £10,000 grant to 100 local 
charities chosen by customers. We also introduced Kids Eat Free 
at Tesco Cafés during school holidays, giving away nearly 440,000 
meals to children. 

Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2023

11

Strategic reportOur strategic priorities

Progress against our 
strategic priorities.

Taken together, these strategic priorities enable us to continue delivering great value, increasing customer loyalty, and staying 
competitive while ensuring we remain agile and efficient as a business. These four priorities help us maintain our focus on doing 
the basics brilliantly and leveraging our unique strengths to accelerate growth.

Magnetic value for customers
Redefining value to become the customer’s favourite 

Why it is important

Progress during the year

 – Demonstrating the importance of value underpinned 

by price, quality and sustainability

 – Removing price as a reason to shop elsewhere

 – Making healthy, sustainable food affordable for everyone

 – Working with suppliers to develop sustainably sourced 

products of the highest quality

 – Continuing to make a positive contribution to the 

communities in which we operate

 – Continued to strengthen our value proposition with 
thousands of products now available through Aldi 
Price Match, Low Everyday Prices and Clubcard Prices 
in the UK & ROI, and Low Price Guarantee and 
Clubcard Prices in Central Europe

 – Launched two price locks in the UK & ROI on thousands 
of everyday products, giving customers great value on 
their weekly shop

 – Launched 998 new products over the year, including 

349 Finest products. Drove 6.8% growth in Finest sales

 – Continued to make progress on minimising our impact 
on the planet including accelerating plans to halve food 
waste; launching a zero-emission electric lorry; and 
investing in a new facility to protect the Brazilian 
rainforest against deforestation from soy cultivation

 – Launched our Better Baskets campaign to help 
customers make healthier, more sustainable 
shopping choices

I love my Tesco Clubcard
Increase loyalty and access new sources of revenue 

Why it is important

Progress during the year

 – Creating a personalised shopping experience for 

 – Clubcard penetration reached 79% in the UK, 77%  

customers by leveraging unique insights offered by 
one of the UK’s leading digital retail platforms

 – Developing incremental revenue opportunities with 
suppliers to help them offer customers tailored and 
relevant products

in the ROI and 83% in Central Europe

 – 21 million active Clubcard households

 – 11.7 million Clubcard app users in the UK, 2 million  

in Central Europe and 0.7 million in the ROI

 – Doubled the number of UK customers receiving in-app 

personalised coupons to 4 million

 – Celebrated the first anniversary of our Media and Insight 

platform and new-product suite – now working with 
more than 450 consumer goods brands

12

Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2023

Easily the most convenient
Incremental capital-light growth 

Why it is important

Progress during the year

 – Serving customers wherever, whenever and however 

 – Opened three more GetGo stores with new 

they want to be served. 

hybrid format.

 – Supporting growth of our core online business. 

 – Continuing strong growth of convenience through 
capital-light opportunities to maximise return. 

 – Whoosh now available in 1,000 stores, with up 
to 10,000 products available to customers.

 – Opened our fifth and sixth urban fulfilment centres.

 – Continuing evolution of large stores as the backbone 

 – Opened our 2,000th UK Express store in March.

of online grocery business as we maximise our 
existing assets. 

 – Continuing to test and learn from trials of new  

on-demand services to develop the right offer focused 
on convenience stores that complements our existing 
online business. 

 – More than 70% of UK households are now within 

25 minutes of a Click & Collect site. 

 – Celebrated 4,000th Premier opening, bringing the 
total number of fascias across Premier, Londis 
and Budgens to more than 7,000.

 – Completed the conversion of nine Joyce’s stores 

to Tesco stores in ROI.

Save to invest
A cost-efficient retailer 

Why it is important

Progress during the year

 – Aiming to simplify, be more productive and reduce costs.

 – Focus on offsetting inflation in the medium term and 

creating headroom to fund investments. 

 – Committed to spending money only where it adds value 

 – Strong track record of savings delivery across four 
streams: goods & services not for resale; property; 
operations; and central overheads.

 – Delivered accelerated savings in excess of £550m.

for customers and makes a real difference.

 – On track to deliver original three-year plan 12 months 

early with at least £1bn cumulative savings by 
February 2024.

Performance framework

The framework we will use to guide  
our actions and track our progress  
over the coming years.

Drive top-line growth, underpinned by
 – Increasing customer satisfaction relative to the market.

 – Growing or at least maintaining our core UK market share.

Grow absolute profits while maintaining 
sector-leading margins
 – Leverage assets efficiently across all channels.

 – Access new revenue streams across our digital platform.

 – Target productivity initiatives that at least offset inflation 

in the medium term.

In doing so, generate between £1.4bn and £1.8bn Retail free cash flow per year

Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2023

13

Strategic reportKey performance indicators

Our Big 6 KPIs.

Grow sales
Why it is important
Sustainable growth in sales is important 
to our business model.
What we measure
Group sales is a measure of revenue 
excluding sales made at petrol filling 
stations. It demonstrates the Group’s 
performance in the retail and financial 
services businesses by removing 
volatilities associated with the 
movement in fuel prices that are 
outside the control of management.
How we performed
Group sales rose 5.3% at constant 
rates, driven by strong growth across 
all segments.

Group salesΔ
£57.7bn 
(2022: £54.8bn)

5.3%(a)

Customers recommend 
us and come back time 
and again
Why it is important
Customers are at the heart of everything 
we do, and customer satisfaction is an 
important driver of loyalty.
What we measure
Our score reflects the percentage of 
Fans minus Critics answering the 
question ‘How likely is it that you 
would recommend Tesco to a friend 
or colleague?’
How we performed
Cost-of-living pressures have resulted in a 
slight decline in our Group NPS score but 
we remain resilient versus the market.

Group NPS
Three-month rolling
15pts
(2022: 20pts)

(5)pts(d)

Deliver profit
Why it is important
Delivering profitable growth is 
essential as we aim to create 
long-term value for all stakeholders.
What we measure
Adjusted operating profit is the 
headline measure of the Group’s 
performance.
How we performed
Adjusted operating profit was down 
(7.1)% at constant rates to £2.6bn, 
reflecting the significant investment 
we have made in our customers and 
colleagues this year.

Adjusted operating profitΔ
£2.6bn 
(2022: £2.8bn)

(7.1)%(b)

Colleagues recommend us 
as a great place to work 
and shop
Why it is important
When we get things right for our more 
than 330,000 colleagues, we make it even 
easier for them to do what they do best 
– serving our customers, communities and 
planet a little better every day.
What we measure
Our Great Place to Work measure is 
the percentage of colleagues who agree 
or strongly agree with the statement 
‘I would recommend Tesco as a great 
place to work’.

Great Place to Shop is an NPS measure, 
answering the question ‘I would 
recommend Tesco as a place to shop’. 
How we performed
Although there has been a small decline in 
colleagues recommending Tesco as a 
Great Place to Shop, our Great Place to 
Work score remains high at 82%.

(1)pts

Recommend as a place to shop 
40pts
(2022: 41pts)
Great Place to Work
82%
(2022: 80%)

+2pts

Improve operating cash flow
Why it is important
Strong cash generation is important to our 
underlying philosophy with which we 
manage our business.
What we measure
Retail operating cash flow is the cash 
generated from continuing operations.  
It is a measure of the cash generation 
and working capital efficiency of the retail 
business, excluding the effects of Tesco 
Bank’s cash flows. This is because Tesco 
Bank is run and regulated independently 
of our retail operations.
How we performed
We saw strong operating cash generation, 
with a high working capital inflow, driven 
largely by inflation.

Retail operating cash flow(c)
£4.5bn 
(2022: £4.5bn)

1.1%

Climate - reduce Scope 1 and 
2 emissions by 60% by 2025
Why it is important
This year, we have added a new measure 
– reducing our carbon emissions – 
reflecting the importance we are placing 
on minimising our impact on the planet.
What we measure
Based on our commitment to reduce 
Scope 1 and 2 carbon emissions by 60% 
by 2025, we measure the reduction in 
tonnes of CO2 equivalent (tCO2e) vs our 
2015/16 baseline. 
How we performed
We have achieved a reduction in carbon 
emissions by switching to renewable 
electricity, maintaining a consistent focus 
on driving energy efficiencies and making 
significant inroads to decarbonising our 
remaining key hotspots. Improving our 
energy efficiency delivered a further 
3%pts saving versus our baseline to a 
cumulative reduction of 55%.

Carbon emissions
1.0m
(2022: 1.1m)

  7%(e)

vs last year

3%pts
55% cumulative  
vs baseline

 ∆ Alternative performance measures (APMs). Measures with the ∆ symbol are defined in the Glossary section on pages 207 to 212.
(a) Group sales exclude VAT and fuel. Growth is at constant exchange rates on a comparable days basis.
(b) Growth is at constant exchange rates.
(c) Retail operating cash flow is the same as the statutory measure ‘Retail cash generated from operations’. Growth is at actual exchange rates.
(d) Basis Tesco Global Brand tracker on a three-month rolling basis. 2022 NPS was reported on a 12-month rolling basis at 18pts.
(e) Carbon emissions are based on total Scope 1 and 2 (market-based) footprint and stated as tonnes of CO2 equivalent (tCO2e), refer to the Climate section on pages 18 

and 19 for further detail. 

14

Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2023

 
Our business model

Our business model.

Unique combination of strengths
Understanding 
customers
We use our expertise 
to understand and 
meet our customers’ 
needs better than 
anybody else.

Our 
colleagues
We have more than 
330,000 colleagues 
who share our 
purpose and live by 
our values.

Scale and 
reach
Our unparalleled 
reach allows us to 
bring great quality 
products to more 
customers.

Own Brand 
products
We source quality 
products, with  
expert teams and 
close supplier 
partnerships.

Services
Services, such as 
mobile and banking, 
focus on the needs of 
Tesco shoppers and 
allow us to earn and 
retain their loyalty.

Innovation
We encourage a 
culture of innovation 
so that our business 
remains at the 
cutting edge of new 
trends and demand.

Business model

Products
We partner with our 
suppliers to source the 
best possible products 
that meet and anticipate 
customers’ evolving 
needs.

Customers 
Tesco exists  
to serve 
customers

Reinvest 
We focus on making Tesco 
the best it can be. The 
better we do our job for 
customers, the more we 
can reinvest. 

Channels
We work through a range  
of channels – from small 
shops to large stores, and 
online. Booker gives us 
access to further channels, 
including business centres 
and delivered wholesale.

To create value for all

Customers
Our business model 
allows us to bring 
our customers the 
best products at the 
best possible prices, 
no matter how 
they choose to  
shop with us.

Colleagues
The expertise of our 
colleagues drives 
every part of our 
business model – 
from our store 
teams to new 
product 
development.

Suppliers
Our conversations 
with suppliers focus 
on delivering great 
value, great quality 
products for our 
customers. When 
we get it right, our 
business grows.

Communities
Our commitment  
to our customers 
goes beyond 
stores and into 
every community 
we serve. 

Planet
At this critical time 
for our planet, 
we are working to 
reduce our impact 
and help suppliers 
and customers to 
do the same. 

Shareholders
We work to maintain 
a strong and efficient 
balance sheet, invest 
for growth and 
deliver improved 
returns for our 
shareholders.

Voted Britain’s 
Favourite 
Supermarket* by 
customers for

Colleagues who feel 
able to be 
themselves without 
fear of judgement

Record level of 
Group supplier 
satisfaction 

Number of meals 
donated across 
the Group

Reduction in Scope 1 
and 2 GHG emissions 
vs 2015/16 baseline 

Full-year dividend 

8 yrs

85%

86.6%

more than

52m

55%

10.90p

 * Grocer Gold Awards

Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2023

15

Strategic report 
 
 
Our colleagues

A great place 
to work. 

Our dedicated and hardworking colleagues are at the heart 
of our success. We are committed to ensuring everyone feels 
welcome and has the support they need to be at their best. 
Building a culture of trust is a key part of this aim and has 
been recognised in our annual colleague engagement survey, 
Every Voice Matters, where 82% of colleagues recommended 
us as a great place to work. 

Investing in colleagues
Our more than 330,000 colleagues are at the heart of our 
business and how we win together plays a vital role in delivering 
our core purpose and enabling us to deliver for our customers, 
communities and planet. Winning together means helping to 
develop the next generation of talent as well as equipping our 
colleagues with the skills they need to thrive.

Recognising the vital role store colleagues play in serving our 
customers, in 2022 we increased pay for our hourly-paid 
colleagues in the UK by nearly 8%. This new deal recognises 
the contribution our colleagues make to our business at a time 
when household budgets are under pressure. In other markets 
our Central Europe (CE) colleagues have seen an increase of up 
to 12% in 2022, while Republic of Ireland (ROI) colleagues will have 
received a 10% cumulative increase to their pay by April 2023. 
In November 2022, Booker and One Stop colleagues received an 
increase of between 2.5% and 3.9% to their basic hourly rate. 
All colleagues enjoy a competitive and comprehensive benefits 
package, which provides access to share schemes, pensions and 
wellbeing benefit. This includes our Colleague Clubcard, which 
offers a 10% discount, increasing to 15% for four days each pay day 
for UK colleagues. Over the peak of Christmas week last year, we 
increased discounts by up to 20% for UK, ROI and CE colleagues. 

In the UK, we delivered on our commitment to always offer any 
vacant hours in stores to colleagues working fewer than 16 hours 
a week before recruiting externally. All new contracts are based 
on a minimum of 16 hours per week, with the exception of our 
smallest Convenience stores. 

To provide further support to our UK store colleagues we launched 
My Tesco App, which instantly retrieves available hours to match 
colleagues’ skills and incentivises them to build more capabilities in 
other areas. In 2024 we will continue its rollout to UK distribution 
and customer fulfilment centres, followed by CE and the ROI. 

In 2022/23 we launched three new products to support managers 
during the rollout of our Group-wide Your Contribution proposition 
to manage performance: create a winning performance culture; 
master feedback; and set strategic objectives. 

We also continued to roll out our manager development 
programme. More than 7,000 colleagues Group-wide attended 
courses on being an inclusive manager, adaptable thinking 
and mastering conversations. In CE, more than 300 store 
managers and deputy managers participated in our manager 
capability training.

For the third year running, in Bengaluru we have partnered 
with the Great Manager Institute to deliver the Great Manager 
Programme, which aims to build the skills and capabilities of our 
managers with bespoke certified training. Since launching the 
programme, close to 300 colleagues have been certified.

Jobs, skills and training for young people 
We support both existing colleagues and young people starting 
their careers with a variety of apprenticeship programmes.  
So far, more than 3,500 apprentices have benefited. Our CE 
business provided more than 2,700 apprentices with in-store 
work experience, and in the ROI apprentices were given a range 
of work experience opportunities. 

In 2021, we announced the extension of our three-year 
partnership with the Prince’s Trust for a further five years, with 
an ambition to reach 200,000 more young people in secondary 
school, helping to build their employability skills and confidence. 
Alongside our delivery partners IGD, Speakers Schools and The 
Careers and Enterprise Company, we are tracking ahead of our 
ambition to help 45,000 young people through Achieve Clubs, 
with a continued focus in areas that are vital for young people, 
such as mental health and wellbeing.

Our final cohort of Kickstart colleagues finished their placements 
in April 2022, with 94% satisfied with their experience of the 
programme. 52% of young people who completed the programme 
gained employment with Tesco. Through our cross-sector 
collaboration with Movement to Work, we have trialled a new 
approach to short work placements for young people aged 16 
to 30, with and without a disability, and not in education, 
employment or training. 

Health, safety and wellbeing 
The physical and mental health, safety, and wellbeing of our 
colleagues is central to our ways of working. Based on our latest 
Every Voice Matters results, 86% of Group colleagues agreed 
that Safety at my workplace is taken seriously.

Recognising the challenges our store colleagues continue to face, 
we supported USDAW’s campaign to protect retail workers from 
abuse, threats and violence. The Police, Crime, Sentencing and 
Courts Bill (PCSC) received Royal Assent in May 2022 and will 
bring the same protections for our colleagues as those given to 
emergency service workers. 

We continued to offer free annual heath checks for our colleagues 
in Bengaluru. For colleagues in CE, we provide access to food 
packages consisting of fruit and vegetables to help improve diets. 
At Tesco Bank, we have rolled out ‘Be well building blocks’ to all 
colleagues to help drive healthier working practices and 
healthier living. 

Following a pilot involving more than 6,000 UK colleagues, in 
November 2022 we launched Pay Advance, an initiative which 
enables colleagues to access up to 25% of the money they have 
earned ahead of pay day to help deal with any unexpected costs. 
Safeguards on the service help to protect colleague pay and 
future income. 

After becoming a signatory of the Menopause Workplace Pledge, 
a commitment to ensuring colleagues going through menopause 
are supported, we updated our sickness and absence policy so 
that absence due to menopause-related symptoms is not counted 
as part of sickness absence calculation. We also introduced a 
range of resources including menopause-friendly uniforms, a 
colleague guide on menopause and a Talking Menopause Colleague 
Café to build a support network.

16

Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2023

Diversity and inclusion 
Creating a diverse and inclusive workplace that represents the 
communities we serve is vital to building an inclusive culture, 
where everyone feels welcome. It is embedded in our values 
‘we treat people how they want to be treated’ and is an integral 
part of our success at Tesco. We strive to make progress year on 
year and are proud that 85% of colleagues feel they can be 
themselves without fear of judgement, while 86% say their 
manager makes everyone in their team feel welcome.

Across Tesco Group, we champion diversity and inclusion, from 
how we attract, recruit and develop our colleagues to retaining 
diverse talent. In 2022, we made further strides in strengthening 
our commitment to equitable representation.

This year, examples include:

 – Continuing to require diverse shortlists for senior vacancies and 
making positive changes to hiring practices, resulting in 36% of 
external senior appointments being female and 40% ethnically 
diverse this year.

 – Following the success in 2021 of our diverse talent communities 

for high potential colleagues, we have expanded our reach 
across more parts of the Tesco Group and to more under-
represented groups, welcoming more than 210 colleagues who 
identify as Black, ethnically diverse, LGBTQ+ and/or disabled. 
The community helps us nurture talent, accelerate individual 
development and address barriers to progression. 

 – In line with our commitment to operating in a responsible and 

sustainable way, in 2021 we linked executive Performance Share 
Plan to our 2025 global leaders target. In 2022 we took a step 
further by linking refinancing of Tesco’s revolving credit facility 
to this 2025 diversity target. 

 – Since the start of 2023, we have made good progress towards 
achieving Disability Confident Leader Status in the UK. Progress 
made includes: improved attraction and selection processes 
for disabled candidates; improved candidate communication; 
and partnering with disability-focused job boards. This year we 
were the first retailer to achieve the RNIB Visibly Better 
Employer status. 

 – Our colleague networks play a vital role in underpinning our 

strategy by amplifying the unique challenges diverse groups at 
Tesco face and play an ever-increasing role as strategic 
business advisors. Alongside our colleague networks, we 
continue listening to and elevating diverse voices, utilising the 
results from our Group-wide colleague engagement survey, 
Every Voice Matters, and feedback from executive-led colleague 
listening sessions, to understand where we can do more. 
 – To better understand the diversity of our workforce we have 

continued to request diversity data through our internal survey, 
This is Me. Completion is currently more than 60%. This year we 
have launched in Booker and Tesco Pensions Investment. As one 
of the UK’s largest private sector employers, we know that 
collecting this data will take time, our aim is to achieve a full 
completion rate in the near future. Diversity data from our 
colleagues will enable us to: identify additional areas of 
improvement; make more inclusive decisions; and support our 
ambition to participate in voluntary reporting, such as the 
ethnicity pay gap and Workforce Disclosure Initiative (WDI).

We launched our Black action plan in the UK in May 2022 to help 
us understand the challenges faced by the Black community and 
deliver lasting change across Tesco. Driven by our colleagues, 
predominantly those in our Black advisory group and colleague 
network, we aspire to achieve fair and equitable representation 
across four key areas: community, talent, commercial and brand. 

We have already seen progress since implementing the plan, 
including introducing new Black-owned brands to our offer and 
launching a specific cohort (and Black learning offer) as part of 
the diverse talent community to help us better accelerate the 

careers of Black talent. Our work has been strengthened by 
partnerships with organisations including The Black British 
Network and Making of Black Britain.

We continue to work towards our global leadership representation 
targets. We have made progress against our voluntary commitment 
to the external FTSE Women Leaders target of 40% female 
representation at Board executive level and their direct reports by 
2025. As a business we have achieved 34% female representation 
this year, an increase from 29% last year.

Board(a)
Executive Committee(a)(c)
Top global leaders(b)(c)
All colleagues

Male
7
9
190
156,907

Female
58%
5
69%
4
79
71%
47% 175,908

Ethnically diverse
42%
17%
31%
17%
15%◊
29%
53% Not reported

2
2
37

(a) Our CEO and CFO are members of the Board and Executive Committee and are 

included within both groups in the above table. 

(b) Our top global leaders relates to directors and business leaders across the Group, 

including Executive Committee members.

(c) One Executive Committee member and a number of global leaders declined to provide 
ethnicity information and were therefore not included in the percentage calculations.
◊  Deloitte LLP was engaged to provide independent limited assurance over the selected 
diversity data highlighted in this report with a ◊ using the assurance standard ISAE 
3000. Deloitte has issued an unqualified opinion over the selected data. Deloitte’s full 
assurance statement is available at: www.tescoplc.com/sustainability/reporting-hub.

Diverse talent communities

“Being part of Tesco’s diverse talent community 
(DTC) has increased my confidence in bringing 
my full authentic self to work. The DTC is vitally 
important for Black colleagues and other 
under-represented groups at Tesco, including 
members of the LGBTQ+ community or people 
with disabilities. It’s a step towards true talent 
equity at Tesco by ensuring that everyone has 
access to the same opportunities.” 

Jahnae Gumbs, Business Graduate

Our diverse talent communities support our emerging talent 
colleagues from under-represented groups through career 
planning, guidance and increased visibility. In 2022/23 we 
launched a dedicated Black colleague cohort as part of the 
DTC initiative. Our aim is to address the barriers and 
challenges faced by many Black colleagues in the workplace.

Visit www.tescoplc.com/sustainability/colleagues/
diversity-and-inclusion-at-tesco

Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2023

17

Strategic reportClimate

Climate.

Commitment 
Climate change remains the biggest and most complex challenge 
facing the world, with its impacts felt across our supply chain, 
operations and the communities we serve. The food sector is 
responsible for more than a third of greenhouse gas (GHG) 
emissions. We are committed to playing a leading role in helping to 
tackle these emissions and avoid the most severe consequences 
of climate change. We strengthened our commitment to being 
carbon neutral across our Group operations by 2035 and hitting 
net zero by 2050 across our full value chain, aligned to 1.5˚C. 

These targets act as the overarching goal, recognising that bringing 
nature and climate together into one holistic environmental 
strategy is critical, alongside packaging and food waste, healthy, 
sustainable diets, sustainable agriculture, and protecting forests. 
With these agendas orientated towards our overarching net zero 
target, it allows us to explore new opportunities through their 
interconnectivity and ultimately nurture entire ecosystems that 
are truly sustainable end to end.

Our goal to reach net zero needs transformational change in how 
we grow, produce and consume food. To achieve this, we are 
developing detailed, timebound plans to decarbonise key areas of 
our emissions footprint, particularly the production of our most 
material agricultural products. 

Recognising that we cannot achieve our climate ambitions alone, 
we continue to promote cross-industry action and advocate to 
align public policy with net zero across our markets. We do this 
through our flagship partnership with WWF, as well as our 
membership with forums such as the Aldersgate Group and the 
Climate Group, and involvement in leading industry initiatives such 
as the WRAP Courtauld Commitment 2030 and the British Retail 
Consortium’s Climate Action Roadmap. We have also made 
commitments to RE100 and EV100, pledging to reach 100% 
renewable electricity and 100% electric van fleets respectively.

Integration
In 2022 we relaunched our purpose, placing sustainability at its 
core. We also added climate emissions to our Big 6 KPIs and 
introduced ESG metrics into our executive remuneration policy. 
The Performance Share Plan includes three ESG targets, including 
our near-term emissions reduction milestone, each with an equal 
weighting of 8.33% (25% in total). In 2021 climate became a 
standalone principal business risk, recognising the critical impact 
climate change has on our business. See page 14 for details on 
our Big 6 KPIs. 

To underpin our new purpose and substantiate our public 
commitments, we have established Group-wide, interdepartmental 
governance with accountability across the leadership team. Our 
governance groups maintain oversight of progress made against 
our interim decarbonisation milestones and have accountability 
for ensuring the business delivers on climate commitments. 

As a result of integrating climate change action throughout our 
business, we have been able to make further progress on 
engagement and investment in decarbonisation.

Working toward decarbonisation
The majority of our GHG emissions come from producing the 
things we sell, and customers using what they buy from us, 
mainly from fuel and energy. We are more able to influence the 
way things are produced than how they are used, so our strategy 
focuses largely on decarbonising the upstream supply chain. 
While transport, running our stores and waste are relatively 
smaller contributors, they are still significant and lie almost fully 
within our control and therefore have a prominent role in our 
decarbonisation strategy. Our TCFD report starting on page 20 
provides more detail on our emissions footprint.

Scopes 1 and 2: running our stores  
and logistics
To date, we have achieved a 55% absolute emissions reduction 
in our own operations vs a 2015/16 baseline. This has largely been 
driven by switching to renewable electricity; however, we have 
maintained consistent focus on driving energy efficiencies while 
making significant inroads into decarbonising our remaining key 
hotspots. Our Group Scope 1 emissions now account for around 
one million tonnes of CO2 equivalent (tCO2e), split roughly a third 
each across heating, refrigeration and transport. 

 – Refrigeration – we are switching the refrigerant gases in our 

store fridges to reduce emissions quickly and replacing 
depreciated systems with recovered CO2 systems to minimise 
emissions. 

 – Heating – we have installed heat pumps in 13 stores in the 

UK and are trialling 100% heat pump heated stores in 
Czech Republic and Slovakia.

 – Transport – as signatories of EV100, we are committed to having 

a fully electric home delivery fleet by 2030 and installing EV 
charging for customers and colleagues. 

Further information on the steps we have taken to drive energy 
efficiency are contained within the Streamlined Energy and 
Carbon Reporting disclosure on page 105.

We have already met our 2030 ambition to switch to 100% 
renewable electricity in our own operations across the Group. 
Our strategy is designed to ensure we increasingly source our 
electricity directly, going beyond renewable energy certificates 
and supporting the development of new renewable assets, helping 
bridge the gap in investment and infrastructure needed to hit the 
UK’s net zero target. Our target is to source 60% of our electricity 
by 2030 from power purchase agreements (PPAs) and onsite 
power generation. 

Underpinning this work to transition to zero carbon energy 
sources, it is imperative that we continually work to minimise 
our overall energy demand, by investing in efficiencies across our 
logistics and store operations. This is a critical enabler to ensure 
we have sufficient capacity to electrify the elements of our 
operations that continue to rely on fossil fuels. 

Scope 3
Our 2019/20 end to end footprint showed that more than 90% 
of our GHG emissions sit in our value chain (Scope 3). Building a 
comprehensive supplier engagement programme, encouraging 
carbon reporting and reduction and finding active opportunities to 
decarbonise our Own Brand product range are critical steps in our 
net zero journey. These programmes will feed into our upcoming 
transition plan in accordance with UK regulatory requirements and 
the latest guidance from the Transition Plan Task Force.

18

Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2023

In 2022, we successfully mapped close to two-thirds of our UK 
grocery suppliers’ operational footprint. As a result of our 
engagement with suppliers, more than half of our top suppliers 
have already announced their ambition of setting a net zero 
plan and of validating their net zero targets with Science Based 
Targets initiative (SBTi). We are successfully tracking carbon and 
energy data from more than 87% of our clothing supply chain 
factories and close to 91% of our mills via the Sustainable Apparel 
Coalition’s Higg tool, giving us enough primary data to design 
targeted decarbonisation projects moving forward. For our Home 
supply chain, we will collaborate with Amfori in deploying their 
Business Environmental Performance Initiative tool to ensure 
similar coverage by the end of 2023.

To gather carbon and other sustainability metrics from our 
suppliers with a simplified and harmonised methodology, in 2023 
we made a commitment to Manufacture 2030 with an ambition 
to scale up our carbon data coverage. The transition will enable 
us to reach more than 80% of our grocery supply chain in the UK, 
Czech Republic, Hungary, Slovakia and ROI, as well as subsidiaries, 
Booker and One Stop.

Engaging suppliers is an important element of our decarbonisation 
roadmap and we need to go further. Close to 25% of our footprint 
can be traced back to just 30 agricultural products where Tesco 
frequently holds a significant share in terms of total volume. 
Therefore, we will set specific decarbonisation work programmes 
in these emission hotspots, primarily working through our Tesco 
sustainable farming groups as well as our agriculture forum.

Some of the recent initiatives we have launched from early 2023 
include the UK’s first commercial trial of low-carbon fertilisers 
with our five largest field vegetable suppliers in the UK. The roll 
out of the LEAF Marque Standard certification by 2025 for all 
domestic and international fresh produce suppliers, and on-farm 
carbon data tracking in our main meat, fish, poultry and eggs, 
and dairy supply chains. In preparation for our transition plan 
disclosure, our plan is to design tailored decarbonisation 
roadmaps for these agricultural products with the aim of 
driving down emission intensity.

As a food retailer, almost 40% of our emissions sit downstream 
with our customers. Understanding the importance of helping 
customers to make more sustainable choices, in 2022 we 
launched our Better Baskets campaign. This campaign aims 
to signpost our customers to options which can be lower in 
environmental footprint, healthier and affordable at the same 
time, gradually leading the transition towards lower-carbon 
purchasing decisions. 

More detail on how we are pushing forward with renewable energy 
sources and progressing our decarbonisation strategy can be 
found in our TCFD update on pages 20 to 24.

Greenhouse gas emissions and energy consumption*

Scope 1 (tonnes of CO2e)
Scope 2(a) 
Market-based method (tonnes of CO2e)
Location-based method (tonnes of CO2e)
Total Scope 1 and 2 market-based (tonnes of CO2e)
Scope 1 and 2 carbon intensity (kg CO2e/sq.ft. of stores and DCs)
Selected Scope 3(b) (tonnes of CO2e)
Total gross emissions (tonnes of CO2e)
CO2e from renewable energy exported to the National Grid (tonnes of CO2e)
Total net emissions (tonnes of CO2e)
Overall net carbon intensity(c)  
(total net emissions kg CO2e/sq.ft. of stores and DCs)
Total annual energy consumption (GWh)
UK only total Scope 1 and 2 market-based (tonnes of CO2e)
UK only Scope 1 and 2 carbon intensity (kg CO2e/per sq.ft. of stores and DCs)
UK only annual energy consumption (GWh)

2022/23
1,039,346◊

7,796◊
575,462◊
1,047,142◊
11.91◊
567,191◊
1,614,333◊
281
1,614,053

18.43
6,000
888,676
13.88
5,037

2021/22
1,110,098

16,107
642,337
1,126,205
12.16
593,405
1,719,610
279
1,719,331

18.56
6,263
936,257
13.67
5,203

2020/21
1,053,131

13,631
718,222
1,066,762
11.63
471,195
1,537,957
350
1,537,607

16.76
6,089
880,039
12.99
5,037

Base year  
2015/16
1,240,871

1,095,671
1,657,316
2,336,542
26.29
684,079
3,020, 621
–
3,020, 621

33.88
6,823
1,751,572
26.29
5,502

 * For both energy and emissions data, we have included all major subsidiaries within Group measures and have included all UK-based subsidiaries in our consolidated UK disclosures.
◊   We engaged Deloitte LLP to provide independent limited assurance over the GHG emissions data highlighted in the above table with a ◊ using the assurance standards ISAE (UK) 3000  

and 3410. Deloitte has issued an unqualified opinion over the selected data. Deloitte’s full assurance statement is available at: www.tescoplc.com/sustainability/reporting-hub.

(a) Our method statement can be accessed at www.tescoplc.com/sustainability/reporting-hub. We use the market-based method for calculating Scope 2 emissions for our total 
emissions to account for our efforts in generating and purchasing low-carbon energy. The location-based method is provided for disclosure only and all intensity, net and gross 
emissions shown are calculated using the Scope 2 market-based method.

(b) Under Scope 3 emissions we report business travel and emissions from distribution arranged by Tesco but provided by third parties (including secondary distribution globally and 

emissions from primary distribution in the UK). Scope 3 emissions also include transmission and distribution impacts of electricity and heat supply and well-to-tank embodied impacts of 
fuel. Further information on our carbon calculations is available at www.tescoplc.com/sustainability/reporting-hub.

(c) Carbon intensity calculations for 2020/21 were previously revised to reflect changes in the sq.ft. of our business to include all subsidiaries.

Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2023

19

Strategic report 
 
Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures

TCFD.

Climate-related financial disclosures
In addition to this TCFD report, we provide further information 
on climate change in the principal risks and uncertainties section, 
on page 41. You can also find details on our greenhouse gas 
emissions on page 19. We continue to consider the potential 
financial impacts of climate change in the cash flow scenario 
modelling within our viability statement on page 47 and 
impairment note on page 148 to 151. 

Governance
We implemented an enhanced climate governance framework last 
year encompassing the Board, its associated committees and the 
Executive Committee. This year, we broadened the scope of this 
governance framework to include all major elements of our plans, 
reflecting our holistic approach to the delivery of our sustainability 
ambitions. In addition to climate, the governance framework 
now encompasses elements including food waste, sustainable 
agriculture, biodiversity, healthy diets, and packaging. As a result 
of this wider governance scope, we have made minor changes to 
the membership and titles of the committees involved, which are 
described in more detail below.

The Board is responsible for the long-term success of the Group 
and has ultimate responsibility for climate-related risks and 
opportunities. The Board’s most recent discussion was in 
February 2023. The Corporate Responsibility Committee 
oversees the Group’s social and environmental obligations, 
including climate-related matters, and is responsible for 
monitoring progress towards our commitments. The Corporate 
Responsibility Committee reviews progress to date and forward 
projections against our stated commitments through formal 
papers presented by and discussed with the relevant delivery 
teams. The Committee meets four times each year and has 
discussed climate on every occasion during 2022/23, with similar 
plans to discuss at all 2023/24 meetings. Further information 
about the activities discussed at the Corporate Responsibility 
Committee meetings can be found on pages 69 and 70.  
The Audit Committee monitors climate-related risk management, 
internal controls and reporting. 

The Executive Committee reviewed our progress against our 
climate targets twice this year, in June and December 2022.  
In December, the Committee discussed and approved our 
broadened governance framework described above and our 
climate-related plans for the 2023/24 financial year. These 
discussions were led by the Chief Product Officer, as executive 
sponsor of our net zero climate commitment. The Executive 
Committee reviewed and approved the capital investments 
required to achieve our net zero objectives. These investments 
are fully integrated into our three-year strategic plan and our 
annual budget. The strategic plan and the budget are both 
reviewed and formally approved by the Board with reference to 
the capital and associated operating cost investments required to 
deliver our carbon reduction commitments. In 2023/24, the Board 
will oversee progress against the climate targets twice a year. 

Reflecting the broader scope of our new planet-related plans, 
the Group climate committee has been renamed to become the 
Group planet committee. The change was endorsed by the 
Executive Committee in December 2022 and is designed to 
facilitate delivery of our purpose. The Committee provides 
strategic oversight and is responsible for ensuring the delivery of 
all our sustainability targets. These include interim decarbonisation 
and food waste reduction goals, climate risk management and our 
climate-related disclosures. The Group planet committee met 
twice in the past 12 months, in June 2022 and March 2023. The 
committee continues to be chaired by the Chief Product Officer 
and comprises representatives from significant business 
functions, which materially influence our ability to achieve our 
planet related commitments and regulatory obligations.

Three steering groups continue to underpin the implementation 
and compliance component of our planet governance structure. 
They are responsible for delivering initiatives to meet operational 
climate targets (Group operational decarbonisation steering 
group) and interim milestones, propel decarbonisation in our 
supply chain (planet steering group) and enable the business to 
report our progress (ESG reporting & disclosure group). These 
steering groups are chaired by senior leaders; our Chief Property 
Officer leads operational decarbonisation (Scope 1 and Scope 2), 
our Group Quality Director leads product sustainability, which 
encompasses our Scope 3 value chain decarbonisation, and our 
Group Finance team leads reporting and disclosure. The steering 
committees are more broadly supported by a number of 
cooperative workstreams that each focus on carbon reduction 
within material emissions hotspots across the business.

Audit Committee

Corporate Responsibility Committee

Board-level  
strategic oversight

Management-level 
implementation 
& compliance

Executive Committee

Group planet committee

Group operational 
decarbonisation  
steering group 

Planet steering  
group

ESG reporting &  
disclosure group

20

Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2023

Risk management
Following the establishment of climate change as a standalone 
principal risk in 2020/21, reviews have been conducted at various 
levels including the Executive Committee and the Board. These 
include the identification and documentation of climate-related 
risks and the review and consideration of appropriate risk 
responses. This consolidated view provides an input to our 
review of the Group risk profile.

The most recent principal risk review was presented to the Board 
and Executive Committee in February 2023. Our sustainability 
efforts focus on our ability to create and preserve long-term value 
for our customers, colleagues, the planet and the communities 
we serve. To address the effect of climate change, Tesco has set 
sustainability targets, aligned to a 1.5°C pathway, and has 
committed to achieving net zero across Scopes 1, 2 and 3 by 2050. 
These sustainability targets are underpinned by plans and formal 
oversight through dedicated forums, which continue to provide 
support for delivering against our long-term targets. Further 
information about our principal risks and uncertainties can be 
found on pages 38 to 45. 

We have reviewed and refreshed our approach to further 
embed the management of climate-related risks and opportunities 
into our enterprise risk management processes. Climate and 
sustainability task forces have been created for our Republic of 
Ireland, Central Europe and Booker businesses, and for categories 
including non-food and Tesco Mobile. We continue to track 
emerging climate regulations including any requirements for 
the reporting and disclosure of climate risks.

Metrics & targets
We underpin our net zero strategy with three key commitments: 

1.  reduce Scope 1 and 2 market-based emissions by 60% by 2025; 
2. be carbon neutral across our own operations by 2035; and 
3. achieve net zero across our value chain (Scope 3) by 2050. 

In the 2022/23 financial year, we reduced our Scope 1 and 2 
emissions by a further 3%pts, taking our cumulative reduction 
against a 2015/16 baseline to 55%. During the year, we invested 
more than £60m into decarbonising our refrigeration systems, 
aligned to our ongoing store refresh programme, and the 
electrification of our online delivery fleet.

In recognition of how critical sustainability is to our business 
success, our 2023 Performance Share Plan (PSP) continues to 
incorporate several sustainability metrics, following their inclusion 
for the first time last year. These include those for Scope 1 and 2 
emission reduction; food waste reduction; and diversity and 
inclusion targets for our leadership teams. For more information 
on the sustainability metrics included within our PSP, see page 83.

You can find detailed GHG emissions data, including disclosure 
across Scopes 1, 2 and selected Scope 3 disclosure on page 19, 
we have reviewed the Group’s physical and transition risks and 
opportunities, the financial values at risk are quantified in the 
strategy section below and in the Principal risks section. 
We continue to review our targets and metrics and focus on 
disclosing recognised cross-industry metrics where these align 
to the risk and opportunities we identify.

Strategy
During the year, we continued to build on our internal climate-
related risk scenario modelling capabilities. In partnership with 
Risilience, part of the Centre for Risk Studies at the University of 
Cambridge, this involved creating a ‘digital twin’ of our business. 

The digital twin maps the key areas of our value chain and allows 
us to stress test our business under five warming scenarios, 
for both physical and transition risks. The output provides a 
range of financial value at risk impacts across several risk 
categories over the short to medium term, which are described 
in more detail below. Each risk type was assessed based on 
materiality and likelihood within the five-year time frame on which 
the quantitative modelling is based. We can also leverage the 
outputs from this model to estimate the longer-term exposure to 
each risk category. Our enhanced scenario modelling capabilities 
allow us to better understand the exposure of the business to the 
effects of climate change, build effective mitigation plans, stress 
test our organisational resilience and improve the execution of 
our net zero strategy. 

The tables overleaf summarise the financial value at risk 
associated with three of the modelled risk categories (policy, 
consumer and technology) over the short to medium term (five 
years) and a qualitative assessment of how these risks could 
evolve over the longer term (10 to 20 years). The modelled impacts 
refer to transition risks and are quoted based on a 1.5°C pathway 
aligned to the Paris Ambition and Tesco’s stated targets, and a 3°C 
pathway aligned to the current warming pathway. We have quoted 
the financial value at risk below as a range, reflecting the uncertain 
and heavily assumption-based nature of climate-related modelling.

We assess that our business has a high degree of resilience to the 
climate-related risks detailed below across a spectrum of warming 
scenarios, including one where warming is limited to 1.5°C. This 
assessment is based on a variety of factors, which include:

 – a broad, comprehensive range of grocery products and core 

capabilities in adapting our existing ranges while launching new 
products to meet emerging consumer demands;

 – an extensive plant-based meat alternative range, which we 

continue to innovate; and

 – a geographically diversified sourcing base characterised by 

strong and established strategic relationships with suppliers 
across the globe, which gives us a natural hedge against weather 
extremities.

We modelled three further transition risks in relation to: the risk of 
climate-related litigation, the risk of a negative shift in consumer 
sentiment; and negative investor sentiment due to a perceived lack 
of action to address climate change. We believe that stakeholders 
recognise our sustainability commitments and the progress we 
have made to date. This includes our significant investment in the 
decarbonisation of our property estate and transport fleet, our 
market-leading sustainable product ranges, and the provision of the 
largest electric vehicle (EV) charging network of any UK supermarket.

We also considered the potential financial impacts the Group 
could face as a result of physical risks, largely driven by the 
potential for weather extremes and related to raw material supply, 
key facility risks, and market disruption. The geographically diverse 
nature of our supply base as well as our store and distribution 
network provides a degree of structural resilience. Our enhanced 
modelling capabilities allow us to understand the potential physical 
climate risks at a site level. This enables our property teams to 
ensure we have robust plans in place in high-risk flood zones to 
mitigate potential flood risks in the years ahead. The financial value 
at risk is not material either individually or in aggregate, and we 
have therefore not disclosed these separately.

Our focus for the 2023/24 financial year will be on further exploring 
each risk identified as part of this modelling and working with 
relevant business teams to develop our risk management and 
mitigation plans.

Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2023

21

Strategic reportTask Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures continued

Policy risk

Pathway
3°C

Mitigated annual impact 
five-year outlook
Not material

1.5°C

£0-50m

10-year outlook
Carbon prices remain at current levels or rise marginally, with an inconsistent global approach, which leads to 
minimal financial impact to our business 

20-year outlook

Carbon prices increase by 20-fold between the current 
year and 2030, with rapid adoption across developed 
economies

Carbon prices begin to plateau beyond 2030 (by an 
additional threefold) and are sustained at this level, 
with further adoption across the developed and 
developing economies

The policy risk models an increase in future carbon pricing. For our 3°C pathway, we have used $20 ($/tCO2e) and for 1.5°C we have used $80. 
We are actively working to reduce carbon emissions across our value chain in line with our 2035 net zero commitment across Scope 1 and 2, 
and our 2050 commitment including Scope 3. This activity will naturally contribute to reducing our exposure to increases in carbon pricing. We 
have assumed that together with shifts in consumer behaviour and general market pricing we are able to mitigate the majority of this risk.

Our expectation for the 1.5°C pathway over the medium and longer term would be for carbon pricing to continue to increase and eventually 
plateau, while for the 3°C pathway we would expect current global carbon prices to remain stable with an inconsistent global implementation 
and therefore an immaterial financial impact.

Consumer market risk

Pathway
3°C

Unmitigated annual impact 
five-year outlook
£0-50m

1.5°C

£50-100m

10-year outlook
Conventional shopping preferences continue, with existing levels of uptake for sustainable options continuing, 
resulting in only a minor impact to our current business

20-year outlook

A greater proportion of our customers switch 
rapidly from less sustainable products to more 
sustainable options

Demand for sustainable products and services 
becomes mainstream in the market, the purchasing 
behaviours and associated financial risk seen in the 
10-year horizon stabilise over a longer time period 
rather than increasing in a linear fashion

This risk models the impact of customers’ sustainable purchasing decisions, for example, switching from animal to plant-based protein. 
Meat and egg-based protein constituted 82% of all our protein sales for UK food and soft drink product categories in 2022/23. The 1.5°C 
pathway assumes a fast adoption and a significant reduction in demand for less-sustainable and carbon intensive products, whereas the 
3°C pathway assumes a limited reduction in current demand.

Our expectation over the medium term is that for the 1.5°C pathway, consumers will increasingly move away from non-sustainable products. 
In the longer term more sustainable products will become the mainstream option in the 3°C pathway. Less-sustainable products would 
continue to dominate the market with only minimal decline in demand.

The short-term risk value presented assumes no mitigation; however our broad plant-based product ranges provide an opportunity for us 
to attract new customers and continue to grow in this category as customer behaviour evolves. Our modelling of consumer preference 
changes allows our product development and buying teams to work with our supplier partners to evolve our product ranges to remain at 
the forefront of emerging customer behaviours and demands.

Technology risk

Pathway
3°C

Unmitigated annual impact 
five-year outlook
£0-50m

1.5°C

£25-75m

10-year outlook
Green technology grows in certain sectors; however, 
fossil fuel assets remain in widespread use and 
therefore write-off costs are at a low level with minimal 
financial risk to the business

Green technology grows in all sectors, and fossil fuels 
and associated technology are phased out resulting in a 
write off of existing asset values

20-year outlook
Green technology uptake grows at a continued slow 
rate; we continue to see impairment of fossil fuel 
assets, but this also remains at a low level

Green technology is established and dominates the 
energy mix, as the remaining carbon-intensive assets 
get phased out the initial incremental cost of 
write-offs fall away longer term

This risk relates to the write off of existing assets due to increasing levels of low carbon-based investment. The 1.5°C pathway assumes a 
fast-paced transition to green technology whereas as our 3°C pathway assumes a much slower transition.

Risk levels for both pathways remain low even with no mitigation activity considered. Our mitigation plan for this risk is to continue 
to maintain both short and long-term investment plans with a clear connection between these plans and our sustainability targets 
and commitments.

Over the medium term in our 1.5°C pathway, we would expect green technology uptake to continue to grow and in the long term all  
non-green technology to have been phased out, whereas in our 3°C scenario green technology uptake will continue to grow, but  
carbon-based technologies remain in use.

22

Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2023

The Group’s three-year strategic plan integrates the delivery of 
our sustainability ambitions, of which the decarbonisation of our 
own operations is the most material in the short term. The 
strategic plan is reviewed and approved by the Board annually, 
including a review of the key decarbonisation initiatives and 
associated costs and capital investments. Our review process 
for proposed capital investments ensures we understand how 
different projects will impact our emissions levels. This enables us 
to balance the best carbon return for our investment, considering 
the maturity of emerging technologies and supply capacity. 
Beyond our three-year strategic plan, we have also created a 
capital investment profile and associated decarbonisation impact 
to 2035 to align to our own operations decarbonisation target. 

We understand that our best strategy to mitigate our main 
physical and transition climate risks is to become a net zero 
business across the whole Group, entailing fast, large-scale, and 
effective decarbonisation of our operations and our supply chain. 
Therefore, in 2021 we announced a renewed commitment to be 
net zero across the whole Group and all GHG emission scopes by 
2050, while maintaining our own operational (Scope 1 and 2) target 
of being net zero by 2035. As a company with a sizeable footprint 
in the agricultural sector (roughly 25% of our Group GHG 
emissions can be traced back to just 30 agricultural products), we 
are the first retailer in the UK to join the design and validation pilot 
of a decarbonisation target in the forest, land and agriculture 
(FLAG) sectors. The chart below shows the disaggregation of our 
footprint according to Scope 1, 2 and 3 GHG Protocol categories. 
Scope 1 and 2 have been updated with our 2022/23 emissions 
data and Scope 3 emissions are as of 2019/20.

Our priority will be to focus on finding the most scalable and 
effective solutions to accelerate our decarbonisation across 
all scopes. Our strategy will concentrate primarily on three 
main components:

1.  continuing to reduce our operational footprint, with a focus on 
increasing energy efficiency, generating and directly procuring 
renewable electricity, reducing our dependency on fossil fuels 
across transport and our property estate and switching the 
refrigerants we use in our fresh network and stores;

2. enhancing supplier engagement across all business units, 
geographies and subsidiaries to ensure our supply chain is 
adequately disclosing footprint data and setting targets to 
reduce it; and

3. working directly with producers in our agricultural supply chains 
to identify opportunities to reduce and sequester land-based 
emissions associated with our own label product range.

We are committed to reaching net zero Scope 1 and 2 operations 
by 2035, on a 1.5°C aligned pathway. Since our baseline in 2015/16, 
we have reduced our Scope 1 and 2 Group footprint by 55%. While 
this has largely been driven by switching to renewable electricity, 
we have maintained consistent focus on driving energy efficiencies 
while making significant inroads to decarbonise our remaining key 
hotspots: transport; refrigeration; and heating. 

We led early on electricity; in 2020 we reached our RE100 
commitment to 100% renewable electricity 10 years ahead 
of our 2030 target. We designed our strategy to ensure we 
increasingly source our electricity directly via power purchase 
agreements, going beyond renewable energy certificates to 
help boost domestic UK renewable capacity. We have also 
installed wind turbines at our depots and solar panels on our 
store roofs, supporting our energy security. In total, onsite and 
offsite direct power deals will supply around a quarter of our 
electricity demand.

It is critical that we de-risk our business from stranded assets, 
write-off costs and potential future carbon legislation. We will 
do this by innovating early to scale up decarbonised operations 
in line with our pathway towards net zero. We are switching away 
from our depreciated HFC refrigerant systems to recovered CO2 
systems. To replace gas boilers, we are trialling air source heat 
pumps and heat reclaim systems across the UK and Central 
Europe. We have several large fleets of vehicles to decarbonise. 
To date we have deployed 293 electric home delivery vans and are 
on track to be 100% electric by 2030 as we continue to replace 
fully depreciated diesel vehicles. This prepares us for the UK’s 
phase out of vehicles powered by internal combustion engine. 
We continue to trial various models across the UK and 
Central Europe as well as electrical refrigeration units in 
our chilled network.

Our transition to zero carbon energy sources is underpinned by a 
focus on continually reducing our overall energy demand, through 
investing in efficiencies across our logistics and store operations. 
This is a critical enabler to bolster our energy security, manage 
energy costs and secure sufficient capacity as we continue to 
electrify our operations.

Our total emissions footprint

76.6m 

tCO2e/year

1.4% 

Scope 1: refrigerants, HVAC, transport (logistics)

1.5% 

Scope 3: category 12: end-of-life 

0.01%

Scope 2: purchased electricity

50.2% 

Scope 3: category 1: purchased goods 

and services (including deforestation)

3.1%

Scope 3: category 4: upstream 

transportation and distribution

3.0%

Scope 3: category 9: downstream 

transportation and distribution

39.1% 

Scope 3: category 11: use of sold products

treatment of sold products

0.39%

1.3%

Scope 3: category 15: investments

Scope 3: category 3, 5, 6, 7: fuel and 

energy-related activities, waste 

generated in operations, business 

travel and employee commuting

We report on the categories that are material to Tesco based on their contribution to our end-to-end footprint. Our 2019 estimation of our capital goods (category 2) footprint shows a 
very small contribution compared to our purchased goods and services (category 1); however, as a result of recent methodological updates in the goods and services not for resale sector, 
we will run new calculations this year ahead of our FY23/24 reporting cycle. Upstream leased assets (category 8) are not singled out as a separate category as any emissions coming from 
leased buildings are already incorporated into our operational footprint. All other categories not included, such as: processing of goods sold (category 10); downstream leased assets 
(category 13); and franchises (category 14), are irrelevant for our sector and the scope of our business.

Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2023

23

Strategic report 
 
Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures continued

Alongside our operational decarbonisation roadmap, we are 
setting a comprehensive Group-wide strategy to decarbonise 
our value chain. This is both upstream, with our suppliers, and 
downstream to support a sustainable transition in our customers’ 
purchasing behaviour. This helps both to mitigate the risk of 
consumers shifting to our competitors because of sustainability 
preferences and to insulate us against rising future carbon prices. 
Our Scope 3 emissions constitute more than 90% of our total 
emissions footprint. Upstream activities account for 50% of this, 
while 30% is driven by emissions from rearing, growing and 
transporting agricultural products, mainly within the animal 
protein categories. The remaining 20% is linked to the 
manufacture of our product ranges, including packaging and 
production of the fuel that we sell. Downstream activities 
represent 40% of our footprint including primarily emissions 
resulting from customers using our products. This includes 
cooking at home, preparational processes including washing 
and drying products, and the emissions associated with the 
fuel that customers buy from our petrol filling stations. 

Our two main strategic priorities for our upstream emissions 
are strengthening our supplier engagement programme around 
carbon reporting and climate targets and working directly with 
farmers to scale up decarbonisation on farms. We have asked 
all of our direct suppliers to report their GHG emissions and set 
science-based targets, which should aim for net zero across all 
emission scopes and attain validation by the SBTi by the end of 
2025. At January 2023, close to two-thirds of our UK suppliers by 
value of total cost of goods sold (COGs) report their operational 
footprint. They do this either through CDP or directly to Tesco 
by filling in a questionnaire that we circulate via the Tesco supplier 
network. Suppliers complying with our climate requirements are 
also eligible to join the UK retail sector’s first sustainability-linked 
supply chain finance programme. We launched this in 2021 in 
partnership with Santander, offering preferential invoice 
payment rates to climate-compliant suppliers. 

In 2023, we will build on the success of our supplier engagement 
programme by joining Manufacture 2030, a global cross-industry 
software platform on which suppliers can submit their carbon 
data and other sustainability metrics to Tesco and our 
competitors. This will enable us to increase coverage of our 
suppliers’ climate compliance to go beyond UK suppliers and 
include an equivalent coverage of around 80% of all suppliers 
(in terms of COGs) across the Tesco Group. We will also continue 
our supply chain finance programme with Santander with a focus 
on supporting smaller suppliers who might require additional 
resources to be able to comply with the climate requirements.

Decarbonising our agriculture and animal protein supply chains 
is a priority to mitigate our transition risk. Our model has also 
mapped the physical risk associated with sourcing these products 
to understand where our exposure to at-risk commodities is 
greatest. Our main focus will be to decarbonise the three 
commercial categories with the highest dependency on these 
products. These collectively represent close to 40% of production 
emissions of which 75% is linked to our own label range: (i) meat, 
fish, poultry and eggs; (ii) bakery and dairy; and (iii) produce. 
Within these three categories, we have identified the main 
emission sources we must tackle. For example, in our ruminant 
supply chains, such as cattle and sheep, the focus will be on 
improving feed and protein efficiency while reducing methane 
resulting from enteric fermentation.

In monogastric animal supply chains, such as pork, poultry and 
aquaculture, the focus will be on ensuring that all feed comes 
from 100% deforestation and conversion-free sources, a target 
we have committed to implement by 2025. When it comes to 

fresh produce, we are working on reducing our dependency 
on fossil-fuel fertilisers. In early 2023, we launched our first 
commercial trial of low-carbon fertiliser options with our 
main field vegetable suppliers in the UK. 

Moving forward, we will continue to pilot decarbonisation 
interventions through our Tesco sustainable farming groups 
(TSFGs), integrated by producers in the animal protein and 
produce sectors. We will also explore new ways to use supply 
chain finance to support our farmers in their green transition.

When it comes to our downstream emissions, we launched our 
Better Baskets campaign in 2022, which helps our customers make 
informed decisions on the sustainability of their shopping basket. 
Our Better Baskets on-shelf communication is available at all 
Tesco Extra stores and signposts consumers to a product range 
with enhanced sustainability credentials beyond carbon footprint 
alone. Our commitment is to ensure 65% healthy sales by 2025 in 
the UK & ROI, and 53% by the end of 2027 in Central Europe, which 
will require scaling up the sustainability performance of our 
product range. To that end, we will develop new product-level 
data collection platforms, such as Mondra. This UK-based 
sustainability data start-up aims to estimate the environmental 
footprint of our own-label product range by understanding their 
composition and the sourcing areas of their ingredients. We also 
continue to ask our TSFGs to provide sustainability information 
from their farms, so our commercial teams are better informed 
about the sustainability performance of our sourcing partners. 
To support the wider electrification of our customers’ vehicles, 
we have scaled up the network of pod points to more than 2,500 
charging bays across 600 stores across the UK. We are also 
committed to cutting food waste across the supply chain by 50% 
by 2030. This is aligned with the WRAP Courtauld 2030 framework, 
which will also entail working in customer-led campaigns to reduce 
the waste of our products in customers’ households.

In line with UK Treasury regulatory requirements following COP26, 
Tesco will present our Group transition plan in accordance with UK 
regulatory requirements and guidance from the Transition Plan Task 
Force. This plan will give our stakeholders insight into our sector and 
product-specific decarbonisation plans as well as details of our 
supplier engagement programme and more information on our 
climate risk mapping and financial planning. To ensure alignment 
with the guidelines and recommendations of the Transition Plan 
Task Force, Tesco is part of a cohort of companies participating 
actively in the consultation phase for the document’s 
implementation guidance. Tesco also co-chairs, together with WWF, 
the working group tasked with developing the Sectorial Guidance for 
Food and Agriculture, with a first draft expected to enter 
consultation phase in August.

Next steps
Our priorities in 2023/24 will include further developing our 
internal capabilities in climate-related scenario modelling through 
our partnership with Risilience. We are contributing closely to 
the Transition Plan Task Force in preparation of our upcoming 
transition plan. We will also be updating our end to end footprint 
in this context, considering all available improvements in 
methodology and emission factors, as well as inclusion of primary 
data collected from our supplier base via Manufacture 2030.

Listing Rule 9.8.6R Compliance Statement
Tesco PLC has complied with all of the requirements of LR 9.8.6R 
by including climate-related financial disclosures in this section 
(and in the information available at the locations referenced 
therein) consistent with the TCFD recommendations. 

24

Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2023

Section 172 statement

Section 172 statement.

The needs of our stakeholders and the consequences of any 
decision in the long term are taken into consideration by the 
Board when making decisions. In addition, the interests and 
views of Tesco pensioners and our relationship with regulators 
and NGOs are taken into consideration. The differing interests of 
stakeholders are considered in the business decisions we make 
across Tesco and are reinforced by the Board. In performing their 
duties during the year, the Directors have had regard for the 
matters set out in Section 172(1) (a)–(f) of the Companies Act 2006.

Examples of how the Directors have oversight of stakeholder 
matters and had regard for these matters when making 
decisions are included throughout this Annual Report, together 
with details of strategic decisions and actions set out below 
which are supportive of this Section 172 statement.

Our strategic decisions: long-term direction and 
purpose-led engagement
Delivering sustainable profitable growth is essential as we aim 
to create value for all stakeholders over the long term. Our 
purpose is underpinned by our strategic priorities, as set out 
on pages 12 and 13. Both our purpose and strategic priorities 
guide all parts of the business within the Group. Together 
these strategic priorities enable us to continue to deliver 
great value, increase customer loyalty, and stay competitive 
while ensuring we remain agile and efficient as a business. 
These four strategic priorities: Magnetic value for customers, 
Easily the most convenient, I love my Tesco Clubcard and Save 
to invest, help us maintain focus on doing the basics brilliantly and 
are overlaid with opportunities to accelerate growth. 

The Board uses its governance framework to guide its actions 
and track the Group’s progress. Detailed updates and 
oversight by the Board and its Committees have led the Board 
to approve our ongoing commitment to return capital to 
shareholders through dividend declarations and a share 
buyback programme, together with the listing of additional 
debt issuance of £250,000,000 5.50% Notes due 2035 and 
€500,000,000 4.25% Notes due 2031, under the Euro 
medium term note (EMTN) programme.

Our strategic decisions: sustainability
Climate change remains the biggest and most complex challenge 
facing the world, with its impacts felt across our supply chain, 
operations and the communities we serve. The food sector is 
responsible for more than one third of global GHG emissions. 
We remain committed to embedding sustainability across all of 
our business operations and working to reduce our environmental 
impact. Throughout the year, the Board has sharpened its focus 
on our sustainability initiatives with a deep dive into our sustainability 
strategy, which brought our net zero commitments to life, looking 
at progress so far against some key milestones. The targets that 
we set as a Board not only support our core purpose of serving 
our customers, communities and planet a little better every day, 
but are also essential for the delivery of our net zero 
commitments of being climate neutral within our own operations 
by 2035 and through our supply chain by 2050. Our climate 
initiatives are linked to our strategic drivers and our Big 6 KPIs. 

The Board discussed our sustainability journey to ensure we 
deliver against the 2030 ambition to halve the environmental 
impact of the average shopping basket and the 2035 and 2050 
net zero targets, while understanding the needs and behaviours 
of our customers and in turn our impact on the environment.

The Board is looking to improve our overall societal impact through 
sustainability initiatives relating to:

 – improving our products;
 – decarbonising transport;
 – reducing store emissions;
 – supporting sustainable consumption; 
 – eliminating waste (food and packaging); and
 – strengthening our communities with a focus on human rights, 

diversity and inclusion and community priorities such as food banks.

The Board, through its regular updates, understands what is 
important to our stakeholders and took this into consideration 
when setting the sustainability strategy and agreeing targets. 
The Board agreed that a focus on these material initiatives, with 
affordability, simplicity and ease of understanding in mind, were key. 

The Board is supported by the Corporate Responsibility 
Committee, Executive Committee, Group planet committee and 
other senior management level committees in delivering our 
sustainability initiatives. Deep dives into sustainability matters, 
together with the updates from these committees, support the 
Board in navigating the challenges along the way. The Board 
discussed feedback following a session with 250 suppliers that 
sought ways to learn from and collaborate with Tesco and join 
forces, where appropriate, to build climate solutions in the food 
sector together. The Board has met with Tesco experts in the 
development kitchens and explored the customer journey, looking 
at how we use customer insights based on customer attitudes and 
behaviours, exploring the barriers and challenges faced from cost 
to convenience, to the delivery of a better basket for a better planet.

Our strategic decisions: helping customers 
spend less
The Board recognises that our customers and colleagues are 
facing a challenging time through the cost-of-living crisis. A 
key focus of the Board is to keep the cost of the weekly shop 
as affordable as possible, through a combination of Aldi Price 
Match, Low Everyday Prices and Clubcard Prices, together 
covering more than 8,000 products.

Through our brand and marketing in store, it helps customers 
to understand healthier choices, supporting our sustainability 
strategy and spotlights better prices for customers, making it 
affordable and simple. By staying focused on quality, value 
and sticking to our strategy, our price position has become 
even more competitive, which supports our stakeholders.

Cost inflation remains significant and, despite these 
uncertainties, our priorities are clear. We have the right 
long-term strategy, and we will continue to balance the 
needs of all of our stakeholders. Most importantly, we will 
stay focused on delivering value for our customers and 
colleagues, supporting them in every way we can. During the 
year, the Corporate Responsibility Committee approved a 
£1m donation to support food banks run by The Trussell Trust 
and FareShare and a further £4.6m has been allocated in 
community grants across the UK, ROI and Central Europe 
over the next three years.

In addition, we are investing significantly in our colleagues, 
with a nearly 8% increase for UK hourly-paid colleagues in 
2022. More details can be found on page 16.

Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2023

25

Strategic reportStakeholder engagement

Understanding our 
stakeholders.

We strive to create value for each of our stakeholders. While we continue to make 
progress against our strategic priorities, we also ensure we live up to our purpose and 
aim to factor local communities and the planet into every decision we make. Against 
the backdrop of cost-of-living pressures, our commitment to serving our customers, 
communities and planet a little better every day is more important than ever.

Why they are 
important

Customers
We serve millions of customers 
every week, in stores and online. 

Key engagement 
metrics

Customers recommend us and 
come back time and again: our 
customer net promoter score 
(NPS), which is measured based on 
customers recommending us 
as a place to shop.

Colleagues
We cannot deliver our 
purpose without our 
colleagues’ dedication; 
they are at the heart of 
everything we do.

Colleagues recommend 
us as a great place to 
work and shop; our 
Great Place to Work 
score, which is 
measured through our 
Every Voice Matters 
colleague engagement 
survey.

What matters 
to them

Our research with customers  
told us they wanted help with: 
affordable food and clothing; 
healthy, affordable choices; 
fuel and travel costs; and 
occasional treats.

Being treated fairly and 
feeling supported with 
their health, safety and 
wellbeing, while being 
recognised and rewarded 
for their contribution.

Ways we are 
responding

We believe that looking 
after our colleagues and 
building a culture of 
trust is essential to the 
success of Tesco, as well 
as promoting a healthier 
working environment, 
where everyone can 
be at their best. 

We want colleagues to 
feel recognised and 
respected wherever 
they work, as well as 
experiencing the 
reward of our 
collective success. 

Our leading value proposition 
including Aldi Price Match, Low 
Everyday Prices and Clubcard 
Prices in UK & ROI, and Low 
Price Guarantee and Clubcard 
Prices in Central Europe continues 
to provide customers with the 
reassurance that they can trust 
Tesco for reliable value. We 
continue to offer great offers and 
value through Clubcard across 
groceries, toiletries and beauty 
products, F&F clothing, mobile 
and banking. Going forward we 
will be making greater use of our 
Clubcard insights to offer 
enhanced and personalised 
rewards to our most loyal 
customers. Tesco Clubcard was 
ranked best supermarket loyalty 
scheme in the UK.

We have implemented the HFSS 
location changes, such that 
products high in fat, salt and sugar 
are no longer located in certain 
prominent areas within our stores. 

Suppliers
Our partnerships with 
suppliers focus on 
delivering great value and 
great quality products for 
our customers. When we 
get it right together, our 
business grows.

Our Supplier Viewpoint 
survey results continue 
to reflect our progress on 
building trusted relationships 
with our suppliers. Meeting 
our Scope 3 net zero 
commitments by 2050 and 
supporting suppliers in 
improving diversity within 
their businesses.

Long-term collaborative 
partnerships to give them 
security. This year, other 
factors included the rising 
cost of fuel, feed, fertiliser, 
labour and raw materials, 
which put pressure on 
many of them.

We signed five-year 
contracts with some of 
our supply partners to 
give them the security to 
invest in their businesses.

We committed to reviewing 
our prices more frequently 
and to ensuring that any 
investment is passed back 
to farmers as quickly as 
possible.

We are working with 
suppliers to help them in 
achieving their net zero 
commitments, which will in 
turn support our initiatives.

Shareholders
Our shareholders want 
to work with us to 
achieve positive 
long-term, sustainable 
growth and returns.

Drive top-line growth 
and grow absolute profits 
while maintaining sector 
leading margins. This is 
expected to generate 
between £1.4bn and 
£1.8bn of Retail free 
cash flow.

Create value for 
shareholders and deliver 
long-term, sustainable 
growth and returns.

Regular dialogue with 
our institutional investors, 
potential investors and 
analysts provides insight 
to their views and 
policies, which is 
reflected in our 
decision making. 

Engagement with 
shareholders during the 
year, with a particular 
focus on the ESG agenda, 
helps us to understand 
their priorities and views 
on how we are 
progressing.

We have tested every 
element of our capital 
allocation framework – 
refreshing our leverage 
target, the application of 
our dividend policy and 
continuation of our share 
buyback programme.

26

Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2023

Example 
outcomes of our 
engagement

Customers
We announced two new price 
locks on more than 1,000 
products in the UK and around 
400 products in ROI on Low 
Everyday Prices to help 
customers spend less. 

At Booker, we supported 
customers by offering 
outstanding value, including 
a price freeze on 450 key 
catering lines. 

We have removed more than 
71 billion calories from our 
Own Brand ranges since 
2018 through reformulation. 
We are offering great prices to 
ensure healthy options feature 
prominently within our market-
leading combination of Aldi Price 
Match, Low Everyday Prices and 
Clubcard Prices. 

In the UK, through food banks, 
charities and together with our 
charity partners and customers, 
we have donated more than 52 
million meals in our communities. 
In addition, we have donated 
more than £100m in community 
grants, supporting more than 
50,000 projects through 738.4 
million votes from our customers.

Colleagues
We have made three 
increases in base pay 
across our core UK business 
in the past 12 months, 
totalling nearly 8% increase 
for hourly-paid colleagues 
in 2022.

We have launched My Tesco, 
a digital app that instantly 
retrieves available hours to 
match colleagues’ skills and 
incentivises them to build 
more capabilities in 
other areas.

To support the roll out of 
our Group-wide Your 
Contribution proposition 
to manage performance, 
we launched three new 
products to create a 
winning performance culture, 
master feedback and set 
strategic objectives. 

More detail on diversity and 
inclusion can be found on 
pages 17 and 67.

Suppliers
Over the course of 
2022/23 we made an 
investment of £27.5m  
in the UK egg sector. 
We supported the 
British dairy industry, 
increasing the price we 
pay for our milk by 
around 20%. We invested 
more than £30m into the 
British pig supply chain 
helping to support with 
increased on-farm costs 
such as wheat and soya.

In the January 2023 
Supplier Viewpoint 
survey, suppliers 
reported their highest 
level of satisfaction to 
date, with 86.6% saying 
that they are satisfied 
working with Tesco. 
79.4% of suppliers agreed 
that we put sustainability 
at the heart of everything 
we do, which was an 
increase on the same 
period last year and the 
highest level of agreement 
with the measure since it 
was introduced in 2021.

Shareholders
Following the return 
of £300m of capital 
between October 2021 
and March 2022, we 
have returned an 
additional £750m of 
capital through our share 
buyback programme.

During the year, we 
welcomed engagement 
with investors to 
understand their views 
on ESG matters and from 
private shareholders at 
our Annual General 
Meeting. 

Understanding the views 
of our shareholders 
supports the decisions 
we take and the 
opportunities we create.

How we engage 
and Board 
oversight

Issues that matter to our 
customers also matter to the 
Board. Independent consumer 
research commissioned each 
year helps identify where 
consumers and influencers 
think we should be focusing 
our attention and how well they 
feel we are addressing these 
issues currently. The Board uses 
customer surveys, customer 
engagement and data analysis 
to listen to customer views and 
act on what is most important 
to them. With the skills, expertise 
and dedication of colleagues 
worldwide, we are well placed 
to achieve this.

The Board recognises the 
need to create conditions that 
foster talent, encourage all 
colleagues to achieve their 
full potential and create an 
inclusive working environment. 
Safety is central to how we 
do business, with the aim of 
protecting our colleagues and 
customers from injury. Through 
our Colleague Contribution 
Panels, the Board engages with 
the colleague representatives 
to understand the views of the 
workforce. In addition, the 
colleague Every Voice Matters 
survey results, are discussed 
by the Board. 

The Board recognises the 
importance of suppliers 
being treated fairly to 
align with our values. 
This fosters long-term 
relationships and trusted 
partnerships with our 
suppliers. Through 
supplier surveys and 
day-to-day contact with 
our product teams, the 
Board has visibility of 
delivery against our 
commitments under 
the Groceries Supply 
Code of Practice (GSCOP).

Directors, senior 
management and 
Investor Relations hold 
regular meetings with 
existing and potential 
institutional investors 
and analysts to 
understand their views 
and policies. The Group 
Company Secretary’s 
team engages with 
private shareholders 
with the support of our 
registrar, Equiniti, who 
provide services to 
private shareholders 
on our behalf.

LEAF Marque certification 
We have completed the roll out of LEAF Marque certification with our nearly 500 UK fruit and vegetable 
growers. The robust environmental standards will help increase environmental protections across our entire 
UK supply base, working towards whole-farm, continuous improvement in: climate resilience; biodiversity; 
habitat area and quality; GHG emissions and carbon footprinting; soil health; deforestation; collaboration; and 
collective action. By benchmarking growers’ progress against practices, the standard identifies target areas 
and helps producers drive further improvements. It is expected that our entire global fresh produce supply 
chain will move to LEAF Marque certification by 2025.

Visit www.tescoplc.com/news/2023/tesco-completes-most-significant-
roll-out-of-environmental-standards-in-uk-with-leaf-marque-
certification-for-all-fruit-and-veg-grower

Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2023

27

Strategic reportNon-financial information statement

NFIS.

The table below constitutes the Company’s non-financial information statement as 
required by sections 414CA and 414CB of the Companies Act 2006. In addition, our 
website www.tescoplc.com contains a wide range of non-financial information, 
including actions we take to manage our environmental and social impact and 
look after our colleagues. The due diligence carried out for each policy is contained 
within each respective policy’s documentation.

Reporting 
requirement

Environmental 
matters

Associated risks
Climate 
change

Responsible 
sourcing

Our approach
We are committed 
to reducing our 
environmental impact, 
helping to tackle climate 
change and protecting 
and restoring ecosystems 
(including biodiversity 
and nature). Our Group 
environment policy sets 
out how we manage 
our environmental 
responsibilities and the 
expectations we have 
of our suppliers.

Relevant policies  
and documents that 
govern our approach
 – Group 

environment policy

 – Sustainability 

policies on key 
risk commodities 
including soy, 
palm oil, seafood

Purpose and scope
We have committed to 
being carbon neutral across 
our Group operations by 
2035 and net zero across 
our full value chain by 2050, 
aligned to 1.5˚C. We have 
implemented an enhanced 
climate governance 
framework encompassing 
the Board, its associated 
committees and the 
Executive Committee.

Colleagues

People

Health and 
safety

Social matters

Customer

Product 
safety and 
food integrity

Responsible 
sourcing

People

Our purpose, values and 
leadership behaviours are 
a vital part of our culture 
to ensure that through 
our conduct and decision 
making we do the right thing 
for the business and our 
stakeholders.

Our ‘how to’ and ‘when to’ 
speak up programmes 
include our Protector Line 
and complaints process. 
These allow colleagues to 
raise in confidence any 
workplace concerns such 
as dishonest activity, bias 
or anything that endangers 
colleagues, the public or 
the environment.

Our Code of Business 
Conduct governs 
standards of conduct in 
relation to our colleagues, 
as well as our other 
stakeholders. We have a 
confidential Protector Line 
allowing any colleague or 
third party to report a 
violation of the Code of 
Business Conduct, local 
law or regulation, or 
unethical behaviour. In 
addition, we have policies 
committing to equal 
opportunities at work and 
to providing a safe and 
healthy working 
environment.

We are proud to be part of 
thousands of communities 
around the world. We want 
to make a positive 
difference: through the 
local people we employ; 
the local businesses we 
work with; and the local 
causes we support. We 
have policies in place to 
ensure we act responsibly 
when it comes to working 
with suppliers, paying tax, 
retailing age-restricted 
products and giving to 
charities.

 – Code of Business 

Conduct

 – Health and safety 

policy

 – Bullying and 

harassment policy 

 – Diversity and 

inclusion strategy

 – Group 

whistleblowing 
policy
 – Colleague 

engagement

 – Groceries Supply 
Code of Practice 
(GSCOP) 

 – Group 

whistleblowing 
policy

 – Our tax principles
 – Group charitable 
donations policy

 – Responsible 

retailing of alcohol, 
tobacco and other 
age-restricted 
products
 – Corporate 

Responsibility 
Committee terms 
of reference.

Where to find more  
information and outcomes
 – Purpose and values
 – Our market context
 – KPIs
 – Climate 
 – TCFD
 – Principal risks and 
uncertainties

Page
6
11
14
18
20
38

 – Corporate Responsibility 

69

Committee report
 – Audit Committee: 
environmental 
disclosures

71

 – Directors’ report (SECR)

105

Details of our sustainability 
strategy together with our 
ESG factsheets can be 
found on our website at  
www.tescoplc.com

 – Purpose and values
 – KPIs
 – Our colleagues
 – Stakeholder 
engagement

 – Principal risks and 
uncertainties

 – Corporate governance, 
purpose and culture 
 – Board leadership in 

action

 – Nominations and 

6
14
16
26

38

56

62

66

Governance Committee: 
D&I

 – Directors’ remuneration 

77

report

 – Directors’ report: 

employment policies

 – Supporting stakeholders 
through the cost-of-
living crisis

 – Purpose and values
 – Our strategic priorities
 – KPIs
 – Section 172 statement
 – Stakeholder 
engagement

 – Principal risks and 
uncertainties

 – TCFD
 – Board leadership in 

action

103

4

6
12
14
25
26

38

20
62

 – Corporate Responsibility 

69

Committee report

Details of our sustainability 
strategy together with fact 
sheets can be found 
on our website at  
www.tescoplc.com

28

Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2023

Reporting 
requirement

Respect for 
human rights

Associated risks
Responsible 
sourcing

Anti-
corruption 
and anti-
bribery 
matters

Political, 
regulatory 
and 
compliance

How we 
manage risk

Business 
model

Our approach
We are committed to 
upholding human rights 
and support in full the 
United Nations Universal 
Declaration of Human 
Rights and the 
International Labour 
Organization Core 
Conventions on freedom 
of association and 
collective bargaining, 
forced labour, child labour 
and discrimination at work. 
We also uphold standards 
on working hours and 
health and safety for 
workers. 

We take a zero-tolerance 
approach to bribery and to 
those involved in bribery. 
Our policy requires every 
Tesco business unit to 
adopt and implement an 
effective anti-bribery 
compliance programme 
and for the policy to be 
communicated to all 
colleagues on an annual 
basis. The Audit 
Committee receives and 
reviews biannual ethics 
and compliance data 
covering: privacy; fraud; 
anti-bribery; gifts and 
entertainment; and the 
annual Code of Business 
Conduct declarations.

Effective risk management 
is core to our management 
practices. We have 
established a risk 
management framework, 
enabling us to clearly 
identify, prioritise, respond 
to and monitor our most 
significant risks and 
emerging risks themes. We 
regularly assess our 
exposure to fraud risks and 
test our resilience to 
disruptive events.

To create value for all. We 
have a unique combination 
of strengths and expertise 
to deliver on our strategic 
priorities.

Relevant policies  
and documents that 
govern our approach
 – Human rights 

policy
 – Group 

whistleblowing 
policy

 – Health and 
safety policy

 – Code of Business 

Conduct

 – GSCOP
 – Group 

anti-bribery 
policy

 – Group gift and 
entertainment 
policy

 – Tesco’s political 
donations policy

 – Cyber security
 – Data privacy

 – Schedule of 

matters reserved 
for the Board
 – Audit Committee 

terms of 
reference

Purpose and scope
We are dedicated to tackling 
modern slavery not just within 
our own operations and supply 
chains, but the issue of forced 
labour more broadly. Modern 
slavery is one of our four key 
human rights strategic priority 
areas, in which we work to bring 
about change through our 
Improve, Transform and 
Advocate model.

Our human rights policy sets out 
how we integrate human rights 
into our business operations, 
including colleague and supplier 
training and through our due 
diligence framework.

Our anti-bribery programme 
operates across the Group. 
The programme is built around a 
clear understanding of how and 
where bribery risks affect our 
business and comprises key 
controls such as: policies 
(anti-bribery, gifts and 
entertainment, conflicts of 
interest, charitable donations); 
procedures such as conducting 
due diligence on suppliers (in 
particular those who will engage 
public officials on our behalf); 
training colleagues on bribery 
risks every year; and ongoing 
assurance programmes to test 
that the controls are functioning 
effectively. 

Our risk management framework 
continues to be embedded 
throughout the organisation, 
enabling us to clearly identify, 
prioritise, respond to and 
monitor our most significant risks 
and emerging risks themes.

The Audit Committee is informed 
of potential risks and responses 
relating to fraud risks and 
resilience testing.

 – Strategic drivers
 – Performance 
framework
 – Schedule of 

matters reserved 
for the Board

The Board is responsible for 
establishing the Company’s 
purpose and strategy to deliver 
our long-term sustainable 
success and generate value.

Page
38

69

105

Where to find more 
information and outcomes
 – Principal risks and 
uncertainties

 – Corporate 

Responsibility 
Committee report
 – Directors’ report: 
Modern Slavery Act
 – More detail on human 
rights and our Modern 
Slavery Statement 
can be found on 
our website at  
www.tescoplc.com

 – Principal risks and 
uncertainties

 – Corporate 

governance, purpose 
and culture

38

56

 – Directors’ report: 

103

political donations; 
anti-bribery matters

 – TCFD: climate-related 

20

risks

 – Principal risks and 
uncertainties
 – Audit Committee 

report

38

71

 – Tesco at a glance
 – Purpose and values
 – Our market context
 – Our strategic priorities 
 – KPIs
 – Our business model 
 – Section 172 statement
 – Corporate 

governance, purpose 
and culture

2
6
11
12
14
15
25
56

Non-financial KPIs
Combining colleague input, customer and stakeholder insights and 
AI data analysis, we have identified which sustainability issues are 
most material to Tesco and our stakeholders. Our performance 
against these issues is tracked using the following KPIs:

Climate: percentage reduction of Scope 1 and 2 market-based 
GHG emissions compared with 2015/16 baseline year and Scope 3 
targets by 2050, see page 18.

Healthy sustainable diets: percentage of volume sales from 
products with a ‘healthy’ score, see page 10.

Diversity and inclusion: percentage gender representation, 
and percentage ethnicity representation of our top global leaders, 
see page 67.

Food waste: percentage change in tonnes of food wasted as 
percentage of tonnes of food handled compared with 2016/17 
baseline year, see page 88. 

Community: more than 52 million meals donated to charity 
partners and food banks.

Tesco discloses more information and data, including our SASB 
disclosure, at www.tescoplc.com/sustainability/reporting-hub. 
Policies are available on our website.

Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2023

29

Strategic reportFinancial review

Group  
review of 
performance.

52 weeks ended 25 February 20231,2
Sales (exc. VAT, exc. fuel)3
Fuel
Revenue (exc. VAT, inc. fuel)

Adjusted operating profit4
Adjusting items
Statutory operating profit

Net finance costs
Joint ventures and associates
Statutory profit before tax
Group tax
Statutory profit after tax

Adjusted diluted EPS4
Statutory diluted EPS
Dividend per share
Net debt2,5
Retail free cash flow5
Capex7

FY 22/23
£57,656m
£8,106m
£65,762m

£2,630m
£(1,105)m
£1,525m

£(533)m
£8m
£1,000m
£(247)m
£753m

21.85p
10.08p
10.90p
£(10,493)m
£2,133m
£1,235m

FY 21/22
£54,768m
£6,576m
£61,344m

£2,825m
£(265)m
£2,560m

£(542)m
£15m
£2,033m
£(510)m
£1,523m

21.86p
19.64p
10.90p
£(10,516)m
£2,277m
£1,101m

Change at 
actual rates 
5.3%
23.3%
7.2%

Change at  
constant rates
5.3%
23.2%
7.3%

(6.9)%

(7.1)%

(40.4)%

(50.8)%

(50.6)%

(0.0)%
(48.7)%
–
0.2%
(6.3)%
12.2%

Notes:
1.  The Group has defined and outlined the purpose of its alternative performance measures, including its performance highlights, in the Glossary starting on page 207. 
2.  All measures apart from Net debt are shown on a continuing operations basis unless otherwise stated. Further details on discontinued operations can be found in Note 7 on page 142.
3.  Group sales exclude VAT and fuel. Sales change shown on a comparable days basis for Central Europe.
4.  Adjusted operating profit and adjusted diluted EPS exclude adjusting items.  
5.  Net debt and Retail free cash flow exclude Tesco Bank. 
6.  Like-for-like (LFL) is a measure of growth in Group online sales and sales from stores that have been open for at least a year (at constant exchange rates, excluding VAT and fuel). 
7.  Capex excludes additions arising from business combinations and buybacks of property (typically stores). Refer to page 211 for a full reconciliation.

30

Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2023

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Group sales3 increased by 5.3% at constant rates, driven by 
strong sales performance in all segments as volumes held up 
relatively well despite cost-of-living pressures and some further 
post-pandemic normalisation. We delivered a market-leading 
performance over the important Christmas trading period, 
continuing to inflate behind the market as overall levels of inflation 
increased. Booker delivered an exceptionally strong performance, 
particularly in catering, with higher out-of-home consumption. 
Revenue increased by 7.3% at constant rates, including fuel sales 
growth of 23.2%.

Group adjusted operating profit4 decreased by (7.1)% at constant 
rates, primarily reflecting the impact of lower year-on-year 
volumes, the ongoing investment in our customer offer and 
significant operating cost inflation, partially offset by a very 
strong Booker catering recovery and the acceleration of our 
Save to invest programme, which delivered in excess of £550m 
of savings in the year.

Group statutory operating profit reduced by (40.4)% year-on-year 
due to the operating profit impacts above and an increase in 
adjusting items, with the key driver being a £(982)m non-cash 
impairment charge on non-current assets (primarily property), 
mainly due to an increase in discount rates.

Net finance costs were broadly flat year-on-year as the benefit 
from higher interest receivable and net pension finance income 
was partially offset by non-cash fair value remeasurements. 
Further detail is shown on page 34. Our share of profits from joint 
ventures and associates was lower year-on-year due to a 
reduction in profits from UK property joint ventures. The reduction 
in tax this year reflects the lower retail operating profits and a 
one-off charge in the prior year related to the revaluation of 
deferred tax.

Adjusted diluted EPS4 was in line with last year, as the impact 
of the reduction in operating profit was offset by lower finance 
costs and tax charges, and the benefit of our ongoing share 
buyback programme. We have announced a full year dividend 
of 10.90p per ordinary share, in line with last year.

Net debt2,5 was broadly flat year-on-year, with strong cash 
generation funding over £1.6bn of shareholder returns in the 
form of share buybacks and dividends. We generated £2,133m 
of Retail free cash flow5, including a net £468m working capital 
inflow. Retail free cash flow reduced by £(144)m due to lower 
retail operating profits and higher levels of capital investment, 
offset by a reduction in cash tax. The net debt/EBITDA ratio was 
2.6 times, up from 2.5 times in the prior year due to a reduction 
in retail EBITDA. 

Further commentary on these metrics can be found below and a 
full income statement can be found on page 120.

Segmental review of performance
Sales performance
(exc. VAT, exc. fuel)3

UK
ROI
Booker
UK & ROI
Central Europe
Retail

Bank
Group sales

Fuel

Group revenue

Sales  
(£m)
41,040
2,645
8,684
52,369
4,181
56,550
1,106
57,656
8,106
65,762

LFL sales  
change6
3.3%
3.3%
12.0%
4.7%
10.4%
5.1%

23.0%

Total sales change

Change at  
actual rates
3.3%
6.3%
12.0%
4.8%
8.3%
5.0%
20.1%
5.3%
23.3%
7.2%

Change at  
constant rates
3.3%
5.4%
12.0%
4.7%
10.0%
5.1%
20.1%
5.3%
23.2%
7.3%

Further information on sales performance is included in the supplementary information starting on page 204.

Adjusted operating profit4 performance

UK & ROI
Central Europe

Retail

Bank
Group

Profit  
(£m)
2,307
180
2,487
143
2,630

Change  
actual rates
(7.0)%
7.1%
(6.1)%
(18.8)%
(6.9)%

Change at  
constant rates
(7.0)%
3.6%
(6.3)%
(18.8)%
(7.1)%

Margin %  
at actual rates
3.8%
4.1%
3.8%
12.9%
4.0%

Margin % change  
at actual rates
(57) bps
(10) bps
(54) bps
(616) bps
(61) bps

Further information on operating profit performance is included in Note 2 starting on page 133.

Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2023

31

Strategic reportFinancial review continued

UK & ROI overview
In the UK, Republic of Ireland (ROI) and Booker, like-for-like 
sales increased by 4.7% versus last year, with growth of 6.7% in 
the second half. We delivered a very strong performance over 
Christmas (with like-for-like sales growth of 7.8%), continuing to 
inflate behind the market as overall levels of inflation increased. 
Booker delivered particularly strong sales growth of 12.0%, 
benefiting from continued market share growth in its 
catering business.

Clothing sales declined by (1.2)%, which mainly reflects the impact 
of trading over exceptionally strong lockdown-linked demand in 
the first half of the 2021/22 financial year, partly offset by our 
efforts to rebalance space from Home to Clothing. We saw a 
significant improvement in value perception, ahead of other 
clothing retailers, and the number of customers purchasing 
at least one product from our Home and Clothing ranges 
increased by 11.0% and 7.6% respectively. Clothing delivered 
growth of 7.0% in the fourth quarter. 

UK & ROI adjusted operating profit was £2,307m, down (7.0)% at 
constant rates, primarily reflecting the impact of lower year-on-
year volumes, the ongoing investment in our customer offer and 
significant operating cost inflation, partially offset by a very strong 
Booker catering recovery and the acceleration of our Save to 
invest programme.

Sales grew well in both large and convenience store formats, 
by 4.0% and 6.4% respectively, driven by particularly strong 
performance in food and higher footfall as some customers 
switched back into stores from online. Growth was particularly 
strong in our city centre convenience stores, notably in the 
London region where sales grew by 9.4%. 

Adjusted operating margin was 3.8%, (57)bps lower year-on-year, 
reflecting a margin mix benefit last year from higher non-food 
sales and the year-on-year operating profit impacts above.

Online sales declined by (5.4)%, in line with overall normalisation 
in the market. Online sales participation stabilised to c.13%, 
around 4%pts higher than pre-pandemic, driven by strong 
customer retention.

Further information on each of the UK & ROI businesses 
follows below.

Online performance

UK – strong customer offer and relentless 
focus on value
Like-for-like sales grew by 3.3%, with particularly strong 
growth of 7.2% across the six-week Christmas trading period. 
In the first half, like-for-like sales grew by 0.7%, reflecting 
reduced year-on-year volumes due to higher levels of in-home 
consumption in the prior year. Growth accelerated in the 
second half, with like-for-like sales of 6.0%, driven by rising 
levels of general market inflation and strong demand in the fourth 
quarter, particularly during the key Christmas trading period. 

Food sales grew by 4.6% for the full year, with own brand volume 
participation increasing by 46bps as customers responded to 
our overall value proposition, driving growth at both ends of our 
range; Finest sales were up 6.8% and sales of our entry price and 
Exclusively at Tesco ranges were up 5.9%. We are at the most 
competitive we have ever been, with our strongest price index 
to date, as we continue to invest in our value proposition for 
customers. The powerful combination of Aldi Price Match, 
Low Everyday Prices and Clubcard Prices, supported by our 
market-leading ranges, is helping customers manage higher 
costs of living. We maintained a strong market share at 27.3% and 
were the only full-line grocer to grow share versus pre-pandemic, 
while also growing our overall brand index ahead of the market 
across the three years, most noticeably in quality, up 492bps. 

Customers took greater advantage of our exclusive Clubcard 
Prices promotions, with promotional participation increasing 
by 3.8%pts to 25.5% in February. Clubcard sales penetration 
reached 78.5% by the end of the year, up 4.4%pts, with 
penetration in convenience up 9.9%pts, benefiting from 
the roll out of Clubcard Prices to our Express stores in the 
second half of last year and more recently the launch of 
our market-leading Clubcard Price Meal Deal. 

Non-food sales declined by (4.5)% as we traded over strong sales 
in Home and Clothing categories last year. Home sales declined by 
(6.4)%, driven by a (9.8)% reduction in our range as we selectively 
exited low margin categories such as electricals. We outperformed 
the market in key categories, such as gifting and stationery (by 
8.7%pts and 4.3%pts respectively). We purchased the Paperchase 
brand in January, and we look forward to introducing a wider 
range of cards, gifting and stationery later this year.

Sales (inc. VAT)
Orders per week
Basket size £
Online % of UK total sales
Delivery saver subscribers
Click & Collect (C&C) locations

FY 22/23
£5.6bn
1.14m
£95

One-year 
change
(5.4)%
(6.7)%
1.0%
12.8% (1.2)%pts
0.8%
688k
10.4%
563

Three-year 
change
57.0%
52.1%
3.2%
3.6%pts
39.1%
71.1%

We opened our fifth and sixth urban fulfilment centres (UFCs) 
in Rutherglen, Glasgow (in May) and Bar Hill, Cambridge (in 
January). Tesco Whoosh – our rapid delivery service – is now 
in 1,000 stores, exceeding our original target of 800 stores. 
Our average delivery times have improved by around five 
minutes to c.25 minutes with nearly two million orders delivered 
to customers to date. Satisfaction scores are among the highest 
in the Group, with Whoosh proving particularly popular amongst 
our most loyal customers.

ROI – consistently outperforming the market
Like-for-like sales grew by 3.3% for the full year, including growth 
of 6.6% in the second half as general market inflation increased. 
We delivered a particularly strong Christmas, despite trading over 
high levels of in-home consumption in the prior year as a result of 
hospitality restrictions. We grew our market share to 22.9% by the 
end of the year, with gains of 64bps year on year and 110bps versus 
pre-pandemic.

Total sales grew by 5.4% at constant rates, including a 1.5%pts 
contribution from the nine Joyce’s stores we acquired in June 
which were fully converted and reopened as Tesco stores in the 
third quarter. In addition, we opened four new convenience 
stores, which contributed 0.7%pts to total sales growth.

Our continued investment in value through Aldi Price Match, 
Low Everyday Prices and Clubcard Prices is proving to be a 
winning formula for customers in Ireland. Clubcard Prices has 
been a particular success, with sales penetration increasing by 
22.8%pts to 76.5%.

32

Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2023

BOOKER – an exceptionally strong performance 
across both catering and retail

Total Retail
Retail
Tobacco
Total Catering
Catering
Best Food Logistics

Total Booker*

Sales 
£m
4,796
2,888
1,908
3,629
2,109
1,520
8,684

LFL
3.2%
9.9%
(5.6)%
26.7%
25.2%
29.0%
12.0%

 * Total Booker also includes small business sales of £259m

Booker delivered exceptionally strong like-for-like sales growth of 
12.0%. Catering sales were particularly strong, increasing by 35.5% 
in the first half as we lapped subdued demand due to pandemic-
related restrictions in the prior year. Catering grew by 18.9% in 
the second half as we continued to significantly outperform the 
market, working with hospitality customers to ensure they could 
continue to offer outstanding value while maintaining strong menu 
choice. This included our price freeze on around 450 key catering 
lines across the festive period. The number of customers signing 
up to our Food Clubs has further increased, with 44,000 members 
now able to access exclusive deals and discounts. 

The retail business also continued to grow well, with sales up 
9.9% excluding tobacco. Our Jack’s product range is proving 
popular with our Booker retail partners, enabling them to offer 
their customers a great value own brand alternative on over 
500 lines.

Retail tobacco sales declined by (5.6)%, reflecting the market 
trend as customers returned to overseas travel and duty-free 
imports increased. Excluding tobacco, total Booker sales growth 
was 18.4%.

CENTRAL EUROPE – strong delivery of cost reduction 
plans delivering profit growth
Like-for-like sales grew by 10.4%, with strong growth in all three 
markets. Inflationary pressures were felt to a greater extent 
across our Central European markets with even more significant 
levels of input cost inflation. Food sales grew by 11.9%, with strong 
growth in both fresh and packaged categories.

We rolled out Clubcard Prices to c.95% of promotions and our 
Low-Price Guarantee continues to be positively received across 
all countries. Clubcard penetration is now at 83% versus 60% last 
year and we have seen strong improvements across our reward 
perceptions. Our reward scheme is now ranked number 1 in all 
three countries.

Central Europe adjusted operating profit was £180m, an increase 
of 3.6% at constant rates. Our cost reduction programme helped 
offset significant energy inflation, foreign exchange headwinds and 
an incremental £(25)m charge related to a new extraordinary retail 
tax in Hungary.

In June, we completed the sale of 17 malls and one retail park, 
generating proceeds of £203m and a £37m profit on disposal 
within adjusting items. We are continuing to operate the Tesco 
hypermarkets in these malls on a leasehold basis. 

TESCO BANK

Revenue
Adjusted operating profit 
Lending to customers 
Customer deposits 
Net interest margin
Total capital ratio 

FY 22/23
£1,106m
£143m
£7.1bn
£(5.8)bn
4.9%
25.7%

FY 21/22
£922m
£176m
£6.5bn
£(5.3)bn
5.0%
27.2%

YoY change
20.1%
(18.8)%
9.1%
8.3%
(0.1)%pts
(1.5)%pts

Revenue grew by 20.1%, driven by an increase in credit card 
spend, a recovery in demand for travel money and an increase 
in ATM transactions year on year as cash usage continued to 
recover post-pandemic. In addition, insurance revenue increased 
due to an additional two-month benefit from the acquisition of 
Tesco Underwriting Limited in May 2021 as well as underlying 
growth in policies.

Tesco Bank adjusted operating profit was £143m, down (18.8)% 
year on year, predominantly due to the impact of a significant 
provision release in the prior year related to the improved 
macroeconomic outlook post-pandemic. This was partially 
offset by a strong performance in our travel money and ATM 
businesses, combined with higher credit card income, in addition 
to a higher contribution from the full consolidation of Tesco 
Underwriting Limited.

Overall lending to customers has increased by 9.1% to £7.1bn, due 
mainly to higher credit card balances as a result of both increased 
retail spending and growth in newly acquired accounts. Loan 
balances remained stable year on year. Our level of customer 
defaults remains low and the Bank’s balance sheet remains in a 
strong position, with sufficient capital and liquidity to absorb 
changes in both regulatory and funding requirements. 

In addition to winning Credit Builder Card Provider of the Year 
and Best Card Provider (Introductory Rate) at the Moneyfacts 
Awards in the first half, Tesco Bank has since won Credit Card 
Provider of the year at the 2023 Moneyfacts Consumer Awards 
in recognition of the wide range of credit cards we offer for 
customers, combined with the unique benefit of being able to 
earn Tesco Clubcard points. 

We announced our two new charity partnerships with The Trussell 
Trust, who work to end the need for food banks in the UK, and 
Maggie’s, the cancer support charity. 

PLANET - serving our customers, communities and 
planet a little better every day
We continue to roll out innovations to help achieve our aim of net 
zero emissions across our entire value chain by 2050, aligned to a 
1.5°C pathway. In the fourth quarter we announced two new trials 
with our farmer suppliers. We launched a low-carbon fertiliser 
trial with five of our key field vegetable suppliers. With 75% of the 
fertiliser alternatives manufactured in the UK, the trial is focused 
on increasing food security and cutting greenhouse gas emissions 
for the harvests linked to the low-carbon fertiliser of those key 
suppliers. We also launched a fava bean trial to help scale up this 
UK-native, low-carbon alternative protein to pea and soya, 
including using it as an ingredient and as alternative feed for pigs.

We have made further progress towards our commitment to be 
carbon neutral in our own operations by 2035. We introduced a 
further 243 electric vans into our home delivery fleet, and in an 
industry first, we introduced a zero-emissions electric lorry to trial 
deliveries across the 400 London stores served by our Dagenham 
distribution centre.

Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2023

33

Strategic reportFinancial review continued

This year we launched our Better Baskets campaign, bringing 
together affordable products to help customers make healthier 
and more sustainable choices. Healthy products now account for 
60% of sales volumes, up from 58% last year, and we are on track 
to achieve our target of 65% by 2025. Reformulation of Own Brand 
ranges has contributed to the removal of 71 billion calories to date, 
putting us well on track to delivering our 100 billion calorie 
reduction ambition by 2025.

In the third quarter, we announced our new aim to halve food 
waste in our own operations by 2025, five years ahead of our 
previous commitment and the UN Sustainable Development Goals 
(SDG) of 2030. In November, we rebranded reduced to clear with 
new signage to let customers know that products are Reduced in 
price. Just as nice., helping them to save on their weekly shop and 
reduce food waste.

To help support the unprecedented demand in our communities, 
we have given daily donations to food banks and local charities. 
In the third quarter we launched The Give Back Express, allowing 
customers to purchase products most needed by charities and 
donate them in store. Alongside our winter food collection, which 
provided an equivalent of 2.4 million meals this year, these 
initiatives are made possible through our longstanding 
partnerships with Community Food Connection, The Trussell Trust, 
FareShare and free sharing app Olio.

Adjusting items in statutory operating profit
FY 22/23
 £m
(982)
(138)
91
(76)
2
(2) 
–

Net impairment charge on non-current assets
Save to invest restructuring provisions
Property transactions
Amortisation of acquired intangible assets
Disposal of Asia operations/China associate
Other*
Litigation costs
Total adjusting items in statutory  
operating profit

FY 21/22
 £m
(115)
(44)
128
(76)
41
(6)
(193)

 * Other includes fair value less cost of disposal movements on assets held for sale, ATM 

business rates refund, and release of onerous contract provision. See page 138.

Adjusting items are excluded from our adjusted operating profit 
performance by virtue of their size and nature to provide a helpful 
alternative perspective of the year-on-year performance of the 
Group’s ongoing trading business. Total adjusting items in statutory 
operating profit resulted in a charge of £(1,105)m, compared to a 
£(265)m charge in the prior year. 

We recognised a £(982)m non-cash net impairment charge on 
non-current assets, primarily property, driven mainly by a 
significant increase in discount rates as a result of macroeconomic 
factors. The majority of the charge (£(626)m) was booked in the 
first half the year, with an additional amount charged in the 
second half as discount rates further increased.

We recognised a £(138)m restructuring provision related to the 
Save to invest programme, which includes changes made to our 
store management structures and the closure of our remaining 
UK counters.

We generated a £91m profit on the disposal of properties in the 
year, including the sale of our Middlewich distribution centre in 
the UK, and the disposal of 17 mall properties and a retail park in 
Central Europe.

34

Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2023

Amortisation of acquired intangible assets is excluded from our 
headline performance measures. We incurred a charge of £(76)m 
in the year, which relates to the intangible assets that were 
recognised as a result of our merger with Booker in March 2018.

In the prior year, we recognised litigation costs of £(193)m in 
adjusting items, relating to proceedings issued against us by two 
claimant law firms in relation to the overstatement of expected 
profits announced in 2014. The cash flow related to these claims 
was also settled in the prior year. Given the legal timeframe for 
bringing a claim has now elapsed, no further related claims can 
be brought by shareholders.

Further detail on adjusting items can be found in Note 4, starting 
on page 138, with additional information relating to the non-cash 
net impairment charge in Note 14, starting on page 148.

Joint ventures and associates
Our share of post-tax profits from joint ventures and associates 
was £8m, compared to £15m in the prior year, primarily due to a 
reduction in profits from UK property joint ventures.

As announced within our interim results, we completed the 
buyback of our partner’s stake in The Tesco Dorney Limited 
Partnership property joint venture in October 2022, bringing back 
seven large stores into full ownership. This results in annual cash 
rental savings of c.£31m and has a broadly neutral impact on net 
debt, as a £(0.4)bn increase in borrowings is offset by a £0.4bn 
reduction in lease liabilities.

Following this transaction, we have five UK property joint ventures 
still in place, from a peak of 13 structures in 2015. These five 
remaining structures contain properties worth £3.0bn and debt of 
£2.0bn, with £2.0bn of associated lease liabilities on our balance 
sheet. The three largest remaining property JVs are with the 
Tesco Pension Scheme.

Net interest on medium term notes, loans and 
bonds
Other interest receivable/(payable)
Finance charges payable on lease liabilities
Net finance costs before adjusting items
Fair value remeasurements of financial 
instruments
Net pension finance income/(costs)
Net finance costs 

FY 22/23  
£m

FY 21/22 
£m

(231)
42
(373)
(562)

(51)
80
(533)

(208)
(30)
(405)
(643)

123
(22)
(542)

Net interest on medium term notes, loans and bonds was £(231)m, 
up £(23)m. The combined impact of debt acquired through the 
acquisition of property partnerships and increased interest rates 
on floating rate debt was largely offset by the benefit of debt 
refinanced at a lower coupon in the prior year and the buyback of 
a portion of secured debt in November 2022.

Other interest receivable totalled £42m, up £72m year on year due 
to higher interest income on our cash balances and short-term 
deposits.

Finance charges payable on lease liabilities reduced by £32m year 
on year. This was driven by the derecognition of £385m of lease 
liabilities relating to the buyback of The Tesco Dorney Limited 
Partnership mentioned above and £355m of lease liabilities related 
to the buyback of The Tesco Sarum Limited Partnership in 
December 2021.

(1,105)

(265)

Net finance costs

 
The non-cash fair value remeasurement charge of £(51)m primarily 
relates to the mark-to-market movement on inflation-linked 
swaps, driven by an increase in discount rates. These swaps 
eliminate the impact of future inflation on the Group’s cash flow 
in relation to historical sale and leaseback property transactions.

Net pension finance income of £80m was driven by the IAS 19 
pension surplus as at the end of the 2021/22 financial year, 
compared to a charge of £(22)m last year when the scheme 
was in an opening deficit position. 

Further detail on finance income and costs can be found in Note 5 
on page 139, as well as further detail on the adjusting items in Note 
4 on page 138.

Group tax

Tax on adjusted profit
Tax on adjusting items
Tax on profit

FY 22/23  
£m
(442)
195
(247)

FY 21/22
£m
(502)
(8)
(510)

Tax on adjusted Group profit was £(442)m, £60m lower than last 
year, reflecting a reduction in retail operating profit and a one-off 
charge in the prior year related to the revaluation of deferred tax 
following the decision to increase the corporation tax rate in the 
UK from 19% to 25% from April 2023. Adjusting items resulted in 
a £195m tax credit, driven predominantly by taxable deductions 
relating to the higher impairment charge. 

The effective tax rate on adjusted Group profit was 21.3%, 
higher than the current UK statutory rate of 19%, primarily due 
to the depreciation of assets which do not qualify for tax relief.

We expect our effective tax rate to be around 26% in FY 
23/24 following the increase in the UK corporation tax rate on 
1 April 2023.

Earnings per share

Adjusted diluted EPS
Statutory diluted EPS
Statutory basic EPS 

FY 22/23
21.85p
10.08p
10.17p

FY 21/22
21.86p
19.64p
19.86p

YoY change
(0.0)%
(48.7)%
(48.8)%

Adjusted diluted EPS was 21.85p, in line with last year, as the 
impact of reduced adjusted operating profit was offset by lower 
finance costs and tax charges year on year, and the benefit of 
our share buyback programme.

Statutory diluted earnings per share was 10.08p, (48.7)% lower 
year on year due to an increase in adjusting items, principally 
a higher net impairment charge on non-current assets. 

Dividend
We propose to pay a final dividend of 7.05 pence per ordinary 
share, taking the full year dividend to 10.90 pence per ordinary 
share, in line with last year. This includes the payment of an 
interim dividend of 3.85 pence per ordinary share in 
November 2022. 

The proposed final dividend was approved by the Board of 
Directors on 12 April 2023 and is subject to the approval of 
shareholders at this year’s Annual General Meeting. The final 
dividend will be paid on 23 June 2023 to shareholders who are on 
the register of members at close of business on 12 May 2023 (the 
record date). Shareholders may elect to reinvest their dividend in 
the dividend reinvestment plan (DRIP). The last date for receipt of 
DRIP elections and revocations will be 2 June 2023.

Summary of total indebtedness (excludes Tesco Bank)
Movement
£m
(205)
228
23
(58)
(35)

Net debt before lease liabilities 
Lease liabilities
Net debt
Pension deficit, IAS 19 basis (post-tax)
Total indebtedness

February 23
£m
(2,775)
(7,718)
(10,493)
(300)
(10,793)

February 22
£m
(2,570)
(7,946)
(10,516)
(242)
(10,758)

Net debt/EBITDA
Total indebtedness ratio

2.6x
2.7x

2.5x
2.5x

Total indebtedness was £(10,793)m, broadly in line with last year as 
increases in net debt and the IAS 19 pension deficit were largely 
offset by a reduction in lease liabilities. Net debt before lease 
liabilities increased by £(205)m year on year to £(2,775)m, driven by 
the impact of fair value remeasurement of net derivatives and the 
purchase of a portion of the secured debt of our property joint 
ventures, in order to reduce our ongoing net interest cost.

Lease liabilities were £(7,718)m, down £228m year on year, primarily 
due to the derecognition of £385m of lease liabilities following the 
purchase of our partner’s stake in The Tesco Dorney Limited 
Partnership. This was partially offset by an increase in lease 
liabilities as a result of higher rent payments this year due to the 
effect of RPI inflation and the lease back of 17 stores situated in 
the mall properties sold in Central Europe.

We now carry an IAS 19 pension deficit, totalling £(300)m (post-
tax), which includes £(157)m relating to the main scheme and  
£(143)m related to other Group pension schemes. The main 
scheme was in a surplus of £2.4bn (post-tax) in the prior year and 
was therefore disregarded in total indebtedness as only pension 
schemes which are in a net deficit position are included. The 
movement in the main scheme was driven by movements in 
discount rates and gilt yields.

The accounting surplus/deficit does not drive contributions to 
the pension schemes and can be volatile. As disclosed within our 
interim results, we have agreed the actuarial pension valuation 
as at 31 March 2022 with the Tesco Plc Pension Scheme Trustee at 
a surplus of £0.9bn. It was also agreed with the Trustee that no 
pension deficit contributions are expected to be required ahead 
of the next triennial valuation in 2025.

We had strong levels of liquidity at the end of the year of £2.7bn 
and our £2.5bn committed facility remained undrawn. We 
refinanced the facility in November 2022 for an initial three-year 
term. The rate of interest payable on this facility continues to be 
linked to three of our sustainability commitments.

Our net debt to EBITDA ratio was 2.6 times at the end of the year, 
up from 2.5 times in the prior year end and around the middle of 
our targeted range of 2.8 to 2.3 times. The year-on-year increase 
was driven by a reduction in retail EBITDA. The total indebtedness 
ratio was 2.7 times compared to 2.5 times last year end. 

Fixed charge cover was 3.5 times this year, which was stable year 
on year, as a reduction in retail EBITDA offset lower net finance 
costs and lease interest payments.

Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2023

35

Strategic report 
 
 
Total retail cash tax paid in the year was £(107)m, compared to 
£(195)m last year. The reduction reflects lower retail adjusted 
operating profits year on year and the impact of tax allowable 
deductions relating to adjusting items, primarily the impairment 
charge and fair value remeasurements. We continue to benefit 
from a super-deduction allowance on certain capital investments 
and we received in-year tax relief of £121m in relation to the £2.5bn 
one-off pension contribution made in 2021, which is required to be 
spread over four years for tax purposes. FY 23/24 will be the final 
year in which we receive this pension-related tax relief. In the 
Spring Budget 2023, the UK Government announced that full 
expensing relief on certain capital investments would be available 
from 1 April 2023 through to 31 March 2026, and we expect this to 
have a broadly similar cash tax impact as the super-deduction 
allowance that it replaces.

The net cash outflow of £(86)m for the purchase of our own 
shares comprises a £(134)m purchase of shares to offset dilution 
from share scheme issuance, offset by £48m proceeds received 
from colleagues in relation to those schemes. The lower outflow 
compared to last year was driven by the timing of purchases to 
satisfy FY 23/24 maturities.

The net cash impact of acquisitions and disposals was £(281)m, 
of which c.£(200)m related to the purchase of a portion of the 
secured debt of our property joint ventures, in order to reduce 
our ongoing net interest cost.

We generated £266m of proceeds from property transactions, 
including the sale of 17 malls and one retail park in Central Europe 
and our distribution centre in Middlewich in the UK. This was 
partially offset by the purchase of our partner’s stake in 
The Tesco Dorney Limited Partnership in October 2022.

Financial review continued

Summary retail free cash flow
The following table reconciles Group adjusted operating profit to 
retail free cash flow. Further details are included in Note 2 starting 
on page 133.

Adjusted operating profit
Less: Tesco Bank adjusted operating  
(profit)/loss
Retail adjusted operating profit 
Add back: Depreciation and amortisation
Other reconciling items
Pension deficit contribution
Decrease in working capital
Retail cash generated from operations 
before adjusting items
Cash capex
Net interest 
 – Interest related to Net debt before lease 

liabilities

 – Interest related to lease liabilities 
Tax paid
Dividends received
Repayment of obligations under leases
Own shares purchased for share schemes
Retail free cash flow 

Memo (not included in Retail free cash flow):
 – Net acquisitions & disposals
 – Property proceeds & purchases
 – Cash impact of adjusting items

FY 22/23
£m
2,630

FY 21/22
£m
2,825

(143)
2,487
1,570
61
(23)
468
4,563

(1,143)
(573)

(202)
(371)
(107)
68
(589)
(86)
2,133

(281)
266
(61)

(176)
2,649
1,577
61
(19)
501
4,769

(1,050)
(641)

(239)
(402)
(195)
109
(571)
(144)
2,277

122
228
(316)

We delivered strong Retail free cash flow of £2,133m, significantly 
ahead of our target range of between £1.4bn and £1.8bn, driven by 
another strong working capital performance. The year on year 
reduction of £(144)m was primarily driven by lower retail adjusted 
operating profit and an increase in capital expenditure, partially 
offset by lower tax and net interest payments.

Our total working capital inflow was £468m, driven primarily by 
higher trade payable balances due to cost price inflation in 
addition to good working capital management.

Net interest paid was lower year on year due to higher interest 
received as a result of higher interest rates on cash balances and 
lower interest relating to lease liabilities as a result of the buyback 
of the property partnerships mentioned above.

36

Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2023

Capital expenditure and space

Capex
Openings (k sq. ft.)
Closures (k sq. ft.)
Repurposed (k sq. ft.)
Net space change (k sq. ft.) 

UK & ROI

Central Europe

Tesco Bank

Group

FY 22/23
£1,069m
318
(233)
9
94

FY 21/22
£963m
180
(146)
–
34

FY 22/23
£115m
77
(25)
(407)
(355)

FY 21/22
£91m
54
(25)
(125)
(96)

FY 22/23
£51m
–
–
–
–

FY 21/22
£47m
–
–
–
–

FY 22/23
£1,235m
395
(258)
(398)
(261)

FY 21/22
£1,101m
234
(171)
(125)
(62)

Retail selling space is defined as net space in store adjusted to exclude checkouts, space behind checkouts, customer service desks and customer toilets. The data above excludes space 
relating to franchise stores. A full breakdown of space by segment is included in the Supplementary information on page 205.

Capital expenditure (capex) shown in the table above reflects expenditure on ongoing business activities across the Group, excluding 
property buybacks. 

Our capital expenditure for the year was £1,235m, £134m higher year on year, which primarily relates to simplification projects within our UK 
stores and the opening of convenience stores across both the UK and Ireland. We opened our fifth and sixth UFCs in Rutherglen, Glasgow, in 
May 2022 and Bar Hill, Cambridge, in January 2023.

In the UK, we opened two new superstores, at Freshwater and Cinderford, 18 new One Stop stores and a further 50 Tesco Express stores, 
taking our total number of Tesco Express stores to 1,998 at the end of the financial year. We opened our 2,000th Express store in Cambridge 
in March, after the year end. In the Republic of Ireland, we opened four new Tesco Express stores and converted the nine Joyce’s stores we 
acquired in June last year. 

In Central Europe, we opened seven new small format stores and refreshed 35 large stores in the year, right sizing our selling space, to 
ensure our offer remains relevant for customers. A further 56 store refreshes are planned this year. 

Statutory capital expenditure for the year was £1.5bn. 

Further details of current and forecast space can be found in the Supplementary information starting on page 204.

Property

Property1 – fully owned
 – Estimated market value
 – NBV
% store selling space owned
% property owned by value2

UK & ROI

Central Europe

Group

February 23

February 22

February 23

February 22

February 23

February 22

£15.4bn
£14.9bn
58%
59%

£16.6bn
£15.1bn
56%
58%

£1.8bn
£1.5bn
68%
65%

£1.5bn
£1.4bn
68%
64%

£17.2bn
£16.4bn
60%
60%

£18.1bn
£16.5bn
58%
58%

1.  Stores, malls, investment property, offices, distribution centres, fixtures and fittings, work-in-progress. Excludes joint ventures.
2.  Excludes fixtures and fittings.

The estimated market value of our fully-owned property as at the year end reduced by £(0.9)bn to £17.2bn due to the weakening of the UK 
property investment market in the past six months. The market value represents a surplus of £0.8bn over the net book value (NBV).

Our Group freehold property ownership percentage was 60%, an increase of 2% year on year. The completion of the purchase of our 
partner’s 50% stake in The Tesco Dorney Limited Partnership in October brought back into full ownership seven sites, contributing a 1% 
increase in the percentage of fully-owned properties in the UK & ROI. We also repurchased the Tesco Extra stores in Mansfield and Melton 
Mowbray in the UK.

In Central Europe, the increase in the market value of fully-owned property reflects the assets that were held for sale last year, which were 
not sold, coming back into the ‘Property – fully owned’ balance. In the year, we realised £203m of proceeds from the completed sale of 17 
malls and one retail park.

Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2023

37

Strategic report 
 
Principal risks and uncertainties

Managing our risks.

Effective risk management is core to our management practices, 
which help deliver our strategy and our commitments to our 
customers, community, and the planet. We are focused on 
conducting our business responsibly, safely, and legally, while 
making risk-informed decisions when responding to opportunities 
or threats that present themselves. The Board and Executive 
Committee are responsible for the effective management of risk 
across the Group. We manage our risks in line with the risk 
appetite set by the Board.

Risk management framework
The diagram below provides an overview of our risk management 
framework defining Tesco’s risk management process and 
governance. Our risk management framework continues to be 
embedded throughout the organisation, enabling us to clearly 
identify, prioritise, respond, and monitor our most significant risks 
and emerging risk themes. Our risk management framework 
supports decision making, with culture and leadership being at 
the heart of our framework, including a clear tone from the top 
on the importance of risk management.

Governance

Risk process

Risk management framework 

Board

Audit  
Committee

Group Chief  
Executive and 
Executive  
Committee

n B
w
o
t
o
t
d
o
m
p
o
u
T
p

Group risk and 
compliance  
committee

Business and 
functional  
leadership team

dit &
surance

u
A

s
a

m

D

o

a

n

t

i

t

a

o

&

r
i

n

g

6

5

I d e ntification

1

Culture & 
leadership

4

Governan c e   &
reporti n g

2

3

P

r
i

o

r

i
t

i

s

a

t

i

o

n

s
e
ns
o

Controls &

resp

Principal risks are those significant risks that could affect our strategic ambitions, future performance, viability, and/or reputation. 
Full disclosure of these risks is included on pages 40 to 45.

38

Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2023

 
 
 
Risk identification and prioritisation
A complete view of our risk universe starts with the analysis of our 
business, the external environment within which we operate, the 
regulatory landscape and our internal operations. This includes the 
impacts on our strategy, initiatives, governance, and processes. 
We use a consistent assessment criterion to identify and prioritise 
risks at the Group, functional, and business unit level, along with 
horizon scanning for emerging risk themes. The identified risks are 
categorised into one or more of the following risk types: strategic, 
change, operational, finance or compliance. This enables effective 
governance and monitoring of the risks.

Management assesses the risks on a continuous basis, taking 
into account the risk to Tesco’s strategy, our colleagues and 
our operations, as well as our impact on society and the 
environment. There is regular formal oversight through clearly 
defined governance structures, e.g. the Cyber risk committee 
oversees the various elements of the cyber security risk. 

Risk controls and responses
For risks where our risk appetite is low, termed, ‘risks requiring 
standards’, we take a robust and uniform approach to determine 
appropriate risk controls and responses, leaving no room for 
discretion or deviation. For these risks (typically regulatory and 
compliance risks) we have established policies and blueprints 
to guide the business in managing the risks. These risks are 
monitored formally by one or more of our various governance 
bodies, such as our Group risk and compliance committee, 
Privacy executive committee and Investment committee, as 
well as, biannually by the Audit Committee. For other risks, 
termed, ‘risks requiring judgements’, which are typically 
strategic, pervasive, or dynamic in nature, the risk controls 
and responses are determined on a case-by-case basis in line 
with the strategic goals of the organisation. We determine 
appropriate risk responses by measuring against the target risk 
score that articulates the risk appetite, after considering any 
existing risk mitigations.

Governance and monitoring
A strong risk culture is at the heart of our Risk management 
framework with clear risk ownership and proactive leadership.  
The responsibility for identifying, assessing, escalating, and 
managing risks resides with management at a functional, business 
unit and executive level. The Board has overall responsibility for 
risk management and is actively engaged in risk discussions.  
The Audit Committee, on behalf of the Board, undertakes an 
annual effectiveness assessment of the risk management 
framework, as well as, detailed reviews of the risks twice a year,  
to support the external reporting process, see page 75. The Group 
risk and compliance committee is responsible for the oversight of 
key risks on behalf of the Executive Committee. During the year, 
the Chief Audit and Risk Officer (CARO) left the business, and a 
PwC audit partner acted in an intermediary capacity to oversee 
the function. A new CARO joined in April 2023.

Audit and assurance
Assurance over risks requiring standards is robust and integrated 
across all three lines of defence. To mitigate these risks, the 
second-line functions such as, finance controls, ethics and 
compliance, safety, responsible sourcing, technology compliance, 
and people compliance, systematically test the processes and 
controls established by management.

Group Audit undertakes functional reviews on a rotational 
basis over the effectiveness of the first two lines of defence. 
It also carries out targeted controls testing for the risk 
requiring standards. For risks requiring judgements, Group 
Audit undertakes risk-based internal audits to ensure 
sufficient risk coverage.

Principal risks and uncertainties
The most significant risks – those that could affect our strategic 
ambitions, future performance, viability, and/or reputation – form 
our principal risks.

The table sets out our principal risks. This includes a summary 
of key information including, the type of risk, links to our strategic 
drivers, risk movement, key responses and controls, and the 
oversight committees at the Executive Committee and Board level. 
Please note, this list does not include all our risks. Additional risks, 
not presently known, or those we currently consider to be less 
material, may also have adverse effects. We also highlight 
principal risks that are included in our long-term viability 
scenarios, see page 46.

At present, there continues to be a heightened level of 
macroeconomic uncertainty relating to cost and wage inflation, 
as well as energy supply issues, leading to rising prices, which are 
continuing to impact our customers’ disposable income, thereby 
changing the way they shop. These also result in an increase in 
operational costs for us as well as our suppliers, which is further 
exacerbated by the war in Ukraine. The inflationary and economic 
risk factors continue to influence our business and are therefore 
key components of our customer and financial performance 
principal risks. We understand the short-term risks and impacts, 
and we have the right teams, governance mechanisms, customer 
offerings and strategies in place. However, the long-term impacts 
remain uncertain, and we will continue to monitor the situation 
closely and respond accordingly.

There are two notable changes to our principal risks this year. 
Brand, reputation, and trust is no longer a standalone principal 
risk, but continues to be monitored as a component of our other 
principal risks. Furthermore, given the impact of the external 
macroeconomic and geopolitical situation on supply chains, we 
have elevated security of supply as a new principal risk. A deep 
dive of this risk was also presented at the February 2023 
Board meeting. 

Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2023

39

Strategic reportPrincipal risks and uncertainties continued

Strategic drivers

Magnetic value  
for customers

I love my Tesco  
Clubcard

Easily the most 
convenient

Risk type

S ChStrategic

S Ch OChange

Save to invest

Ch O Operational

O F CFinance

F C Compliance

Residual risk movement  
(after taking current responses 
and controls into consideration) 

Risk increasing

No risk movement

Risk decreasing

† Indicates that the 

principal risk has been 
included as part of 
the longer-term 
viability scenarios 
detailed on pages 
46 and 47

N

New risk

Risk movement
There continues to be a growing level 
of sophistication and scale of 
targeted cyber incidents. However, 
the risk has remained stable in line 
with the previous year as we continue 
to invest in building the right 
capabilities and skills across our 
teams, which combined with 
colleague training and Executive-level 
oversight supports us in managing the 
risk effectively on an ongoing basis. 

Principal risk
Cyber security† 

S ChStrategic

Ch O Operational

A cyber security incident can result in 
unauthorised access to, or misuse of, 
our information systems, technology, 
or data. This could lead to leakage of 
sensitive information, loss of our 
critical assets, impact on trade, and 
reputational damage. 

Oversight: Cyber risk committee, 
Group risk and compliance 
committee, Executive Committee, 
Audit Committee, Board. 

We hold customer and colleague 
personal data. Although the threat 
landscape has been ever-changing, 
the risk remains unchanged, and we 
continue to monitor and manage the 
risk closely through structured 
implementation of our Group data 
privacy programme, robust 
governance and oversight 
mechanisms.

Data privacy†

F C Compliance

Failure to comply with legal or 
regulatory requirements relating to 
data privacy in the course of our 
business activities results in 
reputational damage, fines, or other 
adverse consequences. These can 
include criminal penalties and 
consequential litigation, which may 
result in an adverse impact on our on 
our ability to do business.  

Oversight: Privacy executive 
committee, Group risk and 
compliance committee, Executive 
Committee, Audit Committee, Board. 

Key responses and controls
 – Our cyber strategy focuses on enhancing the Group-wide control 

framework, including leak prevention, early detection, and 
prevention of cyber attacks. 

 – There is regular reporting on the progress and results of the 
cyber security programme to governance and oversight 
committees at both management and Board level. 

 – We operate a layered security defence model consisting of 

preventative, detective, and responsive technical controls and 
foundational capabilities. The security model is underpinned by 
a detailed roadmap, which is tracked against set milestones and 
defined outcomes.

 – We have further heightened our vigilance and monitoring related 

to potential cyber threats. This includes gathering intelligence from 
the National Cyber Security Centre, our security partners, and 
financial services organisations via Tesco Bank. 

 – We have an experienced team in our security operations centre 

to detect, report, and respond to security incidents. 

 – We continue to grow our experienced team to ensure we have 

the right skills and capabilities.

 – We recognise the importance of training and communication to 
help prevent cyber security incidents. We hold regular induction, 
awareness, and refresher courses for our colleagues. 

 – We have a third-party supplier assurance programme focusing 

on third-party cyber security risks.

 – We put our customers and colleagues at the heart of all decisions 
we make when using their personal data. Our data privacy policies 
and processes (including via privacy impact assessments and data 
governance) establish how we protect and appropriately use 
personal data. 

 – There is regular reporting on progress and performance of the 

data privacy programme to governance and oversight committees. 
Our multi-year technology security programme is driving enhanced 
data security capabilities. 

 – Our Group data privacy programme includes ongoing assessment 

and monitoring of privacy risks and controls across our businesses. 

 – We have an established team in our security operations centre to 

detect, report and respond to security incidents (including personal 
data incidents). 

 – We have a third-party supplier assurance programme focusing on 

third-party data security and privacy risks. 

 – We recognise the importance of ongoing training and 

communication to raise awareness of good data-handling 
practices, and to help prevent personal data incidents. We carry 
out regular induction, awareness, risk-based tailored training 
(including refresher training) for our colleagues.

40

Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2023

 
 
Principal risk
Climate change† 

S ChStrategic

Ch O Operational

Failure to effectively respond to 
climate change and influence our 
value chain towards a net zero 
emission future, may have an adverse 
impact on our financial performance, 
colleagues and reputation and also 
result in loss of licence to operate.
Delivery against our 1.5°C-aligned 
ambition to reach net zero by 2050 
along the value chain, meeting our 
ESG targets and regulatory obligations 
to mitigate climate change is vital. 
This is because the longevity and 
prosperity of our business depends 
intrinsically on the health of the 
natural environment.  

Oversight: 
Group planet committee, Executive 
Committee, Corporate Responsibility 
Committee, Audit Committee, Board. 

Pandemics

Ch O Operational

Failure to rapidly adapt and respond 
to the impacts of future pandemics, 
and their implications for the global 
economy, may result in disruption to 
our supply chain, increase colleague 
absenteeism, and could negatively 
impact our operations as well as our 
financial performance. This includes 
addressing any operational 
complexities due to evolving 
mutations and strains associated 
with a pandemic. 

Oversight: Executive Committee, 
Audit Committee, Board. 

Technology 

S ChStrategic

Ch O Operational

S Ch OChange

Failure to design, build, operate and 
maintain resilient key IT systems and 
infrastructure, may result in loss of 
operating capabilities, financial 
impacts, and damage to our 
reputation.

Oversight: Executive Committee, 
Audit Committee, Board. 

Risk movement
Climate change is a widely 
acknowledged global emergency, 
with the need to act faster becoming 
evident. Managing the greenhouse gas 
emissions associated with our supply 
chain is critical to reducing our 
impact on climate change. This risk 
remains in line with the previous year. 
Our sustainability efforts focus on our 
ability to create and preserve 
long-term value for people, planet, 
and the key communities we serve. 

We consider the likelihood of the risk 
to have decreased since the previous 
year given the successful rollout of 
vaccines, reduction in infection rates 
and the easing of government 
restrictions across our markets. 
This risk also covers other infectious 
disease outbreaks, and we continue 
to keep a watching brief over any 
developments. 

Key responses and controls
 – We have established a Group planet committee (previously named 
Group climate committee) to extend oversight and governance for 
monitoring the delivery of Tesco’s sustainability commitments 
including those related to climate change. The committee is chaired 
by the Chief Product Officer, and brings together the different 
parts of the business, further enabling coordination during key 
decision making. 

 – We have stated a commitment to be net zero by 2050. This pledge 
is in the process of being supported by roadmaps and targeted 
decarbonisation plans. These combine supplier engagement with 
innovative farming methods to support the reduction of our carbon 
footprint, e.g. technology investments in pursuit of low-carbon 
energy and transport. 

 – We also initiated an exercise to strengthen our baseline data for 
carbon emissions across our value chain last year, which has 
further progressed this year. Combined with governance 
mechanisms in place, this will support effective monitoring, 
tracking, and reporting of our progress against our commitments.

 – We have established several metrics with appropriate 

management oversight and governance mechanisms to enable 
us to monitor progress. We are working internally and with 
third-party organisations to continue developing this suite of 
metrics. There is a level of external assurance over the metrics, 
and we are working to further enhance and extend this. 

 – We have aligned our climate-related ambitions with our reward 
policies and launched our second sustainability-linked bond. We 
also continue to report our climate-related financial disclosures, 
see TCFD section on pages 20 to 24.

 – The safety and wellbeing of our colleagues and customers has 
been and continues to be our overriding priority. Management 
continues to monitor events closely with regular Board oversight, 
evaluating the change in infection rates, impacts and designing 
appropriate response strategies. 

 – Our teams have developed a playbook to respond to any future 
outbreak of new variants or diseases. The playbook includes 
the learnings from our previous pandemic response and 
includes specific actions such as securing supply chain capacity, 
hygiene protocols, additional store security, and extending 
support to colleagues, customers and suppliers who could 
be at increased risk.

 – We closely monitor developments and the government guidelines. 
We will continue to work closely with the government and relevant 
labour bodies to develop the right safeguards to ensure our 
customers and colleagues are safe.

Our dependence on technology is 
growing across the Group given the 
innovative propositions and initiatives 
that we are introducing. This risk is 
also influenced by a highly 
competitive environment for 
technology talent. We consider this 
risk stable compared to the previous 
year, as we continue to invest in our 
underlying technology platforms and 
infrastructure, upskilling our team 
and attracting new talent. 

 – We continue to enhance our technology infrastructure and 

platforms to improve their resilience. This involves significant 
investment in our software, as well as our hosting strategy. 
We are partnering with cloud providers as well as reinforcing our 
internal infrastructure, re-engineering some of our legacy retail 
systems, and building redundancy for key business systems. 
 – Our continued investment in data centre and cloud-hosting 
facilities is providing greater resilience and control for our 
key systems. 

 – We continue to invest in the capabilities of our team to improve 

our key technology solutions.

 – We have IT development, change management and life-cycle 

procedures in place and skilled colleagues to build, operate and 
maintain our systems. 

 – We have disaster recovery and business continuity plans to 
minimise disruption in the event of a technology failure.  
We govern through a structured approach to managing events.
 – We prioritise, monitor, and manage our tech-innovation across 
Tesco, through an effective governance and oversight process.

Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2023

41

Strategic report 
 
 
Principal risks and uncertainties continued

Principal risk
Political, regulatory and 
compliance† 

F C Compliance

Failure to comply with legal and other 
requirements (such as anti-bribery, 
competition law, grocery regulations 
and supplier code) in a complex 
political and increasingly litigious 
environment, may result in fines, 
criminal penalties for Tesco or 
colleagues, litigation (including class 
actions, e.g. the ongoing equal pay 
claim), that may lead to adverse 
financial, legal, and reputational 
consequences.  

Oversight: Group risk and compliance 
committee, Executive Committee, 
Audit Committee, Board. 

Risk movement
The increase in geopolitical 
activity across the globe has 
added to the challenges 
being currently faced by the 
UK economy. These 
geopolitical developments 
have resulted in an increased 
uncertainty in terms of 
future trading opportunities 
with certain countries, 
however, we continue to 
closely monitor the global 
developments to implement 
appropriate responses. We 
have assessed the risk to be 
in line with the previous year 
given our current response 
strategies, monitoring, and 
control environment.

People 

S ChStrategic

Ch O Operational

Failure to attract, retain and develop 
the required workforce and 
capabilities, and to embed our values 
in our culture, could impact on the 
delivery of our purpose and business 
performance.  

Oversight: Nominations and 
Governance Committee, 
Remuneration Committee, Executive 
Committee, Audit Committee, Board. 

Market competition for key 
leadership and specialist 
talent remains strong, with 
the retail sector and wider 
UK economy experiencing 
specific challenges, such as 
a shortage of skilled talent. 
Furthermore, wage inflation 
and other macroeconomic 
conditions also have an 
impact on the risk. In 
response, we continue to 
have mitigations in place to 
retain and fulfil any gaps in 
specific skillsets. We also 
have specific mechanisms 
in place to ensure our 
colleagues receive 
appropriate compensation 
as well as a defined career 
path for progression. On a 
residual basis, therefore, 
this risk has remained 
unchanged. 

Health and safety 

F C Compliance

Failure to meet safety standards in 
relation to our workplace may 
unfortunately result in death or injury 
to our customers, colleagues, or third 
parties, or in damage to our 
operations, and lead to adverse 
financial, legal, and reputational 
consequences.  

Oversight: Group risk and compliance 
committee, Executive Committee, 
Audit Committee, Board. 

The changes in external 
conditions, in particular the 
spike in cost of living, has 
posed a greater threat to 
the wellbeing of our 
colleagues as instances of 
theft and in-store violence 
showed an upward trend this 
year. However, the risk 
remains stable when 
compared to the previous 
year, as we monitor and 
implement specific response 
strategies, to ensure we 
continue to provide safe 
workspaces for all our 
colleagues.  

42

Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2023

Key responses and controls
 – Wherever we operate, we aim to ensure that we incorporate the impacts 
of political and regulatory changes in our strategic planning and policies. 
This includes engagement with trade, government and industry bodies and 
ongoing monitoring of potential changes to the future regulatory and political 
landscape, e.g. our assessment and ongoing monitoring of the war in Ukraine 
and adherence to government directives. 

 – We have compliance programmes and committees to manage our most 
important risks (e.g. grocery regulations, supplier code, anti-bribery, and 
competition law). We conduct assurance activities for each key risk area. 

 – We support our code of business conduct and various policies by  

new starter and annual compliance training and other tools such as 
our Protector Line. 

 – The engagement of leadership and senior management is critical to the 

successful management of this risk area. We have established structured 
communication plans to provide a clear tone from the top.

 – Our talent planning and people development processes are established 

across the Group to monitor, understand and grow the skills required to fulfil 
strategic objectives of the business. The talent planning process includes 
succession planning for key roles, and identification of any new skillsets and 
plans to secure these via internal development or recruitment routes. 
 – There are formal talent development programmes in place with regular 
discussions on talent and succession planning by management and the 
Executive Committee, with oversight by the Nomination and Governance 
Committee and the Board.

 – Our Remuneration Committee agrees the objectives and remuneration 

arrangements for senior management. Additionally, we perform a regular 
review of our ‘total reward’ offers to ensure remuneration offered for 
colleagues is competitive and appropriate. We also continue to engage 
closely with trade unions to inform and adapt our future plans and strategy. 
 – We conduct an independent assessment of all leadership level promotions 
and external hires to ensure capability, potential, leadership, and values 
remains central to our decision making related to hiring. 

 – Our ‘how to’ and ‘when to’ speak up programmes across all areas include our 
Protector Line and complaints process. These allow colleagues to raise in 
confidence any workplace concerns such as dishonest activity, bias or 
anything that endangers colleagues, the public or the environment. 
 – We continue to roll out measures to ensure the overall wellbeing of our 

colleagues, including mental, social and financial wellbeing.

 – Our established Group diversity and inclusion strategy helps to ensure that 
everyone is welcome and that we provide all our colleagues with equal 
opportunities for growth and development. This is embedded in our values, 
and we are committed to building an inclusive workplace.

 – Our business-wide, risk-based safety framework defines how we implement 
and report on safety controls to ensure that colleagues, contractors, and 
customers have a safe place to work and shop. 

 – The health and safety framework is regularly reviewed and refreshed, to 

ensure we continue to address any complexities arising due to operational 
changes. This includes implementing enhanced controls and safety measures 
to ensure colleague wellbeing, e.g. including physical security controls to 
protect colleagues against the increased threat of violence and abuse.
 – We require each business to maintain a comprehensive health and safety 

risk assessment and risk improvement plan to document and track 
enhancements. 

 – Governance and oversight are established in the form of our Group risk 
and compliance committee and business unit-specific health and safety 
committees. These committees review critical metrics and monitor the 
effectiveness of related controls. 

 – Our safety audits, Protector Line arrangements, and the results of our annual 
colleague surveys inform management on the delivery of targeted safety 
initiatives, including communication plans. 

 – Our assurance activities, such as store and distribution compliance reviews, 

safety health checks and audits, help us assess our compliance with 
established policies and processes. They also enable us to continuously seek 
and identify areas for potential improvement.

 – We have launched a new information exchange platform, which provides 

leading indicators of safety, enabling early identification of threats and design 
of action plans that support injury prevention.

 
 
 
 
 
 
Principal risk
Product safety and food 
integrity 

F C Compliance

Failure to meet regulatory standards 
and customer expectations related to 
product safety, traceability and 
integrity could result in illness, injury 
or death damaging our relationships 
with customers, with negative effects 
on our performance and corporate 
reputation.  

Oversight: Group risk and compliance 
committee, Executive Committee, 
Audit Committee, Board. 

Risk movement
Given the changes in the regulatory 
landscape, increased economic 
pressures being faced by our 
suppliers (e.g. rise in energy costs, 
wage inflation) and evolution in 
consumer preferences, the external 
risk has increased. In response, we 
continue to have well-established 
and comprehensive food safety and 
quality management systems to 
manage this risk, resulting in the risk 
showing no significant movement 
compared to the previous year.  

Responsible sourcing † 

S ChStrategic

F C Compliance

Failure to ensure that products are 
sourced responsibly across our 
supply chains (adhering to respect for 
fundamental human rights, including 
ensuring clean and safe working 
conditions and fair pay to workers) 
may result in supply chain disruption, 
regulatory breaches, and 
reputational impact.

Oversight: Group risk and compliance 
committee, Corporate Responsibility 
Committee, Executive Committee, 
Audit Committee, Board. 

Exploitation of workers and human 
rights breaches remain the key 
drivers of this risk. 
Continued pressures on global 
economies have resulted in an 
increased risk of worker exploitation, 
particularly in some of our key 
sourcing countries. We continue 
to implement targeted response 
strategies, including the 
implementation of innovative 
monitoring methods to ensure 
our standards are met. This risk 
has therefore not shown any 
significant movement compared 
to the previous year.  

The risk remains stable as we 
continue to monitor drivers for 
macroeconomic changes and 
implement appropriate response 
strategies to manage their impact on 
the Group’s performance in areas 
such as energy costs, commodity 
prices, taxation, and tariffs. This has 
enabled us to ensure that the risk is 
managed appropriately in line with 
any evolution and/or changes to 
external conditions on an ongoing 
basis.  

Financial performance† 

O F CFinance

F C Compliance

Our financial performance may be 
adversely impacted by uncertain and 
volatile macroeconomic conditions 
that may drive inflationary pressures, 
rising energy costs, fluctuations in 
commodity prices and unpredictable 
tax exposures due to changes in tax 
laws and their interpretation. These 
factors, if not managed appropriately, 
may impact the Group’s ability to 
meet our external financial 
commitments.

Oversight: Executive Committee, 
Audit Committee, Board. 

Key responses and controls
 – Our product standards, policies and guidance, help ensure that 
products are safe, legal and of the required quality. They cover 
food and non-food, as well as goods and services not for resale. 

 – We closely monitor any updates to product safety regulations, 

to ensure our standards and products continue to conform with 
all relevant regulations. 

 – We conduct detailed due diligence of our suppliers prior to 

onboarding, to ensure that adequate infrastructure, capabilities, 
and capacities are in place to meet Tesco’s standards. 

 – We run colleague training programmes on food and product safety 

and hygiene controls, and also provide support for stores for 
product safety. 

 – Our crisis management procedures are embedded within our 

operations to quickly resolve issues if non-compliant products are 
produced or sold. Clear escalation protocols include the product 
recall processes. 

 – We operate unannounced supplier audit and product analysis 

programmes to monitor product safety, traceability, and integrity. 
We use data analytics to identify which supplier sites may have 
increased risk exposure, adjusting our audit frequency accordingly. 
This approach allows us to use our resources effectively, while 
ensuring appropriate assurance over suppliers’ sites is maintained.

 – We operate a risk-based quality assurance programme, which is 
focused on sample-based testing of our products to ensure 
compliance with our standards and regulations. 

 – We have policies and guidance to help ensure human rights are 
respected across our supply chain. These include a focus on 
appropriately monitoring conditions and progress, tackling 
endemic sector risks, and addressing wider community needs. 
 – Our contractual agreements with suppliers clearly articulate the 
expected standards related to human rights and modern slavery. 
Suppliers’ obligations are monitored and discussed as part of 
regular governance meetings. We are increasing transparency of 
our supply chains to drive up standards, such as by publishing our 
Tier 1 supplier list. 

 – We also provide targeted training for colleagues and suppliers 
dealing with specific regulations related to human rights and 
modern slavery. 

 – We operate supplier audit programmes to monitor supplier 

compliance with our standards related to human rights. These 
include unannounced audits of supplier sites and facilities and 
the review of any prior approvals for subcontracting. 

 – We qualify and review supplier factories through due diligence 

before use to ensure they can meet our standards. 

 – We use certification schemes and participation in voluntary 

industry schemes to drive up our standards.

 – We maintain an infrastructure of systems, policies, and reports to 

ensure discipline and oversight on all financial matters including tax, 
treasury, financial reporting, and performance. The policies are 
reviewed and annually approved by the Executive Committee, 
Audit Committee, and the Board. 

 – The Chief Financial Officer and Group Finance Director, who lead a 
team of in-house professionals, monitor our adherence to our 
principles and policies through regular oversight and 
governance meetings. 

 – We manage market factors such as cost and wage inflation, 
commodity prices, and currency fluctuations in line with our 
Group treasury policy. 

 – Long-term plans are flexed to consider sensitivities and scenario 
planning that relate to the wider macroeconomic environment. 
 – We regularly review liquidity levels and sources of cash, and access 

to committed credit facilities and debt capital markets is 
maintained. 

 – We monitor proposed changes in tax legislation and given the 

complex nature of tax law, seek professional advice when required. 

 – The Audit Committee maintains regular oversight and governance 
of key areas, including liquidity and funding strategy, Group tax 
obligations, our viability and going concern statements, and Group 
key financial controls. 

 – Our Group finance team actively scans the external environment 

for new regulations and/or requirements, developing detailed plans 
with specific milestones and dedicated oversight to ensure we can 
demonstrate compliance. 

 – We employ a system of financial controls across our business units. 
The key financial controls are then subjected to rigorous second-
line and third-line testing.

Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2023

43

Strategic report 
 
 
 
Principal risks and uncertainties continued

Principal risk
Customer† 

S ChStrategic

The macroeconomic and geopolitical 
conditions affecting economies in 
which we operate may impact our 
customers’ budgets and force 
customers to reappraise the 
concepts of value and loyalty in a way 
to which we are unable to respond. 

Oversight: Executive Committee, 
Audit Committee, Board.  

Risk movement
Customers are facing multiple 
challenges from the increased cost of 
living, which has reduced their 
disposable income leading to changes 
in shopping behaviours, resulting in 
the risk being higher when compared 
to the previous year. Management has 
implemented focused response 
strategies. 

Tesco Bank 

O F CFinance

F C Compliance

Tesco Bank is exposed to several 
risks, the most significant of which 
are operational, regulatory, credit, 
funding and capital adequacy, 
liquidity, market, and business risk. 
These risks pose a reputational, 
financial, and legal impact for  
Tesco PLC should they materialise. 

Oversight: Tesco Bank board, 
Executive Committee, Audit 
Committee, Board. 

The macroeconomic environment has 
become more challenging for Tesco 
Bank this year due to factors such as 
inflationary pressures, rising interest 
rates and cost-of-living concerns for 
our customers. However, the Bank 
has proactively taken action to 
manage the impact of these, 
principally through its pricing 
strategies, product offerings and 
associated underwriting criteria. 
Our response strategies are well 
developed, and as Bank performance 
remains stable, we have made no 
change to the overall risk profile. 

We continue to face the challenges of 
a changing competitive landscape and 
inflationary pressures across our 
business units. The risk is deemed to 
be unchanged, when compared to 
the previous year, as our response 
strategies are well developed, and we 
review them regularly to ensure we 
remain competitive and informed by 
competitor and market activity. 

Competition and markets† 

S ChStrategic

Failure to deliver an effective, 
coherent, and consistent strategy in 
response to an increasingly complex 
and fast-evolving competitor 
landscape, and/or changes in market 
conditions, may result in a negative 
impact on our market share, causing 
damage to our profitability and 
business performance. 

Oversight: Executive Committee, 
Audit Committee, Board. 

Key responses and controls
 – Our key strategic drivers underpin decision making and are central 

to the design of our customer offerings, propositions and 
experience being provided through our different channels.
 – Our product ranges, propositions and Clubcard benefits are 

designed to provide our customers with the flexibility to achieve 
balance between value and quality.

 – We have a consistent approach to building impactful customer 

propositions by offering high-quality and competitive value while 
improving the customer experience. 

 – Our Group-wide customer insight analysis enables us to dynamically 

improve our propositions. It does this by monitoring customer 
behaviour and buying sentiments (including any changes due to 
external factors such as inflation). This approach includes enriching 
customer engagement through tailored campaigns, which also 
helps to improve customer retention as well as loyalty. 
 – Our well-established product development and quality 

management processes ensure the needs of our customer are 
central to our decision making.

 – We monitor the effectiveness of our processes by regularly tracking 
our business and competitors against measures that customers tell 
us are important to their shopping experience.

 – The Bank has a formal structure for reporting, monitoring, and 

managing risks supported by a robust risk management framework. 
This comprises, at its highest level, the Bank’s risk appetite, 
approved by the Bank risk committee and the Bank board.

 – The Tesco PLC board also reviews and approves the Bank’s financial 
risk appetite, which defines the type and amount of risk that the 
Bank is prepared to accept to meet its strategic objectives. It also 
forms a link between the day-to-day risk management of the 
business, its objectives, long-term plan, capital planning and 
stress-testing. We monitor adherence to risk appetite on a 
monthly basis. 

 – The risk management framework brings together governance, risk 
appetite, the three lines of defence, the policy framework and risk 
management tools to support the business in managing risk as part 
of its day-to-day activities. The framework includes scenario 
analysis and regular stress-testing of financial resilience. 

 – Bank board risk reporting throughout the year, includes updates 
to the Tesco PLC Audit Committee provided by the Bank’s Chief 
Financial Officer and audit committee chair. A member of the 
Tesco PLC Executive Committee is also a member of the Bank’s 
board to enhance visibility and knowledge sharing.

 – Our Board develops and regularly challenges the strategic direction 
of our business to enhance our ability to remain competitive on 
price, range, and service. This includes developing our online 
channels and multiple formats to allow us to compete in 
different markets. 

 – Our Executive Committee and operational management regularly 
review markets, trading opportunities, competitor strategy and 
activity. 

 – We carry out market scanning and competitor analysis to refine 

our customer proposition. 

 – We are continuously improving our digital platform, adding more 

flexibility, delivery options and increased range of merchandise on 
offer, to compete against new players in the market. 
 – We continue to improve our Clubcard offerings and have 

introduced promotions and targeted campaigns to compete with 
other retailers on price and product quality.

44

Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2023

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Risk movement
Uncertain macro-events and 
disruptions, such as inclement 
weather patterns, crop failures, 
logistical disruptions, and conflict 
between countries, are leading to 
greater volatility in the availability of 
raw material and food supply. This 
may be exacerbated further by 
unknown political and global events in 
the future. The risk impacts product 
availability across our stores and how 
we serve our customers, thereby 
requiring elevation as a principal risk.

N

Principal risk
Security of supply†

S ChStrategic

Ch O Operational

Disruption in our supply chain due to 
adverse macroeconomic conditions, 
geopolitical events, and/or loss of 
resilience in our key supplier network, 
may result in Tesco being unable to 
secure the products required to fulfil 
customer demand on time and at 
acceptable prices. This could result in 
customer dissatisfaction, reputational 
impact, loss of market share, loss of 
sales, and erosion of expected 
profit margins. 

Oversight: Group risk and compliance 
committee, Executive Committee, 
Audit Committee, Board. 

Key responses and controls
 – We have a diversified portfolio of suppliers to reduce reliance on 
single suppliers or multiple key suppliers from the same region. 
This is further supplemented by a wide product range, which 
enables us to offer alternate products to our customers, in case 
of supply chain disruptions. 

 – We have an established mechanism to identify products that are 
key in our customer baskets and have identified alternate or 
contingent suppliers to fulfil any slack in supply. Additionally, we 
maintain appropriate stock levels within our warehouses for fast 
moving goods.

 – We have a detailed supplier onboarding and due diligence process, 

which allows us to review resilience of suppliers, in terms of 
appropriate infrastructure as well as financial stability. 
Furthermore, the due diligence process includes assessment of any 
third parties or raw materials that the supplier may be reliant upon.

 – We have established regular governance forums through which 

our dedicated teams engage with suppliers to proactively identify 
and resolve any issues (or upcoming threats) being faced by 
our suppliers.

 – We have committed significant investment with some of our key 

suppliers to enhance the underlying infrastructure to ensure they 
are able to meet any increases or spike in demand volumes. 
Furthermore, we monitor the financial stability of our key suppliers, 
and where possible, provide support to those suppliers that may 
be facing financial duress (e.g. additional pay for our farmers). 

 – We have developed business continuity plans, which can be 
executed in case of any logistical disruptions or inclement 
weather events that may affect our ability to transport goods.

Emerging risk themes
Emerging risk themes are reported to the Audit Committee alongside our principal risks. We conduct horizon-scanning to enable a medium 
and longer-term view of potential disruptors to our business. As part of our risk assessment process, we analyse internal and external 
sources of emerging risk themes through review of leading external publications including attending industry seminars and forums, gathering 
insights via top-down and bottom-up risk workshops with internal stakeholders, and seeking professional consultation where required. We 
are currently tracking several emerging risk themes such as political, economic, technological, environment and talent. Those emerging 
themes that have a potential impact and require a response, have been considered as part of our risk assessment process described on 
pages 38 and 39.

Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2023

45

Strategic report 
 
Longer term viability statement

Longer term 
viability 
statement.

Assessing the Group’s longer-term 
prospects and viability
The Directors have based their assessment of viability on the 
Group’s current long-term plan, which is updated and approved 
annually by the Board. The plan delivers the Group’s purpose of 
‘serving our customers, communities and planet a little better 
every day’ and is underpinned by a clear strategic focus on 
creating sustainable, long-term value for every Tesco stakeholder. 

The Group conducts an annual strategic planning process, 
comprising a comprehensive reassessment of progress against 
the Group’s strategic objectives, alongside an evaluation of the 
longer-term opportunities and risks in each market in which 
the Group operates. The process for identifying the principal 
and emerging risks in each market is an important input to 
this process. 

The Group’s strategic plan and viability statement are both 
considered over a three-year period, as this time horizon 
most appropriately reflects the dynamic and changing retail 
environment in which the Group operates. 

Long-term planning process 
The long-term planning process builds from the Group’s current 
position and considers the evolution of the strategic objectives 
over the next three years. Three years is selected as the Group’s 
planning horizon and viability period based on the pace of change 
in both the competitive landscape and customer shopping 
behaviours within the retail sector. 

Current position 
Our multi-year performance framework, strategic drivers and 
capital allocation framework, which were announced in 2021, 
continue to guide management’s actions. The multi-year 
performance framework sets out the objectives of the business: 
to drive top-line growth; to grow absolute profits while maintaining 
sector leading margins; and to generate stable retail free cash flow 
each year. The delivery of these objectives will enable the Group 
to maintain a strong balance sheet, invest for growth and deliver 
improved returns for shareholders.

Management recognise that customers across the Group currently 
face significant cost-of-living pressures, and continue to prioritise 
offering great value during these challenging times, while delivering 
sustainable growth, supported by:

 – A strategic focus on driving growth and continued focus on cost 

reduction from simplification of the operating model;

 – A clear set of financial priorities to deliver cash profit, free cash 
flow and earnings per share growth, underpinned by a robust 
capital allocation framework; and

 – A diversified business portfolio covering retail, wholesale, 

banking and data science.

Refer to the Group Chief Executive’s review from page 8 and the 
Financial review on pages 30 to 37 for further detail regarding the 
Group’s strategic and financial progress. 

Longer-term prospects 
The following factors are considered both in the formulation of 
the Group’s strategic plan, and in the longer-term assessment 
of the Group’s prospects:

 – The principal risks and uncertainties faced by the Group, as well 

as emerging risks as they are identified, and the Group’s 
response to these;

 – The prevailing economic climate and global economy, 

competitor activity, market dynamics and changing customer 
behaviours;

 – Any structural changes in how customers shop, additional costs 

incurred by the Group and potential macroeconomic 
consequences of rising unemployment and inflation due to 
geopolitical events and global supply challenges;

 – Opportunities for further cost reduction through operational 

simplification and leveraging technology; and 

 – The resilience afforded by the Group’s operational scale.

Assessing the Group’s viability
The viability of the Group has been assessed, considering the 
Group’s current financial position, including external funding in 
place over the assessment period, and after modelling the impact 
of certain scenarios arising from the Group’s principal risks 
outlined on pages 38 to 45. 

Four ‘severe but plausible’ hypothetical scenarios have been 
modelled which address the principal risks that the Group has 
assessed would have the most direct and material impact on the 
Group. None of these scenarios, either individually or in aggregate 
threaten the viability of the Group. The hypothetical scenarios 
described are also used as the basis for the risk-weighted cash 
flows which are included in our impairment of non-current asset 
sensitivity analysis. For more information, please refer to Note 14 
of the financial statements.

46

Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2023

Associated  
principal risk
 – Competition and 

markets
 – Customer

Scenario
Recessionary 
impacts on 
customer 
disposable 
income

Global supply 
pressures

 – Responsible 
sourcing
 – Financial 

performance
 – Security of supply

Climate 
change

Data breach 

 – Climate change 
 – Responsible 
sourcing 

 – Political, regulatory 
and compliance

 – Cyber security 
 – Political, regulatory 
and compliance 

 – Customer
 – Data privacy

Description
Global economies are facing elevated levels of inflation and rising interest rates. The resultant 
impact on disposable incomes, employment rates and consumer confidence contributes 
towards a contraction in customer demand, driving like-for-like sales decline across our retail 
businesses. To deliver our medium-term performance ambitions and maintain our competitive 
position in such a recessionary environment, further investment in our value proposition will be 
required which puts pressure on operating margins. Management have applied a downside 
scenario which reduces the projected like-for-like sales growth in each of the three years of the 
Group strategic plan by (5)%, increased from (4)% in last year’s modelling to account for further 
downside risk given unprecedented disposable income impacts in the prior year. To maintain our 
competitive position in such a recessionary environment, further investment in our value 
proposition will be required which puts pressure on operating margins. In addition, management 
have considered the potential for customers to manage a contraction in disposable incomes by 
switching from more expensive to lower-priced ranges. Management have applied a downside 
scenario in this instance which assumes 1% of the existing sales in higher-priced ranges transfers 
into lower-priced and lower-margin ranges. 

Geopolitical events, availability of labour and commodity shortages drive high domestic inflation 
in the markets in which we operate, which results in significant cost inflation. The Group absorbs 
elevated levels of cost inflation across goods purchased for sale to customers and the operating 
cost base, particularly in costs related to colleague payroll. The ability of the Group to manage 
these cost tensions through cost savings or retail pricing is constrained. Management have 
applied a downside scenario which assumes the Group absorbs further cost inflation in colleague 
pay and cost of goods sold. These cost tensions are assumed to be fully absorbed by the Group, 
with no assumed mitigation through additional cost savings or retail pricing. The adverse 
consumer impact from this risk is dealt with in the recessionary impacts on customer disposable 
income scenario described above.

Global action to address rising temperatures results in a shift in consumer sentiment towards 
more sustainable products and an increase in carbon taxes levied against Group emissions. 
The costs associated with these risks are based on our climate-related risk modelling, which is 
described in further detail in the Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD) 
section, starting on page 20. The viability modelling estimates the potential annual financial 
impact on the Group of three key risk areas, covering consumer sentiment, technology write 
offs and policy (carbon pricing) risks, based on a 3°C warming pathway. 

The volume and nature of the customer and supplier data we hold as a business could result in a 
serious data or security breach which sees a significant financial penalty levied against the Group, 
aligned to the UK GDPR penalty framework which could see a maximum fine levied of 4% of 
Group revenue. For the purposes of this stress test, management have included a fine quantified 
as 2% of Group revenue, being the mid-point of the potential maximum fine. A significant data 
breach poses a reputational risk, resulting in a decline in customer sentiment and an adverse 
trading impact. The extent of this trading impact is very uncertain, both in terms of the financial 
impact and the period it may take to recover customer trust. As such, the potential brand 
reputation element of this scenario has been modelled via a ‘reverse stress test’. This assesses 
the risk in the context of the residual headroom after all other scenarios have been applied. 
The resultant like-for-like sales decline which would have to occur to eliminate the residual cash 
headroom, including all other scenarios happening in aggregate, is around twice as severe as any 
decline the Group has faced in recent years. 

We expect to be able to refinance external debt and renew committed facilities as they become due, which is the assumption made in the 
viability scenario modelling. Our committed facilities remain undrawn as at the end of the financial year. Please refer to Note 21 of the 
financial statements for further details on our debt profile, including maturity dates. The scenarios above are hypothetical and purposefully 
severe with the aim of creating outcomes that could threaten the viability of the Group. In the case of these scenarios arising, various 
options are available to the Group in order to maintain liquidity to continue in operation, such as: (i) accessing new external funding early; (ii) 
short-term cost reduction actions; and (iii) reducing capital expenditure. None of these mitigating actions are assumed in our current 
scenario modelling. 

Viability statement
Based on these severe but plausible scenarios, the Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Company will continue in operation and 
meet its liabilities as they fall due over the three-year period considered.

This Strategic report has been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the 
Companies Act 2006, and has been approved and signed on behalf of the Board. 

Robert Welch
Group Company Secretary 
12 April 2023

Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2023

47

Strategic reportCorporate governance report

Governance 
introduction.

Governance framework supporting 
oversight
This section of the Annual Report focuses on corporate 
governance. Our governance framework contributes to the 
development and delivery of our strategy. It ensures that 
we, as a Board, have the right information, with appropriate 
detail and at appropriate intervals to oversee progress and 
challenge management.

“Our refreshed purpose and leadership 
behaviours are now embedded into the 
Group’s culture, which supports the 
delivery of our strategic drivers.”

John Allan CBE
Chair

Compliance with the UK Corporate 
Governance Code
The UK Corporate Governance Code 2018 (Code) is 
applicable to all companies with a premium listing. 
Companies subject to the Code are required to make 
a statement demonstrating how they have applied the 
principles of the Code. Details of how the principles of 
the Code have been applied can be found throughout 
this Corporate governance report, the Strategic report 
and Committee reports as signposted on page 50. 

During the year the Company was in full compliance with 
all applicable principles and provisions set out in the Code. 
Pages 48 to 106 of this report form our Corporate 
Governance Statement. 

Monitoring compliance with the Code is the responsibility 
of the Nominations and Governance Committee, 
which receives regular updates and reports its findings 
to the Board.

The Financial Reporting Council (FRC) is 
responsible for the publication and periodic 
review of the UK Corporate Governance Code, 
which can be found on the FRC website:  
www.frc.org.uk.

48

Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2023

Our governance framework allows our dedicated Committees 
to explore matters in depth. In support of enhancing the 
oversight of sustainability matters, a full review of our Committee 
responsibilities was undertaken during the year to strengthen 
sustainability governance and ensure that all material matters 
are reviewed by the Board or at a Board-level Committee. 
Management committees feed into this process as the 
responsibility and oversight cascades throughout the 
organisation to achieve a common purpose.

More detail on the Corporate governance framework 
can be found on page 57. 

Leading on culture
It has been a year since we expanded our purpose and developed 
our new strategic drivers. Our strong and healthy culture, both in 
the Boardroom and across the business, plays a major role 
in our success. 

Our culture comes to life through our purpose and values: No one 
tries harder for customers; We treat people how they want to be 
treated; and Every little help makes a big difference. Our values 
are integral to the way we behave and do business. They ensure 
that every colleague at Tesco should understand what is important, 
how we work together as a team, the choices we make across the 
Group, and why customers, the community and planet are at the 
centre of everything we do. We monitor progress through 
reporting to the Board and receive insight through customer, 
colleague and supplier feedback surveys, which provide metrics 
and KPIs to assess our progress and respond accordingly.

Our values and leadership behaviours ensure that the Tesco 
culture is embedded throughout the organisation. The Board, 
through its Remuneration Committee, is responsible for ensuring 
appropriate arrangements are in place for rewarding and 
incentivising management with specific performance targets 
linking our culture and purpose to the delivery of our strategy. 

More detail on our leadership behaviours and how 
the Board oversee culture can be found on page 58.

An active and engaged Board
The Board continues to focus on our key priorities. It takes 
important decisions necessary to progress them, and is held 
accountable for doing so by our shareholders and other 
key stakeholders. Strategic deep dives into all areas of the 
business continued throughout the year with a dashboard of 
progress against our strategic drivers being presented at each 
meeting, which we have debated and challenged. This provides 
great insight and highlights the challenges we face. 

The Board is responsible for the delivery of the Group’s net zero 
commitments, with sustainability being a key theme of Board and 
Committee discussions. The Board is committed to taking a leading 
role in protecting our planet, addressing the impact of climate 
change and the contribution we can make as a business to 
mitigate our own impact and that of our supply chain. Our 
sustainability ambitions are shared across the Group. 

There have been a number of changes to Board composition 
during the year. In June 2022, Steve Golsby and Simon Patterson 
retired from the Board, and in February we announced that 
Lindsey Pownall had decided to retire as a Director in June 2023. 
We are grateful to each of them for their outstanding 
contributions and commitment to the Board and committees. 
Stewart Gilliland will succeed Lindsey Pownall as Sustainability 
Committee Chair. 

In October 2022, we welcomed Caroline Silver as a Director, who 
brings a wealth of knowledge and experience across a number of 
commercial, financial, international and governance roles. Caroline 
has undertaken a bespoke on-boarding induction programme to 
better understand the business. In September 2023, we look 
forward to welcoming Dame Carolyn Fairbairn as an independent 
Non-executive Director of the Board. She is a highly regarded 
business leader with a deep understanding of the macroeconomic 
and political environment and will be a real asset to the Board.

We continue to have a strong and stable Board composed of 
Directors with a wide range of relevant knowledge, skills and 
experience. This was confirmed in our 2022/23 Board evaluation. 
As Chair, I am responsible for ensuring the effectiveness of the 
Board, its Committees and individual Directors. I led the 
performance evaluation and Board effectiveness review and 
further details of the conclusions of the evaluation are set out 
on pages 61. The Board and committees continue to perform 
effectively with clear terms of reference, appropriate agendas 
and a good balance of support and challenge.

More detail on the composition of the Board and the 
skills and expertise of our Directors can be found in 
their biographies on pages 51 to 53.

Conclusion
As a Board, our overarching objective is to ensure we remain a 
successful and responsible Company, making decisions for the 
benefit of all our stakeholders and promoting the long-term 
sustainable success of the Company. We are proud of the way 
our businesses have adapted to the macroeconomic environment 
over the past three years, demonstrating that we have an agile and 
resilient business. I would like to thank colleagues for their hard 
work and dedication through a challenging period and my fellow 
Board members for continuing to provide strong leadership in 
these changing times.

2023 Board priorities
 – Inflation and the cost of living and the impact on our 

customers and other stakeholders.

 – Sustainability agenda.
 – Delivery of the strategic drivers.

More detail on the activities of the Board during 
the year can be found on pages 64 to 65. 

We are deeply committed to our sustainability agenda and 
welcome collaboration with our colleagues, suppliers and 
customers collectively to achieve success. With this in mind, 
our Corporate Responsibility Committee will be renamed 
Sustainability Committee to reflect its sustainability focus.

The Board recognises the need to create conditions that foster 
talent and encourage all colleagues to achieve their full career 
potential. During the year, the Board has placed greater emphasis 
on talent management, diversity and inclusion. Through a simple, 
consistent approach to talent management, the creation of 
diverse talent communities to support accelerating diverse talent 
and the introduction of Your Contribution, a new performance 
management approach that helps colleagues and leaders to 
deliver the new strategy, we are progressing with our talent 
management and inclusion strategy and delivery of targets. 

In addition, there has been a focus on succession at senior 
management level to ensure we have robust plans in place, 
with credible succession plans for all key roles. More details 
on our succession planning is set out in the Nominations and 
Governance Committee report on pages 66 to 68.

Throughout its discussions this year, the Board has spent a 
significant amount of time considering the important role we 
play for our stakeholders, recognising the pressures on 
everyone with rising costs. 

The Board values the insight gained from stakeholder engagement 
and places significant importance on maintaining close 
relationships with stakeholders, taking account of and responding 
to their views. During the year, we engaged with shareholders and 
had detailed discussions to understand their priorities with a 
particular focus on the ESG agenda. 

Following the significant vote against Bertrand Bodson at the 2022 
AGM, the Board was naturally disappointed with the overall voting 
outcome. Bertrand is a highly valued member of our Board and we 
actively sought to engage with significant shareholders who voted 
against his re-election to understand their voting decision and 
concerns around the perceived ‘over-boarding’. The Nominations 
and Governance Committee carefully monitors all Directors’ 
external time commitments and the effectiveness of Directors. 
If the Committee identifies any issues of concern, it takes 
appropriate action. As a result of our consultation, Bertrand has 
taken the decision to step down as a member of the Supervisory 
Board of Wolters Kluwer N.V. at the end of his current term on 
10 May 2023.

More detail on Board leadership in action can be 
found on pages 62 to 63.

Board changes
My role as Chair is to maintain high standards of corporate 
governance and ensure the Board is equipped to carry out its 
duties. With the support of the Nominations and Governance 
Committee, succession planning is regularly reviewed to ensure 
the Board has a diverse range of professional backgrounds, skills 
and perspectives. Diversity remains a key consideration in our 
succession planning at both board and senior management level.

Further detail on our Board diversity and inclusion policy can be 
found in our Nominations and Governance Committee report on 
page 67. A Board skills matrix provides valuable insights into our 
collective and individual strengths on the Board and highlights 
areas for further development, positioning us well to maintain 
and further enhance our effectiveness.

Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2023

49

Corporate governance 
Corporate governance report continued

Governance at a glance.

“The Board is committed to maintaining the highest standards of corporate governance. 
This report demonstrates that having an effective corporate governance framework 
ensures the Group is appropriately managed and supports the delivery of our strategy 
within a culture which drives the right behaviours.”

John Allan CBE
Chair

Board composition (as at 25 February 2023)

Board balance
(Number of Directors)

Length of tenure
(Number of Directors)

International 
experience

Gender and ethnic diversity
Board gender  
diversity

Board ethnicity

1

2

9

Independent 

Non-executive Directors

Executive Directors

Chair (independent upon 

appointment)

2

2

2

0-3 yrs

3-5 yrs

5-7 yrs

7-9 yrs

6

6

9

UK

Europe

ROW

12

42%

58%

17%

83%

Male

Female

White

Ethnically diverse

Composition, 
succession and 
evaluation

Pages

Principles J-L

48-49 
54

51-54 
60
66-68

54

Appointments to 
the Board and 
succession 
planning
Balanced Board

Annual 
evaluation

Pages

60 
61 
66-68

50-54
60

61
66-68

Audit, risk and  
internal control

Principles M-O

Internal and 
external auditor

Pages

71-76

Remuneration

Principles P-R

Remuneration 
policies and 
practices

Assessment of 
Company’s 
position and 
prospects
Risk management 
and internal 
control

38-47
71-76
106

Policy on 
executive 
remuneration

38-46
71-76

Remuneration 
outcomes

Pages

80 
83-91 
101

79
85-87
89-96

77-78
81-84
97-100

UK Corporate Governance Code 

Board leadership and 
Company purpose

Division of 
responsibilities

Principles F-I

Role of Chair

Board composition

Role of the 
Non-executive 
Director

Role of the 
Company Secretary

54

Principles A-E

Promoting the 
long-term 
sustainable success 
of the Company
Purpose, values 
and strategy

Resources and 
controls necessary 
to meet objectives 
and measure 
performance
Effective 
engagement with 
stakeholders

Workforce policies 
and practices 
aligned to values and 
support long-term 
success

Pages

7-49 
56 
62-65

6
12-14
56-59

38-45
56-57

4-5
15-17
25-27
62-63
16-17
58-59
77-105

50

Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2023

Board of Directors.

The Board is currently 
composed of the Chair, 
who was independent 
upon appointment, two 
Executive Directors and 
nine Non-executive 
Directors.

N

R

C

John Allan CBE
Chair
Appointed March 2015

Skills and contribution
John has extensive leadership expertise 
and has a wealth of knowledge gained 
across a number of business sectors, 
including retail and finance experience 
gained from both the commercial and 
financial sectors. As Chair, he has a deep 
understanding of governance and what is 
required to lead an effective Board.

Experience and past 
appointments
John was CEO of Exel PLC and, when it 
was acquired by Deutsche Post in 2005, 
he joined the board of Deutsche Post, 
becoming CFO in 2007 until his retirement 
in 2009. He was chairman of Dixons Retail 
plc during its turnaround period and, 
following its merger with Carphone 
Warehouse, was deputy chairman and 
senior independent director of Dixons 
Carphone until 2015. He was also 
previously a non-executive director of 
Worldpay Group PLC, National Grid plc, 
the UK Home Office Supervisory Board, 
3i plc, PHS Group plc, Connell plc, 
Royal Mail plc, Wolseley plc and 
Hamleys plc, chairman of London 
First and president of the CBI.

Current appointments
 – Chairman of Barratt Developments PLC 

(retiring 6 September 2023)

 – Chair of the Council of Imperial College
 – Senior advisor to PJT Partners.

Experience and past 
appointments
Prior to joining Tesco, Imran was CFO of 
Tate & Lyle PLC and held a number of 
senior financial roles across Europe, the 
Middle East and Africa, with a career of 
over 16 years at Mondelēz International 
and Kraft Foods. He started his career 
with Deloitte and Philip Morris in 
corporate audit.

Current appointments
 – None.

A

i

Melissa Bethell
Non-executive Director
Appointed September 2018

Skills and contribution
Melissa’s wealth of international 
corporate, strategy and financial 
experience across a range of industries, 
with a focus on private equity, advisory 
services, strategic consultancy and the 
financial, media and technology sectors, 
is invaluable in delivering our strategy.

Experience and past 
appointments
Melissa is currently the managing partner 
at Atairos Europe, an equity investment 
fund backed by Comcast NBCUniversal, 
and from 30 April 2023 will transition to 
become a senior advisor to Atairos. 
Melissa was previously a managing 
director of Bain Capital, where she was 
a member of the senior leadership 
team responsible for strategy setting, 
fundraising and portfolio management. 
Prior to joining Bain Capital, Melissa 
worked in the capital markets group at 
Goldman Sachs & Co., with a particular 
focus on media and technology. She was 
also previously a director of Ship Midco 
Limited and served as a non-executive 
director of Samsonite International S.A., 
Worldpay Group PLC and Atento S.A. 

Current appointments
 – Non-executive director of Diageo PLC
 – Partner at Atairos and managing 

partner of Atairos Europe, becoming 
a senior advisor to Atairos from 
30 April 2023

 – Non-executive director of Exor N.V.
 – Chair of Ocean Outdoor Limited.

Ken Murphy
Group Chief Executive
Appointed October 2020

Skills and contribution
Ken is a growth-orientated business 
leader with strong commercial, marketing 
and brand experience within retail and 
wholesale businesses. He has experience 
in global product brand management, 
product development, sales and marketing, 
sourcing, manufacturing and distribution.

Experience and past 
appointments
Prior to joining Tesco, Ken worked for 
Walgreens Boots Alliance, Inc. for 
over 20 years in a number of senior 
management roles across the business. 
Through his role as executive vice 
president, chief commercial officer 
and president of global brands at 
Walgreens Boots Alliance, Ken had overall 
responsibility for brand strategy and the 
commercial offer in the retail businesses 
of Walgreens and Boots. He previously 
worked for Procter & Gamble and 
Coopers & Lybrand (now PwC). 

Current appointments
 – None.

Imran Nawaz
Chief Financial Officer
Appointed May 2021

Skills and contribution
Imran has over 20 years’ experience 
in the global food industry and broad 
financial, strategic and international 
experience gained across a number 
of large multinational organisations. 
His financial, strategic, leadership and 
international strengths are a valuable 
asset to Tesco as we deliver on our 
strategic priorities. 

Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2023

51

Corporate governanceCorporate governance report continued

Board of Directors continued

C

i

R

i

Bertrand Bodson
Non-executive Director
Appointed June 2021

Thierry Garnier
Non-executive Director
Appointed April 2021

Skills and contribution
Bertrand is an accomplished business 
executive, with significant experience of 
digital transformation, technology and the 
application of AI. He brings exceptional 
leadership and business expertise to the 
Board, as well as experience in delivering 
corporate transformation programmes 
while maintaining a focus on performance. 
His significant knowledge of digital and 
technology matters gained across a 
number of sectors, including retail, 
enhances the Board’s oversight of these 
areas and the delivery of the strategy. 

Experience and past 
appointments
Bertrand is chief executive officer of 
Keywords Studios PLC and was previously 
chief digital officer at Novartis, chief 
digital and marketing officer at Sainsbury’s 
Argos, executive vice president for global 
digital at EMI Music and co-founder and 
CEO of Bragster.com. He has also held 
senior roles at Amazon and started his 
career at Boston Consulting Group. 

Current appointments
 – Chief executive officer of Keywords 

Studios PLC

 – Member of the Supervisory Board 
of Wolters Kluwer N.V. (retiring  
10 May 2023).

Skills and contribution
Thierry brings extensive experience 
in the retail sector, both in the UK and 
internationally, with a successful track 
record of implementing business 
transformation and driving leading-edge 
digital innovation in competitive and 
rapidly-changing retail environments.

Experience and past 
appointments
Since 2019 Thierry has been chief 
executive officer of Kingfisher plc and 
previously spent over 20 years at 
Carrefour, the French multi-national 
retailer. At Carrefour he held a number 
of senior roles, including CEO of 
Carrefour Asia, CEO of Carrefour 
International and managing director of 
supermarkets for Carrefour France, 
and was a member of the Carrefour 
group executive committee. 

Current appointments
 – Chief executive officer of Kingfisher plc.

N

C

i

Stewart Gilliland
Non-executive Director
Appointed March 2018

Skills and contribution
Stewart brings over 20 years’ experience 
and knowledge in international marketing, 
logistics and business management, 
having held a number of senior roles, 
predominantly in customer-centric 
businesses. The breadth and diversity 
of Stewart’s experience is a benefit to 
the Board.

Experience and past 
appointments
Stewart has significant business and 
management experience in international 
markets, specifically those in Europe, 
having previously held roles with leading 

52

Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2023

consumer-facing companies, including 
Whitbread, Mitchells & Butler and 
Interbrew. He held the position of chief 
executive of Müller Dairies UK and Ireland 
until 2010, and chairman of C&C Group 
plc until July 2022. Prior to joining Tesco, 
he was chairman of Booker Group plc. 

Current appointments
 – Chair of IG Design Group PLC
 – Non-executive director of Chapel 

Down Group plc

 – Non-executive director of  
Nature’s Way Foods Ltd.

N

A

R

i

Byron Grote
Senior Independent Director
Appointed May 2015

Skills and contribution
Byron brings a wide range of experience 
and skills including finance, strategy, risk, 
and supply chain logistics through a 
variety of executive and non-executive 
roles. His strategic focus and financial 
experience complement the balance of 
skills on the Board and make him ideal for 
the role of Chair of the Audit Committee, 
where he is responsible for leading the 
Committee to ensure effective internal 
controls and risk management systems 
are in place across Tesco.

Experience and past 
appointments
Byron brings broad financial and 
international experience to the Board, 
having worked across BP PLC in a variety 
of commercial, operational and executive 
roles covering numerous geographies. 
He served on the BP PLC board from 
2000 until 2013 and was BP’s CFO during 
much of that period. He was previously a 
non-executive director of Unilever PLC, 
senior independent director of Anglo 
American PLC until April 2022 and 
non-executive director of Standard 
Chartered PLC until November 2022.

Current appointments
 – Vice chairman of the Supervisory Board 

of Akzo Nobel N.V.

 – Non-executive director of 

Intercontinental Hotels Group PLC

 – Non-executive director of Inchcape plc.

N

R

i

Alison Platt CMG
Non-executive Director
Appointed April 2016

Skills and contribution
Alison has gained significant business-to-
business and international commercial 
experience from working for high-profile 
consumer-facing companies. Her former 
membership of the steering group of the 
Hampton-Alexander Review provides 
strategic insights on diversity and 
inclusion. Alison’s experience as a CEO 
enables her to provide challenge and 
advice to the Board across a range of 
issues including in her role as 
Remuneration Committee Chair.

Experience and past 
appointments
Alison has extensive experience of 
leadership in customer-driven 
organisations across the healthcare, 
insurance and property sectors. As CEO 
of Countrywide, a position she held until 
January 2018, she gained significant 
business-to-business experience adding 
this to the international experience she 
gained while leading a number of Bupa’s 
businesses across Asia, Southern and 
Eastern Europe and the Middle East. 
Alison was previously chair of Opportunity 
Now, a non-executive director of the 
Foreign and Commonwealth Office and 
Cable and Wireless Communications PLC.

Current appointments
 – Chair of Dechra Pharmaceuticals PLC
 – Non-executive director of Spectrum 

Wellness Holdings Limited

 – Advisor to Huntswood CTC Limited
 – Chair designate of Ageas (UK) Limited.

C

R

i

Lindsey Pownall OBE
Non-executive Director
Appointed April 2016

Skills and contribution
Lindsey’s in-depth understanding of the 
food retail sector and stakeholder focus, 

together with her wealth of experience 
in supply leadership and strategic 
development make her a valuable 
member of the Board. As Chair of the 
Corporate Responsibility Committee, 
she is responsible for the Group’s 
environmental and social objectives and 
strategies. She is a passionate advocate 
of supplier relationships, customers, 
colleagues and sustainability, which 
directly support Tesco’s strategy and 
her role as Chair of the Corporate 
Responsibility Committee.

Experience and past 
appointments
Lindsey has substantial experience 
in food, grocery and retail brand 
development, having enjoyed a career 
of more than 20 years at Samworth 
Brothers, the leading UK supplier of 
premium quality chilled and ambient 
foods. She joined the Samworth board 
in 2001 and served as chief executive 
between 2011 and 2015. Lindsey was 
previously a non-executive director of 
Story Contracting Limited and Story 
Contracting Holdings Limited until 
September 2022.

Current appointments
 – Director of The Ho-So Initiative Limited 
 – Independent advisor to GrowUp Urban 

Farms Limited.

Lindsey will step down from the Board at 
the conclusion of the 2023 AGM.

A

i

Caroline Silver
Non-executive Director
Appointed October 2022

Skills and contribution
Caroline brings to the Board a wealth of 
knowledge and experience across a 
number of commercial, financial and 
governance roles, together with 
extensive investment banking and 
international experience. 

Experience and past 
appointments
Caroline has spent more than 30 years in 
the investment banking sector and was 
most recently a partner and managing 
director at Moelis & Company. She has 
held senior corporate finance and 
M&A positions at Morgan Stanley and 
Merrill Lynch, starting her career at 
PricewaterhouseCoopers, where she 
qualified as a Chartered Accountant.

Previously she was a trustee of the 
Victoria and Albert Museum, a non-
executive director of Meggitt PLC and 
M&G PLC, and on the Board of the 
London Ambulance Service NHS Trust.

Current appointments
 – Advisory partner to Moelis & Company
 – Non-executive director of Bupa
 – Non-executive director of 

Intercontinental Exchange, Inc 
and Chair of ICE Clear Europe
 – Member of International Advisory 

Board of Adobe Inc

 – Non-executive director of Barratt 

Developments PLC (with effect from 
1 June 2023 and will succeed John Allan 
as Chair of Barratt Developments PLC 
with effect from 6 September 2023).

A

C

i

Karen Whitworth
Non-executive Director
Appointed June 2021

Skills and contribution
Karen brings a wealth of experience and 
extensive knowledge of the retail sector, 
in particular logistics and supply chain, 
finance and risk, to the Board. 

Experience and past 
appointments
Karen has significant retail, strategic and 
financial experience gained through a 
number of commercial, operational and 
governance roles. Karen was previously a 
supervisory board member and member 
of the audit committee at GS1 UK Limited. 
She spent more than 10 years at 
J Sainsbury plc, latterly as a member of 
the commercial board and director of 
non-food grocery and new business. 
Prior to joining J Sainsbury in 2007, 
she was finance director at online 
entertainment business BGS Holdings 
Limited and held a number of senior 
roles at Intercontinental Hotels Group Plc. 
Her early career was spent at Coopers & 
Lybrand (now PwC), where she qualified 
as a Chartered Accountant. 

Current appointments
 – Senior independent director of 

The Rank Group plc

 – Senior independent director of 

Tritax Big Box REIT plc

 – Independent advisor to GrowUp 

Urban Farms Limited.

Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2023

53

Corporate governanceCorporate governance report continued

Board of Directors continued

He has worked as a company secretary 
for more than 25 years during which time 
he has held the positions of company 
secretary at FirstGroup plc and 
Kazakhmys PLC. 

C

R

i

New Non-executive 
Director

Dame Carolyn Fairbairn DBE
To be appointed 1 September 2023

Dame Carolyn Fairbairn will be joining 
the Board on 1 September 2023 as an 
independent Non-executive Director. 
Dame Carolyn brings a wealth of 
experience to the Board with her deep 
understanding of the macroeconomic, 
regulatory and political environment and 
significant experience across the media, 
government and finance sectors. Dame 
Carolyn will become a member of the 
Remuneration Committee and Corporate 
Responsibility Committee.

Other directors who have 
served during the year:
Steve Golsby and Simon Patterson served 
as independent Non-executive Directors 
until 17 June 2022.

Key to Board 
Committees

N

A

R

C

Nominations and Governance 
Committee

Audit Committee

Remuneration Committee

Corporate Responsibility 
Committee

Chair of Committee

i

Independent Board member

Committee membership as at 12 April 2023

He is a member of the executive 
committee of the Association of General 
Counsel and Company Secretaries of the 
FTSE 100 (GC100) and the CGI Company 
Secretaries Forum.

Robert Welch
Group Company Secretary
Appointed August 2016

Skills and contribution
Robert provides legal and corporate 
governance advice and support to the 
Board and the boards of all other legal 
entities in the Group. 

Role profiles 
The Board has agreed a clear division of responsibilities between the running of the Board and 
running the business of the Group. The responsibilities of the Chair, Group Chief Executive, 
Senior Independent Director and other Directors are clearly defined so that no individual has 
unrestricted powers of decision and no small group of Directors can dominate the Board’s 
decision making.

Chair
The Chair is responsible for the effective 
leadership of the Board, setting the agenda, 
ensuring its effectiveness and maintaining a 
culture of openness and transparency at 
Board meetings. The Chair also promotes 
effective communication between Executive 
and Non-executive Directors and ensures all 
Directors effectively contribute to 
discussions and feel comfortable in 

Group Chief Executive
The Group Chief Executive has day-to-day 
responsibility for the effective management 
of the Group and for ensuring that Board 
decisions are implemented. He plays a key 
role in devising and reviewing Group 
strategies for discussion and approval by 
the Board.  

Senior Independent Director
The Senior Independent Director provides 
a sounding board for the Chair and acts as 
an intermediary for the Non-executive 
Directors. The Senior Independent Director 
is available to shareholders should they 
have any concerns, where communication 
through normal channels has not been 

Non-executive Director 
The Non-executive Directors bring 
independent insight and experience to 
the Board. They have a responsibility to 
constructively challenge the strategies 
proposed by the Executive Directors; 
scrutinise the performance of management 

Group Company Secretary
The Group Company Secretary is secretary 
to the Board. He ensures Board procedures 
are complied with and the Board has the 
information, time and resources it needs in 
order to function effectively and efficiently. 
He advises the Board on all governance 
matters and facilitates induction 
programmes for new Directors and provides 
briefings on governance, legal and 
regulatory matters.  

engaging in healthy debate and constructive 
challenge. The Chair ensures all Directors 
receive accurate, timely and clear 
information to assist them to make their 
decisions, identifies training and 
development needs as required, and 
ensures new Directors receive appropriately 
tailored induction programmes.

The Group Chief Executive is also tasked 
with providing regular operational updates 
to the Board on all matters of significance 
relating to the Group’s businesses or 
reputation, and for ensuring effective 
communication with shareholders and 
other key stakeholders.

successful or where such channels are 
inappropriate. The Senior Independent 
Director meets with the Non-executive 
Directors at least annually when leading 
the Non-executive Directors’ appraisal 
of the Chair’s performance.

in achieving agreed goals and objectives; 
and play leading roles in the functioning 
of the Board Committees, bringing an 
independent view to the discussion.

All Directors have access to the advice of 
the Group Company Secretary and the 
Group provides access, at its expense, to 
the services of independent professional 
advisors in order to assist Directors in 
their role.

54

Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2023

Executive Committee. 
The Executive Committee 
comprises Ken Murphy 
and Imran Nawaz, 
Executive Directors of 
the Board, CEOs of our 
regional businesses and 
senior management in 
key functional roles.

Ken Murphy 
Group Chief Executive 
Member since October 2020.

Ken’s full biography appears on page 51.

Imran Nawaz 
Chief Financial Officer
Member since May 2021.

Imran’s full biography appears on page 51.

Natasha Adams 
CEO, Tesco Ireland and Northern 
Ireland
Member since June 2018.

Natasha is responsible for Tesco’s 
businesses in the ROI and 
Northern Ireland. 

Natasha joined Tesco in 1998 as a 
Personnel Manager and then served in 
a range of store-focused roles. Prior 
to being appointed to her current role, 
she was Chief People Officer. Natasha 
is also a non-executive director of 
Berkeley Group Holdings plc.

Alessandra Bellini 
Chief Customer Officer
Member since March 2017.

Alessandra is responsible for building 
the Tesco brand globally and putting 
the customer at the heart of everything 
that we do. Customer insights, loyalty, 
propositions and marketing 
communications are within her 
responsibilities.

Prior to joining Tesco in 2017, Alessandra 
worked at Unilever for 21 years, in a 
number of senior marketing positions 
across different countries and categories. 
Previously, she had a 12-year career in 
advertising, working both in Italy and the 
UK. Alessandra is president of the 
Advertising Association.

Guus Dekkers 
Chief Technology Officer
Member since May 2021.

Guus is responsible for all consumer-
facing enterprise technologies and related 
services, spanning stores, online, supply 
chain and digital across the Group. 

Guus joined Tesco in 2018 having 
previously worked at a number of major 
international companies, including Airbus, 
Volkswagen, Siemens, Continental and 
Johnson Controls, gaining extensive 
multicultural experience of driving 
large-scale technology transformation 
and change programmes. Guus is also a 
non-executive director of SwissCom.

Christine Heffernan 
Group Communications Director
Member since March 2019.

Christine is responsible for building 
Tesco’s reputation, leading Tesco’s 
external and internal communications, 
public affairs, government relations, 
community and campaigns agenda. 

Christine joined Tesco Ireland in 2014 as 
Corporate Affairs Director. Christine has 
previously worked in the financial, energy 
and telecoms sectors.

Gerry Mallon 
Chief Executive, Tesco Bank
Member since August 2018.

Gerry is responsible for leading Tesco Bank.

Gerry has held a number of leadership 
roles in financial services. Prior to joining 
Tesco, Gerry served as chief executive 
officer of Ulster Bank Ireland and was 
chief executive officer of Danske Bank UK 
(formerly Northern Bank). Earlier in his 
career, Gerry held roles at Bank of 
Ireland, McKinsey & Company and the 
UK Civil Service. Gerry is also chair of 
Foundation of Hearts and a non-executive 
director of Heart of Midlothian PLC.

Adrian Morris 
Group General Counsel
Member since September 2012.

Adrian is responsible for the legal, 
company secretarial, group security, 
resilience, regulatory and compliance 
functions across Tesco PLC.

Prior to joining Tesco, Adrian worked at 
BP PLC as associate general counsel and 
prior to that at Centrica PLC, latterly as 
general counsel for British Gas. He is also 
a non-executive director of Tesco Bank 
and Moorfields Eye Hospital NHS 
Foundation Trust.

Ashwin Prasad 
Chief Product Officer
Member since September 2020.

Ashwin is responsible for the planning, 
ranging, sourcing and supply of the 
products we sell across the Group. 
In addition, he has direct responsibility 
for managing this for the UK. 

Ashwin joined Tesco in 2010 from Mars Inc. 
He has worked across a number of 
product divisions as a Category Director 
and Commercial Director.

Matt Simister 
CEO, Central Europe
Member since April 2017.

Matt is responsible for all of Tesco’s 
businesses in the Czech Republic, 
Hungary and Slovakia.

Matt joined Tesco in 1996 as a marketer. 
He built on his UK experience with three 
years as Commercial Director for our Czech 
and Slovak businesses. Following this, he 
returned to the UK to set up Tesco’s Group 
Food capability. In April 2017, Matt was 
appointed to his current role as CEO, 
Central Europe.

Jason Tarry 
CEO, UK & ROI
Member since January 2015.

Jason is responsible for all of Tesco’s 
businesses in the UK & ROI.

Jason joined Tesco in October 1990 on 
the graduate recruitment programme. 
He has held a number of positions in the 
UK and internationally across both food and 
non-food divisions. Jason became CEO for 
clothing across the Group in 2012, before 
being appointed as Chief Product Officer 
in January 2015. In July 2018, Jason was 
appointed to his current role of CEO,  
UK & ROI.

Emma Taylor
Chief People Officer
Member since March 2022.

Emma is responsible for setting the people 
strategy and plans at Tesco, including 
reward, colleague experience and capability. 
Emma joined Tesco in 2001 as part of the 
graduate recruitment programme, and 
worked as part of store management teams 
before following her passion for people and 
moving into the People team. Emma has 
worked in a variety of People roles at Tesco, 
across large stores, convenience and in 
head office, and became People Director, 
UK & ROI in 2018. 

Emma is a Tesco Pension Trustee.

Andrew Yaxley
CEO, Booker
Member since July 2018.

Andrew is responsible for the Booker 
business.

Andrew joined Tesco in 2001 from Mars Inc. 
He has worked across a number of product 
divisions including as Commercial Director 
for our Czech and Slovak businesses. 
He became Managing Director of the 
London business in 2013 and then CEO, 
ROI in 2015. In 2018, Andrew returned to the 
UK to take up the role of Chief Product 
Officer and in 2020 was appointed CEO, 
Booker. Andrew is a non-executive director 
of Avidity Group Limited.

Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2023

55

Corporate governanceCorporate governance report continued

Corporate governance, 
purpose and culture.

Role of the Board
The Group is led by an effective and committed Board, which is 
responsible for the long-term success of the Group. The Board 
has collective responsibility for the management, direction and 
performance of the Company, ensuring due regard is paid, 
at all times, to the interests of its stakeholders. The detailed 
governance framework ensures the Board has the right level 
of oversight for matters that are material to the Group. 

The Group’s delegation of authority provides a clear direction on 
decision making, ensuring that decisions are taken at the right 
level of the business by the colleagues best placed to take them. 
Each decision taken aligns to our culture and values and considers 
the benefits, the risks, the financial implications and the impact 
on the relevant stakeholders. The Board, with the support of its 
Committees, places great importance on ensuring we achieve a 
high level of governance across the Group. This supports the 
Board when delivering its strategic objectives and meeting its key 
performance indicators (KPIs).

The Board has overall responsibility for establishing the Company’s 
purpose, values and behaviours. The culture in which we operate, 
supports the delivery of our strategy and our long-term sustainable 
success, while generating value for shareholders. More detail on 
how the Board monitors the culture in which we operate is 
detailed on page 58.

The Board has ultimate responsibility for ensuring adequate 
resource is available to meet agreed objectives and strategy. 
It ensures such resources are responsibly and effectively 
deployed. Having the right systems and controls across the 
Group facilitates effective management and sound decision 
making. This is essential to our governance framework. 
Efficient internal reporting, effective internal controls, and 
oversight of current and emerging risk themes are embedded 
into our business processes, which align to our strategy, 
purpose and culture. 

Board biographies 51 to 53

Board leadership in action 62 to 63

Board activity 64 to 65

Summary of matters reserved for the Board
The Board has adopted a formal schedule of matters reserved for its attention, detailing matters that are considered of 
significance to the Group owing to their strategic, financial or reputational importance or consequences. 

The full schedule can be found at www.tescoplc.com

  Setting and monitoring Group strategy, culture, operating plans, Long Term Plan and budget
  Monitoring the Group’s net zero commitments for Scope 1 and 2 by 2035 and Scope 3 by 2050
  Approval of major acquisitions, mergers, joint ventures and disposals
  Governance framework including Board appointments, delegations of authority and Board diversity and inclusion policy
  Changes to the pension scheme arrangements
  Dividend policy, declaration and payment
  Changes to corporate and capital structure
  Significant capital expenditure and borrowing
  Oversight of risk management and internal controls
  Determining the nature and extent of emerging and principal risks
  Financial reporting, controls and disclosures
  Review of remuneration policies and share schemes

  Entry into material contracts

56

Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2023

Corporate governance framework
Board Committees 
The Board is supported by the activities of its Committees, which ensure specific matters receive the right level of attention and 
consideration. Board Committee members are provided with the detailed information to enable them to discharge their duties and make 
recommendations to the Board. Cross-Committee membership provides visibility and awareness of matters relevant across the Committees. 

Details of Board Committee membership and activity during the year is set out in the 
Committee reports.

Audit  
Committee
Chair: Byron Grote
Provides independent assessment 
and oversight of financial 
reporting processes including 
related internal controls, risk 
management and compliance. 
It also oversees the effectiveness 
of the internal and external 
audit functions.

Corporate  
Responsibility 
Committee
Chair: Lindsey Pownall
Provides oversight on the 
Group’s sustainability initiatives 
to support the delivery of the 
Group’s purpose and strategic 
priorities. 

Note: with effect from April 2023 the 
Corporate Responsibility Committee will 
be renamed Sustainability Committee.

Nominations  
and Governance  
Committee
Chair: John Allan
Reviews the size, composition, 
tenure and skills of the Board. 
It also leads the process for new 
appointments, monitors Board 
and senior management 
succession planning, considers 
independence, diversity, 
inclusion and Group governance 
matters.

Matters considered by each of the Committees are set out in the Committee terms of 
reference which can be found at www.tescoplc.com.

Remuneration  
Committee
Chair: Alison Platt
Determines remuneration policy 
and packages for Executive 
Directors and senior managers, 
having regard to pay across the 
Group and the views of 
stakeholders.

Executive management committees
The Board delegates responsibility for the day-to-day operational management of the Company to the Group Chief Executive.  
The Group Chief Executive is supported by a team of executives who head each of the key operations of the Group and who form the 
Executive Committee under the direction and leadership of the Group Chief Executive. 

There are a number of executive management committees which provide updates to the Board, Audit Committee, Corporate Responsibility 
Committee and Executive Committee on matters of significance.

Disclosure 
committee
Responsible for 
considering timely and 
accurate disclosure of 
sensitive information. 

Executive  
Committee 
Responsible for: 
developing and 
implementing strategy, 
operational plans, 
policies, procedures and 
budgets; monitoring 
operational and financial 
performance; assessing 
and controlling risk; and 
prioritising and allocating 
resources.

Group risk  
and compliance 
committee
Responsible for: the 
oversight of key risks on 
behalf of the Executive 
Committee; evaluating 
and proposing policies; 
monitoring processes to 
control business, 
operational and 
compliance risks faced 
by the Group; and 
assessing emerging risks.

Group planet 
committee
Responsible for reviewing 
and monitoring the 
climate strategy against 
agreed performance 
measures and 
recommending the 
actions needed to 
achieve the Group’s net 
zero objectives.

Cyber committee
Responsible for ensuring 
a comprehensive 
understanding of the 
potential cyber exposure of 
the Group and the effective 
oversight and governance 
of cyber risk management 
plans. It highlights matters 
of importance to the Board.

Board oversight of internal control and risk management
The Board has overall responsibility for the oversight of internal control systems and risk management processes. It has established a risk 
management framework to manage and report the risks we face as a business. The Board reviews these on at least an annual basis and 
undertakes a robust assessment of the Company’s principal risks and emerging risk themes. 

The Audit Committee, on behalf of the Board, undertakes an annual effectiveness assessment of the risk management framework and the 
effectiveness of internal control processes including a review of:

 – the Group’s interaction with its external auditors including their role, audit scope, independence and audit and non-audit fees;
 – the activity, role and effectiveness of our internal audit function, including an update covering a range of management issues and actions 

to address their findings;

 – formal assessment of the effectiveness of both external and internal audits on an annual basis; and
 – supported by the disclosure committee, reviews the integrity of our financial and narrative statements, including interim and annual 

financial statements and announcements relating to the performance of the Group.

More information on our principal risks, the oversight of Group disclosure and the work of the 
Audit Committee can be found on pages 38 to 45 and 71 to 76. 

Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2023

57

Corporate governance 
Corporate governance report continued

Corporate governance, purpose and culture continued
How the Board monitors culture
The Board is committed to maintaining the highest standards 
of corporate governance in the management of its affairs. 
The Board recognises that it is accountable to all stakeholders 
for ensuring that the Group is appropriately managed and 
achieves its objectives in a way that is supported by the 
right culture and behaviours.

These behaviours are also built into the performance framework, 
therefore placing as much importance on ‘how’ individuals work 
as ‘what’ they deliver. People updates to the Board and Executive 
Committee provide oversight of the culture we operate in and 
insights into our behaviours. The Board recognises that treating 
colleagues with respect and compassion is essential to building a 
culture of trust. The Nominations and Governance Committee 
supports the Board in reviewing culture, diversity, inclusion and 
talent management and the Remuneration Committee in assessing 
executive performance in line with our strategic drivers, KPIs and 
behaviours. For all colleagues, our purpose is why we are here and 
do what we do and our values enable all of us to deliver against our 
purpose in the right way. Our win together behaviours, for our 
senior leaders and head office colleagues, guide us to behave in a 
way that creates a culture where we work together as one team 
to deliver against our strategic priorities. 

The Board believes that understanding its stakeholders and what 
matters to them is key to its success. With the skills, expertise and 
dedication of colleagues worldwide, we have a culture which is 
well placed to achieve this. The Board receives detailed reports on 
a wide variety of topics to allow it to assess culture within the 
Group, to ensure it is aligned with our purpose and will support the 
delivery of the strategy. Through colleague, customer and supplier 
engagement surveys, the Board and Executive Committee analyse 
the results and develop action plans for improvements. 

Our Code of Business Conduct also defines the standards and 
behaviours expected and is supported by Group policies and 
mandatory training. Colleagues are required to complete 
mandatory training within five days of joining the Group, and on 
an annual basis, to reinforce the importance of these standards. 

The Board monitors culture in a number of ways: through 
Board and committee management reporting; our workforce 
engagement forums; capability plans; Every Voice Matters 
employee survey results; and monitoring of progress made 
on our diversity and inclusion strategy and targets. 

Through the Board and executive leadership, Tesco culture 
drives the right behaviours to ensure that our colleagues and 
other stakeholders do the right things in the right way so that 
our actions are aligned to the Group’s purpose, core values and 
strategic priorities. Our purpose sets out why we do what we do, 
our strategic priorities set out what we are going to do and our 
values set out how we are going to get there.

We have four behaviours which provide further guidance to our 
leaders, on how we work together:

 – Believe in each other: building trust in teams and enabling 

end-to-end collaboration across Tesco.

 – Stay curious: seeking new and different ideas and listening to 

every voice in the room.

 – Be brave: doing the right thing and creating safe spaces where 

colleagues can test, learn and speak up.

 – Live 20/80: prioritising the few things that will make the biggest 

difference.

Our purpose, why we are here

Serving our customers, communities and planet  
a little better every day.

Our values, put our purpose into practice

No one tries harder  
for our customers

We treat people how  
they want to be treated

Every little help makes  
 a big difference

Understanding what matters to  
our customers, colleagues and 
communities, then trying to make 
those things better, is at the heart 
of Tesco.

Looking after our colleagues in a 
culture of trust and respect means 
we can all be at our best.

When we add up all the small things 
we do, Tesco can make a difference 
to the issues our customers, 
colleagues and communities  
care about.

58

Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2023

‘Protector Line’ provides colleagues and suppliers with the ability 
to raise concerns regarding possible misconduct and breaches of 
the Code of Business Conduct. The Group risk and compliance 
committee provides oversight of key regulatory and compliance 
matters and reports biannually to the Audit Committee. In 
addition, the Audit Committee has oversight of the whistleblowing 
policy and Protector Line with matters subject to independent 
investigation. Any material matters are raised to the Board.

In the event of an urgent, business critical matter requiring Board 
approval in accordance with the schedule of reserved matters for 
the Board or under the Group delegation of authority, which arise 
between scheduled Board meetings, a sub-Committee of the 
Board is formed, the quorum for which is any two of the Chair, 
Group Chief Executive or Senior Independent Director. Any 
approvals granted through the Board sub-Committee are noted 
by the Board at its following meeting.

Every decision taken at all levels considers our culture, purpose, 
values and leadership behaviours. Our values and leadership 
behaviours are a vital part of our culture, helping us ensure that 
through our conduct and decision making we do the right thing for 
the business and our stakeholders.

Visit www.tescoplc.com to view Tesco’s Code of 
Business Conduct.

Board and Committee meetings
The Board held six scheduled meetings during the year and an 
additional strategy day. In addition to scheduled meetings, 
Directors will meet to consider matters of a time-sensitive nature 
as the business requires. The table below shows the attendance at 
the scheduled Board and Committee meetings. In the rare event 
of a Director being unable to attend a Board or Committee 
meeting, the Chair of the respective meeting discusses the 
matters proposed with the Director concerned wherever possible, 
seeking their support and feedback accordingly. The Chair 
subsequently represents those views at the meeting. 

Through a regular review of the Board and Committee forward 
planners, the Chair of the Board, or relevant Committee, ensures 
that sufficient time is allowed for discussion and debate on the 
topics scheduled and they encourage constructive discussion and 
challenge during meetings. 

The Board and its Committees have a standard paper template 
which is regularly reviewed, providing a structure to ensure that 
the right information is received by Directors to support their 
oversight, challenge and decision making.

Board and Committee attendance(a)

John Allan

Ken Murphy

Imran Nawaz

Melissa Bethell

Bertrand Bodson (c)

Thierry Garnier

Stewart Gilliland

Byron Grote

Alison Platt 

Lindsey Pownall (c)

Caroline Silver (b)

Karen Whitworth

If Directors have concerns about the Company or a proposed 
action which cannot be resolved, it is recorded in the Board 
minutes. In addition, upon resignation, Non-executive Directors 
are encouraged to provide a written statement of any concerns 
to the Chair, for circulation to the Board. No such concerns were 
raised in 2022/23. 

During the year, the Non-executive Directors met with the Chair 
of the Board without the Executive Directors being present, on 
several occasions.

The schedule on pages 64 to 65 sets out the key topics the Board 
reviewed, discussed and debated during the year. These were in 
addition to the annual cycle of matters the Board reviews and 
support Directors’ oversight and understanding when considering 
stakeholders while reaching decisions. 

For more information on the Board leadership in 
action see page 62 to 63.

Board

Audit 
Committee 

Corporate 
Responsibility 
Committee

Nominations and 
Governance 
Committee

Remuneration 
Committee

6/6

6/6

6/6

6/6

6/6

6/6

6/6

6/6

6/6

6/6

3/3

6/6

–

–

–

5/5

–

–

–

5/5

–

–

2/2

5/5

4/4

–

–

–

3/4

–

4/4

–

–

4/4

–

4/4

4/4

5/5

–

–

–

–

–

4/4

4/4

4/4

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

5/5

–

5/5

5/5

4/5

–

–

(a) This table shows details of scheduled Board and Committee meetings. Steve Golsby and Simon Patterson stood down from the Board and relevant Committees on 17 June 2022.
(b) Caroline Silver joined the Board as an Independent Non-executive Director on 1 October 2022.
(c) Lindsey Pownall and Bertrand Bodson were unable to attend one committee meeting each during the year due to a prior commitment.

Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2023

59

Corporate governanceCorporate governance report continued

Corporate governance, purpose and culture continued
Skills and experience of the Board
The Board believes that it is essential to have a balanced and 
diverse Board with a mix of skills and expertise required to deliver 
our strategy and create long-term value for shareholders. This 
ensures that leadership and decision making are focused, allowing 
debate and challenge when risks and opportunities for the future 
are being considered. Our Board possesses a wide range of 
knowledge and experience from a variety of sectors. The Board 
and Nominations and Governance Committee consider the skills 
required to deliver the strategy in the longer term and through the 
succession planning process, identify any potential gaps as they 
arise. The matrix below details the skills and experience that 
collectively, the Non-executive Directors bring to the Board. 

Induction and development
All new Directors receive a comprehensive induction programme 
over a number of months which is designed to facilitate their 
understanding of the business and is tailored to their individual 
needs. The Chair and the Group Company Secretary are 
responsible for delivering the programme covering the Company’s 
core purpose and values, strategy, key areas of the business and 
corporate governance. Thereafter, the Chair agrees with Directors 
their individual training and development needs.

As part of the ongoing development of Directors, throughout 
the year the Board receives regular briefings and visits key sites 
in order to provide a deeper understanding of the Group. 
The Board also receives the benefit of teach-ins and technical 
updates provided at Board and Committee meetings, which aim 
to ensure that Directors remain up to date with key developments 
on the business environment in which Tesco operates. During the 
year, Directors have received additional briefings on climate and 
sustainability-related matters and digital and cyber security. 
Directors are provided with the opportunity to, and are 
encouraged to, attend training to ensure they are kept up to 
date on relevant legal, regulatory and financial developments 
or changes.

Induction programme
New Director induction programmes are delivered through: 

 – meetings with senior managers across the business; 
 – meetings with advisors;
 – attendance at Committee meetings;
 – site visits to stores, urban fulfilment and distribution 

centres, providing an opportunity to meet colleagues and 
see at first hand the business operations; and 

 – access to a library of reference materials.

Directors’ feedback is that the comprehensive induction 
programme provides great insight into the business operations, 
governance and controls, with an opportunity to meet 
colleagues within the business.

10

10

6

8

The Non-executive Directors provide a strong independent 
element to the Board and the oversight they provide is balanced 
with individuals contributing a broad range of skills, diverse 
experience and knowledge, demonstrating independence and 
constructive challenge. Relationships between the Directors are 
based on trust and mutual respect, enabling open and frank 
conversations. This ensures that even the most challenging 
decisions are taken for the benefit of the Company, with due 
consideration for those stakeholders who may be affected. 

Appointments
Non-executive Directors are initially appointed for a three-year 
term with an expectation that they will continue for at least a 
further three years. In accordance with their letter of 
appointment, after three years’ service the performance of a 
Non-executive Director is rigorously assessed by the Nominations 
and Governance Committee, with any development needs 
discussed by the Chair with the Non-executive Director. 
Directors are nominated by the Nominations and Governance 
Committee and are subsequently approved by the Board for 
election or re-election annually by shareholders at the Company’s 
AGM. The Nominations and Governance Committee have 
undertaken an assessment of each of the Directors’ experience, 
skills, independence, time commitments, conflicts and the Board 
believes that all Directors continue to be effective and committed 
to their roles. All Directors, with the exception of Lindsey Pownall 
who will retire in June 2023, will submit themselves for election or 
re-election at the forthcoming AGM in June 2023. The Board 
recommends that shareholders be supportive of their election or 
re-election to the Board.

Details of the Directors’ service contracts and terms 
of appointment, together with their interests in the 
Company’s shares, are shown in the Directors’ 
remuneration report on pages 77 to 101.

Board skills and experience

Financial

Strategy

Risk

Retail

Marketing

Supply chain/logistics

International

Technology and digital

Sustainability

4

4

4

3

3

60

Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2023

Board effectiveness.

Board evaluation process
The Board sets annual objectives for the business in line with 
Group strategy and monitors its performance through an 
annual assessment to ensure the Board remains effective. 
The performance review assesses the effectiveness of the 
Board, its Committees and Directors. The evaluation is externally 
facilitated every three years with the last external evaluation 
undertaken by Boardroom Review during 2021/22. The next 
external evaluation will be in respect of the 2024/25 financial 
year. The Chair and the Board continually work to strengthen 
and enhance the effectiveness, skills and experience of the Board 
to align with the Group’s strategy. During the year, an internal 
evaluation in respect of the full year 2022/23, was led by the 
Chair, with the support of the Group Company Secretary, using 
an online questionnaire to capture the views of each Director. 
The evaluation was carefully structured to encourage debate on 
issues that were relevant, which included the oversight of matters 
by the Board and Committees, specific topical issues, a review 
of progress against matters identified in the 2021/22 survey and 
identifying potential for improvement. This year’s Board evaluation 
focused on Board Committe composition and expertise, 
stakeholders and culture, Board dynamics, the effectiveness and 
focus of meetings, Board committee effectiveness, strategy and 
risk oversight, succession planning, talent management and 
priorities for change.

The Senior Independent Director sought feedback from each 
Director on the performance of the Chair using an online 
questionnaire. The results of the feedback were discussed at a 
meeting of the Directors without the Chair present. The unanimous 
view was that the Board was functioning very effectively. The Chair 
had provided excellent leadership throughout a challenging year 
and creates an inclusive and purposeful culture in the Boardroom, 
focusing on the most important issues of strategy, people, 
performance and governance.

The results of the evaluation were presented to the Board which 
concluded that the Board and Committees work well together 
providing the right level of oversight, with the appropriate 
challenge, discussion and debate. There were no points expressed 
during the evaluation process that had not previously been 
discussed, demonstrating that all Directors exhibit an open and 
collaborative style. Overall, the effectiveness of the Board was 
rated high with some key areas of focus proposed. An action plan 
has been developed and will be reviewed to track progress 
throughout the year.

Focus of internal effectiveness survey

Individual
performance
and
contribution

Board and
Committee
composition
and expertise

Board
evaluation
focus

Meeting 
management 

Priorities
for change

Board 
dynamics

Focus of
Board and each
Committee

Actions identified during 2022/23 evaluation
The internal effectiveness review identified the following priorities 
and opportunities for the Board’s focus over the coming year:

 – greater focus on the longer-term strategy and sustainability 

objectives;

 – continue to assess the Board composition, expertise and skills 
required to deliver our strategic priorities, with a focus on the 
Chair and Senior Independent Director succession process 
and ongoing diverse talent management plans;

 – additional focus be given to customer insight and supplier 

engagement; and

 – Directors to spend more time in the business, through 
individual site visits and meetings with management.

Progress against actions identified through the external evaluation in 2021/22
Action identified
Continue to develop and test risk appetite to facilitate 
the Board’s decisions

Progress against action
Additional risk deep dives have been undertaken to focus on 
emerging themes, scenarios, horizon scanning and risk mitigation

Continue to develop the sustainability agenda to balance 
the short, medium and long-term objectives

Deep dive on sustainability matters undertaken with greater visibility 
and monitoring of the milestones to achieve our net zero targets

Reviewing the balance of activities at the Board and  
its Committees

Focus on development and succession plans at Board and 
Executive Committee level to strengthen the diverse 
management pipeline

A review of Board and Committee responsibilities undertaken with 
a focus on clarity and separation of roles. Matters reserved for the 
Board and Committee terms of reference updated
More regular updates on the talent pipeline discussed at the 
Board and Nominations and Governance Committee alongside 
detailed diversity and inclusion strategy updates

Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2023

61

Corporate governanceCorporate governance report continued

Board leadership in action.

Board activity
The Board is responsible for ensuring that management actions 
are aligned to strategy and that stakeholder interests are taken 
into consideration. During discussions at Board meetings, the 
views of our stakeholders form an integral part of the Board’s 
decision making. 

The Board has a forward-looking programme of agenda items 
scheduled for discussion throughout the year to ensure 
operational and financial performance, risk, governance, 
strategy, which includes our sustainability targets, culture and 
stakeholder groups are discussed at the appropriate time. 
The Board and Committee paper template ensures that the 
Board has high-quality, clear and timely information to support 
Directors in their decision making. A review of the template is 
regularly undertaken to ensure that each of these matters is 
considered when papers are drafted. Board oversight supports 
the strategic direction and ensures the long-term viability in line 
with stakeholder expectations.

Over the year, updates are scheduled from the Group Chief 
Executive, the Chief Financial Officer and other members of 
senior management in respect of all material matters to ensure 
the delivery of strategic drivers and KPIs in line with our culture, 
purpose and values. This enables the Non-executive Directors to 
engage with colleagues from across the Group. A summary of the 
Board’s key activities during the year is set out on the following 
pages, detailing a breakdown of the proportion of time spent by 
the Board on these matters.

Each of the Board Committees meet at least four times per year. 
Following each Committee meeting, each Committee Chair 
provides the Board with a written and verbal update on 
Committee activities. These updates include the financial and 
risk deep dives the Audit Committee undertakes, updates on 
sustainability matters from the Corporate Responsibility 
Committee, details of Executive Director remuneration from 
the Remuneration Committee and succession planning and 
governance-related matters from the Nominations and 
Governance Committee. Committee papers and minutes are 
shared with all Directors to allow them to raise questions on 
specific Committee topics if required.

During the year, the Board reviewed and approved entry into 
material contracts taking into consideration the associated 
operational and financial benefits and risks. It also considered 
the impact on all stakeholders including financial returns, security 
of supply, improved pricing, quality of products, the impact on our 
carbon footprint and sustainability initiatives and the impacts to 
all stakeholders in light of the cost-of-living crisis. 

The Board holds additional strategy and planning days during the 
year, at which senior managers present on each of our business 
areas. The aim is to better understand market trends, technology 
developments, innovation and people strategies. It also explores 
the culture, diversity and inclusion supporting the long-term 
planning and strategic direction of the Group. 

Board visit to food bank
In November 2022, members of the Corporate Responsibility 
Committee visited a branch of Hackney Foodbank. The Foodbank 
is part of a network of 1,200 food banks linked to The Trussell 
Trust, with whom Tesco has a longstanding relationship. In 2022, 
we celebrated 10 years of this partnership, with support 
growing from a food collection in 290 stores in 2012 to 1,041 
food collection points in stores today. Members met with the 
CEO of the Foodbank, Pat Fitzsimons, and The Trussell Trust 
CEO, Emma Revie. Emma highlighted the challenges faced by 
food banks due to the cost-of-living crisis and Pat outlined the 
challenging situation in Hackney. Key topics discussed included:

 – the changing demographic of food bank users (they 

were seeing many more working families for example), 
and how the Foodbank had adapted to this change, 
for example having different operating times to 
accommodate this change; 

 – the significant demand The Trussell Trust is seeing, 
which is now outstripping supply. It was discussed 
what role Booker could play in providing support, as 
well as utilising Jason Tarry’s forthcoming role as IGD 
President to galvanise industry action;

 – additional work undertaken by food banks, such as their links 
with bodies like Citizens Advice, to ensure people can access 
all benefits they are entitled to;

 – the impact and importance of Tesco’s support for The 

Trussell Trust, both during COVID-19 and the cost-of-living 
crisis, on an ongoing basis. The in-store collection points 
and food provision play a vital part in the work of The 
Trussell Trust; and 

 – innovations that the Foodbank is exploring, such as a Phone 
to Food app that allows people who are using their food 
bank to spend vouchers/giftcards at local independent 
stores instead of receiving food parcels.

Directors have spent time individually and collectively exploring 
specific operational activities in detail through presentations, 
meetings and site visits giving them the opportunity to meet with 
local senior management to gain insight into the business 
operations and the challenges they face. 

During 2022, the Board visited the operations of Booker and had 
the opportunity to spend time in a number of convenience stores. 
Later in 2023 our Central European business will host a three-day 
visit of the Board to its operations. These visits provide in-depth 
knowledge for the Directors, enabling them to meet management, 
share their own experiences and challenge and support the 
business directly.

Further details of the Board’s activities during 
the year are set out on pages 64 to 65.

62

Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2023

Stakeholder engagement
A key objective of the Board is to create value for shareholders 
and deliver long-term, sustainable growth. 

The Board recognises the importance of listening to and 
understanding the views of its key stakeholders. In support of 
Directors’ section 172(1) duties, the Board receives insights through 
customer, colleague, supplier and investor engagement into how 
we are perceived, what our stakeholders want and how they want 
to be treated. The Board acknowledges that every decision it 
makes will not necessarily result in a positive outcome for all 
stakeholders. A key consideration when making decisions is for 
the Board to balance the sometimes conflicting needs of our 
stakeholders while considering the Company’s purpose, values and 
strategic priorities, which ensures the Board’s decision making is 
consistent and in the best interests of the Company. It also takes 
other relevant factors into account, which includes: the interests 
and views of the communities where we operate; Tesco 
pensioners; and its relationship with regulators and NGOs. 

We actively engage with our institutional investors throughout the 
year to understand their views on a variety of topics. The AGM 
provides a valuable opportunity each year for private shareholders 
to hear from the Board, and for the Board to hear from our 
private shareholders. This year’s AGM will be held on Friday, 16 
June 2023 at 11.30am. Shareholders will receive an update on the 
Q1 trading performance with an update on the business since the 
2022/23 year end. With an average of 74% of the issued share 
capital voted at the 2022 AGM, the Board looks forward to meeting 
with and hearing from shareholders at the 2023 AGM. 

More information on stakeholder engagement can be found in the 
Section 172 statement and Stakeholder engagement section on 
pages 25 to 27.

Colleague engagement
The Board established three Colleague Contribution Panels (CCPs) 
in 2019 which represent the workforce across all business areas of 
the Group. These have been running successfully for three years 
with each CCP being hosted by an independent Non-executive 
Director. Alison Platt hosts the Central Europe CCP which is 
attended by representatives from our businesses in the Czech 
Republic, Hungary and Slovakia. Byron Grote hosts two CCPs: the 
UK & ROI CCP attended by representatives from Tesco stores, 
fulfilment, distribution, head office, customer engagement centre 
and ROI and the UK subsidiaries CCP attended by representatives 
from Booker, Tesco Café, One Stop, dunnhumby, Tesco 
Maintenance, Oakwood Distribution, Tesco Bank and Tesco 
Business Services Bengaluru.

2022/23 Colleague Contribution Panels 
Representatives have each attended two CCPs during the year, 
with six being held in total. The half-year CCPs focused on 
feedback from the full-year session in November 2021, an 
update on the activities of the Board, and the introduction 
of the topics for discussion at the November 2022 CCPs with 
the main focus being on our strategic priority, Magnetic value 
for Customers. 

During the period from June to November, representatives 
gathered feedback from colleagues on the topics for 
discussion at the November 2022 CCPs, as well as gathering 
views on any topics colleagues wished to raise.

During the year, themes raised by representatives related to: 
improved communications; cross-format working; price and 
quality; cost-of-living challenges for customers and colleagues; 
pay and benefits; supporting our communities; sustainability 
initiatives; and business improvements.

The CCPs meet every six months to discuss matters of 
importance, focus on topical issues and allows the host to share 
the views and activities of the Board and its Committees.  
During each CCP meeting, there is an open ‘what’s on your mind’ 
session allowing representatives to raise any matters of concern. 
The representatives receive a progress update on identified 
actions from their previous meeting and provide feedback to 
colleagues within their business units.

Following each of the CCPs, the Board receives an update directly 
from each of the hosting Non-executive Directors, together with a 
more detailed paper capturing the feedback. The Board welcomes 
the insights the CCPs offer on the views of the workforce and the 
issues that matter most to our colleagues. These form part of the 
Board’s decision-making process along with the feedback received 
from the Every Voice Matters colleague engagement survey. 

Our Executive Committee and senior leaders also regularly engage 
with the workforce through functional meetings, conferences and 
store visits. In addition, the Group Chief Executive and Chief 
Financial Officer host webinars following our quarterly results 
which allow colleagues to ask questions.

Board visit to Booker operations
During 2022, the Board visited the operations of our 
Booker business to meet colleagues and customers and 
gain a greater understanding of the Booker business 
operations and retail market. The visit included a 
presentation on the Tesco convenience strategy, which 
included Booker convenience stores. During the visit, the 
Board visited a Booker Cash and Carry, a Booker catering 
customer and a number of Booker convenience stores. 

The Board receives regular updates on the Booker 
business to understand the market it operates in and 
the financial and operational performance of the 
business. The updates also enable the Board to explore 
opportunities and challenges, and understand brand 
perception within the market.

Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2023

63

Corporate governanceCorporate governance report continued

Board activity.

Strategy

Operational performance

28%  Time spent 

25%  Time spent 

Information flow

 – Group Chief Executive updates
 – Progress against four strategic drivers
 – Annual strategic review
 – Planet strategy and progress against targets  
set to deliver on our net zero commitments 

 – Technology and cyber security deep dive
 – Innovation update

 – Updates from our businesses in the  

UK, ROI and Central Europe

 – Deep dives into Tesco Bank, Booker, dunnhumby, 

Tesco Mobile and F&F

 – Health and safety updates focusing on people safety 

and safety framework

 – Customer insight and product innovation

Outcome, benefits  
and considerations

The Group Chief Executive provides an overview of the 
operational and financial performance of the business 
at each meeting, giving oversight and the opportunity 
to challenge and track progress against our strategic 
priorities. Strategy days provide a deep dive into each 
of the business areas. Having a clear strategic direction 
for the short, medium and long term, as well as 
understanding our stakeholder expectations, is vital 
for the delivery of our strategic priorities. Deep dives 
into our sustainability strategy brought our net zero 
commitments to life with a review of progress against 
our key milestones.

Improved technology will support the delivery of our 
strategic priorities. Technology updates to the Board 
covered our operational infrastructure, technical 
capabilities, cyber security and data privacy. Our internal 
IT platforms continue to develop together with other 
technology initiatives, which span across all business 
areas. The Board’s oversight of the data and technology 
strategy ensures the business moves forward through 
technology and innovation to meet the needs of 
customers and colleagues. A dedicated cyber security 
programme has been developed with clearly defined 
governance, oversight and structured training processes.

Our innovative projects are linked to our purpose and 
strategic drivers. Good progress is being made. These 
updates help shape strategy and take the business 
forward. It is essential that we keep innovating for the 
future to meet the changing needs of our customers and 
the environment we operate in. Our key innovation 
priorities are to: strengthen our approach through 
learnings; accelerate and scale ‘mature’ experiments 
quickly to deliver value to the business; and focus on new 
opportunities that align with our strategic drivers.

Business updates from each of the business areas 
provide essential oversight of the opportunities and 
challenges the different business areas face and provide 
opportunities for sharing Group initiatives. Insight into 
how our different markets operate and the impact on 
stakeholder-related matters provides the Board with 
the oversight required to support its strategic decision 
making. It also allows the Board to identify opportunities 
and risks, sharing their own experiences and facilitates 
the necessary actions to be taken to align with our 
strategic priorities.

The Board regularly receive updates on our Own Brand 
product development and how we create competitive 
advantage. Quality perceptions are set and reset 
continuously to review price, promotions, product, 
packaging and the shopping experience. Through the 
use of multiple data sources including trends influencing 
consumer spend and habits globally, we have an 
understanding of our customers’ needs to develop 
products and propositions for the future. 

Health and safety updates are provided to the Board 
which review our health and safety strategy, progress 
against the priorities, ways for improvement, the volume 
and severity of injuries and the cost of injury claims. 
Ensuring that the appropriate health and safety 
provisions are in place is essential for the operation  
of our business. The Board places significant importance 
on looking after the safety of colleagues, customers and 
anyone else impacted by our business.

Additional 
information

Purpose and values 
Our strategic priorities and KPIs 
Our business model 
Climate and TCFD

Pages

6, 58 
12-14 
15 
18-24

2023 highlights and Tesco at a glance 
Chairman’s statement 
Group Chief Executive’s review 
Our market context 

Pages

IFC, 2-3 
7 
8-10 
11

64

Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2023

Financial performance and risk

Governance and stakeholder engagement

22%  Time spent 

25%  Time spent 

Information flow

Outcome, benefits  
and considerations

 – Chief Financial Officer updates
 – Review of financial position, balance sheet, going 

concern and viability of the Group

 – Progress against the Long Term Plan (LTP) and budget
 – Review of risk management framework, principal 

and emerging risks 

 – Updates on sales, profit, cash flow and capital 

expenditure in all regions

 – Review of funding, liquidity plans and property portfolio

The Chief Financial Officer presents a detailed overview 
of the financial performance of the business at each 
meeting to ensure the Board is provided with the 
required financial oversight and has the opportunity to 
challenge. This includes: details of the progress of the 
Big 6 across the Group and the key performance 
indicators; performance by business unit compared 
with the LTP; cost inflation; and Save to invest. The Board 
regularly reviews progress of the LTP. Our LTP sets out 
our growth ambitions over the next three years, including 
the continued delivery for all stakeholders and ongoing 
cash returns to our shareholders.

The Board reviews the capital allocation framework, 
dividend policy and shareholder returns and the 
management of the Group debt capital markets 
activities, including the new issuance of a bond under 
the Euro medium term note (EMTN) programme.

Regional updates provide the Board with an overview  
of the sales, profit, cash flow and capital expenditure  
of each of the business areas.

The Board has overall responsibility for risk management 
and is actively engaged in risk discussions. The Audit 
Committee, on behalf of the Board, undertakes an 
annual effectiveness assessment to manage the most 
significant risks or principal risks facing the Group and 
actions taken to mitigate them, validating the key risk 
movements and approving any required outcomes arising 
from the risk assessments. Strengthening the risk and 
internal control environment is fundamental to Tesco’s 
governance framework. 

Review of the property portfolio and valuation of the 
property portfolio provide the Board with visibility to 
ensure the portfolio is properly managed and 
accounted for.

Additional 
information

Financial review 
Principal risks and uncertainties 
Viability statement 
Audit Committee report

Pages

30-37 
38-45 
46-47 
71-76

 – Stakeholder engagement
 – Culture, diversity and inclusion strategy 
 – Talent, succession and development
 – Investor views and key market issues
 – Product supplier and sourcing
 – Governance matters 

Our Group Chief Executive’s report provides updates 
on stakeholder engagement as well as government and 
regulatory developments. In addition, the Board receives 
specific papers on customer insight and supplier 
engagement, which details survey results, management 
action plans and focus areas for improvement. Visibility 
and understanding of our stakeholders’ views supports 
the Directors’ decision making. 

Building leadership capability, to develop and grow 
diverse talent and strengthen future pipelines through 
tailored development programmes, is a key focus for the 
Board. The Board is committed to creating an inclusive 
workplace and reflecting the diversity of the communities 
we serve. Tesco has a clear diversity and inclusion 
strategy in place to ensure that at Tesco, Everyone’s 
Welcome. Colleague Contribution Panels provide 
valuable feedback, see page 63. The Board discusses 
the outcomes from the six-monthly panels, which 
strengthens the colleague voice in the Boardroom. 
In addition, the Board reviews an analysis of results 
and action plans from the annual Every Voice Matters 
colleague engagement surveys.

Updates from Investor Relations provide the Board with 
feedback on investor views and expectations, visibility of 
market conditions, share price performance and the 
future outlook.

Governance matters are discussed at each meeting 
which include topics such as directors’ and officers’ 
insurance, litigation, Modern Slavery Statement, approval 
of significant contracts, review and approval of statutory 
reporting and shareholder documentation and 
governance-related matters. 

In addition, each Committee Chair provides an update on 
the activities of the Committee.

Our colleagues 
Section 172 statement 
Stakeholder engagement 
Nominations and Governance Committee report  
Corporate Responsibility Committee report

Pages

16-17 
25 
26-27 
66-68 
69-70

Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2023

65

Corporate governanceCorporate governance report continued

Nominations and 
Governance Committee.

Key responsibilities
Board and senior management succession planning
 – Board and Board-level Committee composition
 – Board and senior management succession plans
 – Directors’ skills and experience matrix
 – Recommendation of annual election and re-election of Directors
 – In-depth three-year and six-year review of Non-executive 

Directors’ performance

Talent management
 – Talent management priorities and progress made 

against the priorities

 – Review and implementation of Board diversity and 

inclusion policy

 – Monitor the progress of the Group’s diversity and 

inclusion strategy

Group governance
 – Changes to the Group’s corporate governance framework, 
including review of matters reserved for the Board and 
Committee terms of reference

 – Compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code
 – Board and Committee evaluation process and progress 

against actions identified

 – Effectiveness review of Non-executive Director time 

commitments, independence, Directors’ conflicts of interest

 – Governance-related legal and regulatory developments

The Committee’s terms of reference are reviewed 
on an annual basis and are published on our 
website at www.tescoplc.com

The Committee held four scheduled meetings during the year with 
a focus on talent management, succession planning, diversity and 
inclusion and Board effectiveness.

Board composition, expertise and 
succession planning 
As part of the ongoing succession planning activity, the Committee 
regularly reviews the structure, size and composition of the Board 
and its Committees to ensure that they continue to provide advice, 
guidance and constructive challenge to the management team, 
based on their collective knowledge and experience. Succession 
planning is a key priority for the Committee to ensure a structured 
and systematic process is in place to refresh the Board. A review 
of Committee composition also forms part of the succession 
planning process.

To support the succession planning process, a skills matrix is 
regularly reviewed to ensure the Board and its Committees 
have and maintain the skills required to deliver the strategy 
and objectives in the longer term. This also identifies the skills 
and experience that may potentially be lost with a retiring 
Non-executive Director. The matrix shown on page 60 
demonstrates the broad diversity and experience of the Board.

As mentioned in my governance introduction, there have been a 
couple of changes to the Board composition during the year. 

Committee membership and tenure
Director 
John Allan, Tesco PLC Chair and Committee Chair
Stewart Gilliland
Byron Grote
Alison Platt

Member since
March 2015
April 2019
December 2015
April 2019

Details of attendance at Committee meetings is set 
out on page 59.

Details of the time spent on key areas of responsibility during 
2022/23 are set out below.

Committee activity

33%  Board and senior 

management succession 
planning

37%  Talent management
30%  Group governance

2022/23 Evaluation of Nominations and 
Governance Committee
An internal review of the Committee effectiveness was 
conducted during the year. Its findings concluded that the 
Committee remained effective with a good mix of perspectives 
and backgrounds with the right balance. 

Priorities identified
 – Chair and Senior Independent Director succession
 – Focus on governance and the governance framework
 – Focus on talent management and succession planning

66

Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2023

 
 
The Committee is responsible for identifying and reviewing 
suitable candidates through a formal and transparent process, 
with a recommendation to the Board. Following an in-depth 
selection process, assisted by Lygon Group, the Committee 
made a unanimous decision to recommend to the Board the 
appointments of Caroline Silver and Dame Carolyn Fairbairn with 
effect from October 2022 and September 2023, respectively. 
Detailed role profiles were developed and a search initiated. 
The Committee reviewed a shortlist of candidates with a 
recommendation to the Board. As part of the Committee’s 
consideration, it reviewed the current Board and Committee 
composition, the existing diversity of skills, knowledge and 
experience on the Board, the diversity of gender and ethnicity 
together with the skills, experience and time commitments 
required in the delivery of the role. Appointments are always 
based on merit and relevant experience, while taking into account 
the broadest definition of diversity. The Committee continues to 
challenge the external search consultants where necessary, to 
ensure that diversity is always considered when drawing up 
candidate shortlists. Open advertising was not used. Lygon Group 
has no connection to Tesco or any of its Directors. 

Senior management talent planning 
The Committee plays an important role in overseeing the 
development of a diverse pipeline for succession to senior 
management roles across immediate, short and longer-term 
timescales. Succession planning at executive and senior management 
level continues to be a priority and throughout the year the 
Committee monitored the development of the future business 
leaders and the available pool of talent within the Group to 
strengthen our diverse management pipeline. This is essential to 
mitigating people risk, ensuring a continuous level of quality in 
management and that we have the required capability to deliver. 
This review includes progress against the strengthening of role 
profiles and development plans for high-potential colleagues. 
There were no changes to our Executive Committee during the year.

Continued focus on diverse representation of our top global 
leaders, specifically on gender, with a clear plan of action to 
support further progress in order to achieve our aspirations. 

This will include senior sponsorship, robust career and 
development plans and a refreshed targeted development 
intervention for all high-potential women. We will also seek to 
understand cultural barriers through listening sessions and 
insight to inform further action around our policies and 
working environment.

Diversity and inclusion 
The tone for diversity and inclusion across the Group is set from 
the top. The Board believes that having a diverse leadership team 
and an open and inclusive culture where everyone is welcome 
supports one of our core values: We treat people how they want 
to be treated. The Board’s diversity and inclusion policy sits 
alongside the Company’s various diversity and inclusion policies. 
These policies support the Company’s wider commitment to 
building an increasingly diverse business where all colleagues 
are given equal opportunities through recruitment, learning 
and development. 

The Board believes that it is vital to have a diverse Board, with 
the right balance of skills, knowledge and experience across 
professional backgrounds, gender, tenure, age, ethnicity and 
diversity of thought. A diverse Board with different perspectives, 
insights and viewpoints in decision making ultimately benefits the 
Group’s stakeholders through better business performance and 
decision making. The Board takes into account the recommendations 
of the FTSE Women Leaders and Parker Review on gender and 
ethnic diversity. As part of the annual Board effectiveness review, 
the Board considers the diversity of the Board, its Committees and 
the Executive Committee. The Committee reviews the Board’s 
diversity and inclusion policy in detail each year and monitors the 
progress against the policy. During the year, updates were proposed 
and recommended to the Board for approval, including an 
increase in the diversity target from 33% to 40% of women on the 
Board in line with the Listing Rule requirements proposed by The 
Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) in April 2022 applying to financial 
periods beginning on or after 1 April 2022. The current Board 
diversity and inclusion policy was approved by the Board in 
October 2022. The policy objectives are detailed in the table 
below. The Committee will consider the latest recommendations 
from the Parker Review when conducting its annual review of the 
Board diversity and inclusion policy.

Board diversity and inclusion policy

Policy objectives
Commitment to achieve a minimum 
of 40% female representation on the 
Board by the end of 2024.

Commitment to have at least one 
woman in the role of a senior member 
of the Board, being the Chair, CEO, 
CFO or Senior Independent Director, 
by the end of 2024.
The Board supports and monitors 
Tesco’s diversity and inclusion strategy 
and management’s efforts to ensure 
that the diversity of Tesco’s top global 
leaders is continuously enhanced.

Maintain at least one Director from  
an ethnic minority background.

Implementation
Regular succession planning sessions are undertaken 
throughout the year to ensure that the balance, skills 
and experiences required to deliver on the strategic 
objectives are in place over the short, medium and 
long term.
The Board is supportive of the FCA proposals, noting 
the comply or explain basis. Consideration is given to 
this as part of the succession planning process in the 
short term.

Scheduled updates to the Board, Nominations and 
Governance Committee and Executive Committee 
to discuss talent management, succession planning, 
diversity and inclusion to assist the development of a 
pipeline of high-potential and high-performing candidates 
with diverse backgrounds in senior management roles. 
KPIs established to measure progress.
Diversity and inclusion is considered as part of the 
succession planning process. 

Progress against objectives 
Currently at 42% female representation 
on the Board.

Consideration to be given to appointing a 
female Chair and/or Senior Independent 
Director as part of our succession 
planning in 2024.

We are committed to promoting diversity 
and have set a target of achieving 35% 
female and 14% ethnically diverse 
representation of our top global leaders by 
2025. Diversity of this population is currently 
29% female and 15% ethnically diverse.

Currently meet the recommendations of the 
Parker Review with both Melissa Bethell and 
Imran Nawaz, being from Asian backgrounds. 
17% of the Board is ethnically diverse.

See page 17 for further details of the Group’s approach 
to diversity and inclusion, and page 103 in the Directors’ 
report for detail on the Group’s employment policies.

The Board’s diversity and inclusion policy is available 
at www.tescoplc.com

Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2023

67

Corporate governanceCorporate governance report continued

Nominations and Governance Committee continued
Board effectiveness
The Board and senior management set the tone from the top 
and lead by example through effective management and good 
stewardship. Effectiveness of the Board encompasses many 
aspects of Board governance including: composition; skills and 
expertise; independence; time commitments; conflicts of interest; 
and Director re-election. The Committee undertakes detailed 
reviews of each of these aspects at least annually, but 
additionally as part of the succession planning discussions 
throughout the year.

Conflicts of interest
In accordance with the Companies Act 2006 and the Company’s 
Articles of Association, Directors are required to report actual or 
potential conflicts of interest to the Board for consideration and, 
if appropriate, authorisation. If such conflicts exist, Directors 
excuse themselves from consideration of the relevant matter. 

On behalf of the Board, the Committee reviews the register of 
authorised conflicts of interests at least annually to confirm its 
ongoing authorisation of any potential or actual conflicts arising 
from a Director’s interest. During the period, in reviewing the 
cumulative conflicts of interests of each of the Directors, the 
Committee concluded that no Director had a conflict that would 
have a detrimental impact on their independence and judgement 
or their time commitment to Tesco. 

Annual election and re-election
Annually, the Committee considers and recommends to the Board 
the re-election of Directors by shareholders at the AGM. This is 
supported by each Director’s individual assessment undertaken 
as part of the annual Board evaluation process. The Committee 
concluded that there were no reasons identified to prevent any 
Director from being recommended for election and re-election 
at the 2023 AGM.

Additionally, in accordance with the Non-executive Directors’ 
letters of appointment, the Committee also carries out a rigorous 
review of performance when a Non-executive Director reaches 
three years’ and six years’ service taking into account the 
Director’s commitment, contribution and effectiveness. No 
Director reached their three or six-year review during the period.

Board evaluation
The Committee oversees the Board evaluation process. During 
the year, the Committee reviewed the progress of the actions 
identified through the 2021/22 Board evaluation and discussed 
whether any further actions would be desirable. In addition, the 
Committee reviewed the proposed approach to the 2022/23 
evaluation of the Board, Committees and Directors, considering 
the key themes and focus of the review. 

An internal review of the Committee’s effectiveness was 
conducted during the year, details of which are set out on 
page 66.

Full details of the 2022/23 Board evaluation 
are provided on page 61.

John Allan CBE
Nominations and Governance Committee Chair

Time commitments
The Board recognises the importance of all Non-executive 
Directors having the necessary time to commit to the business. 
Upon appointment, Non-executive Directors letters of 
appointment stipulate the expected time commitment while 
acknowledging that this may vary depending upon the demands 
of the business and other events. All Directors make themselves 
freely available as required, even at short notice, in order to meet 
the needs of the business. The Committee regularly assesses the 
other time commitments of Directors to ensure that each 
Non-executive Director continues to have sufficient time to 
devote to their role. This assessment takes into account the 
number and nature of the external commitments each Director 
has, and considers whether each Director has demonstrated 
they have sufficient time to devote to their present role within 
Tesco, including under potential periods of corporate stress.

As previously stated, the Board was disappointed by the voting 
outcome during the 2022 AGM relating to the re-election of 
Bertrand Bodson. The Committee discussed the matter at length 
after the 2022 AGM and the shareholder consultation which 
followed. Directors are required to seek approval before accepting 
any additional external appointments. The Board continues to 
firmly believe that Bertrand had sufficient time to devote to his 
Tesco role, despite his other external roles. Bertrand has since 
decided to step down as a member of the Supervisory Board of 
Wolters Kluwer N.V. with effect from 10 May 2023.

The Board is currently satisfied that the number of appointments 
held by each Director in addition to their position with Tesco is 
appropriate to allow them to fulfil their obligations to Tesco. 
During the year, approval was granted to Stewart Gilliland, 
Byron Grote, Alison Platt and Caroline Silver to take on 
additional directorships. It was determined that the additional 
time commitment, taking into account their current overall 
responsibilities, would not have an effect on their 
commitment to Tesco as a Non-executive Director.

Independence
The Non-executive Directors provide a strong independent 
element to the Board and a solid foundation for good corporate 
governance, fulfilling the vital role of corporate accountability. 
The Committee formally reviews the independence of each of 
our Non-executive Directors at least annually. The Committee is 
of the opinion that each of the current Non-executive Directors 
continues to be independent in character and judgement in line 
with the definition set out in the Code. In assessing each Director’s 
independence, the Committee concluded that each provides 
objective challenge, strategic guidance, hold management to 
account and is willing to stand up and defend their own beliefs.

68

Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2023

Corporate Responsibility 
Committee.

Committee membership and tenure
Director 
Lindsey Pownall, Committee Chair
John Allan
Bertrand Bodson
Stewart Gilliland*
Karen Whitworth

Member since
April 2016
March 2015
June 2021
April 2019
June 2021 

 * Stewart Gilliland will take over as Committee Chair with effect from June 2023

Details of attendance at Committee meetings is set 
out on page 59.

Details of the time spent on key areas of responsibility during 
2022/23 are set out below.

Committee activity

30%  Sustainability strategy 
39%  Material sustainability 

matters

31%  Governance and 
stakeholders

2022/23 Evaluation of Corporate 
Responsibility Committee
An internal review of the Committee effectiveness was 
conducted during the year. Its findings concluded that the 
Committee remained effective. Enhanced clarity and a 
refocusing of Committee responsibilities have been 
well received. 

Priorities identified
 – Continue to enhance the monitoring of material 

sustainability targets and issues

 – Enhance communication plan to ensure stakeholders 

are aware of our actions

“As a Committee, we are passionate in 
overseeing the integration of sustainability 
across the Group to ensure we achieve 
our sustainability targets and put our 
stakeholders, communities and planet 
at the heart of everything we do.”

Lindsey Pownall OBE
Corporate Responsibility Committee Chair

Key responsibilities
Sustainability strategy
 – Support and advise the Board on matters relating to planet 

and communities 

 – Oversee sustainability initiatives to support delivery of the 

Group’s purpose and strategic priorities

 – Support the development of the sustainability agenda 
to balance short, medium and long-term objectives
 – Review and challenge initiatives supporting Group net 

zero commitments

 – Monitor KPIs relating to sustainability and climate
 – Monitor external developments on sustainability

Deep dive into material sustainability matters
 – Climate
 – Food waste and packaging
 – Health and diets
 – Community
 – Sourcing
 – Human rights

Governance and stakeholder engagement
 – Corporate reporting relating to sustainability matters
 – Stakeholder engagement on sustainability matters
 – Effectiveness of Committee and review of terms of reference

The Committee’s terms of reference are reviewed 
on an annual basis and are published on our 
website at www.tescoplc.com

I am pleased to present this year’s Corporate Responsibility 
Committee report. During the year, we expanded our 
responsibilities to assist the Board in its oversight of sustainability 
governance and assurance on a range of environmental and 
community topics. The purpose of this report is to explain the 
work of the Committee during the year, alongside the progress 
that has been made in relation to planet and communities.  
A more in-depth review of these areas can be found in the 
Strategic report on pages 1 to 47.

The Committee’s discussions are informed by the experience of 
Tesco’s senior leadership team – as those accountable for driving 
responsible and sustainable growth through Tesco’s operations. 
These in-depth discussions ensure the Committee stays alert to 
current and emerging trends and to any potential risks arising from 
sustainability issues. The Committee captures these insights for the 
Board through formal feedback and the ongoing sharing of knowledge. 

Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2023

69

Corporate governance 
 
Corporate governance report continued

Corporate Responsibility Committee continued

With the heightened focus on sustainability matters and the 
evolving role of the Committee, the Committee increased the 
frequency of meetings during the year from three to four, with 
the core focus being the oversight of the Group’s sustainability 
strategy and the integration of sustainability throughout the 
business operations. In addition, the Committee decided to 
change its name from the Corporate Responsibility Committee 
to the Sustainability Committee, with effect from April 2023, 
to better reflect the Committee’s responsibilities.

Complementing the Committee’s role, the Audit Committee is 
responsible for overseeing the assurance programme of Tesco’s 
sustainability commitments and the Remuneration Committee 
for monitoring and approving sustainability-linked performance 
metrics and the alignment of senior executives’ individual 
objectives with sustainability goals. We collaborate closely with 
these Committees and cross-Committee representation 
provides a link between all the Board Committees.

Sustainability strategy
The effects of climate change and nature loss are becoming ever 
more apparent and increasingly urgent. Sustainability is integrated 
into the Group’s overall strategy, with reducing the environmental 
impact of our own and our supplier partners’ operations a key 
principle of one of the Group’s strategic drivers, Magnetic value 
for customers. The Board is committed to becoming carbon 
neutral across Group operations by 2035 and net zero across the 
supply chain by 2050. The Committee’s role is to provide oversight 
and challenge on any material sustainability matters identified, 
advising and making recommendations to the Board where 
appropriate. The Committee is satisfied that good progress 
continues to be made in understanding and managing both risks 
and opportunities across the business. Further information can 
be found in the Climate and TCFD sections on pages 18 to 24.

The Committee has developed a sustainability framework to 
monitor progress against sustainability plans, KPIs and key 
milestones, measuring brand perception against our most 
material issues. This is considered alongside our planet plan which 
provides a framework for all areas of the business to align in terms 
of environmental performance and managing our environmental 
sustainability commitments. A sustainability dashboard provides a 
view of the Group’s performance which helps to ensure we stay 
ahead of expectations, drive change and show transparency in our 
reporting. Deep dives into material issues support the Committee 
in overseeing and challenging management in the delivery of our 
sustainability targets. All activities play a part in helping us to 
decarbonise our business and supply chains.

It is important for our stakeholders to be aware of and 
understand the actions we are taking on sustainability initiatives. 
The Committee reviews the annual customer and colleague 
communications plan along with quarterly communication 
updates, which provide an overview of the activity supporting 
our key sustainability themes. For example, our Better Baskets 
initiative through our partnership with WWF; campaigns relating 
to packaging and food waste; innovation initiatives; and the roll 
out of solar panels to power refrigeration units on HGVs reducing 
our carbon footprint. 

Material sustainability matters 
During the year, the Committee received deep dive presentations 
on a number of key issues, including:

 – our healthy sustainable diets programme, detailing performance 
against our health strategy and commitments, the challenges 
faced and how these challenges were being addressed through 
the Better Baskets initiative, reformulation of Own Brand lines 
and new launches of healthy products. The Committee noted 
the good progress being made towards the target of 65% of 
UK & ROI sales coming from healthy food by 2025;

 – responsible farming and sustainable agriculture, reviewing our 
priorities to help to ensure Tesco has long-term sustainable 
supply chains that meet our customer and shareholder 
expectations, support British agriculture, animal health and 
welfare, and protect and restore nature, in addition to meeting 
our net zero ambitions;

 – packaging and food waste, including a review of our strategy 
and monitoring our commitment to halve food waste across 
our own operations by 2025. An update on eliminating waste 
demonstrated the progress against our ‘4Rs’ packaging plan 
to reduce or remove packaging, together with an update on 
progress against our food waste plan for 2022, and the work 
undertaken to redistribute food through our charity 
partnerships. We also oversaw, a number of innovative 
projects to make use of food waste, including exploring the 
use of insects as an alternative protein for animal feed; and

 – sourcing and human rights, reviewing our human rights 

strategy and managing human rights risks.

Governance and stakeholder engagement
Following the refresh of the Group’s purpose in October 2021 and 
the renewed focus on the most material issues of our strategy, 
the Committee has undertaken a review of matters scheduled 
throughout the year for discussion at its meetings to ensure it 
has a detailed understanding of the key issues and challenges 
faced in delivering against our sustainability targets.

The Committee is a passionate advocate for transparency and 
stakeholder engagement and continues to work on sustainability 
issues alongside key stakeholders and investors. As part of our 
stakeholder engagement, the Committee regularly receives 
updates from the Investor Relations team to understand the views 
of our major investors. In addition, during one of its meetings the 
Committee had the opportunity to hear the views of a number of 
our major shareholders first hand, in a dedicated feedback 
session. Committee members also had the opportunity to 
participate in ESG investor roundtables, bringing insight and 
challenge back to the business.

Empowering our stores, our colleagues and our customers to 
make a bigger difference locally, and finding new ways everyone 
can play a part in supporting the local community, is a key part 
of our purpose. Throughout the year the Committee received 
updates on the Group’s community initiatives and their impact. 
Given the impact of the economic crisis on many of Tesco’s 
customers, the Committee explored Tesco’s long-standing 
relationship with FareShare and The Trussell Trust who, through 
donated food from Tesco and others, help feed people in 
communities. In addition, Committee members visited a branch 
of the Hackney Foodbank, see page 62. To support these charities, 
Tesco held its annual winter and summer food collections, with 
Tesco customers donating 3.8 million meals and Tesco topping up 
every donation by 20%. The Committee also reviewed a number of 
other community activities, the details of which are set out in the 
Stakeholder engagement section.

During 2021/22, the Group undertook a share forfeiture 
programme following a tracing and notification exercise which 
completed in 2022/23. Following discussion, the Committee 
approved an additional £1m donation in support of FareShare and 
The Trussell Trust throughout the winter period; and £4.6m over 
three years to be used in the UK, Central Europe and the Republic 
of Ireland towards the Tesco Community Grants fund to celebrate 
the blue token voting scheme and provide for additional 
community activity across the Group. 

Lindsey Pownall OBE
Corporate Responsibility Committee Chair

70

Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2023

Audit Committee.

Committee membership
Director 
Byron Grote, Committee Chair
Melissa Bethell
Caroline Silver
Karen Whitworth

Member since
June 2015
September 2018
October 2022
June 2021 

All the Committee members are independent Non-executive 
Directors and the Board is satisfied that Byron Grote, Melissa 
Bethell, Caroline Silver and Karen Whitworth have significant, 
recent and relevant financial experience. Additionally, Byron 
Grote, having held a chief financial officer role for a significant 
period, and Caroline Silver and Karen Whitworth, as chartered 
accountants, are considered suitably qualified in accounting 
and/or auditing. The Board considers that the Committee 
members collectively have competence relevant to the 
Company’s sector, in addition to their general management 
and commercial experience. The Committee members’ 
expertise and experience is set out in each of their biographies 
on pages 51 to 54.

The Committee Chair invites other regular attendees including: 
the Non-executive Chair, CEO, CFO, Group General Counsel, 
the Chief Audit and Risk Officer, the Chief Technology Officer 
and representatives of the external auditor.

Committee membership, together with attendance 
at meetings is detailed in the table on page 59.

2022/23 Evaluation of the Audit Committee
Following the external evaluation conducted last year, the 
2022/23 Committee evaluation formed part of the Board 
evaluation process and was rated highly overall, see page 61 
for further details. The review found that the Committee was 
operating effectively and its broad role and remit remained 
appropriate for the current needs of the business. The 
relationship with supporting functions and the external auditor 
were rated very highly, having an excellent balance between 
being challenging and supportive. The balanced agenda was 
managed efficiently and allowed for adequate challenge and 
discussion. Opportunities for improvements included regular 
deep dives on emerging areas, a focus on longer-term capital 
planning and investment analysis, and planning for compliance 
with UK regulatory reform.

This year the Audit Committee continued to focus on issues 
relevant to the Group’s financial reporting, considering key 
accounting judgements and ensuring the ongoing quality of related 
disclosures. The Committee supports the Board in fulfilling its 
responsibilities regarding financial reporting, the effectiveness of 
risk management and internal controls processes and compliance 
matters. Further details on the division of Board responsibilities 
and the Committee’s role in complying with the UK Corporate 
Governance Code are set out on page 48. The Committee’s key 
areas of responsibility are detailed below and further discussion 
of key activities can be found later in this report.

Financial statements and reporting
 – The Committee monitors the Group’s financial reporting 
processes. We review and submit recommendations to 
the Board, where necessary, challenging the integrity of 
financial statements, including considering the impact of 
macroeconomic factors on key accounting judgements and  
narrative disclosures.

 – The Committee reviews the Group’s assessments of going 

concern, longer-term prospects and viability and the distributable 
reserves position prior to any declaration of dividends.

 – The Committee considered proposed changes to 

accounting policy.

External auditor
 – The Committee considers reports from the external auditor and 
management’s response to recommendations. It assesses the 
quality of the external auditor’s contribution and effectiveness, 
considers their appointment, approves auditor remuneration 
and monitors the provision of non-audit services and 
associated fees. 

Risk management and internal controls
 – The Committee reviews and monitors the Group’s internal 

controls framework and risk management processes, including 
key financial, operational and compliance controls, and the 
identification and assessment of emerging and principal risks.
 – The Committee monitors risk exposures and future risk strategy, 

including the adopted strategy for capital and liquidity 
management, technology risks (including data privacy and 
cyber risks) and climate-related risks.

Looking ahead, the Committee will continue to monitor 
macroeconomic conditions affecting the Group. In connection 
with ongoing governance reform proposals specific to audit 
and financial reporting, the Committee will regularly review the 
development of appropriate policies and documentation in 
respect of reporting procedures and the implementation of an 
audit and assurance policy, see page 75.

Byron Grote
Audit Committee Chair

The Committee’s full terms of reference are reviewed 
on an annual basis and are published on our website 
at www.tescoplc.com

Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2023

71

Corporate governanceCorporate governance report continued

Audit Committee continued
Principal activities 
In addition to its key areas of discussion, the Committee received 
regular updates from management in relation to: key financial 
controls; sustainability KPI assurance and reporting; IT general 
controls; treasury; tax; pensions; insurance; capital structure; and 
internal audit. The Committee also received regular updates in 
relation to Tesco Bank, which operates its own audit committee 
governed by specific banking regulations. The Committee Chair 
and the Chief Financial Officer both attend Tesco Bank meetings 
ensuring that knowledge is shared for mutual benefit.

Financial & regulatory reporting
In relation to the financial statements, the Committee ensures 
that Tesco provides accurate and timely financial results, 
implements accounting standards and applies judgements 
effectively. During the year, the Committee considered and 
recommended the approval of the interim financial results, 
preliminary results and this Annual Report. As well as monitoring 
the statutory audit, the Committee also reviewed climate 
risk-related disclosures, capital allocation strategy, the Group’s 
distributable reserves position in advance of the declaration of 
dividends and corporate governance disclosures. Details of the 
significant financial reporting matters reviewed by the Committee 
and how they were addressed are set out on page 74.

The Committee considered the viability and going concern 
statements, their underlying assumptions and the longer-term 
prospects. The Committee also considered the appropriateness 
of a three-year viability assessment period after modelling the 
impact of certain scenarios arising from the Group’s principal 
risks: recessionary impacts, global supply pressures, climate 
change and data breach. The Committee received updates on 
perceived challenges and viability impact that the business could 
face resulting from climate change and broader macroeconomic 
uncertainties. The Committee evaluated going concern over an 
18-month period, which included a review of financial plans and 
assumptions, access to financing and operational risk management, 
contingent liabilities, and the adaptability of financial plans. In our 
review of the financial statements, we considered, and challenged 
as appropriate, the accounting policies and the significant 
judgements and estimates underpinning the financial statements.

The Committee received updates from the triennial pension 
scheme valuation and discussed measures to further de-risk the 
Tesco UK Scheme and the impact of improving commutation 
factors and the resulting increase in liabilities. The Committee 
continues to monitor the impact of discount rates and volatile 
bond markets on the accounting position of the Group’s pension 
schemes, see Note 29.

The Committee monitored the Group’s compliance with the new 
European Single Electronic Format (ESEF) tagging and additional 
requirements to ‘block tag’ policies and notes, with additional 
assurance provided by Deloitte. Our use of assurance and 
referencing in the 2021/22 structured annual report was given 
as an example by the FRC. 

As impairment remains one of the most significant areas of 
judgement, we considered steps to simplify and improve the 
complex impairment-model process across the Group, including 
tightening review controls and ensuring stronger audit trails. The 
Committee received regular updates on the store impairment and 
goodwill position considering WACC trends, cashflow forecasts 
and discount rate assumptions. As a result of the market 
movements in cost of equity, a full impairment assessment over 
Tesco Bank Goodwill was undertaken at the half year and regularly 
reviewed thereafter. The Committee was satisfied that, factoring 
in macro upside and downside scenarios, sufficient headroom 
existed. Our impairment methodology and details of the 
impairment of non-current assets is presented in Note 14.

72

Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2023

Corporate governance and compliance programme 
The Committee reviewed the scope of compliance work and 
approach to enhanced financial controls through a combined 
Finance and Technology compliance programme. It oversaw 
preparations for formal unaudited attestation on controls 
effectiveness required as part of expected corporate governance 
reforms, receiving updates on the latest position of audit reform 
proposals, and monitored implementation readiness across the 
business. The Group commissioned an independent report that 
assessed the adequacy of structures in place to effectively 
respond in each reform area and implementation readiness.

Ethics & compliance.
The Committee supports the Board in discharging its 
responsibilities in relation to serious reportable incidents, privacy, 
fraud, anti-bribery, people safety, whistleblowing, annual and 
Group compliance statements and received and reviewed biannual 
ethics and compliance data covering the aforementioned items. 
The Committee discussed the controls and mitigating actions 
deployed in support of the Group’s overall compliance strategy 
and culture to reduce instances of fraud and compliance 
breaches. We assessed the effectiveness of the Group’s 
whistleblowing arrangements and reviewed compliance with 
GSCOP. The Committee monitors the relationship with the 
Groceries Code Adjudicator and receives reports on supplier 
engagement and the internal auditing of ethical business 
processes. See page 104 for more information.

Risk management
The Committee reviewed the Group’s principal and emerging risks 
and mitigation strategies, with particular discussion of prioritised 
risks and risk movements. We also discussed the complexity of the 
Group’s supply chains and the threat of frequent disruption to 
product availability due to increased volatility in external 
conditions. It was considered appropriate to adopt security of 
supply as a new principal risk, which was considered and approved 
by the Board. The Committee received updates on various 
emerging risk themes in areas such as technology, economics, 
political impacts, talent, climate and sustainability, including 
periodic deep dive sessions, see page 39. These are considered by 
management in connection with the risk assessment process. An 
assessment of the Group’s principal risks and detailed scenario 
analysis work to stress test liquidity was performed as part of the 
viability scenario modelling. For further information on the Group’s 
risk management framework, see page 38.

External audit
At each meeting the Committee considers reports from the 
external auditor, Deloitte. These concern interim and year-end 
reports, audit plan, audit fees, auditor independence and 
non-audit services, early warning reports, management letter 
observations and updates on ongoing audit work.

Group risk & audit
In the year there were leadership changes within the Group Risk & 
Audit function. In the absence of a Chief Audit & Risk Officer, for 
segregation of duties and independence purposes, a PwC audit 
partner oversaw audit responsibilities in collaboration with the 
Internal Audit Director. The position was monitored by the 
Committee to ensure independence was maintained. They 
provided feedback on the team’s performance which confirmed 
strong partnerships with management and the business. A new 
Chief Audit & Risk Officer joined in April 2023. The Committee 
monitors the activity, role and effectiveness of the Group Risk & 
Audit function, detailed on page 74. At each meeting, we receive 
updates covering a range of management issues, including periodic 
reviews of the employment of former auditor employees and 
non-audit services policies, the Group’s audit and risk charters 
and the audit plan. 

Key discussions in the year

Share buyback programme
Following the Group’s refresh of its capital allocation framework 
last year, the Committee discussed options to optimise the 
Group’s net debt position and continue the return of surplus cash 
to shareholders through ongoing share buybacks. We considered 
these proposals and recommended implementation to the Board. 
We continued to receive regular updates on the ongoing share 
buyback programme and having successfully completed £300m 
under the initial programme, we announced an enlarged tranche 
of £750m to be returned to shareholders, which completed in 
February 2023. The Committee considered the accounting 
treatment for the split of buybacks that straddle prior year ends. 
Before recommending to the Board, the Committee discussed 
appropriate alignment with current and ongoing Group strategy 
and debated the structure of the ongoing programme against the 
long term plan. The Committee considered the likely response 
from stakeholders, including shareholders, rating agencies and 
pension trustees, with whom we engaged with on future strategy. 
We also discussed the evolving conflict in Ukraine and possible 
perception of stakeholders.

Regulatory matters
In light of FRC publications and thematic reviews, the Committee 
considered how the key observations would be factored into the 
Annual Report. The Committee discussed particular areas of 
focus by the FRC and considered the broader economic 
environment in corporate disclosures. Areas of enhancement 
were identified and have been considered in this Annual Report, 
including discount rates, enhancements to s414 disclosures, 
judgements and estimates, and improved explanation of the 
assumptions used in scenario modelling for viability and going 
concern. The Committee considered the Group’s energy 
hedging strategy in light of the significant rise in wholesale gas 
and power prices and the uncertain geopolitical landscape. 
The Committee will continue to consider the impact of changes 
in the macroeconomic environment on the underlying wholesale 
energy cost assumptions. 

IFRS 17 reporting
The Committee received updates on the outcome of an 
impact assessment. The biggest Group impact arose in Tesco 
Underwriting, who met regularly with management to consider 
the position. The Committee reviewed the accounting judgements 
applied and supported the application of the simple form premium 
allocation approach disclosure. An explanation of how the 
accounting has been applied is included in Note 1.

Environmental disclosures and the  
revolving credit facility
The Committee reviewed the proposed disclosure plan and 
enhancements to scenario modelling in connection with the 
Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD) on 
pages 20 to 24. One such improvement included the development 
of a bespoke test environment mapped to Tesco, which allows for 
the modelling of potential financial impacts of climate change. 
Furthermore, we can monitor the evolution of these risks over 
time. The Committee was satisfied that the Group had complied 
with all recommendations having reviewed the outcome of 
assessments in the prior and current year. 

The Committee reviewed the sustainability KPI assurance 
programme, including the mix of internal and external assurance 
provided. Deloitte were engaged to perform independent assurance 
over the non-financial metrics detailed in this Annual Report.

The Committee scrutinised the integrity of governance and 
controls around the quality of internal data points. The Group 
continue to work towards greater assurance over TCFD 
disclosures and, with the support of Deloitte, will undertake 
a gap analysis of the 2023 TCFD statement, in parallel to the 
remeasurement of total carbon footprint, ahead of moving 
to a statement with limited assurance.

The Committee reviewed the Group’s renewal of its revolving 
credit facility (RCF). The RCF’s sustainability link was also 
considered in the context of the Group’s viability position and 
updated to better reflect the overall ESG strategy and alignment 
with KPIs used in the Group’s performance share plan. The 
Committee will continue to discuss the appropriate use of 
ESG-related metrics within its current and future funding strategy 
and the mechanism for ESG assessment. For further information 
on the Group’s environmental commitments and details of the 
sustainability-linked targets, visit www.tescoplc.com/investors/
debt-investors/sustainability-linked-financing. 

Property related transactions
Following the revised accounting policy implemented in the prior 
year for property buybacks, the Committee considered the 
accounting treatment of bought back JV structures. We also 
oversaw the complex buyback of property bonds in the form of 
secured debt. The Committee considered the accounting 
implications and impact to the Group’s net debt position. 
A possible amendment to the APM definition was considered, 
however, the Committee were comfortable that no change 
was required.

Key financial controls
The ongoing financial controls compliance programme is well 
progressed to support a formal attestation on controls 
effectiveness required as part of pending regulatory reforms. 
The Committee reviewed the scope of compliance work 
undertaken and the approach. Updates on progress towards 
enhanced corporate governance compliance and other control 
improvements were provided from the CFOs of UK & ROI and 
Central Europe operations. The effectiveness of key financial 
controls is reviewed annually, and controls testing carried out. 
Controls would remain subject to other assurance activities, 
including by Group Audit who will test the primary key financial 
controls on a regular basis and report their findings to the 
Committee. No significant or material control issues have been 
identified. Regulatory developments will continue to be monitored 
and the project plan adapted accordingly as the landscape 
develops.

Cyber security programme
The Committee was regularly updated on the Group’s cyber risk 
management and the activities of the Group’s cyber risk 
committee, set up to oversee effective governance protocols 
over cyber security activities across the Group. More details on 
the continued monitoring of cyber risk can be found on page 40.

IT general controls
The Committee continued to monitor the implementation of 
recommendations to further enhance the Group’s financial 
reporting systems and controls environment. The Committee 
received regular updates in relation to several remediation 
workstreams addressing IT general control weaknesses raised 
by Deloitte as management letter points. Testing of the access 
management environment in mainframe and non-mainframe 
environments was ongoing. Several improvements were identified 
to be implemented to remove reliance on manual steps. 
The Committee will continue to explore the additional controls 
required by compliance measures and understand the breadth 
of the control environment.

Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2023

73

Corporate governanceCorporate governance report continued

Audit Committee continued
Significant financial statement reporting issues
The Committee considered the following significant issues during the year. As part of these considerations, the Committee received updates 
from management and sought assurance from the internal and external auditors. The Committee was satisfied with how each of the 
significant issues discussed were addressed.

Issue 
Going concern basis for 
the financial statements 
and viability statement

Acquisitions and 
disposals

Impairment

Tesco Bank expected 
credit losses (ECL)

Pensions

Pension surplus tax rate 

Recognition and 
disclosure of  
commercial income
Adjusting items 

Alternative performance 
measures (APMs)
New accounting 
standards issued but not 
yet effective

How the issue was addressed by the Committee
The Committee reviewed and challenged management’s assessment of forecast cash flows including sensitivity to trading 
and expenditure plans, and for the potential impact of certain scenarios, including: recessionary impacts, global supply 
pressures, climate change and data breach. The Committee also considered the Group’s financing facilities and future 
funding plans. Based on this, the Committee confirmed that the application of the going concern basis for the 
preparation of the financial statements continued to be appropriate, with no material uncertainties noted, and 
recommended the approval of the viability statement. For further information, see page 46 of this Annual Report.
The Committee considered the accounting and disclosures in relation to the acquisition of The Tesco Dorney Limited 
Partnership (formerly a property joint venture). The Committee also considered the accounting and disclosures related 
to the disposal of property assets in Poland and Central Europe, including the sale of 17 mall sites, one retail park and 
partial leaseback of 17 stores. For further information, see Notes 7 and 33 to the financial statements.
The Committee reviewed and challenged management’s impairment testing of goodwill, in particular in relation to Tesco 
Bank, and the Group’s portfolio of store cash-generating units. The Committee considered the key assumptions and 
methodologies for both value in use models and fair value measurements in order to conclude on the appropriateness of 
the impairment losses and reversals recognised. This included challenging projected cash flows, discount rates and the 
use of independent third-party valuations as well as considering the uncertainties arising from a macroeconomic 
downturn, higher levels of operating cost inflation and climate change. The Committee also reviewed the impairment 
disclosures, including sensitivities. For further information, see Note 14 to the financial statements.
The Committee reviewed and challenged management’s allowance for expected credit losses on Tesco Bank financial 
assets, considering the appropriateness of key assumptions, methodologies, macroeconomic scenarios and 
management overlays. For further information, see Note 27 to the financial statements.
The Committee reviewed and challenged the estimates used by management in valuing pension liabilities, including 
discount, inflation and mortality rates and related sensitivities. For further details, see Note 29 to the financial 
statements.
In respect of the Interim results, the Committee considered management’s assessment of the manner in which the 
Group expects to recover defined benefit pension plans in a surplus position and the resulting tax consequences.  
At the year end, the Tesco UK Scheme was in an accounting deficit position. For further information, refer to Note 29.
The Committee continued to monitor commercial income controls across the Group and discussed the outcome of the 
cyclical internal audits on commercial income and key financial controls. See Notes 1 and 20 to the financial statements 
for further details on commercial income.
The Committee considered the presentation of the Group’s financial statements and the appropriateness of the 
presentation of adjusting items. The Committee reviewed the nature of the adjusting items identified and concurred 
with management that the treatment was clear, balanced and consistently applied across years. Consideration was also 
given to the quality of earnings within adjusted results and related disclosures. See Note 1 to the financial statements for 
a definition of adjusting items and Note 4 for an analysis of adjusting items.
The Committee reviewed the Group’s APMs presentation and disclosure, including their level of prominence, and 
considered any changes in APMs and the clarity of APM reconciliations.
The Committee considered the implementation of IFRS 17 ‘Insurance contracts’, which becomes effective for the 
financial year ending 24 February 2024. The Committee reviewed and challenged the key judgements made in 
determining the impact of IFRS 17 on the Group’s financing reporting and considered management’s communication 
and disclosure of the impacts. For further information, refer to Note 1 to the financial statements.

Audit Committee meetings
The Committee held five scheduled meetings during the year. 
Each meeting followed a distinct agenda to reflect the financial 
reporting cycle and particular matters for the Committee’s 
consideration. The Committee has a periodic and structured 
forward-looking planner. This is designed to ensure that 
responsibilities are discharged in full during the year and that 
regulatory developments continue to be brought to the 
Committee’s attention. Meeting content is regularly reviewed 
with management and Deloitte, evolving to support appropriate 
discussion. Committee meetings are generally scheduled close 
to Board meetings to facilitate effective and timely reporting. 
An update is provided to the Board following each meeting.

Committee members regularly hold private sessions following each 
meeting with both the external auditor and internal audit team to 
provide an additional opportunity for open dialogue and feedback 
without management present. The Committee Chair also meets 
with the Chief Financial Officer, acting Chief Audit and Risk Officer 
and external auditor on an ad hoc basis and prior to each 
Committee meeting.

Group Audit 
Group Audit is part of the Group Risk & Audit function. It reports 
directly to the Committee and administratively to the Chief 
Financial Officer, with a remit to provide independent and 
objective assurance over our Group’s prioritised risks and 
management structures. Its purpose, authority and responsibilities 
are defined in the Group audit charter, which is reviewed and 
approved annually by the Committee.

Group Audit’s activity is primarily driven by the annual Internal 
audit plan which is reviewed and approved by the Committee. 
The internal audit plan remains under review and subject to 
change throughout the year to reflect any changes in risk profile, 
business objectives and external environment. The Committee 
reviews and approves all changes to the audit plan and receives 
regular updates on the outcome of the work performed.

Management culture is considered through evaluation of 
the control environment as part of every audit undertaken. 
However, a structured methodology and approach for 
dedicated culture audits is under consideration for inclusion 
in the plan for future years. 

74

Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2023

External audit
As the Group’s external auditor for the 2022/23 financial year, 
Deloitte shared a further independent perspective on certain 
aspects of the Group’s financial control systems arising from its 
work and reported both to the Board and the Committee.

The Committee regularly reviews the role of the external auditor 
and the scope of its work. We will consider future audit needs as 
part of the AAP. The Committee also considers the effectiveness 
of the external auditor on an ongoing basis during the year. 
Among other factors, the review covers Deloitte’s independence, 
objectivity, appropriate mindset, and professional scepticism. 
The Committee’s conclusions are based on its own observations 
and interactions with the external auditor and having regard to the 
FRC’s ‘Revised Ethical Standard 2019’.

Non-audit services
The FRC’s ‘Revised Ethical Standard 2019’ has reduced the areas 
where the external auditor can provide non-audit services, such 
that only certain types of non-audit services that are closely 
related to an audit or required by law or regulation can be 
provided. The Committee oversees the process for approving 
all non-audit work provided by the external auditor to safeguard 
the objectivity and independence of the auditor and comply with 
regulatory and ethical guidance. Where Deloitte has been chosen, 
they have demonstrated the relevant skills and experience making 
them an appropriate supplier to undertake the work in a cost-
effective and time-efficient manner, with appropriate 
safeguards in place.

Our policy for non-audit services is compliant with the FRC’s 
‘Revised Ethical Standard 2019’. In line with regulation, the Group 
is required to cap the level of non-audit fees paid to its external 
auditor at 70% of the average audit fees paid in the previous 
three consecutive financial years.

Fees paid to Deloitte are set out in Note 3 to the financial 
statements. Details of the significant non-audit work undertaken 
this year are set out in the table on page 76.

)

m
£
(
s
e
e
f

l

a
t
o
T

15

12

9

6

3

0

2019/20

2020/21

2021/22

2022/23

25

20

15

10

5

0

Audit fees
Average non-audit fees over three years

Non-audit fees

)

%

(

s
r
a
e
y
3
r
e
v
o
s
e
e
f
e
g
a
r
e
v
A

Beyond the audit plan, Group Audit also undertakes several other 
assurance activities including continuous programme controls 
reviews, pre-and/or post-implementation audits, advisory 
reviews, and other management requested assurance. The 
reporting of these reviews is often unrated and is less structured 
to enable timely advice to the business. The results of these 
reviews are also presented and reviewed by the Committee.

The 2022/23 audit plan and additional assurance activities 
undertaken by Group Audit have been completed and reviewed 
by the Committee, which has also reviewed and approved the 
2023/24 audit plan.

Group Audit effectiveness reviews
In line with the Group audit charter, the Committee’s terms of 
reference and the recommendations of the Internal Audit Code of 
Practice, the Committee conducted an annual assessment of the 
effectiveness of Group Audit. Conducted by an independent third 
party, the overall assessment concluded that Group Audit was 
effective. The assessment highlighted the strong independence 
of the team and noted their capabilities. Having considered the 
results of this assessment, as well as through ongoing review and 
oversight of the assurance activities, the Committee were 
satisfied with the effectiveness of Group Audit.

In the year, the Committee approved the Group risk charter, 
which defines the accountabilities for conducting risk 
management activities, ensuring transparency and a clear line 
of separation to preserve the independence of Group Risk 
and Group Audit from the business.

Internal controls
Management is responsible for identifying and managing risks, and 
for maintaining a sound system of internal control. The internal 
control framework is intended to effectively manage rather than 
eliminate the risk of failure to achieve our business objectives. It 
can only provide reasonable, but not absolute, assurance against 
the risk of material misstatement or financial loss. The key 
elements of the Group’s internal control framework are monitored 
throughout the year, and the Committee has conducted a review 
of the effectiveness of the Group’s risk management and internal 
control systems on behalf of the Board. The Committee’s review 
of the effectiveness of internal controls has encompassed a 
review of various reports provided by management, Group Control 
and Compliance, Group Risk, Group Audit and External Audit. 
Annually, the Committee reviews the Group treasury policy which 
contains a framework and approach to managing treasury risks. 
The Committee also receives risk management updates from 
various areas of the business including pensions and Tesco Bank. 
Further information on the risk management process undertaken 
is included on page 38. Specifically for internal controls over 
financial reporting, a key financial controls framework is maintained 
and used as the basis for focused second-line control activities. 
The results from this have been reported to the Committee 
through the year. This key financial controls framework is currently 
being enhanced to meet the future needs of pending corporate 
governance reforms.

Audit and assurance policy (AAP)
In line with the audit reform recommendations outlined in the 
consultation paper issued by the Department for Business 
Energy and Industrial Strategy, the Group is in the process of 
documenting and implementing an audit and assurance policy. 
Group Risk & Audit is tasked with the responsibility for facilitating 
the development of the AAP, in coordination with other functions 
across the three lines of defence: management controls (first line), 
typically risk and compliance functions (second line) and Group 
Audit (third line). The Committee will continue to monitor the 
development of the AAP.

Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2023

75

Corporate governance 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Corporate governance report continued

Audit Committee continued

External audit fees: non-audit and audit-related services

Nature of service

Forensic services: provision of data 
repository services for information 
needed for disclosure purposes as part 
of ongoing claims(a)

Level of fees  
in 2022/23  
(£m)

Level of fees  
in 2021/22  
(£m) 

–

0.6 

Section 166 skilled person reasonable 
assurance review for Tesco Bank 
performed under International 
Standards on Assurance Engagements 
(ISAE) (UK) 3000
Other non-audit services: various audit, 
assurance and compliance-related 
services

0.4

–

0.5

0.4

Interim Review: performed under 
International Standards of Review 
Engagements (UK and Ireland) 2410

0.5

0.5 

Total 

1.4(b)

1.5(c)

Key

Increase

No change

Decrease

Change 

Safeguards to preserve  
independence and objectivity

Careful consideration of the scope of services and related 
threats, in particular the objective, reasonable and informed 
third-party test. Threats are mitigated by having a separate 
engagement team not involved in the audit, the subject 
matter being historical and factual in nature, working with 
informed management and audit partner rotation.
Service is required to be delivered by an independent firm 
and is therefore consistent with the role of independent 
auditor. Threats are also mitigated by having a separate 
team not involved in the audit. 

Careful consideration of the scope of services to ensure 
the self-review and management threats are mitigated, 
together with working with informed management. 
Clear separation of the engagement teams has also been 
established where required.
The Interim Review is considered a non-audit service under 
the FRC ‘Revised Ethical Standard 2019’, although the 
objectives of the review are aligned with those of the audit.

(a) Engagement predates Deloitte’s appointment as external auditor. Deloitte’s engagement on this work has now ceased.
(b) £538,922 of the 2022/23 fees are not subject to the cap (all within other non-audit services). The remaining fees are all subject to the cap.
(c) £129,773 of the 2021/22 fees are not subject to the cap (all within other non-audit services). The remaining fees are all subject to the cap.

Effectiveness, quality and appointment of the auditor
The Committee monitors the ongoing effectiveness and quality of 
the audit process and interactions with the audit partner and 
senior members of the audit team, through regular review 
meetings, with the Finance team and management, and private 
meetings. The Committee discussed feedback from the previous 
review and improvements incorporated into the audit approach, 
which included enhanced testing and reliance on internal controls, 
greater use of technology and data analytics, and continuous 
insights and improvements. The Committee recognised 
improvements in the provision of data driven insights and analysis 
in connection with IFRS 16 lease liabilities and right of use assets 
and revenue and cost of sales areas of the audit. In January 2023, 
Deloitte’s effectiveness and quality was evaluated on the basis of 
feedback provided through questionnaires completed by the 
Board, management and business representatives. Facilitated by 
an independent third party, the responses were collated and 
Deloitte was rated effective. The Committee recommended to 
the Board that Deloitte be reappointed at the 2023 AGM. 
The effectiveness of Deloitte will be continually monitored in 
2023/24 by the Committee.

During the year, Deloitte supported management in the continued 
efforts to simplify the approach to impairment testing. These 
improvements reduced complexity, provided better identification 
of impairment triggers and drove efficiencies in meeting 
accounting standards. Internal training on the impairment 
modelling tool was provided to local finance teams, which led 
to improved documentation and inputting. We also noted an 
increased central oversight and will continue to work with 
management to further simplify the process where possible. 
Over the course of the year, the audit approach aligned with the 
evolution of the Group’s control environment and business 
strategy. Deloitte provided data driven insights and analytics to 
management and the Committee, as part of their risk assessment 
and testing of IT general controls, and in their review of IFRS 16 
lease balances and calculation of discount rates.

Deloitte was appointed at the AGM in June 2015 following the 
conclusion of a formal tender process for the statutory audit 
contract and John Adam has been lead audit partner since 2020. 

The Company is in compliance with the requirements of The 
Statutory Audit Services for Large Companies Market Investigation 
(Mandatory Use of Competitive Tender Processes and Audit 
Responsibilities) Order 2014, which relates to the frequency and 
governance of external audit tenders and the setting of a policy on 
the provision of non-audit services. The Committee reviews and 
makes a recommendation to the Board with regard to the 
reappointment of the current external auditor each year. In 
making this recommendation, the Committee monitored and 
assessed their effectiveness, objectivity, independence, lead 
partner rotation and any other factors that may impact the 
Committee’s judgement regarding the external auditor. The 
Committee monitored compliance with the Group’s policy on 
the employment of former Deloitte employees and concluded 
the auditors remained independent. Based on the performance 
of the auditor and its knowledge of the business, the Committee 
believes that it is in the best interests of shareholders to continue 
to recommend Deloitte as the external auditor. In line with 
regulation, over the course of the next year, the Committee plans 
to initiate a competitive tender of the external audit contract 
beginning with the 2025/26 financial year.

Fair, balanced and understandable
The Group has a strong commitment to balanced reporting. 
As part of the fair, balanced and understandable review, an 
advanced draft of the whole Annual Report was reviewed by 
management, as well as independent functions, who performed 
verification and assessment under prescribed guidance. The 
external auditor reported findings to the Committee who 
considered the Annual Report and Financial Statements 2023 
and concluded that the disclosures, as well as the processes 
and controls underlying its production, were appropriate. 
We recommended to the Board that the Annual Report 2023 
is fair, balanced and understandable while providing the 
necessary information to assess the Company’s position and 
performance, business model and strategy.

76

Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2023

Directors’ remuneration report

Chair’s letter.

“Our focus this year has been on 
implementing our new policy to 
ensure remuneration is aligned to our 
purpose and strategic priorities as 
well as having regard to the wider 
workforce and other stakeholders.”

Alison Platt

Dear Shareholder
I am pleased to present my first Directors’ remuneration report as 
Chair of the Remuneration Committee (the Committee), having 
taken over the role from Steve Golsby on 17 June 2022. I would like 
to take this opportunity to thank Steve on behalf of the Committee 
for his excellent work as Chair and his support to me personally 
during the transition of roles.

This report provides an update on the first implementation year 
of our remuneration policy, which was approved by shareholders 
at the June 2022 AGM. The Committee appreciated the high level 
of shareholder support for the remuneration policy and the 
remuneration report, receiving 92.0% and 92.2% of votes in 
favour, respectively. We also appreciated the continued dialogue 
we have had with a number of shareholders, their representative 
bodies and the wider stakeholder group on remuneration 
throughout the year. 

Delivering on our purpose and strategy
In 2021 we launched our refreshed purpose to reflect and 
inform the way we operate in every part of our Group: Serving 
our customers, communities and planet a little better every day. 
Our purpose continues to underpin our priorities and the 
decisions made by the Committee, including decisions 
around remuneration. Ensuring incentives are aligned to our 
strategic priorities is also an essential part of our approach 
to remuneration. More details on how our strategic priorities 
link to our incentive arrangements are disclosed in the 
At a glance section.

This financial year has been one where we continued to bring our 
purpose to life, in an ongoing challenging environment for all our 
stakeholders, our communities and our environment. It has been 
a year in which the economic uncertainties, made worse by the 
war in Ukraine, heightened the importance of staying close to our 
customers, colleagues and supplier partners, to do everything we 
can to balance their needs. The relentless efforts to keep the cost 
of the weekly shop as affordable as possible have been our highest 
priority. We are proud of the efforts our colleagues have made, in 
partnership with our supplier partners, to mitigate the impact of 
inflation and protect our supply chains. 

Throughout the year, we have invested significantly in our 
colleagues to support them during a time of such cost-of-living 
pressures. We set out overleaf some of the key remuneration 
actions and decisions that the Committee has overseen this year 
in light of the external environment, our purpose, our strategy and 
our commitments to stakeholders.

Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2023

77

Committee members
Director 
Alison Platt, Committee Chair
John Allan
Thierry Garnier
Byron Grote
Lindsey Pownall(a)

Member since
April 2016
March 2015
April 2021
July 2015
June 2021

(a) Lindsey Pownall will step down from the Committee at the conclusion of 

the 2023 AGM.

Quick facts
The Committee determines the remuneration policy and 
packages for Executive Directors and senior managers. 
When setting and operating this policy, the Committee also 
has regard to workforce remuneration, the experiences of 
other stakeholders and alignment with strategy and culture. 
This means we can recruit, retain and motivate our executives 
as part of an integrated overall approach to remuneration.

Details of the key decisions taken by the Committee in 
2022/23 are set out below:

 – determining 2022/23 incentive outcomes for Executive 

Directors and Executive Committee members, 
particularly in light of the wider stakeholder experience;

 – setting stretching targets for the annual bonus and 

Performance Share Plan (PSP) in a continuing uncertain 
and challenging environment; 

 – agreeing an adjustment to PSP targets to reflect an event 
that was not anticipated at the time they were set; and
 – determining Executive Director and Executive Committee 
members’ base salary increases and the fee increase of 
the Chair, all below those of the wider workforce.

The Committee’s full terms of reference can be found on 
our corporate website at www.tescoplc.com.

You can see details of meeting attendance and the results of 
the internal evaluation of the Committee’s performance on 
pages 59 and 80, respectively. 

Directors’ remuneration report index
Chair’s letter 
At a glance 
Summary of remuneration policy and implementation for 
2023/24 
Wider remuneration at Tesco 
Context of executive pay 
Remuneration report 

77
81

85
89
92
97

Corporate governanceDirectors’ remuneration report continued

Chair’s letter continued

Supporting our colleagues through the cost-of-living crisis
 – We recognise that our colleagues are fundamental in delivering 
our strategic priorities and bringing them to life in a way that 
makes a difference for all our customers and stakeholders.
 – As part of the wider remit of the Committee, we have focused 

a significant amount of time this year on overseeing the support 
that we provided our colleagues throughout the cost-of-living 
crisis. This follows the support we provided to colleagues during 
the COVID-19 pandemic and continues to demonstrate the 
laser focus we have on our colleagues and communities.

 – We have introduced a number of market-leading reward-based 
initiatives during the year to support our colleagues, including 
the largest ever single-year investment in colleague pay. Wider 
support has included extending discount allowances, increasing 
access to hours, the ‘pay advance’ scheme to support 
colleagues’ financial wellbeing and offering free food in 
colleague rooms. 

 – The Committee has been equipped with knowledge and insights 
through our wider workforce dashboard, which sets out how 
colleague pay operates throughout the Group. This, and other 
key colleague metrics, inform our decisions relating to the wider 
workforce as well as executive pay.

 – We set out further details on the support we have provided our 

colleagues over recent years on page 90.

Colleague engagement
 – Listening to the views of colleagues, on both executive pay and 
in relation to their own pay, continues to be a fundamental 
undertaking of the Committee.

 – The Board continued to hold Colleague Contribution Panels 
during the year, using the opportunity to hear directly from 
colleagues across the Group. We used these forums to discuss 
colleagues’ views on executive pay and other matters of 
interest to them.

 – The Committee considers the feedback we receive from 

colleagues as part of our decision making on executive pay. 
Further details of our colleague engagement are set out on 
page 61.

 – Committee members continued to spend time in the business 
listening to colleagues and customers. These perspectives are 
brought back to the Committee and reflected in its decisions.

Evolution of our sustainability strategy
 – Following an extensive review of the most appropriate 

measures for Tesco, we introduced carbon reduction, food 
waste and diversity and inclusion performance measures into 
the PSP last year. These measures reflect and support the 
achievement of key sustainability priorities for Tesco and align 
with our purpose.

 – We reviewed the appropriateness of these measures, how 

effective they have been and their evolution over the past year. 
We determined that the measures remained material to the 
business and should continue to be PSP measures in 2023. 
 – Further details of how our ESG measures link to strategy are 

set out on page 88.

2022/23 business performance and 
incentive outcomes
Tesco has delivered a strong trading performance against a 
challenging backdrop of inflationary costs, customers under 
cost-of-living pressures and changing shopping behaviours.

The chart below demonstrates the performance outcomes of our 
2022/23 bonus and 2020 PSP. Full details of performance against 
the 2022/23 individual objectives are set out on page 98.

2022/23 bonus achievement

Adjusted operating 
profit (50%)

36.0%

Group sales 
(30%)

Individual performance
(20%)

28.1%
28%

15.0%

19.0%

2020 PSP achievement

Adjusted diluted EPS
(50%)

30.7%

Cumulative free cash 
flow (50%)

50.0%

Ken Murphy 

Imran Nawaz 

The overall formulaic vesting level for the annual bonus is 79.1% 
of maximum for Ken Murphy and 83.1% for Imran Nawaz. Neither 
Ken Murphy nor Imran Nawaz were in the role at the time of the 
2020 PSP grant. The vesting level of the 2020 PSP award, which is 
80.7% of maximum, is therefore reported here for transparency 
and completeness only. Further details can be found in the At a 
glance section commencing on page 81. 

As set out in the 2020 Directors’ remuneration report, at the time 
of the 2020 PSP grant the Committee noted that it would use the 
discretion available to it under the remuneration policy when 
determining the PSP outcomes and would make any necessary 
adjustments to ensure that the Executive Directors do not benefit 
unduly from windfall gains in the event of a market recovery.

The Committee reviewed the grant price of the 2020 PSP (227.2p) 
compared to the grant price of the 2019 PSP (230.3p) and was 
satisfied that no adjustments were required to the awards on 
grant for windfall gains. The Committee has again reviewed the 
position ahead of the vesting, taking into account the Tesco 
share price as at 24 February 2023 (246.9p) and is satisfied that 
no windfall gains have occurred and that no adjustment is 
required on vesting. 

2023/24 salary and incentives 
When considering salary increases and incentives for our 
executives, the Committee has been mindful of both the wider 
colleague experience and our fairness principles. With this in mind, 
the Committee has reviewed the salary levels of the Executive 
Directors and agreed increases of 3.0% for Ken Murphy and 4.0% 
for Imran Nawaz, noting that these increases are considerably 
lower than the increase for UK hourly-paid colleagues of nearly 
8% in 2022.

All incentive awards in relation to 2023/24 will be made in 
accordance with the approved remuneration policy. 
Further details can be found on pages 85 to 88.

78

Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2023

Appropriateness of remuneration 
The Committee continued to review the appropriateness of 
remuneration decisions, including incentive outcomes for 
executives, salary increases for 2023/24 and implementation 
of the policy in 2022/23. In doing so, it considered overall 
business performance as well as the wider experience of our 
key stakeholders, namely our customers, colleagues, supplier 
partners and shareholders. Balancing the needs of all our 
stakeholders continues to be at the heart of our purpose. In 
particular, the Committee considered the following factors in 
determining remuneration decisions:

Key stakeholder

Customers

Colleagues

Suppliers

Shareholders

Community

Factors considered by the Committee 
 – Solid UK market share performance and the 
only full-line grocer to gain market share 
over three years.

 – Competitiveness of offer recognised by 
customers in a tough market. Brand NPS 
now highest of the full-line grocers and 
outperformed market on customer satisfaction.

 – Powerful combination of Aldi Price Match, 

Low Everyday Prices and Clubcard Prices helping 
ease cost-of-living pressures, leading to our 
most competitive offer ever.

 – Colleagues in every market received substantial 
investments in their base pay, with the biggest 
ever investment in the pay of hourly-paid UK 
colleagues to £11.02 per hour. 

 – Great Place to Work score remained high 

at 82%. 

 – Raised the cap on colleague discount allowance.
 – Introduced pay advances to support financial 

wellbeing.

 – Increased access to vacant hours in stores.
 – Improvement made to the free food offer in 

colleague rooms.

 – Supported British dairy farmers, increasing the 

price we pay for milk by around 20%.

 – Invested more than £30m into the British pig 

supply chain, helping to support with increased 
on-farm costs.

 – Investment of £27.5m in the UK egg sector.
 – Number 1 retailer in the Advantage supplier 

survey for a seventh year.

 – Delivered another year of strong growth.
 – The Board is recommending a final dividend 

of 7.05p taking the full-year dividend to 10.90p, 
in line with last year’s full-year dividend.
 – Ongoing commitment to buy back a further 

£750m of shares by April 2024. 

 – Tesco and our customers provided more than 
52 million meals through donations to food 
banks and our communities.

 – Introduced Kids Eat Free at Tesco cafes during 

school holidays.

Based on an assessment of business and executive performance 
and the wider stakeholder experience as set out above, the 
Committee is satisfied that the outcomes of the annual bonus 
and PSP reflect both the performance of the business and the 
experience of stakeholders, including the wider workforce. 
It therefore believes no discretion should be applied.

The chart below shows a breakdown of fixed and performance-
based remuneration (excluding any buyout awards) paid to Ken 
Murphy and Imran Nawaz in respect of 2022/23 and 2021/22.

Ken Murphy

Imran Nawaz

£6m

£5m

£4m

£3m

£2m

£1m

0

£4.75m

£3.21m

£4.44m

£2.73m

£1.71m

£1.54m

£2.27m

£1.36m

£0.91m

£1.91m

£1.24m

£0.67m

2022/23

2021/22

2022/23

2021/22

Fixed pay

Performance pay

Ken Murphy and Imran Nawaz joined the Board on 1 October 2020 and 1 May 2021, 
respectively. As such, neither of them was eligible to participate in the 2020 PSP. 
Imran Nawaz’s 2021/22 remuneration reflects his appointment date.

Committee changes
As announced on 28 February 2023, Lindsey Pownall will be 
stepping down from the Board and the Committee at the 
conclusion of the 2023 AGM. On behalf of the Committee, 
I would like to thank Lindsey for her insights and invaluable 
contribution during her time on the Committee. Her 
willingness to address challenging situations and provide 
constructive solutions will be missed.

In September, Dame Carolyn Fairbairn will be joining the 
Committee and I look forward to her contribution.

On behalf of the Committee, I would like to thank shareholders 
for their input and engagement in the year and we welcome 
any comments you may have on this report.

Alison Platt
Remuneration Committee Chair

Within this Directors’ remuneration report we have used 
colour coding to define different elements of remuneration:

Salary

Benefits

Pension

Annual bonus

PSP

Shareholding

Details of the definitions of the financial performance 
measures used throughout the Directors’ remuneration 
report are set out on page 99.

Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2023

79

Corporate governanceDirectors’ remuneration report continued

Committee overview
How the Committee spent its time
The Committee met five times during the year, four of which were 
scheduled meetings and one ad hoc. The chart below summarises 
the key issues the Committee spent time discussing:

36%

26%

24%

14%

Senior management 
remuneration
Policy implementation and 
stakeholder experience
Governance and reporting
(including wider workforce 
remuneration)
Performance monitoring

Evaluation
The performance of the Committee was assessed as part of the 
internal Board evaluation process carried out during the year. 
I am pleased to report that the Committee is regarded as 
operating effectively and the Board is assured by the quality of 
the work performed by the Committee. Details and results of 
the wider Board evaluation process are set out in the 
Corporate governance report on page 61.

Committee advisor
To ensure that the Committee continues to operate in line with 
best practice, it has appointed PwC as an independent external 
advisor. It is a member of the Remuneration Consultants Group 
and, as such, voluntarily operates under the code of conduct in 
relation to executive remuneration consulting in the UK. PwC was 
initially appointed in 2015 and then reappointed in 2020 following 
a competitive tendering exercise.

Total fees for advice provided to the Committee were £69,500 
(2021/22: £127,950) on a time and materials basis. The wider PwC 
firm also provided Tesco with several other services during the 
year relating to corporate and other tax compliance, governance, 
assurance and global mobility projects. However, the Committee 
is satisfied that the PwC engagement partner and advisory team 
that provide remuneration advice to the Committee, have no 
connection with the Company or individual Directors that might 
compromise their independence or objectivity.

The Group Chief Executive, Chief Financial Officer, Chief People 
Officer and members of the Reward team attend meetings at the 
invitation of the Committee to provide advice and respond to 
questions. The Group Company Secretary is Secretary to the 
Committee. No Directors or executives are present when their 
own remuneration is discussed and they are not involved in 
determining their own remuneration.

Voting at 2022 AGM
The table below sets out the voting outcome on the remuneration 
policy and remuneration report at the 2022 AGM:

Remuneration policy

Remuneration report

Votes for
(millions)
5,148
(91.98%)
5,166
(92.22%)

Votes against
(millions)
449
(8.02%)
436 
(7.78%)

Votes 
withheld
(millions)
8

2 

The Committee engages in regular dialogue with shareholders 
and annually invites major investors to discuss its remuneration 
practices and governance matters. The Committee finds such 
meetings a valuable opportunity to receive feedback on its work 
and the key issues it is considering. It also finds the feedback 
received extremely helpful in informing its decisions. In addition, 
the Committee also monitors the views of other stakeholders 
and broader developments in executive remuneration generally.

Committee’s priorities in 2023/24
As well as considering its standard business, the Committee will 
also focus during 2023/24 on areas including:

 – overseeing wider workforce remuneration, policies and 
practices. This will aim to ensure pay fairness across the 
workforce, that there is a consistent cascade throughout the 
Group and that the rewards, incentives and conditions available 
to colleagues are taken into account when considering the 
remuneration of Executive Directors and other executives; 
 – ensuring all aspects of remuneration are viewed through a 
sustainability lens. This will include monitoring our current 
sustainability measures and considering whether new measures 
should be used for future PSP awards to reflect our evolving 
sustainability strategy;

 – ensuring colleagues’ views on pay, policies and practices are 

attained through the Colleague Contribution Panels, Every Voice 
Matters surveys and meetings and that these are reflected in 
the decisions the Committee takes; and

 – monitoring developments on our purpose and strategy to 

ensure remuneration practices and policies are consistent with 
the Group’s long-term goals and aligned to the interests of all 
our stakeholders.

80

Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2023

At a glance.

Remuneration outcome for the year
The charts below show the 2022/23 potential remuneration opportunity and actual achievement compared with the 2021/22 actual 
achievement (excluding any buyout awards). Imran Nawaz’s 2021/22 actual remuneration reflects his appointment date of 1 May 2021.

The relevant figures for each element of remuneration that make up the figures, as shown below for the Executive Directors, can be found in 
the table on page 97. Neither Ken Murphy nor Imran Nawaz received a PSP payout in 2021/22 or 2022/23 due to their dates of joining the 
Board preceding the grant dates.

Ken Murphy
Ken Murphy

Imran Nawaz
Imran Nawaz

Minimum

On target

Maximum

2022/23
Actual

2021/22
Actual

£1.71m

Minimum

£0.91m

£3.44m

£5.16m

£4.44m

£4.75m

On target

Maximum

2022/23
Actual

2021/22
Actual

£1.73m

£2.55m

£2.27m

£1.91m

0

£1m

£2m

£3m

£4m

£5m

£6m

0

£1m

£2m

£3m

£4m

£5m

£6m

Minimum – fixed pay (base salary, 
benefits and pension)

Target – fixed pay and award for on 
target annual bonus (50% of maximum)

Maximum – fixed pay and 
maximum award for annual bonus

Fixed versus performance-linked remuneration
A significant proportion of Executive Directors’ remuneration is performance-linked, long-term and at risk due to withholding and 
recovery provisions for a period during which the Committee can withhold vesting or recover sums paid. The charts below show the fixed 
and performance-linked and short-term and long-term elements of pay for the Group Chief Executive and Chief Financial Officer based 
on maximum payouts. As half of the annual bonus payout is deferred into Tesco shares for three years, it is deemed long-term for the 
purpose of the chart.

Ken Murphy

Fixed 
19%

Performance linked 
81%

Fixed 
21%

Performance linked 
79%

Imran Nawaz

Short term 
38%

Long term 
62%

Short term
39%

Long term
61%

2022/23

2023/24

2024/25

2025/26

2026/27

Pay at risk

Annual bonus

PSP

Annual bonus

PSP

Performance period
Deferred period 
(half of actual bonus 
deferred into shares)

Performance period
Holding period

Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2023

81

Corporate governanceDirectors’ remuneration report continued

At a glance continued
Five-year total remuneration for the Group Chief Executive role
The Single total figure of remuneration (STFR) is disclosed each year in respect of each individual who has performed the role of Group Chief 
Executive (CEO). However, under the UK reporting regulations, there is currently no requirement to show the STFR in aggregate for all 
individuals who have performed the role of CEO during the year. The chart below shows how the STFR of the CEO role has evolved over 
the past five years, including payments to the current CEO and the previous CEO in each year. This combines the CEO STFR with amounts 
disclosed in the ‘Payments to former Directors’ section for the previous CEO in relation to the relevant financial year as per the single 
total figure methodology.

£6.33m

£6.68m

£4.60m

£4.44m

£2.64m

8,000

7,000

6,000

5,000

4,000

3,000

2,000

1,000

0

100

80

60

40

20

0

)
x
a
m

f
o
%

(

s
e
m
o
c
t
u
o
P
S
P
/
s
u
n
o
b

l

a
u
n
n
A

)

0
0
0
’
£
(

O
E
C
–
e
r
u
g
fi

l

a
t
o
t
e
g
n
S

i

l

2018/19

2019/20

2020/21

2021/22(a)

2022/23

Previous CEO
Current CEO

PSP vest
Bonus outturn

(a) The 2021/22 figure includes £363,000 in compensation for income forfeited under a non-compete clause with the current CEO’s previous employer.

2022/23 annual bonus outturn (audited)
The chart below shows the outcome of the 2022/23 annual bonus. We set out a summary of overall business performance on  
pages 2 to 37 within the Strategic report.

Annual bonus measure
Group sales

Threshold 

25% payout

Target 

Stretch

50% payout

100% payout

 Actual £57,689m

£54,531m

£56,218m

£57,905m

Outcome achieved

Weighting
30%

Ken Murphy
28.1%

Imran Nawaz
28.1%

Adjusted operating profit

50%

36%

36%

 Actual £2,624m

Individual objectives
Total

£2,350m
Details of performance are set out on page 98.

£2,540m

£2,731m

20%
100%

15%
79.1%

19%
83.1%

The performance outcome resulted in the following annual bonus payouts:

Ken Murphy 
Imran Nawaz 

2022/23 base 
salary
(£’000)
1,380 
730 

Annual bonus 
opportunity  
(% salary)
250 
225 

Actual award 
(% maximum)
79.1
83.1

Actual award
(% salary) 
197.8
187.0

Actual award
(£’000)
2,730
1,365

Actual annual 
bonus deferred 
into shares  
(50% of actual 
annual bonus)  
(£’000)
1,365
682

82

Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2023

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2020 PSP outturn (audited)
The chart below shows the outcome of the 2020 PSP award. Neither Ken Murphy nor Imran Nawaz was granted awards as these 
preceded their joining dates. We set out further details of the award on page 98.

PSP measure
Cumulative free cash flow

Threshold 

(25% payout) 

Adjusted diluted EPS

£2.9bn 

17.2p 

 Actual 21.1p

Stretch

(100% payout) 

 Actual £5.5bn

£5.1bn

25.4p

Weighting 
50% 

Outcome achieved
50%

50% 

30.7%

Total 

100% 

80.7%

Strategic alignment disclosure for 2023/24 implementation
The Committee believes it is vital that a significant proportion of the remuneration package for the Executive Directors and senior 
management should be performance-related and that performance measures are aligned to our purpose and strategic priorities.

Strategic priorities

Purpose

Magnetic value  
for customers

I love my Tesco  
Clubcard

Easily the most 
convenient

Save to invest

Customers

Communities

Planet

The below tables set out our incentive performance measures and how these align to our purpose and strategic priorities:

Alignment to strategic priorities

Alignment to purpose

2023 PSP

Cumulative Retail free cash flow (37.5%)

Adjusted diluted EPS (37.5%)

ESG measures (25%)

Carbon 
reduction (8.3%)

Food waste 
reduction (8.3%)

Profitable growth and free cash flow 
are key elements of our multi-year 
performance framework. They are 
aligned to the delivery and success 
of our strategic priorities over the 
medium and long terms.

Aligned to the Group’s commitment to 
be carbon neutral across our own 
operations by 2035 and brings to life 
our purpose to serve our planet a little 
better every day.
Aligns to our goal of halving food waste 
across our own operations by 2025 
and brings to life our purpose to serve 
our planet a little better every day.

Diversity and 
inclusion (8.3%)

We aim to increase the diversity of 
our leadership teams, so we better 
represent the communities we serve.

We aim to continue to 
be a champion for 
customers, providing 
great value, high-quality 
products wherever, 
whenever and however 
customers want them. 
This is a critical time for 
our planet. As a 
responsible company 
we are therefore finding 
new ways to reduce our 
impact on the 
environment and 
collaborate with our 
supplier partners and 
customers to help them 
do the same.
Embedding diversity and 
building inclusion into 
everything we do is key 
to our business success 
and helps us connect to 
our communities.

Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2023

83

Corporate governanceDirectors’ remuneration report continued

At a glance continued

Alignment to strategic priorities

Alignment to purpose

2023/24 annual bonus

Group sales (30%) 

Adjusted operating profit (50%)

Individual performance (20%)

Our ambition is to drive top-line growth by 
increasing customer satisfaction relative 
to the market and growing, or at least 
maintaining, our core UK market share.

Our ambition is to grow absolute profits 
while maintaining sector-leading margins 
through leveraging our assets efficiently 
across all channels, exploiting new revenue 
streams across our digital platform and 
targeting productivity initiatives.

Individual objectives are aligned to our 
strategic priorities. Further details are set 
out on page 98.

We aim to provide 
customers with 
brilliant, helpful 
service in every corner 
of our business, with 
products and services 
that are sustainable 
and accessible to all.

Individual objectives 
are aligned to each 
part of our purpose: 
customers, 
communities and 
planet.

Shareholding requirement (audited)
The Committee wants to incentivise Executive Directors to take a long-term, sustainable view of the Group’s performance. For this 
reason, when the Committee looks at the remuneration paid in the year, it also looks at the total equity Executive Directors hold and 
its value based on the Group’s performance.

The charts below set out the progress of Ken Murphy and Imran Nawaz toward the minimum shareholding requirement and how 
Ken Murphy’s shares could build up over the medium term. Following the vesting of the majority of his buyout awards, Imran Nawaz 
has achieved 284% of his shareholding requirement of 300% of salary. Both Ken Murphy and Imran Nawaz are required to retain all 
shares that vest to them, net of any tax liability, until the shareholding guideline has been met.

Executive Director shareholdings % of base salary (audited)

Ken Murphy – 2022/23

Imran Nawaz – 2022/23

Actual 69%

400%

 Actual 284%

300%

Ken Murphy – potential build-up of shareholding over time

69%

102% 208% 314% 420%

2022/23

2023/24

2024/25

2025/26

2026/27

(a) Build-up of shares is based on actual 2021/22 and 2022/23 annual bonus outcomes and future annual bonus and PSP outcomes being 50% of maximum (of which 47% is 

deducted to cover statutory deductions), no change in base salary or quantum of awards, no dividend equivalents added and a constant share price of 238.7p.

(b) Between 25 February and 12 April 2023 Ken Murphy acquired 55 partnership shares under the Buy As You Earn (BAYE) plan. No other changes in Executive Director share 

interests occurred in the period. 

(c) The value of Executive Directors’ shareholdings is based on the three-month average share price of 238.7p to 25 February 2023.

The table below sets out the number and value of shares held by Executive Directors at the beginning and end of the financial year 
and the total value of these shares using the opening price and closing price for the year. You can see full details of Executive 
Directors’ interests in share awards on page 99.

Ken Murphy 
Imran Nawaz 

Number of  
shares held outright

27/02/2022
46,924 
525,033 

25/02/23
74,593
742,930

Deferred  
share awards(a)

Total value of  
shares and awards
(£’000)

27/02/2022
– 
–

25/02/23
613,160
237,402

27/02/2022
£136
£1,521

25/02/23
£1,642
£2,340

Difference  
in value
(£’000)

£1,506
£819

(a) Net number of shares, after deemed statutory deductions of 47%, count towards the shareholding requirement.

84

Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2023

Summary of remuneration 
policy and implementation 
for 2023/24.

The purpose of the remuneration policy remains to attract, retain and motivate the talent capable of delivering our purpose and strategy 
and provide clear leadership. In this way, it aims to create long-term sustainable performance and increased shareholder value.

The tables below set out a summary of the proposed remuneration policy for Executive Directors and the time period of each element 
of pay. The full policy was approved by shareholders at the AGM on 17 June 2022 and can be found in the 2022 annual report, which is 
available on the Company’s website at www.tescoplc.com/investors/reports-results-and-presentations.

Total pay over five years

Year 1

Year 2

Year 3

Year 4

Year 5 

Fixed pay (base 
salary, benefits 
and pension)

Annual 
bonus

PSP

Base salary

50% in cash
One-year 
performance period

50% in shares
Three-year deferral period
No further performance conditions

Three-year 
performance period

Two-year 
holding period

Purpose and link to strategy
Supports the attraction and retention of the best talent with the capability to develop 
and deliver Tesco’s strategy.

Operation
Salaries are normally reviewed annually by the Committee, with changes being effective 
from 1 June. Salaries take account of:

 – role, skills, experience and performance;
 – pay and conditions elsewhere across the Group, including the wider workforce; and
 – salary levels at leading FTSE companies and other large consumer businesses in the 

UK and internationally.

Any increases proposed will normally be in line with or below the typical level of 
increase awarded to other colleagues. Increases above those granted to the wider 
workforce may be awarded in certain circumstances such as where there is a change 
in responsibility, experience or a significant increase in the scale of the role.

Where a new Executive Director has been appointed on a below-market rate of 
pay initially, a series of increases above those granted to the wider workforce may 
be given over the following few years, subject to individual performance and 
development in the role.

Implementation in 2023/24
Increases of 3.0% and 4.0% will be applied 
to the salaries of Ken Murphy and Imran 
Nawaz, respectively, so that the salaries 
from 1 June 2023 are: 

Ken Murphy: £1,421,786 
Imran Nawaz: £759,200 

These increases are below those awarded 
to the wider workforce.

Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2023

85

Corporate governanceDirectors’ remuneration report continued

Summary of remuneration policy and implementation  
for 2023/24 continued

Benefits

Purpose and link to strategy
Provides market-competitive and cost-effective benefits to support the attraction and 
retention of talent.

Operation
Benefits take into account local market practice, typical benefits and the policy for other 
colleagues. Core benefits include a car or cash allowance and a driver, incapacity benefits, 
private medical insurance and life assurance. Other benefits (including relocation and 
commuting support) may be offered as required. We periodically review the range and 
value of benefits. There is no pre-determined maximum limit.

Pension

Implementation in 2023/24
Normal Company benefit provision. 
Commuting support for Ken Murphy 
to cease on 31 March 2023.

See page 97 for further details 
of benefits provided in 2022/23.

Purpose and link to strategy
Provides a competitive level of retirement income to help the attraction and retention 
of talent.

Implementation in 2023/24
Cash allowance of 7.5% of base salary.

Operation
A defined contribution scheme or a cash allowance in lieu of pension.  
The maximum contribution for Executive Directors of 7.5% of base salary  
is aligned to the wider workforce.

Annual bonus

Purpose and link to strategy
Incentivises and recognises delivery of the Group’s strategic, operational and financial 
targets. Provides a focus on key financial and operational goals and on the individual’s 
contribution to the Group’s performance. Aligns the interests of Executive Directors 
with shareholders through the 50% deferral of bonus outturn into Tesco shares. 

Operation
Maximum award of 250% of base salary. 50% of bonus earned is deferred into Tesco 
shares for three years subject to continued employment, with the remainder paid out 
in cash after the end of the financial year.

Dividend equivalents in the form of additional shares are payable on deferred annual 
bonus awards that vest.

Up to 25% of bonus is paid for threshold performance. 

Performance metrics, weightings and stretching targets are set by the Committee at the 
beginning of the performance period. Performance is measured against financial and 
non-financial targets. At least 70% of bonus is based on financial performance.

The Committee may apply judgement in making appropriate adjustments to annual bonus 
outcomes to ensure that they reflect underlying business performance.

Malus and clawback provisions apply.

Implementation in 2023/24
The following maximum opportunities 
will apply in 2023/24:

 – CEO 250% of salary
 – CFO 225% of salary

Performance measures 
(as a percentage of maximum):

 – 50% adjusted operating profit
 – 30% Group sales
 – 20% individual performance

The Board considers bonus targets to be 
commercially sensitive as they could inform 
Tesco’s competitors about our budgeting. 
However, full and transparent disclosure of 
targets and performance outcomes will be 
set out in next year’s Annual Report.

See page 82 for further details 
of annual bonus outturns for 
2022/23 and page 93 for 
details of malus and 
clawback provisions.

86

Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2023

PSP

Purpose and link to strategy
Incentivises and rewards the achievement of Tesco’s strategic, financial and ESG targets. 
Provides a focus on long-term value creation and alignment with the long-term interests 
of shareholders and other stakeholders.

Operation
Maximum award of 350% of base salary. Up to 25% of an award may vest for 
threshold performance.

Performance metrics, weightings and stretching targets are set by the Committee at the 
beginning of the performance period. Awards are granted annually with vesting dependent 
on the achievement of financial and non-financial performance conditions over three 
years. They are also subject to an additional two-year holding period after the vesting date, 
with shares held in a corporate sponsored nominee account. Dividend equivalents in the 
form of additional shares are paid on PSP awards that vest.

The Committee may adjust the formulaic vesting outcome either up or down to ensure that 
the overall outcome reflects the underlying business performance over the vesting period.

Implementation in 2023/24
The following maximum opportunities 
will apply in 2023/24:

 – CEO 275% of base salary
 – CFO 250% of base salary

Performance measures  
(as a percentage of maximum):

 – 37.5% adjusted diluted EPS
 – 37.5% cumulative Retail free cash flow
 – 25% ESG measures

See page 98 for further  
details of 2020 PSP outturns 
and page 88 for PSP awards to 
be granted in 2023. Details of 
malus and clawback provisions 
can be found on page 93.

Malus and clawback provisions apply. 

All-colleague share plans

Purpose and link to strategy
To encourage eligible colleagues to build up a shareholding in Tesco.

Operation
Executive Directors are eligible to participate in applicable all-colleague share plans on 
the same basis as other eligible colleagues in the UK. These currently comprise the 
Company’s Save As You Earn (SAYE) and Buy As You Earn (BAYE) plans, on identical 
terms to other UK colleagues.

Shareholding requirement

Implementation in 2023/24
SAYE and BAYE plans will continue 
to be operated in 2023/24.

Purpose and link to strategy
Ensures alignment between the interests of the Executive Directors and shareholders.

Implementation in 2023/24
Shareholding requirement will continue to be 
operated in 2023/24.

Operation
The Group Chief Executive is required to build and maintain a holding of shares to the value 
of 400% of salary, and the Chief Financial Officer to 300% of salary. Executive Directors 
are required to retain all shares that vest to them, net of any tax liability, whether from 
the annual bonus, PSP or buyout awards, until the relevant shareholding guideline 
is satisfied.

Following their departure from the Company, Executive Directors are required to hold 
whichever is the lower of their shareholding guideline or their actual shareholding for two 
years. They must hold their shares covered by the post-cessation shareholding 
requirement in a corporate sponsored nominee account.

You can find details of the outstanding share awards held by Executive Directors on 
page 99.

Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2023

87

Corporate governanceDirectors’ remuneration report continued

Summary of remuneration policy and implementation  
for 2023/24 continued

PSP awards to be granted in 2023/24
The table below sets out the financial performance measures and targets for the 2023 PSP award grant:

Measure
Adjusted diluted EPS
Cumulative Retail free cash flow

Weighting

 37.5% 
37.5% 

Threshold 
(25% vesting)

Stretch 
(100% vesting)

22.2p 
£3,869m

33.3p
£5,803m

In line with our policy, any PSP outcome for Executive Directors will only become available following the end of a two-year holding period 
such that the total vesting period is five years from the date of grant. Malus and clawback provisions apply to the awards.

ESG measures and targets for the 2023 PSP and the evolution of our ESG targets
Sustainability is central to our purpose and strategy and the implementation of our 2022 remuneration policy links executive pay directly 
to three of our most material sustainability areas. Our sustainability strategy will evolve over time and, as such, we anticipate that our 
ESG performance measures will simultaneously evolve to ensure they remain material to the business.

The table below sets out the ESG performance measures and targets for the 2023 PSP award and demonstrates how our PSP targets 
continue to evolve towards achieving our long-term sustainability commitments. Further details of our sustainability commitments are set 
out on page 18.

Carbon  
reduction

Food waste  
reduction

Diversity and  
inclusion

Journey to 2022/23

Our commitments

2022 PSP stretch targets 
(to achieve by 2024/25)

Carbon neutrality across our Group 
operations by 2035 (brought 
forward from 2050).

Net zero across our total emissions 
footprint by 2050, including our 
supply chain and products.
60% reduction in Scope 1 and 2 
market-based GHG emissions 
against a 2015/16 baseline.

Progress toward targets at 
2022/23 year end

55% reduction.

Halve food waste in our own 
operations by 2025.

35% of our top global leaders will be 
female and 14% will be from an 
ethnically diverse background by 
2025.

55% reduction in tonnes of food 
wasted as a percentage of food 
handled compared with a baseline 
year of 2016/17.
45% reduction.

40% female and 15% ethnically 
diverse top global leaders compared 
with a baseline year of 2021/22.

29% female and 15% ethnically 
diverse.

2023 PSP ESG performance measures (to achieve by 2025/26)

Definition

Weighting

Reduction in Scope 1 and 2 
market-based GHG emissions 
against a 2015/16 baseline.
8.3%

Reduction in tonnes of food wasted as a 
percentage of food handled compared 
with a baseline year of 2016/17.
8.3%

Percentage of female and ethnically 
diverse top global leaders compared 
to a baseline year of 2021/22. 
8.3%

Threshold (25% vesting)

Stretch (100% vesting)

58%

62%

51%

57%

Female – 35%/Ethnicity – 16%

Female – 42%/Ethnicity – 18%

We are applying a higher degree of rigour than ever before with regard to our material sustainability goals and progress. For our most 
material issues, we publicly report progress with clear KPIs and provide full transparency on our historic performance. Our most material 
KPIs are Group-wide and our reporting is assured by an independent third party. Wherever applicable, we align our reporting methodologies 
to recognised disclosure standards. Our Sustainability Accounting Standards Board disclosure, along with all our KPI performance data can 
be found in our sustainability databook. Further details of our approach to sustainability are detailed on pages 18 to 25.

Board Chair and Non-executive Director fees
The fees for the Chair of the Board and the Non-executive Directors are reviewed each year. The Board Chair’s fee is reviewed by the 
Committee (without the Board Chair being present) and the Non-executive Director fees by a committee comprising the Board Chair, Group 
Chief Executive and Chief Financial Officer. In July 2022, following a review of independently sourced data, increases awarded to the wider 
workforce and the time commitments of the Board Chair and Non-executive Directors, it was agreed to increase the Board Chair’s fee and 
the average total fees paid to Non-executive Directors from 21 August 2022 by 2.6% and 2.8%, respectively. Both increases were below the 
increases for the wider workforce.

Non-executive Board Chair fee 
Non-executive Director fee 
Additional fees:
Senior Independent Director 
Chairs of the Audit, Corporate Responsibility and Remuneration Committees 
Membership of Audit, Corporate Responsibility, Nominations and Governance, and Remuneration 
Committees 

1 September 2021  
to 20 August 2022
£687,000
£80,500 

From  
21 August 2022
£705,000
£82,750

£28,500 
£32,500 

£30,000
£33,000

£15,000 

£15,500

Increase
2.6%
2.7%

5.3%
1.5%

3.3%

88

Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2023

Wider remuneration  
at Tesco.

The principles of a fair workplace
To live up to our purpose, our colleagues need to reflect and represent the communities we serve. Tesco aims to be a place where 
colleagues can get on, as they wish, irrespective of their background. We are proud of our long history of helping colleagues develop 
their careers in Tesco.

The following principles guide our approach to reward:

Competitive
 Setting pay with 
reference to internal 
relativity and external 
market practices

Simple
Helping all colleagues 
 to understand how they 
are rewarded 

Fair
Achieving consistent 
outcomes through flexible 
and transparent policies

Sustainable
Aligning reward to 
business strategy and 
performance 

How we bring our principles to life
Tesco provides colleagues across the Group with a competitive reward package. The Committee has responsibility for reviewing 
remuneration and related policies for colleagues throughout the Group. This ensures we take into account the reward, incentives and 
conditions available to colleagues when considering the remuneration of Executive Directors and senior management.

In Tesco’s UK business in 2022/23, colleagues received a reward and benefits package in line with the elements set out in the table below. 
The purpose of each element is the same for all colleagues, creating a consistent cascade throughout the organisation.

Base salary 

Benefits 

Pension 

All-colleague 
share plans 
Annual bonus 

Executive Directors, Executive Committee and WL4-5 

Other colleagues 

Hourly-paid colleagues in stores

Base salary supports the recruitment and retention of colleagues of the calibre, capability and experience needed to perform their 
roles. Base salary provides fixed remuneration and reflects the size, scope and complexity of individual role responsibilities.
A market-competitive level of benefits for colleagues, enhancing the reward package and providing other reasons to work at Tesco, 
such as discount in store.
The opportunity to save for retirement, with the employing company matching employee contributions.

The opportunity to purchase shares in Tesco.

WL1-3

The opportunity for colleagues to receive an annual bonus for delivering against business and 
individual goals. The opportunity gives colleagues a balance between fixed and variable pay 
related to market practice based on role. 

At senior levels, a proportion of any bonus is deferred into Tesco shares to provide additional 
alignment with shareholders’ experience. 

Our pay approach aims to provide 
regular and predictable earnings 
through competitive base pay for 
our hourly-paid store colleagues. 

We agreed with our unions in 2019 
that hourly-paid colleagues in stores 
would not receive an annual bonus, 
replacing it with a higher base rate 
of pay. In distribution, colleagues 
who have transferred to the new 
2022 contract no longer receive an 
annual bonus, replaced with 
enhanced rates of pay.

Performance 
Share  
Plan

Colleagues with responsibility for long-term Group 
performance are incentivised to achieve Tesco’s 
strategy and create sustainable shareholder value. 

Measures and targets for long-term incentive plans 
are consistent for all participants and measured over 
a three-year period. 

A two-year holding period after the vesting date also 
applies at Executive Director level.

Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2023

89

Corporate governanceDirectors’ remuneration report continued 

Wider remuneration at Tesco continued

The balance between the different elements of remuneration 
depends largely on the role and seniority of colleagues. Junior 
colleagues’ remuneration is principally fixed pay, reflecting our 
principle of helping to support a decent standard of living, where 
regular pay levels help with personal budgeting and planning. 
For more senior colleagues, remuneration is weighted more 
towards variable pay, which can increase or decrease based on 
the performance they achieve against our goals. This approach 
to pay design also reflects each individual’s ability to influence 
Tesco’s performance.

While the balance of the elements of remuneration may differ, 
our consistent overall principle is that all colleagues should be 
paid competitively against the relevant pay benchmark.

We regularly ask colleagues across the Group how they feel 
about pay and benefits at Tesco. In our 2023 Every Voice Matters 
colleague survey, 63% of colleagues agreed that the total reward 
package at Tesco is competitive, which is well ahead of relevant 
external benchmarks. In addition, 83% of colleagues said they 
are able to work flexibly and 85% feel they can be themselves at 
Tesco, without fear of judgement. 66% of colleagues feel Tesco 
supports them with their financial wellbeing. Our colleagues are 
the heart of our business and Tesco remains committed to 
building an inclusive workplace where everyone can get on. 
Our ongoing initiatives include:

 – championing health and wellbeing to support our colleagues 

in and out of work through a defined offer of mental, physical 
and financial wellbeing;

 – ensuring inclusivity in everything we do by embedding inclusive 
behaviours to build an inclusive workplace with a sense of 
belonging, led by inclusive leaders;

 – equipping our colleagues with the skills they need to succeed 

now and in the future through various skills and career 
programmes; and

 – developing the next generation of talent through programmes 

for interns, apprentices and graduates.

Colleague engagement 
Engaging with colleagues and understanding their views is vital 
to the Committee and its decision making. During the year, six 
Colleague Contribution Panels (CCPs) were held. They provide an 
opportunity to seek the views of colleagues from across the Group 
on areas of specific interest to the Board, its Committees and our 
colleagues. They also allow colleagues to gain an understanding of 
the role and responsibilities of the Board and its Committees and 
provide colleagues with the opportunity to ask any questions. We 
set out further details of the CCPs on page 63.

During the year, the Committee reviewed the pay, policies, 
incentives and demographics of the wider workforce across the 
Group and the findings from the Every Voice Matters colleague 
survey. During 2022 a Group-wide review of benefits was 
undertaken to determine what colleagues value most in their 
reward package and where improvement can be made.

In addition, Directors regularly visit stores, distribution centres, 
customer engagement centres and offices to meet with colleagues 
to gauge their overall opinions and assess our culture.

We use the information provided by colleagues to guide our 
approach to Executive Director and senior management 
remuneration.

Understanding workforce arrangements
The Committee believes it is important to understand how 
colleague pay and other key colleague metrics operate throughout 
the Group. The Committee therefore receives regular updates 
throughout the year on these metrics via the wider workforce 
dashboard, which sets out a broad range of information, including: 

 – a summary of colleague demographics; 
 – results from our Every Voice Matters survey, including 

satisfaction with reward;

 – colleague pay positioning split by location;
 – a summary of UK store colleague hourly pay versus 

comparators, the National Minimum Wage and National 
Living Wage; 

 – salary budgets by business; 
 – incentive outcomes by business; and 
 – CEO pay ratio and gender pay gap over multiple years.

The Committee is therefore well positioned to take this context 
into account when setting the pay of Executive Directors. 

Caring for our colleagues – wider colleague reward 
interventions 
Our fantastic team of colleagues is at the heart of Tesco. Last year 
we reached an agreement with USDAW for a substantial increase 
in UK base pay – by 5.8% to £10.10 for hourly-paid colleagues in our 
stores and customer fulfilment centres (CFCs) effective July 2022. 
We also announced a one-off thank you payment of 1.25% of 
annual earnings to hourly-paid store, CFC and customer-
engagement centre colleagues in the UK.

This year the cost-of-living challenges faced by our customers and 
colleagues alike have been very much front of mind. Tesco is 
proud to have worked relentlessly to keep the cost of the weekly 
shop as affordable as possible for our customers, but we are also 
mindful of the need to ensure our colleagues’ wellbeing and to 
recognise their tremendous efforts.

Therefore, we made further increases in the hourly rate for UK 
store colleagues to £10.30 in November 2022 and have recently 
announced a further increase to £11.02 effective from April 2023 
as set out in the illustration opposite. We have also provided 
investments in colleague pay and benefits in our other UK 
businesses, ROI and Central Europe.

Pay is just one way in which we can support our colleagues and 
we have provided further cost-of-living support through our 
enhanced benefits package, including offering greater in store 
discounts to colleagues and wider financial wellbeing support.

90

Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2023

The illustration below sets out an overview of the recent reward-based interventions we have implemented to support our UK store 
colleagues, focusing on our lowest-paid populations and the types of reward that can be most valuable to our colleagues. We believe that 
the actions we have taken over the past three years recognise the contribution our colleagues make to our business and demonstrate our 
commitment to making Tesco a great place to work.

December 2020
10% bonus paid to 
hourly-paid 
colleagues

September 2021
Increase in the hourly 
rate for colleagues 
from £9.30 to £9.55.

Increase in night 
premium payments 
from £2.21 to £2.30

April 2022
Increase of £500 in 
annual colleague 
discount allowance 
to £1,500

April 2023
Increase in the 
hourly rate for 
colleagues from 
£10.30 to £11.02

November 2022
Increase in the hourly rate 
for colleagues from £10.10 to 
£10.30

Improvement to the free 
food offer made in 
colleague rooms

Ability for UK colleagues 
to get up to 25% of their 
contractual pay early as 
an advance

2020/21 and 2021/22

2022/23

2023/24

March 2020
10% bonus for  
hourly-paid colleagues 
paid in April, May and 
June 2020

June 2021
2% end-of-year 
recognition bonus 
paid to hourly-paid 
colleagues 

May 2022
End-of-year 
recognition bonus of 
1.25% paid to 
hourly-paid colleagues

July 2022
Increase in the 
hourly rate for 
colleagues from 
£9.55 to £10.10

December 2022
20% colleague 
discount offered 
for seven days

Change in remuneration of colleagues and Directors
The table below shows the percentage change in the annual remuneration of Directors and the average UK colleague over the 
past four years.

The reporting regulations require disclosure of the change in remuneration of employees of the parent company. As the only employees of 
this company are the Executive Directors, the Committee decided to use the average UK colleague as the appropriate comparator group. 
This is because they represent the majority of Tesco colleagues and the Executive Directors are predominantly based in the UK.

Salary/fees (% change)

Benefits (% change)

Bonus (% change)(a)

2022/23

2021/22

2020/21

2019/20

2022/23

2021/22

2020/21

2019/20

2022/23

2021/22

2020/21

2019/20

Executive Directors
Ken Murphy
Imran Nawaz(b)
Non-executive Directors
John Allan 
Melissa Bethell
Bertrand Bodson(b)
Thierry Garnier(b)
Stewart Gilliland
Byron Grote(c) 
Alison Platt(c) 
Lindsey Pownall(c) 
Caroline Silver(d) 
Karen Whitworth(b)
Former Directors
Steve Golsby(b) 
Simon Patterson(b) 
Colleagues
Average UK colleague

– 
–

– 
– 

170.5%
162.2%

18.9%
–

– 
– 

– 
– 

(14.8)%
(8.3)%

100%
–

1.7%
3.7%

1.3%
3.2%
2.5%
2.3%
2.8%
12.3%
13.8%
9.2%
–
3.0%

0%
–

0%
2.2%
–
–
2.8%
12.3%
2.8%
9.2%
–
–

1.5% 
2.2% 
– 
– 
5.0% 
3.0% 
5.0% 
1.9% 
–
– 

3.4% 
172.7% 
–
–
42.3% 
3.9% 
17.4% 
2.9% 
–
–

112.5%
100%
(62.5)%
150%
100%
100%
100%
300%
–
(100)%

–
–

14.3% (46.2)% 
100% (100)% 
– 
– 
0% (50.0)% 
100% (100)% 
100% (100)% 
100% (87.5)% 
–
– 

–
–

62.5% 
100% 
–
–
300% 
100% 
0% 
(20.0)% 
–
–

6.7%
1.6%

8.1%
2.2%

2.5% 
2.2% 

22.2% 
4.7% 

100%
(100)%

0% (100)% 
100% (100)% 

30.8% 
100% 

– 
–

– 
– 
– 
– 
– 
– 
– 
– 
–
– 

– 
– 

–
–

–
–
–
–
–
–
–
–
–
–

–
–

–
–
–
–
–
–
–
–
–
–

–
–

–
–
–
–
–
–
–
–
–
–

–
–

8.6%

3.3%

6.8% 

3.0% 

0%

0%

0% 

0% 

N/A

N/A

N/A

(100)%

(a) We agreed jointly with our unions in 2019 that hourly-paid colleagues in stores would no longer receive an annual bonus, replacing it with a higher rate of base pay.
(b) For those Directors appointed in 2021/22 (Bertrand Bodson, Thierry Garnier, Imran Nawaz and Karen Whitworth) and those who stood down in 2022/23 (Steve Golsby and Simon 

Patterson), salary/fees, benefits and bonus (as appropriate) have been pro rated for the purposes of comparison. 

(c) On 17 June 2022 Alison Platt was appointed as Chair of the Remuneration Committee. On 25 June 2021, Byron Grote was appointed Senior Independent Director and Lindsey Pownall 

joined the Remuneration Committee.

(d) Caroline Silver joined the Board on 1 October 2022.

Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2023

91

Corporate governanceDirectors’ remuneration report continued

Context of executive pay.

Provision 40 disclosures
In developing our approach to remuneration, the Committee was mindful of Provision 40 of the UK Corporate Governance Code and 
considers that the executive remuneration framework addresses the following factors:

Clarity 
Remuneration 
arrangements should be 
transparent and promote 
effective engagement with 
shareholders and the wider 
workforce

Simplicity
Remuneration structures 
should avoid complexity and 
their rationale and 
operation should be easy to 
understand

Predictability 
The range of possible values 
of rewards should be 
identified and explained 
when the policy is approved

Proportionality
The link between individual 
awards, the delivery of 
strategy and the long-term 
performance of the 
Company should be clear. 
Outcomes should not 
reward poor performance

Risk 
Remuneration 
arrangements should 
ensure the identification 
and mitigation of 
reputational and other risks 
from excessive rewards 
and behavioural risks that 
can arise from target-based 
incentive plans
Alignment to culture
Incentive schemes should 
drive behaviours that are 
consistent with the 
Company’s purpose, values 
and strategy

 – Our remuneration policy is designed to be sustainable, simple and support the delivery of Tesco’s strategy 

and purpose of serving our customers, communities and planet a little better every day. 

 – Performance requirements are clearly disclosed and transparent and we provide detailed disclosures 
of the relevant performance assessments and outcomes for our stakeholders to consider. These bring 
clarity to all stakeholders on the relationship between the successful implementation of our purpose 
and strategy and how our leadership is rewarded. 

 – The Board has designated Non-executive Directors to host Colleague Contribution Panels (CCPs) 

comprising elected colleagues from across the Group to engage on various topics to ensure internal 
clarity on remuneration. You can find further details on how the Board engages with stakeholders on 
page 63. 

 – The Company operates an approach to remuneration that is simple to understand and familiar to 

stakeholders: 
 – fixed element: base salary, benefits and pension; 
 – short-term element: an annual performance-related bonus with both financial and non-financial 
measures. Half is paid in cash and the other half in Tesco shares deferred for three years; and 
 – long-term element: PSP awards vest after three years on achievement of stretching performance 

criteria and are subject to a further two-year holding period.

 – We explain our approach to remuneration clearly and simply, with no complex structures required to 

operate the plans.

 – Our remuneration policy contains details of maximum opportunity levels for each component of pay, 

allowing possible reward outcomes to be easily quantified.

 – Details are set out in the Directors’ remuneration report clearly showing potential performance and 

reward outcomes. 

 – The Committee reviews potential performance outcomes regularly so there are no surprises when 

performance is assessed at the end of the year.

 – Our annual bonus and PSP plans provide clear alignment between incentive outcomes and the 

achievement of Tesco’s strategy, with stretching performance conditions set to achieve commensurate 
reward for commensurate performance. 

 – Performance is assessed on a broad basis, including a combination of financial, non-financial and ESG 
measures. This ensures there is no undue focus on a single measure to the detriment of stakeholders.
 – The use of annual bonus deferral, PSP post-vesting holding periods and our shareholding requirements 

(including after leaving Tesco) ensures that Executive Directors have a strong drive to ensure that 
performance is sustainable over the long term. 

 – Stretching performance conditions, along with the discretion available to the Committee to override 

formulaic outcomes, ensures that outcomes do not reward poor performance.

 – Variable pay outcomes align with Tesco’s purpose, values and strategy, including ESG goals and the 

long-term interests of shareholders and other stakeholders. 

 – The Committee has appropriate discretions to override formulaic outturns if circumstances dictate.
 – The Committee has also satisfied itself that the remuneration arrangements do not encourage risk-taking 

or behaviours that are incompatible or inconsistent with these factors. 

 – Regular interactions with the Audit Committee and Corporate Responsibility Committee ensure relevant 

risk factors are considered when setting or assessing performance targets.

 – The Committee has the discretion to apply malus and clawback in certain circumstances, including in the 

event of any behavioural risks.

 – The Board reviews and adopts the Long Term Plan (LTP) annually, so providing a focus on the long-term 

sustainability of the Group.

 – The Committee reviews the measures and targets of the annual bonus and PSP each year to ensure 

measures and targets are aligned to the LTP, are appropriately challenging, support the Group’s culture 
and strategy and create value for stakeholders. 

 – To ensure our incentive schemes drive behaviours that are consistent with our purpose, values and 

strategy, we aim to: 
 – understand the remuneration of the wider workforce; 
 – ensure pay decisions are aligned across the Group; and 
 – engage with our stakeholders, including our colleagues.

92

Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2023

Discretion in relation to incentive plans
The Committee operates the annual bonus and PSP in 
accordance with their respective scheme rules and the relevant 
Listing Rules consistent with market practice. The Committee 
retains discretion, within the confines and opportunity detailed 
above, regarding the operation and administration of these plans. 
The discretion covers:

 – the timing, size and type of awards, holding periods and the 

annual setting of targets;

 – when performance against our qualitative performance 

measures is not in line with the Group’s overall financial or 
strategic performance over the performance period; 

 – ensuring accordance with the rules, including in relation to 

whether or not malus or clawback provisions should apply, in 
connection with recruitment, or terminations of employment, 
or corporate events affecting the Company;

 – adjustments required in certain circumstances (e.g. rights 
issues, corporate-restructuring events, special dividends 
and other corporate actions); and

 – adjustments to targets and/or measures if events occur that 
cause the Committee to determine it is appropriate to do so.

The Committee also retains the right to change performance 
measures and the weighting of measures in certain 
circumstances including:

 – following feedback from regulators, shareholders and/or other 

stakeholders; and

 – amending the scheme rules in accordance with their terms 
and/or amending the basis of operation (including but not 
limited to the approach in respect of dividend equivalents).

The Committee will disclose any exercise of discretion in 
accordance with regulatory requirements.

Malus and clawback provisions
The Committee has the discretion to scale back deferred share 
awards and PSP awards prior to the satisfaction of such awards if:

 – results are materially misstated;
 – the participant has contributed to serious reputational damage 

to the Company or one of its business units;

 – the participant’s conduct has amounted to serious misconduct, 
fraud, dishonesty, a breach of the Code of Business Conduct or 
material wrongdoing;

 – the determination of the vesting or value of an award has been 
affected by an underlying incorrect figure in the accounts; or
 – an error or miscalculation in determining the vesting or value of 

an award is identified.

Under malus, deferred share awards and unvested PSP awards 
can be reduced (including down to zero) or be made subject to 
additional conditions. Clawback allows for the repayment of 
previously paid-up cash bonuses for a period of three years and 
PSP awards for a period of two years after the vesting date.

Approach to target setting 
In determining the range of targets for each measure for the 
annual bonus and 2022 PSP grant, the Committee considered 
the Board-approved budget and LTP, external consensus 
where it exists, prior-year achievement and the wider 
economic environment. As part of its work to ensure targets 
are appropriately stretching, the Committee also considered 
the Board’s assessment of how achievable the budget is. The 
performance target range is set on a realistic basis but requires 
true outperformance to achieve the maximum. The Committee 
has a history of setting stretching targets as evidenced by an 
average PSP payout of 53% over the past five years.

The annual bonus measures are selected to provide direct 
alignment with the Group’s short-term operational targets. 
The Committee takes care to ensure that the short-term 
performance measures are supportive of the strategic drivers 
and long-term objectives. The PSP performance measures are 
selected to ensure that executives are encouraged in, and 
appropriately rewarded for, delivering against the Group’s 
strategic drivers. This ensures a clear line of sight and alignment 
of interests between executives and shareholders and the 
generation of long-term sustainable returns.

Annual bonus and PSP performance is monitored every six 
months by the Committee. At the end of the performance period, 
one year for the annual bonus and three years for the PSP, we 
assess the formulaic outcome of each performance measure 
on a standalone basis. The Committee considers whether the 
formulaic outcomes are fair in the context of the Group’s 
performance and the wider stakeholder experience. The 
Committee may seek independent advice to assess the outcomes 
of specific measures as well as the overall outcome. Where 
appropriate, the Committee also has the ability to use its 
discretion to adjust the formulaic outcomes.

2022/23 

Early February 2022
The Committee considered the wider context and how 
the annual bonus and PSP targets were tracking against 
forecast performance

Late February 2022
The Board agreed the budget for the year

The Committee considered the proposed structures 
of the annual bonus and PSP awards and the possible 
targets and ranges. In doing so, it had regard to:

 – wider workforce incentive structures
 – the budget and LTP
 – the strategic plan
 – analysts’ consensus
 – the wider economic environment

April 2022
The Committee determined the measures, weightings, 
targets and ranges for the annual bonus and PSP for the 
forthcoming year and the outcomes of the prior year’s 
annual bonus and 2019 PSP

October 2022
The Committee considered how the annual bonus and 
PSP targets were tracking against forecast performance

Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2023

93

Corporate governanceKen Murphy

Imran Nawaz

Directors’ remuneration report continued

Context of executive pay continued
Comparator groups for remuneration
When setting the remuneration of Executive Directors, one of the 
factors the Committee considers is the relevant markets for the 
Executive Directors; it believes this is the FTSE 50. When reviewing 
the Group Chief Executive’s remuneration, the Committee also 
references remuneration of a group of leading international 
companies whose selection is based on their size and complexity.

0
0
0
'
£
(

)

8,000

6,000

10,000

n
o
i
t
a
r
e
n
u
m
e
r

l

a
t
o
T

The following chart sets out the market positioning of the Group 
Chief Executive’s and Chief Financial Officer’s on-target and 
maximum remuneration compared to the FTSE 50. This is similar 
to the information the Committee uses as a reference when 
setting executives’ remuneration, which enables it to ensure 
remuneration levels are consistent with the approved 
remuneration policy.

4,000

2,000

0

Target

Maximum

Target

Maximum

Lower quartile to median
Median to upper quartile

Tesco

Performance and change in Group Chief Executive remuneration
The graph below illustrates the Company’s total shareholder return (TSR) performance against the FTSE 100 index over the past 10 years. We 
have chosen the FTSE 100 index because it is a broad-based index of which the Company has been a constituent member throughout the 
period. The table below the TSR graph shows the Group Chief Executive’s annual remuneration over the same period:

Value of 
hypothetical 
£100 invested

FTSE 100
Tesco

Source: Thomson 
Reuters Refinitive

200

150

100

50

0

100

100

112

94

118

71

133

138

143

137

139

107

54

55

60

66

70

72

182

166

95

86

Group Chief Executive 
Single total figure of 
remuneration (£’000) 
Annual bonus outturn  
(% of maximum 
award) 
PSP vest (% of  
maximum award) 

Ken Murphy
Sir Dave 
Lewis(b)
Philip Clarke(a)

2013/14
–

2014/15
–

–
1,634

4,133
764

2015/16
–

4,632
–

2016/17
–

2017/18
–

2018/19
–

2019/20
–

2020/21
992

2021/22
4,745

2022/23
4,443

4,147
– 

5,113
– 

4,600
– 

6,328
– 

1,650
– 

–
–

–
–

0% 

0% 

0% 

0%

96% 

76% 

73% 

52.5% 

75.9% 

0% 

95%

79.1%

– 

– 

30% 

28.8% 

48.8% 

23.1%

–

–

(a) Philip Clarke stepped down as Group Chief Executive on 1 September 2014 and was succeeded by Sir Dave Lewis on the same date.
(b) Sir Dave Lewis stepped down as Group Chief Executive on 30 September 2020 and was succeeded by Ken Murphy on 1 October 2020.

94

Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2023

 
 
Group Chief Executive remuneration compared to Tesco’s share price movement
The graph below sets out the Group Chief Executive’s Single total figure of remuneration (STFR) compared to Tesco’s share price, rebased to 
£100 at 25 February 2013.

f
o
e
r
u
g
fi

l

l

a
t
o
t
e
g
n
S
O
E
C

i

)

0
0
0
’
£
(

n
o
i
t
a
r
e
n
u
m
e
r

7,000

6,000

5,000

4,000

3,000

2,000

1,000

0

120

105

90

75

60

45

30

15

0

o
n
2
5
F
e
b
r
u
a
r
y
2
0
1
3

l

V
a
u
e
o
f
£
1
0
0

i

n
v
e
s
t
e
d

02/2013

02/2014

02/2015

02/2016

02/2017

02/2018

02/2019

02/2020

02/2021

02/2022

02/2023

Tesco share price

CEO Single total figure of remuneration  

(a) Where there has been a change in Group Chief Executive in the year, we have included the remuneration of both Group Chief Executives. This impacts the years ending February 2015 

and February 2021.

Relationship between the pay of the Group Chief Executive and UK colleagues
Tesco is a retail business with one of the UK’s largest workforces. We employ around 254,000 UK-based colleagues in our major subsidiary, 
Tesco Stores Limited. These are mostly in customer-facing roles in-store or in our distribution network. Given the workforce profile, all 
three of the Group Chief Executive pay ratio reference points compare our Group Chief Executive’s remuneration with that of colleagues in 
mainly customer-facing roles. There is relatively little difference in the outcomes, as we show below. Whatever the Group Chief Executive 
pay ratio may be, Tesco will continue to invest in competitive pay for all colleagues.

The following table shows the ratio between the consolidated STFR of the Group Chief Executive for 2022/23 and the lower, median and 
upper-quartile pay of our UK colleagues. We also show for comparison the pay ratios for the four preceding years.

The total full-time equivalent (FTE) pay and benefits for the relevant colleagues is based on the period from 6 February 2022 to 4 February 
2023. The reporting regulations offer three calculation approaches for determining the pay ratio – Options A, B and C. We have chosen 
Option C for all years, which we deem the most appropriate methodology for Tesco.

Total pay ratio

Ratio of CEO’s STFR
25th percentile 
50th percentile 
75th percentile 

2018/19 

2019/20 

2020/21 

2021/22

2022/23

247:1 
226:1 
209:1 

355:1 
305:1 
279:1 

136:1 
118:1 
116:1 

251:1
224:1
216:1

231:1
197:1
182:1

The table below sets out the base salary, total pay and benefit details of the Group Chief Executive and UK colleagues who are at the 25th, 
50th and 75th percentile. 

Group Chief Executive’s base salary 
Group Chief Executive’s total pay and benefits 
UK colleagues’ salary
Colleague at 25th percentile 
Colleague at 50th percentile 
Colleague at 75th percentile 
UK colleagues’ total pay and benefits
Colleague at 25th percentile 
Colleague at 50th percentile 
Colleague at 75th percentile 

2022/23
£1,372,781
£4,442,692

£18,771
£20,163
£22,663

£19,196
£22,533
£24,374

As more than half of Tesco’s colleagues work part-time, the exercise required to determine FTE is extensive and complex. Tesco decided to 
use Option C as we had completed comprehensive data collation and analysis of all relevant colleagues for the purpose of gender pay gap 
(GPG) reporting. This enabled us to use additional pay data (including overtime, salary sacrifice values and employer pension contributions) to 
ensure the STFR reflects total pay made throughout the financial year. This approach minimised the differing definitions of pay for STFR and 
GPG to enable us to select the ‘best equivalents’ of P25, P50 and P75. The only adjustments made to determine the pay and benefits of the 
colleagues identified as P25, P50 and P75 related to working hours, basing amounts on a 36.5-hour working week. We believe the ‘best 
equivalent’ colleagues identified are reasonably representative of the 25th, 50th and 75th percentiles as Tesco has compiled pay on an 
FTE basis. We reviewed pay across a sample of employees at each percentile before selecting the employee who was most representative.

Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2023

95

Corporate governance 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Directors’ remuneration report continued

Context of executive pay continued

In the case of the Group Chief Executive, his total remuneration comprises a significant proportion of variable pay. The Single total figure 
therefore varies considerably depending on the level of performance against the measures driving the annual bonus and PSP. In 2022/23, 
the annual bonus paid out at 79.1% of maximum compared with 95% in 2021/22, which has resulted in a fall in the Group Chief Executive’s 
pay ratio numbers this year. Since 2014, the median pay ratio has fluctuated, increasing and decreasing in alternate years in line with 
variable pay outcomes.

As we set out on pages 89 and 91, we base our reward framework across the Group on a consistent set of principles for all: that 
overall remuneration should be competitive when compared to similar roles in other organisations with which we compete for talent. 
We therefore determine colleague pay using the same principles as the pay for our Executive Directors. On this basis, we believe the 
median ratio is consistent with the Company’s wider policies on employee reward, pay and progression.

Gender pay
For our 2021/22 report both our median and mean GPGs have increased slightly as we adapted to the post COVID-19 environment.  
Our median GPG has increased to 6.9%, less than half the UK national average of 14.9%. Our median bonus gap has increased to 30.5%.

Our GPG is attributable to two key factors. The first is having a higher number of male colleagues in our more senior roles. We are committed 
to increasing the percentage of female colleagues in such roles to ensure our leadership team truly reflects our customer base and wider 
colleague population. We will continue to drive female representation across all roles to close the gap. The other factor is that we have more 
male colleagues than female colleagues who work shifts that pay premiums on Sundays, nights and bank holidays across our stores and 
distribution centres. If we remove premium payments from the calculation, our median pay gap reduces significantly, to 2.7%.

We have included a stretching diversity and inclusion measure in the PSP for 2023 to ensure we continue to build a workplace where 
everyone is welcome and our workforce represents the communities we serve.

See our Everyone’s Welcome Report for more information at  
www.tescoplc.com/media/759669/tesco-everyones-welcome-report-2022

Relative importance of spend on pay
The chart below indicates how the pay of Executive Directors compares with other financial dispersals. You can find further information in 
the Notes to the Group financial statements starting on page 125. 

Executive Directors’ remuneration
Dividends
Total income taxes charge
Colleague costs

2021/22  
£m 

12.1 
704 
510 
7,456 

2022/23 
£m
7.5
858
247
7,656

% change

(38.2)
21.9
(51.6)
2.7 

For every £1 we spent on Executive Directors’ remuneration in 2022/23, £33 was payable in tax and £1,021 was spent on colleague costs. In 
addition, £114 was made in dividend payments to shareholders for every £1 spent on Executive Directors’ remuneration.

96

Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2023

Remuneration report.

Single total figure of remuneration – Executive Directors (audited)
The following table provides a summary Single total figure of remuneration (STFR) for 2022/23 and 2021/22 for the Executive Directors.

Fixed pay
Salary 
Benefits(b)
Pension 
Total fixed pay 
Variable pay
Annual bonus (cash and deferred shares)(c)
PSP(d)
Total variable pay 
Total fixed and variable pay 
Compensation for forfeited income(e)
Total remuneration 

Ken Murphy

Imran Nawaz(a)

2022/23 
£’000

2021/22 
£’000

2022/23 
£’000

2021/22 
£’000

1,373
238
102
1,713

2,730
 –
2,730
4,443
– 
4,443 

1,350 
88 
101 
1,539 

3,206 
 –
3,206 
4,745 
– 
4,745 

723
129
54
906

1,365
 –
1,365
2,271
765 
3,036

581 
41 
44 
666 

1,241 
– 
1,241 
1,907 
3,506 
5,413 

(a) Imran Nawaz joined the Board as Chief Financial Officer on 1 May 2021.
(b) Benefits include family level private medical insurance, life assurance, a car or cash allowance and a driver. The overall level of benefits will depend on the cost of providing individual 

items and the individual’s circumstances. Benefits for Ken Murphy also include commuting support of £102,400, which includes the grossed-up cost of UK tax paid by the Company on 
his behalf. Benefits for Imran Nawaz include the UK tax payable in respect of a car and driver, which he received in lieu of a car allowance. This benefit was £118,000 which includes the 
grossed-up cost of a proportion of UK tax paid by the Company on his behalf, on a transitional basis.

(c) The annual bonus is paid 50% in cash and 50% in shares deferred for three years subject to continued employment. See page 82 for further details of the 2022/23 bonus outturn.
(d) Neither Ken Murphy nor Imran Nawaz was granted a 2020 PSP award as this preceded their joining dates.
(e) Compensation for forfeited income determined by the value of a buyout award granted to Imran Nawaz amounting to £765,000 (including £88,500 relating to share price appreciation). 
The amount relates to compensation for the forfeiture of a 2019 PSP award granted to Imran Nawaz by his previous employer, Tate & Lyle PLC, details of which are set out on page 90 of 
the 2022 annual report. This award vested on 1 June 2022 at a vesting level of 42% of maximum. Details of the performance conditions and outturns of the award are set out in the Tate 
& Lyle PLC 2022 annual report.

(f)  The total aggregate remuneration paid to Directors in 2022/23 was £9.3m (2021/22: £13.9m).

2022/23 benefits (audited)

Ken Murphy
Imran Nawaz

(a) Commuting support for Ken Murphy ceased on 31 March 2023.

Medical 
insurance and 
wellness 
programme
(£’000)
3.7
4.4

Car and driver 
(£’000)
121.0
118.4

Life assurance 
(£’000)
9.1
4.8

Colleague 
discount 
(£’000)
1.5
1.5

Commuting 
support
(£’000)
102.4(a)
–

Total
(£’000)
237.7
129.1

2022/23 annual bonus outcomes (audited)
The annual bonus is determined by financial measures and individual performance, including objectives, set at the start of the performance 
period, which are designed to support the achievement of certain strategic outcomes. The 2022/23 annual bonus outcome is 79.1% of 
maximum for Ken Murphy and 83.1% for Imran Nawaz. As set out in the Committee Chair’s letter, the Committee is satisfied that the 
formulaic annual bonus outcomes are appropriate and reflect performance over the performance period. We provide a breakdown of 
the overall outcome and details of the outturn of the financial measures on page 82. You can see the achievement against individual 
objectives overleaf.

Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2023

97

Corporate governanceDirectors’ remuneration report continued

Remuneration report continued
2022/23 achievement of individual objectives

Ken Murphy
Objective
Execute Year 1 of  
strategic milestones  
across the Group
Develop proposal on longer-
term strategic opportunities

Key performance indicators
 – Additional profit and sales generated by the 

Summary of performance
 – Overall, strategic drivers contributing positively 

strategic drivers

to financial results

 – Delivery of Group market share and NPS ambitions
 – Develop proposal and milestone plan for 

 – NPS rank aspirations delivered in most markets
 – Delivered successful Long Term Plan process, 

implementation

which was approved by the Board

Lead the delivery of Group-wide 
ESG commitments

 – Climate: define roadmap for own operations net 

zero by 2035, including investment analysis

 – Developed and communicated Group planet 
plan, including investment analysis to 2025

 – Health: improve health measure to at least 59.5%
 – Food waste: reduce food waste by 46% from 

 – Health measure increased to 60%
 – Food waste reduced by 45%

baseline

Imran Nawaz
Objective
Deliver Save to invest Group-
wide

Key performance indicators
 – Delivery of Year 1 £518m savings target 
 – Develop plans to deliver Year 2 targets aligned 

to Long Term Plan

Summary of performance
 – Accelerated plans to offset cost inflation, saved 

in excess of £550m in 2022/23

 – Plans in place to deliver next year’s target 
aligned to the Long Term Plan ambition

Execute Year 1 of finance change 
plan

 – Delivery of Year 1 finance change roadmap and 

 – 90% of Year 1 projects delivered with roadmap 

defined plans for Year 2

and plans in place to deliver Year 2

 – Delivery of finance of the future 2022/23 Save 

 – Overdelivered finance head office Save to 

Lead the delivery of Group-wide 
ESG commitments, focusing in 
Year 1 on climate (Scope 1 and 2)

to invest targets 

invest plans

 – Develop finance plan for own operations net 

 – Investment analysis for Group climate 

zero by 2035

requirements prepared to 2025

 – Secure power supply for electrification of the 
estate to allow decarbonisation with forecast 
to achieve over 82%

 – Execute carbon reduction plan (at least 12.5%) 
including reuse, recycle and refurbish plus 
sustainable building materials and methodologies

 – 92.7% of secure power supply achieved 

(based on future electricity requirements)
 – Embodied carbon reduction, associated with 

new space, general maintenance and 
engineering schemes, achieved through lower 
carbon asphalt/concrete and shelving reuse

The percentage awarded for individual performance is based on an overall assessment of the achievement of objectives and demonstration 
of leadership behaviours. On that basis, Ken Murphy achieved a rating of 15% and Imran Nawaz 19%, both out of a maximum of 20%. 

2020 PSP vesting in 2023 (audited)
The outcomes of the 2020 PSP awards are shown on page 83. As set out in the Committee Chair’s letter, the Committee is satisfied that the 
formulaic PSP outcomes are appropriate, that they reflect performance over the performance period and that there were no windfall gains. 
The awards will vest in June 2023. Neither Ken Murphy nor Imran Nawaz was granted awards as these preceded their joining dates.

2022 PSP grant (audited)
The following table summarises the PSP awards made to Executive Directors on 24 June 2022:

Executive Director
Ken Murphy 
Imran Nawaz 

Type of award
Conditional award
Conditional award

% of base salary 
awarded
275% 
250% 

Number of shares 
granted 
1,521,455
731,462 

Value at  
award date 
£3,796,030 
£1,824,998 

End of 
performance 
period
22/02/2025
22/02/2025

Vesting date
24/06/2025
24/06/2025

Market price

on grant(a)
249.5p
249.5p

(a) Based on five-day average share price.

The performance measures and targets for the 2022 PSP are:

Adjusted diluted EPS
Cumulative free cash flow
ESG measures
 – Carbon reduction
 – Food waste reduction
 – Diversity and inclusion (gender/ethnicity)

Weighting
37.5% 
37.5% 

8.3%
8.3%
8.3%

Threshold  
(25% payout)
21.8p 
£3.8bn 

Stretch  
(100% payout)
32.8p
£5.8bn

56%
48%
32%/13%

60%
55%
40%/15%

The award incorporates the right to receive the value of dividends between grant and vesting in respect of the number of shares that vest. 
The calculation of dividend equivalents will assume the reinvestment of those dividends in Tesco shares on a cumulative basis.

98

Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2023

Definitions of financial performance measures
The Group reports various alternative performance measures (APMs), defined in the Glossary on page 207, some of which are used to 
determine remuneration outcomes. There are differences in definitions between the reported APMs and the outcomes used for PSP targets, 
as approved by the Committee. The table below summarises these differences, rationale, affected awards and the impact on the measure:

Performance measure

Difference

Rationale

Awards

Adjusted diluted EPS

Neutralise the EPS impact of share buybacks 
since targets were set

Targets were set with no buybacks assumed

2021 PSP

Cumulative free cash 
flow

Removing any impact from the 2022 change in 
Retail free cash flow definition (refer to page 
211 within the Glossary for a full reconciliation)

The Retail free cash flow definition was 
changed after targets were set

2020 PSP

2021 PSP
2020 PSP

Adjustments to targets
The Committee considered adjustments to targets resulting from material events that were not anticipated at the time the targets were set. 
Adjustments were made to ensure PSP targets and outcomes are assessed on a like-for-like basis and events do not make the targets any 
easier or harder to achieve. The table below summarises the adjustments made, rationale, affected awards and the impact on the measure:

Performance measure

Adjustment

Rationale

Adjusted diluted EPS

Cumulative free cash 
flow

Reflecting the sale of the Asia business and 
treatment of Poland as a discontinued 
operation
Neutralise the impact of the settlement of 
claims for matters arising in connection with 
the overstatement of profit announced in 
2014 and from the sale of the Korea business 
in 2015
Reflecting the sale of the Asia business and 
treatment of Poland as a discontinued 
operation
Reflecting the repurchase of bonds issued by 
property joint ventures

Material events that were not anticipated at 
the time targets were set

Awards

2020 PSP

Outflows relate to events that pre-date the 
terms in office of the award holders

2021 PSP
2020 PSP

Material events that were not anticipated at 
the time targets were set

2020 PSP

£(1,066)m

Outflows relate to an event that was not 
anticipated at the time the targets were set

2021 PSP
2020 PSP

£(194)m
£(194)m

Impact

(0.7)p

(0.7)p

£(42)m
£(42)m

Impact

0.7p

£(193)m
£(305)m

2021 PSP
Cumulative free cash flow
Original targets
Adjustments
Revised targets

Adjusted diluted EPS
Original targets
Adjustments
Revised targets

Threshold
£4,253m
£(387)m
£3,866m

Threshold
17.3p
–
17.3p

Stretch
£6,379m
£(387)m
£5,992m

Stretch
26.0p
–
26.0p

2020 PSP
Cumulative free cash flow
Original targets
Adjustments
Revised targets

Adjusted diluted EPS
Original targets
Adjustments
Revised targets

Threshold
£4,435m
£(1,565)m
£2,870m

Threshold
16.5p
0.7p
17.2p

Stretch
£6,653m
£(1,565)m
£5,088m

Stretch
24.7p
0.7p
25.4p

Executive Directors’ interests in share awards (audited)
The table below sets out the Executive Directors’ interests in share awards. We set out details of Executive Director shareholding 
requirements and achievement against these on page 84.

Ken Murphy 

Imran Nawaz 

At 27/02/22 
Granted 
Dividend equivalents 
Vested/released 
Lapsed 
Exercised 
At 25/02/23 
At 27/02/22
Granted 
Dividend equivalents 
Vested/released 
Lapsed 
Exercised 
At 25/02/23 

Unvested PSP

Deferred annual

awards(a)
1,832,904 
1,521,455 
119,107 
– 
– 
– 
3,473,466
871,194
731,462
56,769
– 
– 
– 
1,659,425

bonus awards(b)
– 
584,357 
28,803 
– 
– 
– 
613,160 
– 
226,251
11,151
– 
–
– 
237,402

 Buyout awards
– 
– 
– 
– 
– 
– 
– 
1,001,268
– 
 –

(347,091) 
(422,939)
– 
231,238

Vested but 
unexercised 
share options 
– 
– 
– 
– 
– 
– 
– 
– 
– 
– 
– 
– 
– 
– 

SAYE options 
– 
9,890
– 
– 
– 
–
9,890
– 
– 
– 
– 
– 
– 
– 

Total
1,832,904
2,115,702
147,910
–
–
– 
4,096,516
1,872,462
957,713
67,920
(347,091)
(422,939)
–
2,128,065

(a) Awards will only vest to the extent that relevant performance conditions are met.
(b) No performance conditions apply to these awards but are subject to service.

Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2023

99

Corporate governanceDirectors’ remuneration report continued

Remuneration report continued
2022 deferred bonus award grant (audited)
The following table summarises the deferred bonus awards made to Executive Directors on 12 May 2022 in respect of 50% of the 2021/22 
bonus outcome. Awards were made in the form of conditional awards which will vest and be released on 12 May 2025, subject to 
continuous employment.

Executive Director
Ken Murphy
Imran Nawaz

(a) Based on five-day average share price.

Payments for loss of office (audited)
There were no payments made for loss of office during the year.

Number of  
shares granted
584,357
226,251

Value at  
award date
£1,603,125
£620,697

Vesting date
12/05/25
12/05/25

Market price

on grant(a)
274.3p
274.3p

Payments to former Directors (audited)
Details of the nil-cost awards released to Sir Dave Lewis and Alan Stewart during 2022/23 following their stepping down from the Board on 
30 September 2020 and 30 April 2021, respectively, are set out below. Shares released include dividend equivalent shares and the impact of 
the share consolidation in February 2021 and time proration in respect of the PSP.

Sir Dave Lewis

Type of award 
Deferred bonus 
PSP 

Alan Stewart

Type of award 
Deferred bonus
PSP

Date of grant
13/05/2019 
20/06/2019

Number of 
shares awarded
336,028
1,492,747 

Number of  
shares released 
376,478
770,221 

Date of release
13/05/2022
20/06/2022

Market price  
at grant
244p
230p

Market price 

 at release  Gain on release
£1,058,656
£1,940,187

281p
252p

Date of grant
13/05/2019 
20/06/2019

Number of 
shares awarded
170,740
895,648

Number of  
shares released 
191,290 
632,393

Date of release 
13/05/2022
20/06/2022

Market price 
 at grant
244p
230p

Market price 
 at release
281p
252p

Gain on release
£537,907 
£1,592,998

Gain due  
to share price 
appreciation
£139,598
£166,522

Gain due  
to share price 
appreciation
£70,930
£136,723

No other payments to former Directors or for loss of office were made in the year.

Executive Directors’ service agreements
The Committee carefully considers the Executive Directors’ service agreements, including arrangements for early termination, which are 
designed to recruit, retain and motivate Executive Directors of the calibre required to lead the Company. The details of existing Executive 
Directors’ service contracts are summarised in the table below:

Executive Director
Ken Murphy 
Imran Nawaz 

Date of service agreement
1 October 2019 
6 October 2020 

Notice period from Company
12 months 
12 months 

Notice period from Executive Director
12 months
12 months

Neither Ken Murphy nor Imran Nawaz held an external directorship during the year. Both Ken Murphy and Imran Nawaz will stand for 
re-election at the 2023 AGM.

Funding of equity awards
Where shares are newly issued, the Company complies with the Investment Association dilution guidelines on their issue. These provide that 
overall dilution under all plans should not exceed 10% of the Company’s issued share capital over a 10-year period, with a further limitation 
of 5% in any 10-year period for executive plans. Shares purchased in the market may be held by Tesco Employees’ Share Scheme Trustees 
Limited or Tesco International Employee Benefit Trust (together, the Trusts). In such a case, the voting rights relating to the shares are 
exercisable by the Trustees in accordance with their fiduciary duties. At 25 February 2023, the Trusts held 56,778,323 shares. Current 
practice is to use market-purchased shares to satisfy incentive awards.

Dilution from existing awards made over the past 10 years up to 25 February 2023 was as follows:

All-colleague share plans

Executive share plans

4.2%

Actual

Limit

10%

0.5%

5%

Actual

Limit

100

Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2023

Beneficial share ownership (audited)
The table below outlines interests in the Company’s securities of the Non-executive Directors. There were no changes to Non-executive 
Director share interests between 26 February and 12 April 2023. Non-executive Directors are expected to build up and maintain a personal 
holding in the securities of the Company equal to the value of their base fee over a period of five years following appointment.

Non-executive Director
John Allan(b) 
Melissa Bethell 
Bertrand Bodson 
Thierry Garnier(c) 
Stewart Gilliland 
Byron Grote(d) 
Alison Platt 
Lindsey Pownall 
Caroline Silver(c)
Karen Whitworth 

Shares held at  
27 February 2022
349,753 
37,447 
44,579 
15,000 
48,825 
302,703 
34,893 
55,263 
–
24,200 

Shares held at  
25 February 2023
394,753
37,447
58,833
15,000
51,090
368,703
36,516
55,263
15,000
52,300

Value of 
shareholding
(% of base fee)(a)

Met  
shareholding 
guideline

134
108
170
43
147
>500
105
159
43
151

✓
✓
✓
✗
✓
✓
✓
✓
✗
✓

(a) The value of Non-executive Directors’ shareholdings is based on the three-month average share price to 25 February 2023 of 238.7p.
(b) John Allan also held 398,000 5.5% 2033 Tesco PLC Medium Term Notes.
(c) Thierry Garnier and Caroline Silver have until 30 April 2026 and 1 October 2027 respectively to meet the shareholding guideline.
(d) Byron Grote holds his shares in the form of American Depositary Receipts (ADRs).
(e) Steve Golsby and Simon Patterson held 41,999 shares and 134,545 shares respectively from 27 February 2022 until they stepped down from the Board on 17 June 2022. 
(f)  The range of the Company’s share price for the year was 290p to 199p. The year-end price was 247p (2021/22: 287p).

Single total figure of remuneration – Non-executive Directors (audited)
The following table sets out the fees paid to the Non-executive Directors for the year ended 25 February 2023. Non-executive Directors are 
not paid a pension and do not participate in any of the Company’s variable incentive schemes. Steve Golsby and Simon Patterson stood 
down from the Board on 17 June 2022, so all fees and taxable expenses for these Non-executive Directors ceased on that date.

Taxable expenses include expense reimbursements relating to travel, accommodation and subsistence in connection with attendance at 
Board and Committee meetings during the year. Each Non-executive Director has the £1,500 colleague discount allowance. John Allan also 
has the benefit of healthcare and a wellness programme for himself and his partner. The amounts in the table below include the grossed-up 
cost of UK tax paid by the Company on behalf of the Non-executive Directors. 

John Allan 
Melissa Bethell 
Bertrand Bodson 
Thierry Garnier 
Stewart Gilliland 
Byron Grote 
Alison Platt 
Lindsey Pownall 
Caroline Silver
Karen Whitworth 
Former Directors
Steve Golsby 
Simon Patterson 

Committee 
memberships

C

RN

A

C

R

NC

A

RN

RN

C R

A

CA

–
–

Date of appointment
1 March 2015 
24 September 2018 
1 June 2021 
30 April 2021 
5 March 2018 
1 May 2015 
1 April 2016 
1 April 2016 
1 October 2022
18 June 2021 

–
–

2022/23

2021/22

Fees 
(£’000)
696
97
97
97 
112
174
124
130
40
112

44 
29 

Taxable 
expenses 
 (£’000)
17
2 
1 
3 
2 
1 
1 
8 
0.5 
–

8
–

Total 
(£’000)
713
99
98 
100 
114 
175 
125 
138 
40.5
112

52 
29 

Fees 
(£’000)
687 
94 
71 
79 
109 
155 
109 
119 
– 
77 

134 
94 

Taxable
expenses
 (£’000)
8 
1 
2 
1 
1 
0.5 
0.5 
2 
– 
0.5 

– 
0.5 

Total 
(£’000)
695 
95 
73 
80 
110 
155.5
109.5 
121 
– 
77.5

134
94.5

Non-executive Directors do not have service contracts. Instead, they are engaged by letters of appointment that are terminable by either 
party with no notice period. There is no compensation in the event of such termination, other than accrued fees and expenses. All Non-
executive Directors will stand for re-election at the 2023 AGM, except Lindsey Pownall who will step down from the Board at the conclusion 
of the AGM.

Approved by the Board on 12 April 2023.

Alison Platt
Remuneration Committee Chair

Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2023

101

Corporate governanceShares held by the Company’s Share Incentive Plan (SIP) Trust, 
International Employee Benefit Trust, Employees’ Share Scheme 
Trust and Booker Group 2010 Employee Benefit Trust rank pari 
passu with the shares in issue and have no special rights. Voting 
rights and rights of acceptance of any offer relating to the shares 
held in these trusts rests with the trustees, who may take account 
of any recommendation from the Company. The trustees of the 
SIP Trust may vote in respect of shares held in the SIP Trust, but 
only as instructed by participants in the SIP in respect of their free 
shares, partnership shares and dividend shares. The trustees 
will not otherwise vote in respect of shares held in the SIP Trust.

The Company is not party to any significant agreements that 
would take effect, alter or terminate following a change of control 
of the Company. The Company does not have agreements with 
any Director or officer that would provide compensation for loss 
of office or employment resulting from a takeover, except that 
provisions of the Company’s share plans may cause options and 
awards granted under such plans to vest on a takeover.

Share forfeiture 
As previously announced, the Group undertook a share forfeiture 
programme in 2021/22. The proceeds of the share forfeiture 
programme generated approximately £5.6m for the Company to 
use towards good causes. Following a review of the funds by the 
Corporate Responsibility Committee, a £1m donation was made to 
FareShare and The Trussell Trust in support of their work 
throughout the winter period. A further £1.2m is to be used in the 
UK, Central Europe and the Republic of Ireland towards Tesco 
Community Grants funding and to provide for additional 
community activities across the Group. The remaining balance of 
c.£3.4m will be utilised for community projects, as part of the 
Golden Grants project, over the next three years. 

Share buyback programme
On 13 April 2022, the Company committed to buying back an 
additional £750m worth of shares by April 2023. The sole purpose 
of the share buyback programme is to reduce the Company’s 
share capital. During the year, the Company bought back through 
market purchases on the London Stock Exchange 314,845,336 
Ordinary shares with a nominal value of 61/3 pence each, 
representing 4.3% of the issued share capital of the Company as 
at 25 February 2023, for a total consideration of approximately 
£781m. The Company also cancelled 4,800,000 shares purchased 
in the previous year, for a total consideration of £14m. For further 
details see Note 30. All of the Ordinary shares bought back have 
been cancelled.

Articles of Association
The Company’s Articles of Association may only be amended by 
special resolution at a general meeting of the shareholders.

Directors’ report

The Directors present their report, together with the audited 
accounts for the 52 weeks ended 25 February 2023.

Dividends
The profit for the financial year, after taxation, amounts to £753m 
(2021/22: £1,523m) from continuing operations. The Directors have 
declared dividends as follows:

Ordinary shares 
Paid interim dividend of 3.85 pence per share(a)  
(2021/22: 3.20 pence per share) 
Proposed final dividend of 7.05 pence per share(b)  
(2021/22: 7.70 pence per share)
Total dividend of 10.90 pence per share for 2022/23(b) 
(2021/22: 10.90 pence per share)

£m

284

516

800

(a) Excludes £2m dividends waived (2021/22: £1m).
(b) Subject to shareholder approval at the 2023 AGM, the final ordinary dividend will be 
paid on 23 June 2023 to all shareholders on the Register of Members at the close of 
business on 12 May 2023.

Certain nominee companies representing our employee benefit 
trusts hold shares in the Company in connection with the 
operation of the Company’s share plans. Evergreen dividend 
waivers remain in place on shares held by these companies 
that have not been allocated to employees.

Dividend policy
It is the Board’s intention to continue to pay a progressive dividend 
by aiming to grow the dividend per share each year, broadly 
targeting a payout of around 50% of earnings.

Share capital and control of the Company 
and significant agreements
Details of the Company’s share capital, including changes during 
the year in the issued share capital and details of the rights 
attaching to the Company’s Ordinary shares are set out in  
Note 30 on page 184.

No shareholder holds securities carrying special rights with 
regards to control of the Company. There are no restrictions 
on voting rights or the transfer of securities in the Company. 
The Company is not aware of any agreements between holders 
of securities that result in such restrictions.

The Company was authorised by shareholders at the 2022 AGM to 
replace the existing authority (as granted by shareholders at the 
AGM held on 25 June 2021) for Directors to allot new shares that 
represent not more than one third of the issued share capital of 
the Company. It was also given the authority to allot relevant 
securities in connection with a rights issue up to a further one 
third of the issued share capital as at 3 May 2022. No shares were 
allotted under that authority during the financial year. The 
Company is seeking to renew this authority at the forthcoming 
AGM, within the limits set out in the notice of that meeting.

The Company was authorised by shareholders at the 2022 AGM to 
replace the existing authority (as granted by shareholders at the 
AGM held on 25 June 2021) to purchase its own shares in the 
market up to a maximum of approximately 10% of its issued share 
capital. The Company is seeking to renew the authority at the 
forthcoming AGM, within the limits set out in the notice of that 
meeting and in line with the recommendations of the Pre-Emption 
Group’s Statement of Principles 2015.

102

Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2023

Appointment and retirement of Directors
The appointment and retirement of Directors is governed by the 
Company’s Articles of Association, the UK Corporate Governance 
Code 2018, the Companies Act 2006 and other related legislation. 
In the interests of good governance, all Directors will retire, and 
those wishing to serve again will submit themselves for re-election 
at the forthcoming AGM.

Lindsey Pownall will be stepping down from the Board and will not 
be seeking re-election at the 2023 AGM. All other Directors are 
submitting themselves for re-election at the forthcoming AGM and 
were subject to a formal and rigorous performance evaluation, 
further details of which can be found on page 61. 

Directors and their interests
The biographical details of the current serving Directors are set 
out on pages 51 to 54. The Directors who served during the 
year were: John Allan; Melissa Bethell; Bertrand Bodson; Thierry 
Garnier; Stewart Gilliland; Byron Grote; Ken Murphy; Imran Nawaz; 
Alison Platt; Lindsey Pownall; Karen Whitworth; Caroline Silver 
(who joined the Board on 1 October 2022); Steve Golsby and Simon 
Patterson (who both stood down from the Board on 17 June 2022). 
The interests of Directors and their immediate families, who 
served during the year, in the shares of Tesco PLC, along with 
details of Executive Directors’ share options, are contained in the 
Directors’ remuneration report set out on pages 77 to 101.

At no time during the year did any of the Directors have a 
material interest in any significant contract with the Company or 
any of its subsidiaries. A qualifying third-party indemnity provision, 
as defined in section 234 of the Companies Act 2006, is in force 
to the extent permitted by law for the benefit of each of the 
Directors and the Group Company Secretary (who is also a 
Director of certain subsidiaries of the Company) in respect of 
liabilities incurred as a result of their office. In respect of those 
liabilities for which Directors may not be indemnified, the 
Company maintained a Directors’ and Officers’ liability insurance 
policy throughout the financial year.

Employment policies 
We have continued to focus on ensuring that our employment 
policies are simple, helpful and trusted, so that our colleagues 
and managers are able to source the information they need 
quickly and easily. 

We have continued to work with USDAW, our recognised trade 
union in the UK, to improve our policies so that they address the 
needs of all our colleagues. These include launching our new 
performance improvement policy, helping managers and 
colleagues understand what performance is, how we measure 
it and the clear and simple process we follow to support 
colleagues to reach their expected level of performance. 

We also launched a new colleague contract in our stores and 
customer fulfilment centres. Our colleagues will now have a set 
number of contracted hours which will be scheduled within their 
availability windows at least three weeks in advance of them 
working. Colleagues will have a primary department where they 
will be scheduled to work the majority of their shifts but may be 
scheduled to work in other areas for some of their working hours. 
This enables colleagues to be flexible with picking up extra hours 
and being fully trained across all areas of the store, leading to 
more interesting and varied jobs. 

Our local and national colleague forums continue to give 
colleagues a voice in how the business is run. Such feedback 
helps us drive our business forward, as our colleagues are closest 
to our customers. To supplement these forums, we have also 
continued our Colleague Contribution Panels. These give our 
colleagues the opportunity to share their views directly with a 
Non-executive Director, who then relays them to the Board for 
discussion and action. 

Our equal opportunities, diversity and inclusion policies support 
managers and colleagues in creating a diverse and inclusive 
culture where everyone is welcome. Our policies demonstrate 
our commitment to providing equal opportunities to all colleagues, 
irrespective of age, disability (including colleagues who may have 
become disabled during service), gender reassignment, marriage 
and civil partnership, pregnancy or maternity, race, religion or 
belief, sex or sexual orientation. This year we recognised 
menopause-related absence, ensuring this type of absence 
would not be included within absence review levels. This ensures 
we are supporting our colleagues during this stage, through 
friendly and supportive wellbeing conversations.

Our aim is to attract and retain a diverse range of applicants from 
all different backgrounds. All of our applicants and colleagues are 
treated fairly and we have a zero-tolerance approach, not only to 
harassment, but also to discrimination and bullying of any kind. 
This includes an expectation that our recruitment systems are 
accessible and managers give full and fair consideration to 
colleagues who have disabilities during recruitment and 
subsequently throughout their career with Tesco, including 
colleagues who may become disabled during their employment, 
where every endeavour will be made to retain colleagues through 
workplace adjustments.

We are also a proud Disability Confident Employer (Level 2) offering 
various activities and programmes to attract, develop and retain 
talented disabled colleagues. Our colleague network for people 
with disabilities provides support by connecting them with people 
who have similar interests and backgrounds and helps them reach 
their full potential. Through action-oriented colleague learning, we 
are focused on raising awareness of the importance of inclusion 
and developing a greater understanding of individual and collective 
responsibility. Supporting our commitment to change, targeted 
learning has been created for all colleagues, as well as specific 
modules for line managers, People and Resourcing teams, and our 
leadership teams. 

Our colleague networks (Armed Forces, Disability, LGBTQ+, 
Parents & Carers, Race & Ethnicity and Women at Tesco) 
provide support in creating a diverse and inclusive culture 
where everyone is welcome. 

We actively encourage colleagues to take an interest in the 
financial performance of our business through bonus plans for 
specific populations. We also operate two HMRC-approved 
all-employee share plans to enable all UK colleagues to share in 
the longer-term success of the business. Colleagues at WL3 
and above across all markets and countries are awarded shares 
through the annual bonus plan, which are deferred at WL4 and 
above. Colleagues at WL4 and above across all markets and 
countries are also awarded shares through the Performance 
Share Plan.

Colleagues in the ROI can also participate in a scheme that is 
aligned to the UK Save As You Earn scheme, so they too can share 
in longer-term business success.

Political donations
The Group did not make any political donations (2021/22: £nil) or 
incur any political expenditure during the year (2021/22: £nil).

Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2023

103

Corporate governanceDirectors’ report continued

Compliance with the Groceries (Supply 
Chain Practices) Market Investigation Order 
2009 and the Groceries Supply Code of 
Practice (the Code)
The Code regulates aspects of the commercial relationship 
between 14 designated grocery retailers in the UK and their 
suppliers of grocery products. The aim of the Code is to establish 
and embed the overarching principles of fairness and lawfulness 
within retailer/supplier relationships. Specific supplier protections 
under the Code include the obligation for agreements to be in 
writing and copies retained; reasonable notice to be given of 
changes to the supply chain or reduction in the volume of 
purchases; and a number of provisions relating to payments to 
suppliers, including obligations for retailers to pay suppliers in 
full and without delay.

Retailer compliance with the Code is overseen by the Groceries 
Code Adjudicator (GCA), Mark White. In 2022/23, we continued 
to engage constructively with Mark White and were delighted for 
the opportunity to have our Chief Product Officer speak at the 
Annual GCA Conference in September 2022. 

In the reporting year, we have continued to develop and expand 
our Code compliance programme. This year, we launched our 
refreshed new starter training module, which was assigned to all 
our Food buying teams in July 2022 as an addition to the annual 
micro-learning refresher training campaign that all Product teams 
completed. We also organised two GSCOP training sessions for the 
legal team and the relevant sales teams at dunnhumby to ensure 
there is understanding and awareness of the GSCOP principles 
which we expect the dunnhumby sales teams to apply. We 
conducted a deep dive into forensic auditing, assessing our 
internal process against the GCA’s best practice statement on 
forensic auditing and implementing a small number of process 
improvements. Due to high inflation caused in part by post-
pandemic recovery and the war in the Ukraine, requests for cost 
price increases (RFCPI) were a sensitive topic throughout the 
reporting year. We ensured that our RFCPI processes are robust, 
clear and in line with the GCA’s 7 Golden Rules by going to great 
lengths to embed the process with our buying teams as well as 
introducing a new module in myProduct to record key data about 
RFCPIs. Lastly, we were particularly pleased that in the GCA’s 
annual supplier survey for 2022, 97% of our suppliers recognised 
that we comply ‘consistently well’ or ‘mostly well’ with the Code, 
an improvement of 1%pt over the 2021 survey, ranking us third out 
of 13 retailers. 

In our own Supplier Viewpoint survey, conducted in January 2023, 
the results continue to reflect the progress we have made with 
our supplier relationships. Our total Group and UK scores for 
suppliers rating their satisfaction with Tesco as either ‘extremely 
satisfied’ or ‘very satisfied’ exceeded our targets. Compared with 
the same period last year, our Group satisfaction score was 86.6% 
and our UK satisfaction score was 87%. Both of these scores are 
not only an increase compared to last year, but our highest scores 
to date and ahead of targets. Among topics relevant to the Code, 
our strongest score in Viewpoint continues to be ‘Tesco pays 
promptly (within policy terms)’ at 92.8%. 88% of suppliers agreed 
that ‘Tesco treats me fairly’. 

Also, in the 2022 independent, industry-wide Advantage survey 
of retailers, we were pleased to be ranked first for overall 
performance for the seventh year running. 

During the preceding financial year, we provided mandatory 
annual refresher training for all colleagues involved in buying 
groceries, including not only the buying teams but also a wider set 
of colleagues including those working in our Quality and Supply 
Chain divisions. In total 804 colleagues completed GSCOP annual 
refresher training, with the majority being trained via role-based, 
microlearning scenarios. 89% of colleagues said that they found 
microlearning a better way to learn and retain training than a single 
longer training module. In addition to refresher training, 245 new 
starters completed new starter GSCOP training and with the small 
exception of a couple of colleagues, all of those required to 
complete the training did so within the 30-day requirement set 
down by the Code. In addition to computer-based training, we 
have also provided numerous face-to-face training sessions on 
GSCOP, whether on a standalone basis or combined with another 
element of legal or regulatory education.

This year, six Code-related issues were raised by suppliers, down 
from 13 during 2021/22. In addition, one issue was carried over 
from 2021/22.

The majority of concerns raised by suppliers related to delisting 
decisions, but in almost all of these cases the suppliers were not 
alleging a breach of GSCOP but were instead seeking to have the 
delisting decision reviewed (or elements of it, such as the number 
of SKUs to be delisted or the duration of the notice period). One 
formal dispute (as defined by Part 5, Article 11 of the GSCOP Order) 
was received during the year.

At the end of the reporting period, we had resolved all but 
one of the issues that were raised during the preceding year, 
following further discussion between the buying team and the 
relevant supplier, or between our Code Compliance Officer 
and the supplier. 

Going concern, longer-term prospects and 
viability statement
The Directors consider that the Group and the Company have 
adequate resources to remain in operation for the foreseeable 
future and have therefore continued to adopt the going concern 
basis in preparing the financial statements. The UK Corporate 
Governance Code (which is publicly available at the website of 
the FRC at www.frc.org.uk) requires the Directors to assess and 
report on the prospects of the Group over a longer period. This 
longer-term viability statement is set out on pages 46 and 47.

Events after the balance sheet date
On 27 February 2023, the Group issued a €500m and a £250m 
bond, maturing in 2031 and 2035 respectively. There were no other 
events after the reporting period requiring disclosure. 

Directors’ statement of disclosure of 
information to the auditor
Each of the persons who is a Director at the date of approval of 
this Annual Report confirms that:

 – so far as the Director is aware, there is no relevant audit 

information of which the Company’s auditor is unaware; and
 – the Director has taken all the steps that he/she ought to have 
taken as a Director in order to make himself/herself aware of 
any relevant audit information and to establish that the 
Company’s auditor is aware of that information.

This confirmation is given and should be interpreted in accordance 
with the provisions of section 418 of the Companies Act 2006.

104

Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2023

Streamlined Energy and Carbon Reporting 
(SECR) disclosures 
A breakdown of our GHG emissions in accordance with our 
regulatory obligation to report GHG emissions pursuant to 
section 7 of the Companies Act 2006 (Strategic Report and 
Directors’ Report) Regulations 2013 and the Companies 
(Directors’ Report), and Limited Liability Partnerships (Energy 
and Carbon Report) Regulations 2018 can be found on page 19. 
We continue to implement initiatives to drive energy efficiency 
across our operations in support of our net zero ambitions. 
Examples include:

 – Completing LED lighting upgrades: following upgrades in 

distribution centres and customer fulfilment centres, we have 
continued to roll out LED lighting across the UK estate improving 
lighting efficiencies in more than 560 stores, resulting in both 
front and back of store having LED lighting. 

 – Continued investment in an enhanced energy monitoring 

platform: insights from monitoring energy usage and key assets 
provide opportunities to further optimise energy usage and 
inform better decisions across our stores portfolio.

 – Heating, ventilation and air-conditioning (HVAC): we continue to 

progress trials for low carbon solutions and drive market 
changes to support decarbonisation plans.

 – Progressing use of Telematics and Hive route planning systems: 
in our home delivery vans and distribution fleet we continue to 
use telematics and improved planning systems, to gain best 
operational efficiencies, improving route plans which reduce 
mileage and energy requirements. 

 – Plans to introduce refrigeration units using CO2 as a refrigerant: 
over the next 12 months, units will be rolled out into distribution 
vehicles in the UK.

 – Introduced electric LGVs into distribution centres: with plans to 
roll out more in 2023/24, as well as introducing refrigeration 
units into vehicles that harness solar power to power these units. 

Modern Slavery Act
As per section 54(1) of the Modern Slavery Act 2015, our Modern 
Slavery Statement is reviewed and approved by the Board on an 
annual basis and published on our Group website. The statement 
covers the activities of Tesco PLC and certain UK subsidiaries and 
details policies, processes and actions we have taken to ensure 
that slavery and human trafficking are not taking place in our 
supply chains or any part of our business. Tesco is dedicated to 
tackling modern slavery both within our own operations and supply 
chains, as well as the issue of forced labour more broadly. Modern 
slavery is one of our four key human rights strategic priority areas, 
in which we work to bring about change through our Improve, 
Transform and Advocate model. 

In our supply chains and within our own business, our greatest 
risks of modern slavery exist where there is a reliance on 
temporary, seasonal, informal and lower-paid labour. Through 
consultation with external experts and Tesco’s in-house team 
expertise, our enhanced modern slavery strategy details our risk 
areas based on regions, products, supply chains and known drivers 
of risk. Based on the above criteria, and established knowledge, 
we have identified four priority areas: primary sites and end-to-
end poultry in Thailand and Malaysia; priority fisheries; UK and 
Central Europe own-operations; and UK seasonal produce.

Our approach to preventing, identifying and mitigating modern 
slavery is based on the five factors that we believe are vital to 
enabling an environment to eradicate modern slavery, which 
include effective grievance mechanisms and remediation. We have 
a robust programme for identifying potential or actual modern 
slavery concerns including regular SEDEX Members Ethical Trade 
Audits (SMETA), training requirements for all primary suppliers and 
a network of 40 in-country specialists. 

Detailed examples of how we have remediated issues identified 
can be found within our Modern Slavery Statement and include the 
reimbursement of identified recruitment fees. Recruitment fees 
and debt bondage are recognised to have a causal factor in more 
than 50% of modern slavery cases globally. As such, we are 
focusing on responsible recruitment as a strategy to mitigate risk 
at the source. We have implemented specific responsible 
recruitment policies for suppliers in Thailand and Malaysia, and are 
working with suppliers in the UK to embed best practice. 

More information on our statement can be found on our website 
at www.tescoplc.com.

Anti-bribery matters
We have a zero-tolerance approach to bribery. Our anti-bribery 
programme operates across the Group. The programme is built 
around a clear understanding of how and where bribery risks 
affect our business and comprises key controls such as: policies 
(anti-bribery, gifts and entertainment, conflicts of interest, 
charitable donations); procedures such as conducting due 
diligence on suppliers (in particular those who will engage public 
officials on our behalf); training colleagues on bribery risks every 
year; and ongoing assurance programmes to test that the controls 
are functioning effectively. Bribery risk management is discussed 
at senior leadership groups in each business unit, including at the 
Group level, and also twice a year with the Audit Committee. 

Cautionary statement regarding forward-
looking information
Where this Annual Report contains forward-looking statements, 
these are based on current expectations and assumptions, and 
speak only as of the date they are made. These statements should 
be treated with caution due to the inherent risks, uncertainties 
and assumptions underlying any such forward-looking information. 

The Group cautions investors that a number of factors, including 
matters referred to in this document, could cause actual results 
to differ materially from those expressed or implied in any 
forward-looking statement. Such factors include, but are not 
limited to, those discussed under principal risks and uncertainties 
on pages 38 to 45.

Forward-looking statements can be identified by the use of 
relevant terminology including the words: ‘may’, ‘will’, ‘seek’, 
‘aim’, ‘anticipate’, ‘target’, ‘projected’, ‘expect’, ‘estimate’, 
‘intend’, ‘plan’, ‘goal’, ‘believe’ or other words of similar 
meaning and include all matters that are not historical facts. 
They appear in a number of places throughout this Annual Report 
and include statements regarding the intentions, beliefs or 
current expectations of our officers, Directors and employees 
concerning, among other things, the Group’s results of 
operations, financial condition, liquidity, prospects, growth, 
strategies and the business.

Neither the Group, nor any of its officers, Directors or employees, 
provides any representation, assurance or guarantee that the 
occurrence of the events expressed or implied in any forward-
looking statements in this Annual Report will actually occur. 
Undue reliance should not be placed on these forward-looking 
statements. Other than in accordance with our legal and 
regulatory obligations, the Group undertakes no obligation to 
publicly update or revise any forward-looking statement, whether 
as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.

Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2023

105

Corporate governanceIn preparing the Group financial statements, International 
Accounting Standard 1 requires that Directors:

 – properly select and apply accounting policies;
 – present information, including accounting policies, in a manner 

that provides relevant, reliable, comparable and understandable 
information;

 – provide additional disclosures when compliance with the 

specific requirements in IFRSs are insufficient to enable users 
to understand the impact of particular transactions, other 
events and conditions on the entity’s financial position and 
financial performance; and

 – make an assessment of the Company’s ability to continue as a 

going concern.

The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting 
records that are sufficient to show and explain the Company’s 
transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time 
the financial position of the Company, and enable them to ensure 
that the financial statements comply with the Companies Act 
2006. They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of 
the Company and hence for taking reasonable steps for the 
prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities. 
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity 
of the corporate and financial information included on the 
Company’s website. Legislation in the United Kingdom governing 
the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may 
differ from legislation in other jurisdictions. Each of the serving 
Directors, whose names and functions are set out on pages 51 
to 54, confirms that, to the best of their knowledge:

 – the financial statements, prepared in accordance with the 

relevant financial reporting framework, give a true and fair view 
of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit or loss of 
the Company and the undertakings included in the consolidation 
taken as a whole;

 – the Strategic report includes a fair review of the development 

and performance of the business and the position of the 
Company and the undertakings included in the consolidation 
taken as a whole, together with a description of the principal 
risks and uncertainties that they face; and

 – the Annual Report and Financial Statements, taken as a whole, 

are fair, balanced and understandable and provide the 
information necessary for shareholders to assess the 
Company’s position and performance, business model and 
strategy.

By order of the Board 

Robert Welch
Group Company Secretary 
12 April 2023

Directors’ report continued

Additional disclosures
Other information that is relevant to the Directors’ report, and 
which is incorporated by reference into this report, can be 
located as follows:

Events after the reporting period 
Future developments 
Research and development 
Financial instruments and financial risk management 
GHG emissions 
Corporate governance report 
Colleague engagement 
Stakeholder engagement 
Section 172 statement 

Pages
198
4 to 47
4 to 47
158 to 176
19
48 to 106
16 and 17
26 and 27
25

Disclosures required pursuant to the Listing Rules can be found 
on the following pages:

Listing Rule 9.8.4R
Statement of capitalised interest 
Allotment for cash of equity securities 
Waiver of dividends
Listing Rule 9.8.6(8)
Climate-related financial disclosures consistent with 
TCFD

Pages

139 to 141
184
102

20 to 24

The Company has chosen, in accordance with section 414C(11) of 
the Companies Act 2006, and as noted in this Directors’ report, to 
include certain matters in its Strategic report that would otherwise 
be required to be disclosed in this Directors’ report. The Strategic 
report can be found on pages 1 to 47 and includes an indication of 
future likely developments in the Company, details of important 
events and the Company’s business model and strategy.

Statement of Directors’ responsibilities
The Directors are responsible for preparing the annual report 
and the financial statements in accordance with applicable 
law and regulations.

Company law requires the Directors to prepare financial 
statements for each financial year. Under that law, the 
Directors are required to prepare the Group financial 
statements in accordance with UK-adopted international 
accounting standards and applicable UK law. The Directors 
have also chosen to prepare the Parent Company financial 
statements in accordance with United Kingdom Generally 
Accepted Accounting Practice (United Kingdom Accounting 
Standards and applicable law), including Financial Reporting 
Standard (FRS) 101 Reduced Disclosure Framework. Under 
company law, the Directors must not approve the financial 
statements unless they are satisfied that they give a true and 
fair view of the state of affairs of the Company and of the profit 
or loss of the Company for that period.

In preparing the Parent Company financial statements, the 
Directors are required to:

 – select suitable accounting policies and then apply them 

consistently;

 – make judgements and accounting estimates that are reasonable 

and prudent;

 – state whether applicable UK Accounting Standards have been 
followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and 
explained in the financial statements; and

 – prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis 
unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Company will 
continue in business.

106

Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2023

Independent auditor’s report to the members of Tesco PLC

Report on the audit of the financial 
statements

1. Opinion
In our opinion:

 – the financial statements of Tesco PLC (the Parent Company) 

and its subsidiaries (the Group) give a true and fair view of the 
state of the Group’s and of the Parent Company’s affairs as at 
25 February 2023 and of the Group’s profit for the 52 week 
period then ended;

 – the Group financial statements have been properly prepared 
in accordance with United Kingdom adopted international 
accounting standards;

 – the Parent Company financial statements have been properly 

prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally 
Accepted Accounting Practice, including Financial Reporting 
Standard 101 ‘Reduced Disclosure Framework’; and

 – the financial statements have been prepared in accordance 

with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006.

We have audited the financial statements which comprise:

 – the Group income statement;
 – the Group statement of comprehensive income/(loss);
 – the Group and Parent Company balance sheets;
 – the Group and Parent Company statements of changes 

in equity;

 – the Group cash flow statement; and
 – the related Notes 1 to 35 of the Group financial statements 

and Notes 1 to 16 of the Parent Company financial statements.

The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the 
preparation of the Group financial statements is applicable law 
and United Kingdom adopted international accounting standards. 
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the 
preparation of the Parent Company financial statements is 
applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting Standards, 
including FRS 101 ‘Reduced Disclosure Framework’  
(United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice).

2. Basis for opinion
We conducted our audit in accordance with International 
Standards on Auditing (UK) (ISAs (UK)) and applicable law. 
Our responsibilities under those standards are further 
described in the auditor’s responsibilities for the audit of 
the financial statements section of our report. 

We are independent of the Group and the Parent Company in 
accordance with the ethical requirements that are relevant to 
our audit of the financial statements in the UK, including the 
Financial Reporting Council’s (the ‘FRC’s’) Ethical Standard as 
applied to listed public interest entities, and we have fulfilled 
our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with these 
requirements. The non-audit services provided to the Group and 
Parent Company for the year are disclosed in Note 3 (Operating 
expenses) to the financial statements. We confirm that we have 
not provided any non-audit services prohibited by the FRC’s 
Ethical Standard to the Group or the Parent Company.

We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient 
and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion.

3. Summary of our audit approach
Key audit matters
The key audit matters that we identified in the current year were:

 – store impairment review;
 – Tesco Bank loan impairment;
 – recognition of commercial income; 
 – Tesco Bank goodwill impairment;
 – pension valuation; and
 – retail technology environment, including IT security.

Within this report, key audit matters are identified as follows:

Newly identified

Increased level of risk
Similar level of risk
Decreased level of risk

Materiality
The materiality that we used for the Group financial statements 
was £100m (2021/22: £100m) which was determined on the 
basis of 4.64% (2021/22: 4.60%) of adjusted profit before tax 
from continuing operations (including net pension finance  
income/(cost)) as described further on page 115.

Scoping
Our audit scoping provides full scope and specified scope audit 
coverage of 97% (2021/22: 96%) of revenue from continuing 
operations, 93% (2021/22: 98%) of operating profit from 
continuing operations and 96% (2021/22: 95%) of total assets.

Significant changes in our approach
There are no significant changes in our approach in comparison 
to prior year.

4. Conclusions relating to going concern
In auditing the financial statements, we have concluded that the 
Directors’ use of the going concern basis of accounting in the 
preparation of the financial statements is appropriate.

Our evaluation of the Directors’ assessment of the Group’s and 
Parent Company’s ability to continue to adopt the going concern 
basis of accounting included:

 – obtaining confirmation for the financing facilities including 

nature of facilities, repayment terms and covenants to ensure 
that these facilities remain available at year end;

 – assessing the reasonableness of the assumptions used in the 
Group’s funding plan approved by the Board (which included 
the impact of global supply chain pressures and recessionary 
impact on customers’ disposal income);

 – testing the clerical accuracy used to prepare the forecasts 

including obtaining an understanding of relevant controls over 
management’s model;

 – reviewing the liquidity forecast and undertaking sensitivities 

to assess whether there is sufficient headroom;

 – challenging the assumptions used within the Group’s going 

concern model by obtaining third-party and market data and 
evaluating any differences between this data and the 
judgement and assumptions used;

 – evaluating the historical accuracy of forecasts prepared by 

management;

 – considering the mitigating factors identified by management 

in relation to their going concern analysis; and

 – assessing the appropriateness of the Group’s disclosure 

concerning the going concern basis.

Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2023

107

Financial statementsIndependent auditor’s report to the members of Tesco PLC continued

Based on the work we have performed, we have not identified 
any material uncertainties relating to events or conditions that, 
individually or collectively, may cast significant doubt on the 
Group’s and Parent Company’s ability to continue as a going 
concern for a period of at least 12 months from when the financial 
statements are authorised for issue.

In relation to the reporting on how the Group has applied the UK 
Corporate Governance Code, we have nothing material to add or 
draw attention to in relation to the Directors’ statement in the 
financial statements about whether the Directors considered it 
appropriate to adopt the going concern basis of accounting.

Our responsibilities and the responsibilities of the Directors with 
respect to going concern are described in the relevant sections 
of this report.

5. Key audit matters
Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional 
judgement, were of most significance in our audit of the financial 
statements for the current period and include the most significant 
assessed risks of material misstatement (whether or not due to 
fraud) that we identified. These matters included those which 
had the greatest effect on the overall audit strategy, the 
allocation of resources in the audit and directing the efforts 
of the engagement team.

These matters were addressed in the context of our audit of 
the financial statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion 
thereon, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these 
matters.

Key audit matter description

How the scope of our audit responded to the key audit matter

Key observations

Based on our audit procedures 
we are satisfied that the 
assumptions in the impairment 
models are within an 
acceptable range, and that the 
estimate of the Group’s net 
impairment charge is 
reasonable.

We also consider the 
disclosures, including the 
sensitivity disclosure in Note 14, 
to be appropriate.

5.1 Store impairment review 
As described in Note 1 (Accounting policies, 
judgements and estimates), Note 11 (Property, 
plant and equipment) and Note 12 (Leases) of 
the financial statements, the Group held 
£16,862m (2021/22: £17,060m) of property, plant 
and equipment and £5,500m of right of use 
assets (2021/22: £5,720m) at 25 February 2023. 

Under IAS 36 ‘Impairment of Assets’, the Group 
is required to complete an impairment review of 
its store portfolio where there are indicators of 
impairment or impairment reversal. Judgement 
is required in identifying indicators of 
impairment charges or reversals and estimation 
is required in determining the recoverable 
amount of the Group’s store portfolio.

Where a review for impairment, or reversal of 
impairment, is conducted, the recoverable 
amount is determined based on the higher of 
‘value in use’ or ‘fair value less costs of disposal’. 

Value in use has been calculated using 
probability-weighted cash flows reflecting 
management’s best estimate of the impact of 
the economic environment and climate change 
on the future trading performance of the 
Group. Further details of the probability-
weighted cash flows are set out in Note 14 
(Impairment of non-current assets) of the 
financial statements.

Management estimate the fair value less costs 
to dispose of the stores with the assistance of 
independent professional valuers. External 
valuations are obtained for a sample of stores, 
the results of which are then used by 
management’s in-house experts to determine 
the fair value of the other properties. Further 
details of the basis for the valuation are set out 
in Note 14.

In making their assessment of value in use and 
fair value less costs to dispose, management 
has considered the impact of the 
macroeconomic trading environment 
(including the impact of cost of living increases 
and fluctuations in energy costs and inflation) 
on forecast cash flows and property fair 
values where conditions existed at the 
balance sheet date.

Our audit procedures included obtaining an 
understanding of relevant controls around the 
impairment review process. Our procedures 
in relation to the Group’s value in use 
assessment included:

 – challenging the key assumptions utilised in the cash 
flow forecasts with reference to historical trading 
performance, the wider economic environment 
(including possible macroeconomic impacts of the 
cost-of-living crisis and fluctuations in energy costs 
and inflation), anticipated changes in consumer 
behaviour, competitor actions, our understanding 
of the Group’s strategic initiatives, climate change 
considerations and leveraging our wider industry 
knowledge;

 – reviewing the accuracy of past forecasts of growth 
rates and future cash flows to assess the level of 
accuracy of the forecasting process;

 – performing sensitivity analyses to assess the impact 

on impairment of a change in the probability 
percentages applied to the cash flow scenarios;
 – with the involvement of our valuation specialists, 
calculating an independent range and evaluating 
management’s inputs to their discount rate and 
long-term growth rate;

 – assessing and challenging the adequacy of 

management’s sensitivity analysis in relation to key 
assumptions to consider the extent of change in 
those assumptions that, either individually or 
collectively, would be required to lead to a 
significant further impairment charge or reversal, in 
particular forecast cash flows, discount rates and 
property fair values, in light of increased market 
volatility due to the cost-of-living crisis and 
fluctuations in energy prices and inflation;
 – using analytical techniques to identify unusual 

trends in data inputs and model outputs, to identify 
inaccurate data and any modelling errors or 
management bias; 

 – assessing the methodology applied in determining 
the value in use compared with the requirements 
of IAS 36, including challenging the appropriateness 
of excluding certain cashflows contained within the 
LTP which are not permissible under IAS 36; and
 – checking the integrity of the value in use model 

prepared by the Group, with the assistance of our 
specialist modelling team. 

108

Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2023

Key audit matter description

How the scope of our audit responded to the key audit matter

Key observations

5.1 Store impairment review continued

In relation to the Group’s stores where their value is 
supported by fair value less costs to dispose, our 
procedures included challenging the assumptions used by 
the Group in determining the fair market value, including 
those completed by external valuers and assessing whether 
appropriate valuation methodologies have been applied. 
Where stores are supported by their fair values less costs 
to dispose (rather than value in use) but management plan 
to continue to trade in the store, we have challenged 
management as to why the fair value is appropriate in 
these circumstances. Our property valuation specialists 
have been involved in evaluating the fair value less cost to 
sell and, as part of our work performed, we have evaluated 
the competence, capability and objectivity of 
management’s valuers.

We also evaluated whether there was appropriate 
disclosure regarding sensitivities associated with 
management’s impairment review.

The key audit matter relates specifically 
to the UK trading store portfolio which 
represents 80% of both the Group’s 
property, plant and equipment and right 
of use asset balances.

Management’s impairment review is 
sensitive to changes in the key assumptions 
as set out in Note 14. Judgement is 
required to forecast store cash flows 
which are derived from the Board 
approved Long Term Plan (LTP). In 
particular, the impairment model is 
sensitive to changes to the year 3 cash 
flow as this cash flow is discounted 
into the long term in the value in use 
calculation. Key areas of judgement in the 
cash flow forecasts include the ability of 
management to achieve their forecasts in 
light of changing consumer behaviour, the 
volatile retail environment and the Group’s 
ability to realise forecast cost savings.

Other areas of key estimation in the store 
impairment review are as follows:

 – the probability applied to each cash flow 
scenario in calculating the probability-
weighted cash flows;

 – the adjustments made to the LTP 

cashflows to ensure the impairment 
model cashflows comply with IAS 36;
 – the discount rate and long-term growth 
rate used to determine value in use from 
the probability-weighted cash flows; and

 – the fair value of properties supporting 
the carrying value of store assets, in 
particular in response to the changing 
retail and broader property landscape.

The LTP is prepared on a top-down basis 
and not at an individual store level. 
Management perform an exercise to 
allocate forecast performance across 
individual stores within the portfolio 
ensuring cashflows derived from the LTP 
are in accordance with IAS 36. This 
increases the complexity and level of 
judgement within the impairment model.

As a result of the Group’s store impairment 
review completed during the year, a net 
impairment charge of £982m (2021/22: 
£115m) was recognised. The sensitivities 
associated with management’s impairment 
review are presented within Note 14 to the 
financial statements.

The Audit Committee’s discussion of this 
key audit matter is set out on page 74.

Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2023

109

Financial statementsIndependent auditor’s report to the members of Tesco PLC continued

Key audit matter description

How the scope of our audit responded to the key audit matter

Key observations

Based on our audit procedures 
we are satisfied that 
management’s provision is 
reasonably stated, and is 
supported by a methodology 
that is consistently applied and 
compliant with IFRS 9. We 
consider the sensitivity 
disclosures provided in Note 27 
(Financial risk management) to 
the financial statements to be 
appropriate.

5.2 Tesco Bank loan impairment
As disclosed in Note 23 (Loans and advances to 
customers), the Group held an expected credit 
loss (ECL) provision in respect of loans and 
advances to customers of £461m at 25 February 
2023 (2021/22: £489m). The ECL on loans and 
advances to customers charged to the income 
statement was £61m in the year to 25 February 
2023 (2021/22: £30m credit). The increase in the 
charge compared to the prior year is primarily 
due to the impact of the worsening 
macroeconomic outlook in the current year, 
partially offset by a reduction in post-model 
adjustments (PMAs), including the release of 
COVID-19 related PMAs.

Loan impairment remains one of the most 
significant judgements made by management. 
We consider the most significant areas of 
judgement within the Group’s collective 
provisioning methodologies, and therefore the 
key audit matters within loan impairment, to be:

 – Macroeconomic scenarios: ECL provisions 
are required to be calculated on a forward-
looking basis under IFRS 9 ‘Financial 
Instruments. Management, with the assistance 
of external economic specialists, apply 
significant judgement in determining the 
forecast macroeconomic scenarios and the 
probability weighting of each scenario that 
are incorporated into the ECL model. 

 – PMAs: Management has included a customer 
uncertainty PMA of £22m (2021/22: £75m) and 
model underestimation and uncertainty PMA 
of £68m (2021/22: £nil) to capture the 
potential downside risks and model limitations 
arising as a result of the continued 
macroeconomic uncertainty and cost-of-
living crisis on the Bank’s customers.

Other material judgements include the 
determination of the expected lifetime, the 
definition of a significant increase in credit 
risk, the determination of probability of default 
and exposure at default, the identification of 
loss events and the determination of loss 
given default.

Given the material impact of the significant 
judgements taken by management in the 
measurement of the ECL provision, we also 
consider there is an inherent risk of fraud 
through manipulation of this balance.

Management’s associated accounting policies 
are detailed in Note 1, including detail about the 
judgements made in applying accounting policies 
and critical accounting estimates.

The Audit Committee’s discussion of this key 
audit matter is set out on page 74.

We have obtained an understanding of and assessed 
the relevant controls, including model governance 
forums, model monitoring and calibration, the 
determination of PMAs, the review and approval of 
macroeconomic scenarios, the flow of data from 
the Group’s information systems into the ECL model, 
and the flow of the output of the ECL model to the 
general ledger.

Our audit work to address the key audit matter 
included the procedures noted below.

Macroeconomic scenarios and related model 
refinements
With support from internal economic modelling 
specialists, we challenged the macroeconomic 
scenario forecasts that were incorporated into 
the ECL model, including management’s selection 
of the relevant macroeconomic variables.  
We assessed management’s forecasts and their 
probability against external sources to assess their 
reasonableness, considering the forecasts in light 
of any contradictory information.

We also assessed the competence, capabilities 
and objectivity of management’s external 
economic specialist, who supplies the 
macroeconomic forecasts to management, and 
considered whether the methodology adopted 
by the expert was reasonable.

We also evaluated whether there was appropriate 
disclosure regarding the macroeconomic scenarios 
selected by management, their probability weighting, 
and the related sensitivities.

PMAs
With support from our credit risk specialists, we 
challenged the appropriateness of the customer 
uncertainty and model underestimation risk 
uncertainty PMAs recorded by management, as 
well as the completeness of PMAs with reference 
to our observations in the broader market and 
understanding of the risk profile of the portfolio.

We evaluated the accuracy of the calculation of the 
PMAs, which included an assessment of the 
completeness and accuracy of the underlying data 
used by management in their calculation.

We also evaluated whether there was appropriate 
disclosure regarding the significant PMAs including 
how they were determined and the range of 
possible outcomes.

110

Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2023

Key audit matter description

How the scope of our audit responded to the key audit matter

Key observations

Based on our audit procedures 
we are satisfied that the 
recognition of commercial 
income is satisfactory. We 
consider the disclosure given 
in the financial statements 
around commercial income 
provides an appropriate 
understanding of the types of 
rebate income received and 
the impact on the Group’s 
balance sheet.

5.3 Recognition of commercial income

As described in Note 1 (Accounting policies, 
judgements and estimates) and Note 20 
(Commercial income) of the financial 
statements, the Group has agreements with 
suppliers whereby volume-related allowances, 
promotional and marketing allowances and 
various other fees and discounts are received in 
connection with the purchase of goods for 
resale from those suppliers. As such, the Group 
recognises a reduction in cost of sales as a result 
of amounts receivable from those suppliers.

Commercial income should only be recognised 
as income within the income statement when 
the performance conditions associated with it 
have been met, for example where the 
marketing campaign has been held. 

The variety and number of the buying 
arrangements with suppliers can make it 
complex to determine the performance 
conditions associated with the income, giving 
rise to a requirement for management 
judgement. As such we have identified this as 
a key audit matter and considered that there 
was a potential for fraud through possible 
manipulation of this income for promotional 
space and cost price reconciliation agreements.

With the exception of the UK retail business, we 
consider the risk associated with commercial 
income in all other components of the Group to 
have reduced in comparison to the prior year, 
reflecting the changing nature and quantum of 
the associated commercial income 
arrangements in these businesses.

The Audit Committee’s discussion of this key 
audit matter is set out on page 74.

Our audit procedures included obtaining an 
understanding of relevant controls that the 
Group has established in relation to commercial 
income recognition.

In addition, we performed the following:

 – used data analytics to identify commercial income 

deals which exhibited characteristics of audit 
interest, such as those related to promotional 
space or cost price reconciliations, upon which 
we completed detailed audit testing;

 – tested whether amounts recognised were 

accurate and recorded in the correct period by 
circularising a sample of suppliers to test whether 
the arrangements recorded were in accordance 
with the terms agreed in advance with the 
suppliers with regard to the nature, timing and 
amount of the promotions. Where responses from 
suppliers were not received, we completed 
alternative procedures such as agreement to 
underlying contractual arrangements;

 – tested the year-end accrual for promotional deals 
to assess whether performance obligations have 
been fulfilled where they have been invoiced 
subsequent to year end;

 – tested the mechanical accuracy of calculations 

in respect of relevant arrangements;

 – held discussions with certain suppliers to further 

understand relevant arrangements;

 – held discussions with members of the Group’s 
buying personnel to further understand the 
buying processes;

 – tested the completeness of commercial income by 
evaluating management’s review and conclusions 
related to any commercial income deals that may 
have been missed and performing analytical 
procedures to identify deals where performance 
obligations have been fulfilled but invoicing could 
not occur due to pending final administrative 
procedures;

 – tested commercial income balances included 

within inventories and trade and other receivables, 
or netted against trade and other payables (as set 
out in Note 20) via balance sheet reconciliation 
procedures;

 – assessed the Group’s ongoing compliance with the 
Groceries Supplier Code of Practice (GSCOP), and 
additionally, evaluated the reporting and 
correspondence to the Group’s supplier hotline in 
order to identify any areas where further 
investigation was required; and

 – assessed the appropriateness of the disclosures 
made in relation to commercial income in the 
Group’s financial statements.

Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2023

111

Financial statementsIndependent auditor’s report to the members of Tesco PLC continued

Key audit matter description

How the scope of our audit responded to the key audit matter

Key observations

Based on our audit procedures 
we are satisfied that the 
assumptions in the Tesco Bank 
goodwill impairment model are 
reasonable and supportable 
based on available evidence, 
both internal and external, and 
that no impairment was 
required. We also consider the 
disclosures, including the 
sensitivity disclosure in Note 14, 
to be appropriate.

Our audit procedures included obtaining an 
understanding of relevant controls in relation to the 
review and approval of the discount rate and Tesco 
Bank’s cash flow forecasts used in the model.

We have also performed a series of specific audit 
procedures to address the key audit matter which 
included the following:

Discount rate
Use of specialists: We involved our valuation 
specialists in testing the discount rate used in 
calculating the recoverable amount. We calculated 
an independent range of acceptable discount rates 
and challenged management’s inputs to their own 
calculation.

Cashflow forecasts
Forecasting accuracy: We assessed management’s 
forecasting accuracy based on the historical 
forecasts and actuals. 

Key assumptions: We have agreed the underlying 
cashflow forecasts to the latest Board approved 
long-term plan LTP and challenged the achievability 
of the revenue growth and cost reduction 
assumptions in the outer years of the cash flow 
forecasts. This included consideration of 
management’s specific initiatives for delivering 
growth and whether forecast margins are in line 
with historical margins and what is observed in 
the wider market.

Use of independent market expectations: We 
performed a comparison of the Bank’s forecast 
earnings multiple with those of other competitors 
within the banking sector to assess the overall 
reasonableness of the forecasts.

Disclosure
We also evaluated whether there was appropriate 
disclosure regarding the discount rate and other key 
assumptions, including the sensitivity disclosure.

5.4 Tesco Bank goodwill impairment

As described in Note 1 (Accounting policies, 
judgements and estimates) and Note 10 (Goodwill 
and other intangible assets) of the financial 
statements, the Group held £4,327m (2021/22: 
£4,291m) of goodwill, of which £500m relates to 
Tesco Bank (2021/22: £500m).

Under IAS 36 ‘Impairment of assets’, the Group 
is required to review goodwill for impairment at 
least annually by assessing the recoverable 
amount of each cash-generating unit, or 
group of cash-generating units, to which the 
goodwill relates. 

Assessing the recoverable amount of the Tesco 
Bank cash-generating unit requires a high level 
of judgement in forecasting future cash flows, 
determining future growth rates and estimating 
the discount rate to be applied.

The key audit matter specifically relates to the 
following: 

 – the post-tax discount rate that management 

apply to the cashflows; and

 – the cashflow forecasts reflected in the 

long-term plan, in particular whether the 
assumptions on revenue growth and the 
future cost base are achievable and reflect 
the long-term economic outlook and sector 
trends.

Tesco Bank goodwill is sensitive to changes in the 
key assumptions, in particular the discount rate 
and long-term plan cash flows, with a 0.3%pt 
increase in the discount rate, decrease in annual 
equity cashflows of 4.3% or decrease in 
long-term growth rate of 0.4%pt reducing the 
year-end headroom of £51m to £nil, as noted in 
Note 14. 

As management have continued to execute and 
deliver against Tesco Bank’s strategy, the 
uncertainty associated with achieving the 
planned cash flows associated with its value in 
use is reduced. We have therefore reduced the 
risk level associated with the Tesco Bank goodwill 
impairment from the prior year.

The Audit Committee’s discussion of this key 
audit matter is set out on page 72.

112

Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2023

Key audit matter description

How the scope of our audit responded to the key audit matter

Key observations

Based on our audit procedures 
we are satisfied that the overall 
methodology is appropriate, 
and the key assumptions 
applied in relation to 
determining the pension 
valuation are within our 
reasonable range.

5.5 Pension valuation 

As described in Note 1 (Accounting policies, 
judgements and estimates) and Note 29 
(Post-employment benefits) of the financial 
statements, the Group has a defined benefit 
pension plan in the UK retail business. At 25 
February 2023, the Group recorded a net 
retirement benefit deficit before deferred tax of 
£394m (2021/22: net retirement benefit surplus 
before deferred tax of £2,847m), comprising plan 
assets of £13,025m (2021/22: £22,390m) and plan 
liabilities of £13,416m (2021/22: £19,543m). The 
net retirement deficit of £394m (2021/22: 
surplus of £2,847m) before deferred tax 
comprises schemes in surplus of £6m (2021/22: 
£3,150m) and schemes in deficit of £400m 
(2021/22: £303m).

The valuation of the Group’s pension obligations 
is sensitive to changes in key assumptions and is 
dependent on market conditions. The key audit 
matter specifically relates to the key financial 
and demographic assumptions linked to the 
valuation of the UK retail pension plan 
obligations: discount rate, inflation expectations 
and mortality assumptions. The setting of these 
assumptions is complex and requires the 
exercise of significant management judgement 
with the support of management’s actuaries 
and valuation experts. 

The Audit Committee’s discussion of this key 
audit matter is set out on page 74.

Our audit procedures included obtaining an 
understanding of relevant controls in relation to 
the pension obligation valuation process. 

In addition, we involved our actuarial specialists 
to assess the key actuarial assumptions used, 
both financial and demographic, and considered 
the methodology utilised to derive these 
assumptions. In order to assess and challenge the 
reasonableness of management’s discount rate, 
we independently calculated an appropriate range 
from available market data and compared this to 
management’s rate. 

Working with our actuarial experts, we benchmarked 
and challenged other assumptions used by 
management in determining the value of pension 
liabilities, particularly focusing on inflation and 
mortality. This included comparing the inputs and 
assumptions used in determining the valuation of 
the UK retail pension plan to those used in 
comparable pension plans and our internal 
benchmarks. In particular we considered the 
adjustment made by management to the Continuous 
Mortality Investigation (CMI) 2021 mortality tables 
to apply a weighting factor to reflect its assessment 
of the potential COVID-19 mortality impact, with 
reference to advice the Group has received from its 
actuaries.

Additionally, we have considered the competence, 
capabilities and objectivity of the actuaries and 
valuation experts engaged by management to 
perform valuations of the relevant plans.

Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2023

113

Financial statementsIndependent auditor’s report to the members of Tesco PLC continued

Key audit matter description

How the scope of our audit responded to the key audit matter

Key observations

5.6 Retail technology environment, including IT security

Since 2015/16 we have reported deficiencies 
in certain IT controls within the retail IT 
systems, which could have an adverse impact 
on the Group’s controls and financial 
reporting systems.

We have continued to challenge and assess 
changes to the IT environment through the testing 
of remediated controls and concluding on the 
sufficiency and appropriateness of 
management’s changes. 

Management has implemented a remediation 
plan on control deficiencies related to 
Application User Access Management and 
Privileged Access Management, progress against 
which is monitored. IT remediation is a complex, 
multi-year project involving management 
judgement and processes which are at risk of 
being inappropriately designed or executed.

Areas of management’s remediation programme 
to which the key audit matter has been 
pinpointed include:

 – appropriateness of remediated access 

controls across in-scope applications and 
their supporting infrastructure; and 

 – whether the remediated controls address 

previously identified deficiencies.

During the year we have obtained an understanding 
of relevant controls over the information systems 
that are important to financial reporting, including 
the changes made as part of the Group’s IT 
remediation programme. 

Consistent with previous years we did not plan to 
take a control-reliant audit approach in the retail 
business due to the weaknesses in the IT 
environment. 

We have obtained an understanding of relevant 
manual controls which relate to identified 
deficiencies and consistent with the prior year we 
extended the scope of our substantive audit 
procedures in response to the deficiencies which 
affected the applications and databases within the 
scope of our audit.

Although management’s 
remediation plan is designed 
to address the historic 
deficiencies identified, given 
the complexity of the underlying 
systems the plan is a multi-year 
programme and not yet 
complete. Based on our audit 
procedures we have continued 
to see progress in 
management’s remediation 
plan, in particular regarding 
user access management. 
Further remediation work is 
ongoing.

We consider the level of risk associated with this 
key audit matter has reduced from the prior 
year due to the continued progress made during 
the current year in remediating the historical IT 
control deficiencies identified.

The Audit Committee’s discussion of this key 
audit matter is set out on page 73.

114

Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2023

6. Our application of materiality
6.1 Materiality
We define materiality as the magnitude of misstatement in the financial statements that makes it probable that the economic decisions of a 
reasonably knowledgeable person would be changed or influenced. We use materiality both in planning the scope of our audit work and in 
evaluating the results of our work.

Based on our professional judgement, we determined materiality for the financial statements as a whole as follows:

Parent Company financial statements
£75m (2021/22: £75m)

Materiality represents less than 1% 
(2021/22: less than 1%) of net assets.

As this is the Parent Company of the Group, it does not 
generate significant revenues other than investment 
returns, but incurs costs.

Net assets are of most relevance to users of the financial 
statements.

Materiality
Basis for 
determining 
materiality
Rationale for  
the benchmark 
applied

Group financial statements
£100m (2021/22: £100m)

4.64% (2021/22: 4.60%) of adjusted profit before tax 
(including net pension finance income/(cost)) of £2,156m 
(2021/22: £2,175m).

We have determined materiality based on 4.64% of 
adjusted profit before tax from continuing operations 
(including net pension finance income/(cost)). Adjusting 
items are defined in Note 1 and include net pension 
finance income/(cost). For the purpose of our materiality 
determination we have excluded them from adjusting 
items and therefore increased/(reduced) adjusted profit 
before tax accordingly. Our determined materiality 
represents 0.15% (2021/22: 0.16%) of the Group’s revenue 
from continuing operations and 0.8% (2021/22: 0.6%) of 
net assets.

Refer to Note 4 (Adjusting items) for further details of 
adjusting items and management’s reconciliation of this 
alternative performance measure to the Group’s 
statutory measure. 

Component 
materiality

The work performed on components identified in our Group audit scope (excluding the Parent Company) was 
completed to a component materiality level between £10m and £49m (2021/22: £9m and £49m).

Adjusted profit 
before tax from 
continuing 
operations 
(including net 
pension finance 
income/cost) 
£2,156m

Group materiality £100m

Component materiality range 
£10m to £49m

Audit Committee reporting 
threshold £5m

Adjusted profit before tax from 
continuing operations (including 
net pension finance income/cost)

Group materiality

6.2 Performance materiality
We set performance materiality at a level lower than materiality to reduce the probability that, in aggregate, uncorrected and undetected 
misstatements exceed the materiality for the financial statements as a whole.

Performance 
materiality
Basis and rationale 
for determining 
performance 
materiality

Group financial statements
65% (2021/22: 65%) of Group materiality

Parent Company financial statements
65% (2021/22: 65%) of Parent Company materiality 

As we continue to be unable to rely on internal controls in the retail business, consistent with previous years, we 
have used a lower percentage of materiality to determine our performance materiality for 2022/23. In determining 
our performance materiality we have also considered the nature, quantum and volume of corrected and 
uncorrected misstatements in prior periods, including prior period errors, and our expectation that misstatements 
from prior periods would not likely recur in the current period.

6.3 Error reporting threshold
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to the Committee all audit differences in excess of £5m (2021/22: £5m), as well as 
differences below that threshold that, in our view, warranted reporting on qualitative grounds. We also report to the Audit Committee on 
disclosure matters that we identified when assessing the overall presentation of the financial statements.

Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2023

115

Financial statementsIndependent auditor’s report to the members of Tesco PLC continued

7. An overview of the scope of our audit
7.1 Identification and scoping of components
Our Group audit was scoped by obtaining an understanding of the 
Group and its environment, including Group-wide controls, and 
assessing the risks of material misstatement at the Group level. 
The Group has subsidiary grocery retail operations in five 
countries, together with interests in a number of other businesses 
both in the UK and internationally.

The Group’s accounting process is structured around business 
units managed by local finance functions and further supported by 
shared service centres in Bengaluru, India and Budapest, Hungary 
which provide accounting and administrative support for the 
Group’s core retail operations. Each local finance function reports 
through to the central Group finance function based at the 
Group’s head office.

Based on our assessment of the Group, we focused our Group 
audit scope primarily on the audit work on six significant retail 
locations (UK, Booker, Republic of Ireland, Czech Republic, 
Hungary and Slovakia) and Tesco Bank. The operations in 
Czech Republic, Hungary and Slovakia are managed as one 
combined business. All of these components performed a 
detailed scoping exercise to determine which individual entities 
and account balances would be subject to full scope or 
specified scope audits, the latter being where only the key 
financial statement account balances were included in scope. 
For entities and account balances not subject to full or specified 
audit procedures we performed analytical review procedures 
to confirm our conclusion that there was no significant risk of 
material misstatement in the residual population. The entities 
which were either in full or specified audit scope in the current 
year represent 97% (2021/22: 96%) of revenue from continuing 
operations, 93% (2021/22: 98%) of operating profit from 
continuing operations and 96% (2021/22: 95%) of total assets.

In addition, we have performed analytical review procedures for 
three other businesses (dunnhumby, Tesco Mobile and OneStop), 
where the extent of our testing was based on our assessment of 
the risks of material misstatement and of the size of the Group’s 
operations at these locations.

As each of the local finance functions maintains separate financial 
records, we have engaged component auditors from the Deloitte 
member firms in the UK, Republic of Ireland and Central Europe to 
perform procedures at all the wholly-owned components under 
our direction and supervision. This approach also allows us to 
engage local auditors who have appropriate knowledge of local 
regulations to perform the audit work, under a common Deloitte 
audit approach.

The components within full scope contribute the proportions of 
Group totals shown below.

Revenue from continuing operations

Full audit scope 97%
Specified audit procedures 0%

Residual scope 3%

Profit before tax from continuing operations

Total assets

Full audit scope 93%
Specified audit procedures 0%

Residual scope 7%

Full audit scope 85%
Specified audit procedures 11%

Residual scope 4%

At the Group level we also tested the consolidation process and 
carried out analytical procedures to confirm our conclusion that 
there were no significant risks of material misstatement of the 
aggregated financial information of the remaining components 
not subject to full scope or specified scope audits. At a Group 
level we also performed audit procedures on centrally held 
balances including treasury, post-employment benefit 
obligations, head office costs and litigation and claims.

The most significant component of the Group is its retail business 
in the UK. As such, there is extensive interaction between the 
Group and the UK audit team to allow appropriate level of 
direction and supervision in this audit work. During the course 
of our audit, the UK audit team visited 26 retail stores in the 
UK to jointly attend inventory counts and to complete store 
control testing procedures, and 8 (2021/22: 6) distribution centre 
inventory counts. In 2021/22 the UK audit team visited 48 retail 
stores to seperately attend either inventory counts or in order to 
complete store control visits.

116

Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2023

7.2 Our consideration of the control environment 
In the current year our controls approach was principally designed 
to inform our risk assessment, to allow us to test the operating 
effectiveness of certain relevant controls, to test controls that 
address risks of material misstatement for which substantive 
procedures alone would not provide sufficient appropriate audit 
evidence and to test the operating effectiveness of controls 
within processes where a controls reliance approach was taken. 
As noted on page 115 it is not possible to take a controls reliant 
audit approach in the retail businesses due to the IT deficiencies. 
In addition Tesco Bank has separate information systems where 
the same IT deficiencies do not exist and therefore a controls 
reliant audit approach was taken.

The Group’s operations utilise a range of information systems 
which underpin the financial reporting process. These are largely 
consistent across the retail business, however, Tesco Bank has 
separate information systems due to the nature of the business. 
For all of the components that were subject to full scope audits, 
we obtained an understanding of the relevant IT systems for the 
purpose of our audit work.

In previous years we reported deficiencies in certain IT controls. 
As described in the Audit Committee Report on page 73, 
management has implemented a remediation plan, progress 
against which is monitored. Accordingly, consistent with the prior 
year, we extended the scope of our substantive audit procedures 
in response to the identified deficiencies. 

Further details are set out in the ‘Retail technology environment, 
including IT security’ key audit matter in section 5.6 above.

7.3 Our consideration of climate-related risks
The Group is exposed to the impacts of climate change on its 
business and operations as highlighted in the Task Force on 
Climate-Related Financial Disclosures (TCFD) report on page 20, 
viability statement on page 46, the principal risks on page 38, and 
in Note 14 of the financial statements. 

We have engaged with both the central finance and sustainability 
functions to gain an understanding of the assessment of, and the 
process undertaken to both identify and quantify, the Group’s 
climate-related risks. We have engaged our climate specialists 
in our assessment to consider broader industry and  
market-wide practice. 

We completed an independent climate-based risk assessment in 
order to consider the potential impact of climate change on the 
Group’s financial statements, incorporating both business specific 
knowledge and wider industry awareness, including the extent to 
which they have been included in the Group’s forecast financial 
information. We used this to assess the completeness of the 
Group’s identified risks and to develop audit procedures to 
respond to these risks, in particular as part of our work in relation 
to store impairment and long-term viability, as well as considering 
climate-related risks throughout our risk assessments on each 
financial statement account balance. Further details of our work in 
relation to store impairment are set out in the ‘Store impairment 
review’ key audit matter in section 5.1 above. 

In considering the disclosures presented as part of the Strategic 
Report, we engaged our climate specialists to assess compliance 
with the TCFD requirements and the recommendations made by 
both the Task Force and FRC as set out in their thematic reviews. 
We have also assessed whether these disclosures reflect our 
understanding of the Group’s approach to climate.

7.4 Working with other auditors
The Group audit team issued detailed instructions to the 
component auditors and visited the component auditors for 
each of the six significant locations set out above, in addition to 
Tesco Bank and the Group’s shared service centre in Bengaluru. 
We had a dedicated audit partner focused on overseeing the role 
of the component audit teams, ensuring we applied a consistent 
audit approach to the operations in the Group’s UK and 
international businesses.

The audit visits by the Group audit team were timed to enable us 
to be involved during the planning and risk assessment process in 
addition to the execution of detailed audit procedures. During our 
visits we attended key meetings with component management and 
auditors and reviewed and challenged detailed component auditor 
working papers in the underlying audit files and component 
reporting. In addition we attended component audit closing calls 
and other key meetings with management throughout the 2022/23 
audit process. 

Additionally, the component audit teams attended an all-day 
planning meeting in July 2022 and a two-day planning update 
meeting in November 2022 led by the Group audit team and held 
prior to commencement of our detailed audit work. The purpose 
of this planning meeting was to ensure a good level of 
understanding of the Group’s businesses, its core strategy and a 
discussion of the significant risks and workshops on our planned 
audit approach. Group management also attended part of the 
meeting to support these planning activities.

The Parent Company is located in the United Kingdom and audited 
directly by the Group audit team.

8. Other information
The other information comprises the information included in 
the Annual Report, other than the financial statements and our 
auditor’s report thereon. The Directors are responsible for the 
other information contained within the Annual Report.

Our opinion on the financial statements does not cover the other 
information and, except to the extent otherwise explicitly stated 
in our report, we do not express any form of assurance 
conclusion thereon.

Our responsibility is to read the other information and, in doing 
so, consider whether the other information is materially 
inconsistent with the financial statements or our knowledge 
obtained in the course of the audit, or otherwise appears to 
be materially misstated.

If we identify such material inconsistencies or apparent material 
misstatements, we are required to determine whether this gives 
rise to a material misstatement in the financial statements 
themselves. If, based on the work we have performed, we 
conclude that there is a material misstatement of this other 
information, we are required to report that fact.

We have nothing to report in this regard.

9. Responsibilities of directors
As explained more fully in the Directors’ responsibilities 
statement, the Directors are responsible for the preparation of 
the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a 
true and fair view, and for such internal control as the Directors 
determine is necessary to enable the preparation of financial 
statements that are free from material misstatement, whether 
due to fraud or error.

Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2023

117

Financial statementsIndependent auditor’s report to the members of Tesco PLC continued

In preparing the financial statements, the Directors are 
responsible for assessing the Group’s and the Parent Company’s 
ability to continue as a going concern, disclosing, as applicable, 
matters related to going concern and using the going concern 
basis of accounting unless the Directors either intend to liquidate 
the Group or the Parent Company or to cease operations, or have 
no realistic alternative but to do so.

10. Auditor’s responsibilities for the audit of 
the financial statements
Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether 
the financial statements as a whole are free from material 
misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an 
auditor’s report that includes our opinion. Reasonable assurance 
is a high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee that an audit 
conducted in accordance with ISAs (UK) will always detect a 
material misstatement when it exists. Misstatements can arise 
from fraud or error and are considered material if, individually or 
in the aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence 
the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of these 
financial statements.

A further description of our responsibilities for the audit 
of the financial statements is located on the FRC’s website 
at: www.frc.org.uk/auditorsresponsibilities. This description 
forms part of our auditor’s report.

11. Extent to which the audit was 
considered capable of detecting 
irregularities, including fraud
Irregularities, including fraud, are instances of non-compliance 
with laws and regulations. We design procedures in line with our 
responsibilities, outlined above, to detect material misstatements 
in respect of irregularities, including fraud. The extent to which our 
procedures are capable of detecting irregularities, including fraud, 
is detailed below. 

11.1 Identifying and assessing potential risks related to 
irregularities
In identifying and assessing risks of material misstatement in 
respect of irregularities, including fraud and non-compliance with 
laws and regulations, we considered the following:

 – the nature of the industry and sector, control environment and 

business performance including the design of the Group’s 
remuneration policies, key drivers for Directors’ remuneration, 
bonus levels and performance targets;

 – the Group’s own assessment of the risks that irregularities may 

occur either as a result of fraud or error;

 – results of our enquiries of management, the Internal Audit 

function, the Group’s Security function, the Group’s Compliance 
Officer, the Group’s General Counsel and the Audit Committee 
about their own identification and assessment of the risks of 
irregularities;

 – any matters we identified having obtained and reviewed the 
Group’s documentation of their policies and procedures 
relating to:
 – identifying, evaluating and complying with laws and regulations 

and whether they were aware of any instances of non-
compliance;

 – detecting and responding to the risks of fraud and whether 

they have knowledge of any actual, suspected or alleged fraud;
 – the internal controls established to mitigate risks of fraud or 

non-compliance with laws and regulations including the 
Group’s controls relating to the Group’s ongoing compliance 
with the GSCOP requirements and the requirements of the 
United Kingdom’s Prudential Regulation Authority (PRA) and 
Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) in relation to Tesco Bank; and

 – the matters discussed among the audit engagement team 
including significant component audit teams and relevant 
internal specialists, including IT, tax, valuations and pensions 
actuarial specialists, and industry specialists regarding how and 
where fraud might occur in the financial statements and any 
potential indicators of fraud.

As a result of these procedures, we considered the opportunities 
and incentives that may exist within the organisation for fraud and 
identified the greatest potential for fraud in the following areas: 
Tesco Bank loan impairment and recognition of commercial 
income. In common with all audits under ISAs (UK), we are also 
required to perform specific procedures to respond to the risk 
of management override.

We also obtained an understanding of the legal and regulatory 
frameworks that the Group operates in, focusing on provisions 
of those laws and regulations that had a direct effect on the 
determination of material amounts and disclosures in the 
financial statements. The key laws and regulations we considered 
in this context included the Group’s ongoing compliance with the 
GSCOP, UK Companies Act, Listing Rules, pensions legislation and 
tax legislation.

In addition, we considered provisions of other laws and regulations 
that do not have a direct effect on the financial statements but 
compliance with which may be fundamental to the Group’s ability 
to operate or to avoid a material penalty. These included the 
requirements of the United Kingdom’s PRA, FCA and Solvency II in 
relation to Tesco Bank, employment law, health and safety and 
food safety laws and regulations. 

11.2 Audit response to risks identified
As a result of performing the above, we identified Tesco Bank loan 
impairment and recognition of commercial income as key audit 
matters related to the potential risk of fraud. The key audit 
matters section of our report explains the matters in more detail 
and also describes the specific procedures we performed in 
response to those key audit matters. 

In addition to the above, our procedures to respond to risks 
identified included the following:

 – reviewing the financial statement disclosures and testing to 

supporting documentation to assess compliance with provisions 
of relevant laws and regulations described as having a direct 
effect on the financial statements;

 – enquiring of management, the Audit Committee and in-house 

external legal counsel concerning actual and potential litigation 
and claims;

 – performing analytical procedures to identify any unusual or 
unexpected relationships that may indicate risks of material 
misstatement due to fraud;

 – reading minutes of meetings of those charged with governance, 
reviewing internal audit reports and reviewing correspondence, 
if any, with HMRC and other relevant regulatory bodies; and
 – in addressing the risk of fraud through management override 
of controls, testing the appropriateness of journal entries and 
other adjustments; assessing whether the judgements made 
in making accounting estimates are indicative of a potential 
bias; and evaluating the business rationale of any significant 
transactions that are unusual or outside the normal course 
of business.

We also communicated relevant identified laws and regulations 
and potential fraud risks to all engagement team members 
including internal specialists and significant component audit 
teams, and remained alert to any indications of fraud or non-
compliance with laws and regulations throughout the audit.

118

Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2023

14.2 Directors’ remuneration
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are also required to report if, 
in our opinion, certain disclosures of Directors’ remuneration 
have not been made or the part of the Directors’ remuneration 
report to be audited is not in agreement with the accounting 
records and returns.

We have nothing to report in respect of these matters.

15. Other matters which we are required to 
address
15.1.  Auditor tenure
Following the recommendation of the Audit Committee, we were 
appointed by the Group’s shareholders on 25 June 2015 to audit 
the financial statements for the year ending 27 February 2016 and 
subsequent financial periods. The period of total uninterrupted 
engagement, including previous renewals and reappointments of 
the firm, is eight years, covering the years ending 27 February 2016 
to 25 February 2023.

15.2 Consistency of the audit report with the 
additional report to the Audit Committee
Our audit opinion is consistent with the additional report to the 
Audit Committee we are required to provide in accordance with 
ISAs (UK).

16. Use of our report
This report is made solely to the Company’s members, as a body, 
in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 
2006. Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state 
to the Company’s members those matters we are required to 
state to them in an auditor’s report and for no other purpose. 
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or 
assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the 
Company’s members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, 
or for the opinions we have formed. 

As required by the FCA Disclosure Guidance and Transparency 
Rule (DTR) 4.1.14R, these financial statements will form part of 
the European Single Electronic Format (ESEF) prepared Annual 
Financial Report filed on the National Storage Mechanism of the 
UK FCA in accordance with the ESEF Regulatory Technical 
Standard (ESEF RTS). This auditor’s report provides no assurance 
over whether the annual financial report has been prepared using 
the single electronic format specified in the ESEF RTS. We have 
been engaged to provide assurance on whether the annual 
financial report has been prepared using the single electronic 
format specified in the ESEF RTS and will publicly report separately 
to the members on this.

John Adam (Senior statutory auditor)
For and on behalf of Deloitte LLP 
Statutory Auditor 
London, United Kingdom

12 April 2023

Report on other legal and regulatory 
requirements

12. Opinions on other matters prescribed 
by the Companies Act 2006
In our opinion the part of the Directors’ remuneration report 
to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the 
Companies Act 2006.

In our opinion, based on the work undertaken in the course 
of the audit:

 – the information given in the Strategic report and the Directors’ 
report for the financial year for which the financial statements 
are prepared is consistent with the financial statements; and

 – the Strategic report and the Directors’ report have been 

prepared in accordance with applicable legal requirements.

In light of the knowledge and understanding of the Group and the 
Parent Company and their environment obtained in the course of 
the audit, we have not identified any material misstatements in the 
Strategic report or the Directors’ report.

13. Corporate governance statement
The Listing Rules require us to review the Directors’ statement in 
relation to going concern, longer-term viability and that part of the 
Corporate Governance Statement relating to the Group’s 
compliance with the provisions of the UK Corporate Governance 
Code specified for our review.

Based on the work undertaken as part of our audit, we have 
concluded that each of the following elements of the Corporate 
Governance Statement is materially consistent with the financial 
statements and our knowledge obtained during the audit: 

 – the Directors’ statement with regards to the appropriateness of 
adopting the going concern basis of accounting and any material 
uncertainties identified set out on page 104;

 – the Directors’ explanation as to its assessment of the Group’s 
prospects, the period this assessment covers and why the 
period is appropriate set out on page 46;

 – the Directors’ statement on fair, balanced and understandable 

set out on page 76;

 – the Board’s confirmation that it has carried out a robust 
assessment of the emerging and principal risks set out on 
page 38;

 – the section of the Annual Report that describes the review of 

effectiveness of risk management and internal control systems 
set out on page 38; and

 – the section describing the work of the Audit Committee set out 

on page 71.

14. Matters on which we are required to 
report by exception
14.1  Adequacy of explanations received and 
accounting records
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you 
if, in our opinion:

 – we have not received all the information and explanations we 

require for our audit; or

 – adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Parent 
Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been 
received from branches not visited by us; or

 – the Parent Company financial statements are not in agreement 

with the accounting records and returns.

We have nothing to report in respect of these matters.

Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2023

119

Financial statements52 weeks ended 
26 February 2022 

Before 
adjusting  
items 
£m 

61,344 
(56,574) 
39 
4,809 

(1,984) 
2,825 

15 
9 
(652) 
2,197 

(502) 
1,695 

Adjusting 
items 
(Note 4) 
£m 

– 
(176) 
– 
(176) 

(89) 
(265) 

– 
– 
101 
(164) 

(8) 
(172) 

Total 
£m 

61,344 
(56,750) 
39 
4,633 

(2,073) 
2,560 

15 
9 
(551) 
2,033 

(510) 
1,523 

Total 
£m   

65,762   
(62,034)  
(67)  
3,661   

(2,136)  
1,525   

8   
85   
(618)  
1,000   

(247)  
753   

65,762 
(61,005) 
(67) 
4,690 

(2,060) 
2,630 

8 
85 
(647) 
2,076 

(442) 
1,634 

– 
(1,029) 
– 
(1,029) 

(76) 
(1,105) 

– 
– 
29 
(1,076) 

195 
(881) 

– 

(9) 

(9)  

(2) 

(38) 

(40) 

1,634 

(890) 

744   

1,693 

(210) 

1,483 

1,635 
(1) 
1,634 

(890) 
– 
(890) 

745   
(1)  
744   

1,691 
2 
1,693 

(210) 
– 
(210) 

1,481 
2 
1,483 

10.05p   
9.96p   

10.17p   
10.08p   

19.34p 
19.12p 

19.86p 
19.64p 

Group income statement 

52 weeks ended 
25 February 2023 

Before 
adjusting  
items 
£m 

Adjusting 
items 
(Note 4) 
£m 

Notes 

Continuing operations 
Revenue 
Cost of sales 
Impairment (loss)/reversal on financial assets 
Gross profit/(loss) 

Administrative expenses 
Operating profit/(loss) 

Share of post-tax profits of joint ventures and
Finance income 
Finance costs 
Profit/(loss) before tax 

associates 

Taxation 
Profit/(loss) for the year from continuing operations 

Discontinued operations 
Profit/(loss) for the year from discontinued operations 

Profit/(loss) for the year 

Attributable to: 
Owners of the parent 
Non-controlling interests 

Earnings/(losses) per share from continuing and discontinued 
operations 
Basic 
Diluted 

Earnings/(losses) per share from continuing operations 
Basic 
Diluted 

2 

2 

13 
5 
5 

6 

7 

9 
9 

9 
9 

The notes on pages 125 to 190 form part of these financial statements. 

120

Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2023
120 

Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2023 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
   
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Group statement of comprehensive income/(loss) 

Items that will not be reclassified to the Group income statement 
Change in fair value of financial assets at fair value through other comprehensive income 
Remeasurements of defined benefit pension schemes 
Net fair value gains on inventory cash flow hedges 
Tax on items that will not be reclassified 

Items that may subsequently be reclassified to the Group income statement 
Change in fair value of financial assets at fair value through other comprehensive income 
Currency translation differences: 

Retranslation of net assets of overseas subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates, net of hedging instruments 
Movements in foreign exchange reserve and net investment hedging on subsidiary disposed, reclassified and 
reported in the Group income statement 

Gains on cash flow hedges: 

Net fair value gains 
Reclassified and reported in the Group income statement 

Tax on items that may be reclassified 

Total other comprehensive income/(loss) for the year 
Profit/(loss) for the year 
Total comprehensive income/(loss) for the year 

Attributable to: 
Owners of the parent 
Non-controlling interests 
Total comprehensive income/(loss) for the year 

Total comprehensive income/(loss) attributable to owners of the parent arising from: 
Continuing operations 
Discontinued operations 

The notes on pages 125 to 190 form part of these financial statements. 

Financial statements 

52 weeks ended 
25 February 2023 
£m 

52 weeks ended 
26 February 2022 
£m 

Notes 

29 

6 

6 

2 
(3,341) 
54 
853 
(2,432) 

(43) 

120 
– 

17 
(61) 
21 
54 
(2,378) 
744 
(1,634) 

(1,639) 
5 
(1,634) 

(1,630) 
(9) 
(1,639) 

4 
4,075 
33 
(918) 
3,194 

(25) 

(39) 
66 

44 
(45) 
(5) 
(4) 
3,190 
1,483 
4,673 

4,671 
2 
4,673 

4,645 
26 
4,671 

Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2023 

Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2023
121 

121

Financial statements 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Group balance sheet 

Non-current assets 
Goodwill and other intangible assets 
Property, plant and equipment 
Right of use assets 
Investment property 
Investments in joint ventures and associates 
Other investments 
Trade and other receivables 
Loans and advances to customers 
Reinsurance assets 
Derivative financial instruments 
Post-employment benefit surplus 
Deferred tax assets 

Current assets 
Other investments 
Inventories 
Trade and other receivables 
Loans and advances to customers 
Reinsurance assets 
Derivative financial instruments 
Current tax assets 
Short-term investments 
Cash and cash equivalents 

Assets of the disposal group and non-current assets classified as held for sale 

Current liabilities 
Trade and other payables 
Borrowings 
Lease liabilities 
Insurance contract provisions 
Customer deposits and deposits from banks 
Derivative financial instruments 
Current tax liabilities 
Provisions 

Liabilities of the disposal group classified as held for sale 
Net current liabilities 
Non-current liabilities 
Trade and other payables 
Borrowings 
Lease liabilities 
Insurance contract provisions 
Customer deposits and deposits from banks 
Derivative financial instruments 
Post-employment benefit deficit 
Deferred tax liabilities 
Provisions 

Net assets 
Equity 
Share capital 
Share premium 
Other reserves 
Retained earnings 
Equity attributable to owners of the parent 
Non-controlling interests 
Total equity 

25 February 
2023 
£m 

26 February 
2022 
£m 

Notes 

10 
11 
12 

13 
15 
17 
23 
24 
26 
29 
6 

15 
16 
17 
23 
24 
26 

18 
18 

7 

19 
21 
12 
24 
25 
26 

22 

7 

19 
21 
12 
24 
25 
26 
29 
6 
22 

30 

30 

5,375 
16,862 
5,500 
24 
93 
1,339 
79 
3,029 
145 
873 
6 
82 
33,407 

353 
2,510 
1,315 
4,052 
72 
57 
63 
1,628 
2,465 
12,515 
210 
12,725 

(9,818) 
(1,770) 
(595) 
(570) 
(4,485) 
(99) 
(18) 
(366) 
(17,721) 
(14) 
(5,010) 

(153) 
(5,581) 
(7,132) 
(35) 
(2,265) 
(288) 
(400) 
(119) 
(194) 
(16,167) 
12,230 

463 
5,165 
3,123 
3,490 
12,241 
(11) 
12,230 

5,360 
17,060 
5,720 
22 
86 
1,253 
159 
3,141 
184 
942 
3,150 
85 
37,162 

226 
2,339 
1,263 
3,349 
61 
69 
93 
2,076 
2,345 
11,821 
368 
12,189 

(9,181) 
(725) 
(547) 
(623) 
(4,729) 
(26) 
(11) 
(283) 
(16,125) 
(14) 
(3,950) 

(53) 
(6,674) 
(7,411) 
(27) 
(1,650) 
(357) 
(303) 
(910) 
(183) 
(17,568) 
15,644 

484 
5,165 
3,079 
6,932 
15,660 
(16) 
15,644 

 The notes on pages 125 to 190 form part of these financial statements. 

Ken Murphy 
Directors 

Imran Nawaz 

The financial statements on pages 120 to 190 were approved and authorised for issue by the Directors on 12 April 2023. 

122

Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2023
122 

Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2023 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Share 
capital 
£m 
484 
– 

Share 
premium 
£m 
5,165 
– 

Other 
reserves 
(Note 30)  
£m 
3,079 
– 

Retained 
earnings 
£m 
6,932 
745 

Group statement of changes in equity  

At 26 February 2022 
Profit/(loss) for the year 
Other comprehensive income/(loss) 
Retranslation of net assets of overseas subsidiaries, joint ventures 
and associates, net of hedging instruments 
Change in fair value of financial assets at fair value through other 
comprehensive income  
Remeasurements of defined benefit pension schemes (Note 29) 
Gains/(losses) on cash flow hedges 
Cash flow hedges reclassified and reported in the Group income 
statement 
Tax relating to components of other comprehensive income (Note 6) 
Total other comprehensive income/(loss) 
Total comprehensive income/(loss) 
Inventory cash flow hedge movements 
(Gains)/losses transferred to the cost of inventory 
Total inventory cash flow hedge movements 
Transactions with owners 
Own shares purchased for cancellation (Note 30) 
Own shares cancelled (Note 30) 
Own shares purchased for share schemes (Note 30) 
Share–based payments (Note 28) 
Dividends (Note 8) 
Tax on items credited to equity (Note 6) 
Total transactions with owners 
At 25 February 2023 

At 27 February 2021 
Profit/(loss) for the year 
Other comprehensive income/(loss) 
Retranslation of net assets of overseas subsidiaries, joint ventures 
and associates, net of hedging instruments 
Movements in foreign exchange reserve and net investment hedging 
on subsidiary disposed, reclassified and reported in the Group 
income statement 
Change in fair value of financial assets at fair value through other 
comprehensive income  
Remeasurements of defined benefit pension schemes (Note 29) 
Gains/(losses) on cash flow hedges 
Cash flow hedges reclassified and reported in the Group income 
statement 
Tax relating to components of other comprehensive income (Note 6) 
Total other comprehensive income/(loss) 
Total comprehensive income/(loss) 
Inventory cash flow hedge movements 
(Gains)/losses transferred to the cost of inventory 
Total inventory cash flow hedge movements 
Transactions with owners 
Own shares purchased for cancellation (Note 30) 
Own shares cancelled (Note 30) 
Own shares purchased for share schemes (Note 30) 
Share–based payments (Note 28) 
Dividends (Note 8) 
Tax on items credited to equity (Note 6) 
Total transactions with owners 
At 26 February 2022 

The notes on pages 125 to 190 form part of these financial statements. 

– 

– 

– 
– 
– 

– 
– 
– 

– 
– 

– 

– 

– 
– 
– 

– 
– 
– 

– 
– 

– 
(21) 
– 
– 
– 
– 
(21) 
463 

– 
– 
– 
– 
– 
– 
– 
5,165 

120 

– 

– 
63 
(61) 

22 
144 
144 

(127) 
(127) 

(758) 
816 
(188) 
157 
– 
– 
27 
3,123 

Share 
capital 
£m 
490 
– 

Share 
premium 
£m 
5,165 
– 

Other 
reserves 
(Note 30) 
£m 
3,183 
– 

– 

– 

– 

– 
– 
– 

– 
– 
– 

– 
– 

– 

– 

– 

– 
– 
– 

– 
– 
– 

– 
– 

(39) 

66 

– 

– 
77 
(45) 

(22) 
37 
37 

30 
30 

– 
(6) 
– 
– 
– 
– 
(6) 
484 

– 
– 
– 
– 
– 
– 
– 
5,165 

(301) 
270 
(279) 
139 
– 
– 
(171) 
3,079 

Financial statements 

Total 
£m 
15,660 
745 

120 

(41) 

(3,341) 
63 
(61) 

876 
(2,384) 
(1,639) 

(127) 
(127) 

(758) 
– 
(188) 
156 
(858) 
(5) 
(1,653) 
12,241 

Total 
£m 
12,077 
1,481 

(39) 

66 

– 

(41) 

(3,341) 
– 
– 

854 
(2,528) 
(1,783) 

– 
– 

– 
(795) 
– 
(1) 
(858) 
(5) 
(1,659) 
3,490 

Retained 
earnings 
£m 
3,239 
1,481 

– 

– 

(21) 

(21) 

4,075 
– 
– 

(901) 
3,153 
4,634 

– 
– 

– 
(264) 
– 
12 
(704) 
15 
(941) 
6,932 

4,075 
77 
(45) 

(923) 
3,190 
4,671 

30 
30 

(301) 
– 
(279) 
151 
(704) 
15 
(1,118) 
15,660 

Non-
controlling 
interests  
£m 
(16) 
(1) 

– 

– 

– 
8 
– 

(2) 
6 
5 

– 
– 

– 
– 
– 
– 
– 
– 
– 
(11) 

Non-
controlling 
interests  
£m 
(18) 
2 

– 

– 

– 

– 
– 
– 

– 
– 
2 

– 
– 

– 
– 
– 
– 
– 
– 
– 
(16) 

Total 
equity 
£m 
15,644 
744 

120 

(41) 

(3,341) 
71 
(61) 

874 
(2,378) 
(1,634) 

(127) 
(127) 

(758) 
- 
(188) 
156 
(858) 
(5) 
(1,653) 
12,230 

Total 
equity 
£m 
12,059 
1,483 

(39) 

66 

(21) 

4,075 
77 
(45) 

(923) 
3,190 
4,673 

30 
30 

(301) 
– 
(279) 
151 
(704) 
15 
(1,118) 
15,644 

Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2023 

Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2023
123 

123

Financial statements 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Group cash flow statement 

52 weeks ended 
25 February 2023 
£m 

52 weeks ended 
26 February 2022 
£m 

Notes 

Cash flows generated from/(used in) operating activities 
Operating profit/(loss) of continuing operations 
Operating profit/(loss) of discontinued operations 
Depreciation and amortisation 
(Profit)/loss arising on sale of property, plant and equipment, investment property, intangible assets, assets 
classified as held for sale and early termination of leases 
(Profit)/loss arising from sale of other investments 
(Profit)/loss arising on sale of joint ventures and associates 
(Profit)/loss arising on sale of subsidiaries 
Net impairment loss on property, plant and equipment, right of use assets, intangible assets and investment 
property 
Net remeasurement loss on non-current assets held for sale 
Adjustment for non-cash element of pensions charge 
Other defined benefit pension scheme payments 
Share-based payments 
Tesco Bank fair value movements included in operating profit/(loss) 

Retail (increase)/decrease in inventories 
Retail (increase)/decrease in trade and other receivables 
Retail increase/(decrease) in trade and other payables 
Retail increase/(decrease) in provisions 
Retail (increase)/decrease in working capital 

Tesco Bank (increase)/decrease in loans and advances to customers  
Tesco Bank (increase)/decrease in trade, reinsurance and other receivables 
Tesco Bank increase/(decrease) in customer and bank deposits, trade, insurance and other payables 
Tesco Bank increase/(decrease) in provisions 
Tesco Bank (increase)/decrease in working capital 
Cash generated from/(used in) operations 
Interest paid 
Corporation tax paid 
Net cash generated from/(used in) operating activities 
Cash flows generated from/(used in) investing activities 
Proceeds from sale of property, plant and equipment, investment property, intangible assets and assets classified 
as held for sale 
Purchase of property, plant and equipment, investment property and other long-term assets  
Purchase of intangible assets 
Disposal of subsidiaries, net of cash disposed 
Acquisition of subsidiaries, net of cash acquired 
Proceeds from sale of joint ventures and associates  
Increase in loans to joint ventures and associates 
Investments in joint ventures and associates 
Net (investments in)/proceeds from sale of short-term investments 
Proceeds from sale of other investments 
Purchase of other investments 
Dividends received from joint ventures and associates 
Interest received 
Cash inflows from derivative financial instruments 
Cash outflows from derivative financial instruments 
Net cash generated from/(used in) investing activities 
Cash flows generated from/(used in) financing activities 
Own shares purchased for cancellation  
Own shares purchased for share schemes 
Repayment of capital element of obligations under leases 
Cash outflows exceeding the incremental increase in assets in a property buyback 
Increase in borrowings 
Repayment of borrowings 
Cash inflows from derivative financial instruments 
Cash outflows from derivative financial instruments 
Dividends paid to equity owners 
Net cash generated from/(used in) financing activities 
Net increase/(decrease) in cash and cash equivalents 
Cash and cash equivalents at the beginning of the year 
Effect of foreign exchange rate changes 
Cash and cash equivalents at the end of the year 

The notes on pages 125 to 190 form part of these financial statements. 

7 
14 

29 
28 

30 
28 

8 

18 

1,525 
(9) 
1,700 
(76) 

3 
– 
– 
982 

23 
– 
(23) 
59 
70 
(147) 
(54) 
643 
75 
517 
(696) 
60 
369 
(7) 
(274) 
4,497 
(652) 
(123) 
3,722 

342 

(971) 
(279) 
– 
(71) 
– 
(1) 
(10) 
451 
230 
(529) 
14 
70 
54 
(6) 
(706) 

(781) 
(86) 
(593) 
(21) 
– 
(709) 
232 
(371) 
(859) 
(3,188) 
(172) 
1,771 
(34) 
1,565 

2,560 
(51) 
1,718 
(123) 

– 
(25) 
23 
115 

3 
7 
(19) 
66 
(28) 
(281) 
27 
743 
(65) 
424 
(95) 
8 
47 
(22) 
(62) 
4,608 
(650) 
(201) 
3,757 

309 

(949) 
(229) 
161 
(48) 
15 
(4) 
(11) 
(1,067) 
274 
(221) 
32 
3 
– 
– 
(1,735) 

(278) 
(144) 
(577) 
– 
394 
(775) 
798 
(921) 
(731) 
(2,234) 
(212) 
1,971 
12 
1,771 

124

Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2023
124 

Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2023 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Note 1 Accounting policies, judgements and 
estimates 
General information 
Tesco PLC (the Company) is a public limited company incorporated 
and domiciled in England and Wales under the Companies Act 2006 
(Registration number 445790). The address of the registered 
office
AL7

Tesco House, Shire Park, Kestrel Way, Welwyn Garden City, 

1GA, UK. 

is

The main activities of the Company and its subsidiaries 
(together,
and

Group) are those of retailing and retail banking 
services. 

the
insurance

Basis of preparation 
The consolidated Group financial statements have been prepared in 
accordance with UK-adopted IFRS. The consolidated Group financial 
statements are presented in Pounds Sterling, generally rounded to 
the nearest million. They are prepared on the historical cost basis, 
except for certain financial instruments, share-based payments and 
pension assets that have been measured at fair value. 

have concluded that there are no material uncertainties relating 

months from the date of approval of the financial statements, 

Group have adequate resources to continue in operational 
for the foreseeable future, which reflects a period of 

The Directors have, at the time of approving the financial 
statements, a reasonable expectation that the Company and 
the
existence
18
and
to going concern. Thus they continue to adopt the going concern 
basis of accounting in
preparing the consolidated Group financial 
statements. The scenarios considered as part of the going concern 
assessment are consistent with those used in the Longer term 
the Group’s strong 
viability statement. Further information on
liquidity position is given in the Group review of
performance, 
Summary of total indebtedness section, and information on 
committed facilities is provided in Note 27. 

Unless otherwise stated, the accounting policies set out below 
have
consolidated Group financial statements. 

been applied consistently to all periods presented in these 

New standards, interpretations and amendments effective in the 
current financial year have not had a material impact on the 
consolidated Group financial statements.  

The Group has not applied any standards, interpretations 
or

amendments that have been issued but are not yet effective.  

24 February 2024. IFRS 17 will principally impact the Group’s 

IFRS 17 ‘Insurance contracts’ will become effective in the 
consolidated Group financial statements for the financial year 
ending
subsidiary, Tesco Underwriting Limited (TU), which provides the 
insurance underwriting service for a number of the Group’s general 
insurance products. The simplified premium allocation approach will 
be applied to all material insurance groups issued and reinsurance 
groups purchased subsequent to the acquisition of TU in May 2021. 
For contract groups issued prior to the acquisition date, the general 
model will be applied to the associated acquired claims liabilities. 
The
income statement may also change as a result of IFRS 17 adoption. 
The Group will adopt IFRS 17 retrospectively and comparatives will 
be
restated from a transition date of 27 February 2022, with an 
immaterial transition adjustment to the opening equity balance 
at

presentation of some of the line items in the balance sheet and 

that date. 

The

impact of the following is still under assessment: 

–  IFRS 16 amendments ‘Lease liability in a sale and leaseback’, 

will become effective in the consolidated Group financial 

which
statements for the financial year ending 22 February 2025, subject 
to UK endorsement. 

Other standards, interpretations and amendments issued but not 
yet effective are not expected to have a material impact on the 
consolidated Group financial statements. 

Financial statements 

Basis of consolidation 
The consolidated Group financial statements consist of the financial 
statements of the ultimate Parent Company (Tesco PLC), all entities 
controlled by the Company (its subsidiaries) and the Group’s share 
of

its interests in joint ventures and associates. 

The financial year represents the 52 weeks ended 25 February 2023 
(prior financial year 52 weeks ended 26 February 2022). For the UK 
and the Republic of Ireland (UK & ROI), the results are for the 52 
weeks ended 25 February 2023 (prior financial year 52 weeks ended 
26 February 2022). For all other operations, the results are for the 
calendar year ended 28 February 2023 (prior calendar year ended 
28

February 2022). 

Subsidiaries 
Subsidiaries are consolidated in the Group’s financial 
statements
date

that control ceases. 

from the date that control commences until the 

Intragroup balances and any unrealised gains and losses or income 
and expenses arising from intragroup transactions are eliminated in
preparing the consolidated financial statements. 

Joint ventures and associates 
The Group’s share of the results of joint ventures and associates 
included in the Group income statement and Group statement 
is
of
comprehensive income/(loss) using the equity method of 
accounting. Investments in joint ventures and associates are carried 
in the Group balance sheet at cost plus post-acquisition changes 
in
the Group’s share of the net assets of the entity, less any 
impairment in value. The carrying values of investments in joint 
ventures and associates include acquired goodwill. If the Group’s 
share of losses in a joint venture or associate equals or exceeds its 
investment in the joint venture or associate, the Group does not 
recognise further losses, unless it has incurred obligations to do 
or made payments on behalf of the joint venture or associate. 
so
Dividends received from joint ventures or associates with nil 
carrying
part
ventures and associates. 

of the Group’s share of post-tax profits/(losses) of joint 

value are recognised in the Group income statement as 

Unrealised gains arising from transactions with joint ventures and 
associates are eliminated to the extent of the Group’s interest 
in

entity. 

the

Revenue 
Revenue is income arising from the sale of goods and services in 
the
ordinary course of the Group’s activities, net of value added 
taxes. Revenue is recognised when performance obligations are 
satisfied and control has transferred to the customer. For the 
majority of revenue streams, there is a low level of judgement 
applied in determining the transaction price or the timing of 
transfer

of control. 

Sale of goods 
The sale of goods represents the vast majority of the Group’s 
revenue. For goods sold in store, revenue is recognised at the point 
of sale. For online or wholesale sales of goods, revenue is recognised 
on collection by, or delivery to, the customer. Revenue is reduced by 
a provision for expected returns (refund liability). An asset and 
corresponding adjustment to cost of sales is recognised for the 
Group’s right to recover goods from customers. 

Clubcard (customer loyalty programme) 
Clubcard points issued by Tesco when a customer purchases goods 
are a separate performance obligation providing a material right to 
future discount. The total transaction price (sales price of goods) 
a
allocated to the Clubcard points and the goods sold based on 
is
their
relative standalone selling prices, with the Clubcard points 
standalone price based on the value of the points to the customer, 
adjusted for expected redemption rates (breakage). The amount 
allocated to Clubcard points is deferred as a contract liability 
within

trade and other payables.  

Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2023 

Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2023
125 

125

Financial statements 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Notes to the Group financial statements continued 

Note 1 Accounting policies, judgements and 
estimates continued 
Revenue is recognised as the points are redeemed by the customer. 
Revenue related to breakage is recognised in line with redemptions, 
subject to the variable consideration constraint (i.e. provided it is 
highly probable not to result in a significant reversal of the 
cumulative revenue recognised), with the remainder recognised on 
expiry of the points. 

Financial services 
Revenue consists of interest, fees and income from the provision of 
retail banking and insurance.  

Interest income on financial assets that are measured at amortised 
cost is determined using the effective interest rate method. 
Calculation of the effective interest rate takes into account fees 
receivable that are an integral part of the instrument’s yield, 
premiums or discounts on acquisition or issue, early redemption 
fees and transaction costs. Interest income is calculated on the 
gross carrying amount of a financial asset unless the financial asset 
is
impaired, in which case interest income is calculated on the 
amortised cost, after allowance for expected credit losses (ECLs). 

The majority of the fees in respect of services (credit card 
interchange fees, late payment and ATM revenue) are recognised at 
the point in time at which the transaction with the customer takes 
place and the service is performed. For services performed over 
time, payment is generally due monthly in line with the satisfaction 
of

performance obligations. 

Refer to the Insurance section below for insurance revenue. 

Commercial income 
Consistent with standard industry practice, the Group has 
agreements with suppliers whereby volume-related allowances, 
promotional and marketing allowances and various other fees and 
discounts are received in connection with the purchase of goods for 
resale from those suppliers. Most of the income received from 
suppliers relates to adjustments to a core cost price of a product, 
and as such is considered part of the purchase price for that 
product. Sometimes receipt of the income is conditional on the 
Group performing specified actions or satisfying certain 
performance conditions associated with the purchase of the 
product. These include achieving agreed purchases or sales volume
targets and providing promotional or marketing materials and 
activities or promotional product positioning. While there is no
standard industry definition, these amounts receivable from 
suppliers in connection with the purchase of goods for resale are 
generally termed commercial income. 

Commercial income is recognised when earned by the Group, which 
occurs when all obligations conditional for earning income have been 
discharged, and the income can be measured reliably based on the 
terms of the contract. The income is recognised as a
cost of sales. Where the income earned relates to inventories which 
are held by the Group at the reporting date, the income is included 
within the cost of those inventories, and recognised in cost of sales 
upon sale of those inventories. 

credit within 

Amounts due relating to commercial income are recognised within 
trade and other receivables, except in cases where the Group 
currently has a legally enforceable right of set-off and intends to 
offset amounts due from suppliers against amounts owed to those 
suppliers, in which case only the net amount receivable or payable is 
recognised. Accrued commercial income is recognised within 
accrued income when commercial income earned has not been 
invoiced at the reporting date. 

Finance income 
Finance income, excluding income arising from financial services, is
recognised in the period to which it relates using the effective 
interest rate method. 

126

Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2023
126 

Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2023 

Finance costs 
Borrowing costs are recognised in the Group income statement in 
finance costs, excluding those arising from financial services, in the 
period in which they occur. For Tesco Bank, finance cost on financial 
liabilities is determined using the effective interest rate method and 
is recognised in cost of sales.  

Business combinations and goodwill 
The Group accounts for all business combinations by applying the 
acquisition method. All acquisition-related costs are expensed. 

On acquisition, the assets (including intangible assets), liabilities and
contingent liabilities of an acquired entity are measured at their fair 
values. Non-controlling interests are stated at the non-controlling 
interests’ proportion of the fair values of the assets and liabilities 
recognised. 

Goodwill arising on consolidation represents the excess of the 
consideration transferred over the net fair value of the Group’s 
share of the net assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities of the 
acquired subsidiary, joint venture or associate and the fair value of
the non-controlling interest in the acquiree. If the consideration is 
less than the fair value of the Group’s share of the net assets, 
liabilities and contingent liabilities of the acquired entity (i.e. a bargain 
purchase), the difference is credited to the Group income statement 
in the period of acquisition. 

At the acquisition date of a subsidiary, goodwill acquired is 
recognised as an asset and is allocated to each of the cash-
generating units or groups of cash-generating units expected to 
benefit from the business combination’s synergies and to the lowest 
level at which management monitors the goodwill. Goodwill arising 
on the acquisition of joint ventures and associates is included within 
the carrying value of the investment. On disposal of a subsidiary, joint 
venture or associate, the attributable amount of goodwill is included 
in the determination of the profit or loss on disposal. 

Where the Group obtains control of a joint venture or associate, the 
Group’s previously held interest in the acquired entity is remeasured 
to its acquisition date fair value and the resulting gain or loss, if any, 
is recognised in the Group income statement. 

Cloud software licence agreements 
Licence agreements to use cloud software are treated as service 
contracts and expensed in the Group income statement, unless 
the
Group has both a contractual right to take possession of the 
software at any time without significant penalty, and the ability to run 
the software independently of the host vendor. In such cases, the 
licence agreement is capitalised as software within intangible assets. 

Costs to configure or customise a cloud software licence are 
expensed alongside the related service contract in the Group 
income statement, unless they create a separately identifiable 
resource controlled by the Group, in which case they are capitalised. 

Intangible assets  
Intangible assets, such as software, acquired customer relationships 
and pharmacy licences, are measured initially at acquisition cost 
or
a business combination are recognised at fair value at the 
acquisition

costs incurred to develop the asset. Intangible assets acquired in 

date. 

Following initial recognition, intangible assets with finite useful lives 
are carried at cost less accumulated amortisation and accumulated 
impairment losses. They are amortised on a straight-line basis over 
their estimated useful lives of three to 10 years for software and up 
to 10 years for customer relationships. Intangible assets with 
indefinite useful lives, such as pharmacy licences, are not amortised 
and are carried at cost less accumulated impairment losses. 

Research costs are expensed as incurred. Development expenditure 
incurred on an individual project is capitalised only if
criteria

are met. 

specific 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Property, plant and equipment  
Property, plant and equipment is carried at cost less accumulated 
depreciation and any recognised impairment in value. Property, plant 
and equipment is depreciated on a straight-line basis to its residual 
value over its anticipated useful economic life: 

–  freehold buildings – 10 to 40 years; and 
–  fixtures and fittings, office equipment and motor vehicles – three 

to 20 years. 

Impairment of non-financial assets 
Goodwill is reviewed for impairment at least annually by assessing the 
recoverable amount of each cash-generating unit, or group of
generating units, to which the goodwill relates. For all other
non-
financial assets (including other intangible assets, property, plant 
and
equipment, right of use assets and investment property) the 
Group performs impairment testing where there are indicators of 
impairment. Where the asset does not generate cash flows that 
are
independent from other assets, the Group estimates the 
recoverable amount of the cash-generating unit to which the 
asset

belongs. 

cash-

The recoverable amount is the higher of fair value less costs of 
disposal, and value in use. When the recoverable amount is less 
the carrying amount, an impairment loss is recognised 
than
immediately in the Group income statement. 

Goodwill impairments are not subsequently reversed. Where an
impairment loss on other non-financial assets subsequently 
reverses, the carrying amount of the asset (or cash-generating unit) 
is increased to the revised estimate of the recoverable amount, but 
the carrying 
so that the increased carrying amount does not exceed
amount that would have been determined if no
impairment loss had 
been recognised for the asset (or cash-generating unit) in prior 
years. A reversal of an impairment loss is recognised immediately as 
a credit to the Group income statement. 

Inventories 
Inventories comprise goods and development properties held for 
resale. Inventories are valued at the lower of cost and net realisable 
value using the weighted average cost basis. Directly attributable 
costs and incomes (including applicable commercial income) are 
included in the cost of inventories. 

Cash and cash equivalents 
Cash and cash equivalents in the Group balance sheet consist of
cash at bank and on hand, credit and debit card receivables, demand 
deposits with banks and short-term highly liquid investments with an 
original maturity of three months or less, for example short-term 
deposits, loans and advances to banks, commercial paper and 
certificates of deposit. Cash and cash equivalents in the Group cash 
flow statement also include overdrafts repayable on demand as they 
form an integral part of the Group’s cash management. 

Non-current assets held for sale and discontinued 
operations  
Non-current assets (or disposal groups) are classified as assets held 
for sale when their carrying amount is to be recovered principally 
through a sale transaction and a sale is considered highly probable. 
They are stated at the lower of carrying amount and fair value less 
costs to sell. 

The net results of discontinued operations are presented separately 
in the Group income statement (and the comparatives restated).  

Leases 
The Group assesses whether a contract is, or contains, a lease at 
inception of the contract. A lease conveys the right to direct the use 
and obtain substantially all of the economic benefits of an identified 
asset for a period of time in exchange for consideration.  

The Group as a lessee 
A right of use asset and corresponding lease liability are recognised 
at commencement of the lease.  

Financial statements 

The lease liability is measured at the present value of the lease 
payments, discounted at the rate implicit in the lease, or if that 
cannot be readily determined, at the lessee’s incremental borrowing 
rate specific to the term, country, currency and start date of the 
lease. Lease payments include: fixed payments; variable lease 
payments dependent on an index or rate, initially measured using 
the
purchase option if the Group is reasonably certain to exercise; 
penalties for early termination if the lease term reflects the Group 
exercising a break option; and payments in an optional renewal 
period if the Group is reasonably certain to exercise an extension 
option or not exercise a break option. 

index or rate at commencement; the exercise price under a 

The lease liability is subsequently measured at amortised cost 
the effective interest rate method. It is remeasured, with a 
using
corresponding adjustment to the right of use asset, when there is
change in future lease payments resulting from a rent review, change 
in an index or rate such as inflation, or change in the Group’s 
assessment of whether it is reasonably certain to exercise
a 
purchase, extension or break option.  

a

The right of use asset is initially measured at cost, comprising: the 
initial lease liability; any lease payments already made less any lease
incentives received; initial direct costs; and any dilapidation or 
restoration costs. The right of use asset is subsequently depreciated 
on a straight-line basis over the shorter of the lease term or the 
useful life of the underlying asset. The right of use asset is tested 
for

impairment if there are any indicators of impairment. 

Leases of low value assets (value when new less than £5,000) 
short-term leases of 12 months or less are expensed to the 
and
Group income statement, as are variable payments dependent on 
performance or usage, ‘out of contract’ payments and non-lease 
service components. 

The Group as a lessor 
Leases are classified as finance leases whenever the terms of the 
lease transfer substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership to 
the lessee. All other leases are classified as operating leases. Where 
the Group is an intermediate lessor, the sublease classification is 
assessed with reference to the head lease right of use asset. 
Amounts due from lessees under finance leases are recorded as 
receivables at the amount of the Group’s net investment in the 
lease. Finance lease income is allocated to accounting periods so 
as
to reflect a constant periodic rate of return on the Group’s net 
investment in the lease. Rental income from operating leases is 
recognised on a straight-line basis over the term of the lease. 

Sale and leaseback 
A sale and leaseback transaction is where the Group sells an asset 
and immediately reacquires the use of the asset by entering into a 
lease with the buyer. A sale occurs when control of the underlying 
asset passes to the buyer. A lease liability is recognised, the 
associated property, plant and equipment asset is derecognised, and 
a right of use asset is recognised at the proportion of the carrying 
value relating to the right retained. Any gain or loss arising relates to 
the rights transferred to the buyer.  

In the Group cash flow statement, sale and leaseback proceeds 
received are classified as investing cash flows, unless the proceeds 
exceed the fair value of the asset sold, in which case the excess 
proceeds are classified as financing cash flows. 

Property buybacks 
A property buyback is where a property that is currently leased is 
bought back from the landlord. Property buybacks that are a direct 
purchase of the underlying asset, outside of a corporate wrapper, 
are viewed as the modification of the lease to include a purchase 
option, followed by the immediate exercise of that purchase option. 
The lease liability is settled and the right of use asset forms part of 
the cost of the property, plant and equipment acquired, and no 
gain
property

or loss is recognised in the Group income statement from the 

buyback.  

Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2023 

Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2023
127 

127

Financial statements 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Notes to the Group financial statements continued 

Note 1 Accounting policies, judgements and 
estimates continued 
Property buybacks inside a corporate wrapper (such as a special 
purpose vehicle or joint venture structure) that do not meet the 
definition of a business combination are asset acquisitions. The cost 
of the asset acquisition includes the cash consideration paid and the 
carrying values of pre-existing lease contracts and any previously 
held interests. No gain or loss is recognised in the Group income 
statement from the property buyback.  

In the Group cash flow statement, property buyback net proceeds 
paid are
classified as investing cash flows, unless the proceeds 
exceed the incremental asset purchased (difference between 
property, plant and equipment recognised and right of use asset 
derecognised), in which case the excess proceeds are classified 
as

financing cash flows. 

Post-employment obligations 
For defined benefit plans, obligations are measured at discounted 
present value (using the projected unit credit method) and plan 
assets are recorded at fair value. 

The operating and financing costs of such plans are recognised 
separately in the Group income statement; service costs are spread 
systematically over the expected service lives of employees and 
financing costs are recognised in the periods in which they arise. 
Actuarial gains and losses are recognised immediately in the
statement of comprehensive income/(loss). 

Group 

Payments to defined contribution schemes are recognised as an 
expense as they fall due. 

Share-based payments 
The fair value of employee share option plans, which are equity-
settled, is calculated at the grant date using the Black-Scholes 
model. The resulting cost is charged to the Group income statement 
over the vesting period. The value of the charge is adjusted to reflect 
expected and actual levels of vesting. 

Taxation 
The tax expense included in the Group income statement consists of 
current and deferred tax. 

Current tax is the expected tax payable on the taxable income for 
the financial year, using tax rates enacted or substantively enacted 
by the balance sheet date. Tax expense is recognised in the Group 
income statement except to the extent that it relates to items 
recognised in the Group statement of comprehensive income/(loss) 
or directly in the Group statement of changes in equity, in
which 
case it is recognised in the Group statement of comprehensive 
income/(loss) or directly in the Group statement of
changes in 
equity, respectively. 

Deferred tax is provided using the balance sheet liability method, 
providing for temporary differences between the carrying amounts 
of assets and liabilities for financial reporting purposes and the 
amounts used for taxation purposes. 

Deferred tax is calculated at the tax rates that are expected to apply 
in the period when the liability is settled or the asset realised based 
on the tax rates that have been enacted or substantively enacted by 
the balance sheet date. Deferred tax is charged or credited in the 
items charged or 
Group income statement, except when it relates to
credited directly to the Group statement of changes in equity or the 
Group statement of comprehensive income/(loss), in which case the 
deferred tax is also recognised in
income, respectively. 

equity, or other comprehensive 

Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable 
that taxable profits will be available against which deductible 
temporary differences can be utilised. 

The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed at each 
balance sheet date and reduced to the extent that it is no longer 
probable that sufficient taxable profits will be available to allow all or 
part of the assets to be recovered. 

Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset against each other when 
there is a legally enforceable right to set off current tax assets 
against current tax liabilities and they relate to income taxes levied by 
the same taxation authority on either the same taxable entity or 
different taxable entities which intend to settle current tax assets 
and liabilities on a net basis. 

Tax provisions are recognised for uncertain tax positions where a
risk 
of an additional tax liability has been identified and it is probable that 
the Group will be required to settle that tax. Measurement is 
dependent on management’s expectation of the
outcome of 
decisions by tax authorities in the various tax jurisdictions in which 
the Group operates. This is assessed on a case-by-case basis using 
in-house tax experts, professional firms and previous experience. 
Refer to Note 6. 

Foreign currencies 
The consolidated financial statements are presented in Pounds 
Sterling, which is the ultimate Parent Company’s functional currency. 

Transactions in foreign currencies are translated to the functional 
currency at the exchange rate on the date of the transaction.  

At each balance sheet date, monetary assets and liabilities that are
denominated in foreign currencies are retranslated to the functional 
currency at the rates prevailing at the balance sheet date. Exchange 
differences are recognised in the Group income statement in the 
period in which they arise, apart from exchange differences on 
transactions entered into to hedge certain foreign currency risks, 
and exchange differences on monetary items forming part of the net 
investment in a foreign operation. 

The assets and liabilities of the Group’s foreign operations are 
translated into Pounds Sterling at exchange rates prevailing at the 
balance sheet date. Profits and losses are translated at average 
exchange rates for the relevant accounting periods. Exchange 
differences arising are recognised in the Group statement of 
comprehensive income/(loss) and are included in the Group’s 
translation reserve. Such translation differences are recognised 
as
income or expenses in the period in which the operation is 
disposed of. 

Goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on the acquisition of a 
foreign entity are treated as assets and liabilities of the foreign entity 
and translated at the closing rate. 

Financial instruments 
Financial assets and financial liabilities are recognised in the Group 
balance sheet when the Group becomes a party to the contractual 
provisions of the instrument. Financial assets are classified as either 
fair value through profit or loss, fair value through other 
comprehensive income, or amortised cost. Classification and 
subsequent remeasurement depends on the Group’s business 
model for managing the financial asset and its cash flow 
characteristics. Financial assets that are held for collection of 
contractual cash flows, where those cash flows represent solely 
payments of principal and interest, are measured at amortised cost. 
All other financial assets are measured at fair value. 

Trade receivables 
Trade receivables are non interest-bearing and are recognised 
initially at fair value, or at transaction price if there is not a significant 
financing component. They are subsequently held at amortised cost 
using the effective interest rate method, less allowance for ECLs. 

Investments 
Investments in debt instruments at amortised cost are measured at 
amortised cost, using the effective interest rate method less 
allowance for ECLs. 

128

Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2023
128 

Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2023 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
in other comprehensive income, except for impairment 
and losses, interest income and foreign exchange gains and 

Gains and losses on investments in debt instruments held at fair 
value through other comprehensive income are recognised 
directly
gains
losses, which are recognised in the Group income statement. 
When
in
income

other comprehensive income are reclassified to the Group 

the debt instrument is derecognised, cumulative amounts 

statement.  

Investments in equity instruments have been irrevocably designated 
at fair value through other comprehensive income. Gains and losses 
arising from changes in fair value are recognised directly in other 
comprehensive income, and are not subsequently reclassified to
Group income statement, including on derecognition. Impairment 
losses are not recognised separately from other changes in fair 
value. Dividends are recognised in the Group income
statement 
when the Group’s right to receive payment is

established. 

the 

Property fund and other investments held at fair value through profit 
or loss are measured at fair value, with changes in fair value 
recognised in the Group income statement. 

Short-term investments 
Short-term investments are liquid financial assets which have an 
original maturity of 12 months or less. Short-term investments are 
typically readily available for conversion to cash, but do not meet the 
criteria for classification as cash equivalents because either their 
maturity is greater than three months, for example short-term 
deposits, reverse repurchase agreements, commercial paper and 
certificates of deposit, or the risk of changes in value is more than 
insignificant, for example money market funds. 

Loans and advances to customers 
Loans and advances are initially recognised at fair value plus directly 
related transaction costs. Subsequent to initial recognition, these 
assets are carried at amortised cost using the effective interest 
method less any allowance for ECLs. 

Impairment of financial assets 
The Group assesses on a forward-looking basis the ECLs associated 
with its financial assets carried at amortised cost and fair value 
through other comprehensive income. The ECLs are updated at 
each reporting date to reflect changes in credit risk. 

The three-stage model for impairment has been applied to loans and 
advances to customers, investments in debt instruments at 
amortised cost, investments in debt instruments at fair value 
through other comprehensive income, short-term investments and 
loan receivables from joint ventures and associates. The credit risk is 
determined through modelling a range of possible outcomes for 
different loss scenarios, using reasonable and supportable 
information about past events, current conditions and forecasts of 
future events and economic conditions and taking into account the 
time value of money. A 12-month ECL is recognised, unless the credit 
risk on the financial asset increases significantly after initial 
recognition, when the lifetime ECL is recognised. The expected 
lifetime of a financial asset is generally the contractual term. 

For trade receivables, contract assets and lease receivables, the
Group applies the simplified approach permitted by IFRS 9 ‘Financial 
instruments’, with lifetime ECLs recognised from initial recognition of 
the receivable. These assets are grouped, based on
risk characteristics and days past due, with ECLs
determined based on the Group’s historical
adjusted for factors specific to
conditions and expected changes in forecast conditions. 

shared credit 
for each grouping 
credit loss experience, 
each receivable, general economic 

No ECL is recognised for loans and advances to banks due to the 
short-term nature of these balances, the frequency of origination 
and settlement of balances and taking account of collateral held. 

Financial statements 

Interest-bearing borrowings 
Interest-bearing bank loans and overdrafts are initially recorded at
fair value, net of attributable transaction costs. Subsequent to initial 
recognition, interest-bearing borrowings are stated at amortised 
cost with any difference between proceeds and redemption value 
being recognised in the Group income statement over the period of 
the borrowings on an effective interest basis. 

Trade payables 
Trade payables are non interest-bearing and are recognised initially 
at fair value and subsequently measured at amortised cost using the 
effective interest method. 

Equity instruments 
Equity instruments issued by the Group are recorded at the 
proceeds received, net of direct issue costs. 

Derivative financial instruments and hedge accounting 
The Group uses derivative financial instruments to hedge its 
exposure to foreign exchange, inflation, interest rate and commodity 
risks arising from operating, financing and investing activities. 
The
for

Group does not hold or issue derivative financial instruments 
trading purposes. 

Derivative financial instruments are recognised and stated at fair 
value. Where derivatives do not qualify for hedge accounting, any 
gains or losses on remeasurement are immediately recognised in 
the
Group income statement. Where derivatives qualify for hedge 
accounting, recognition of any resultant gain or loss depends on the 
nature of the hedge relationship and the item being hedged. 

At inception of designated hedging relationships, the Group 
documents the risk management objective and strategy for 
undertaking the hedge, the nature of the risks being hedged and 
the
hedging instrument, including whether the change in cash flows
offset 
the hedged item and hedging instrument are expected to
each

economic relationship between the item being hedged and the
of 

other. 

As permitted under IFRS 9, the Group has elected to continue 
apply the existing hedge accounting requirements of IAS 39 
to
instruments: Recognition and measurement’ for its 
‘Financial
portfolio hedge accounting until a new macro hedge accounting 
standard is implemented. 

Derivative financial instruments with maturity dates of more than 
one year from the reporting date are disclosed as non-current. 

of a recognised asset or liability. Changes in the fair value of 

Fair value hedging 
Derivative financial instruments are classified as fair value hedges 
when they hedge the Group’s exposure to changes in the fair 
value
derivatives that are designated as fair value hedges are recognised 
in
the Group income statement within finance income or costs, 
together with any changes in the fair value of the hedged item that 
is

attributable to the hedged risk.  

If the hedge no longer meets the criteria for hedge accounting, the
adjustment to the carrying amount of a hedged item is amortised to 
the Group income statement over the remaining period to maturity. 

Cash flow hedging 
Derivative financial instruments are classified as cash flow hedges 
when they hedge the Group’s exposure to variability in cash flows 
that is either attributable to a particular risk associated with a 
recognised asset or liability, or a highly probable forecasted 
transaction. The effective element of any gain or loss from 
remeasuring the derivative designated as the hedging instrument 
is
accumulated in the hedging reserve. Any cost of hedging, such as the 
change in fair value related to forward points and currency basis 
adjustment, is separately accumulated in the cost of hedging 
reserve. The ineffective element is recognised immediately in the 
Group income statement within finance income or costs. 

recognised directly in other comprehensive income and 

Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2023 

Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2023
129 

129

Financial statements 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Notes to the Group financial statements continued 

Note 1 Accounting policies, judgements and 
estimates continued 
Where the hedged item subsequently results in the recognition of a 
non-financial asset such as inventory, the amounts accumulated in 
the hedging reserve and cost of hedging reserve are included in the 
initial cost of the asset. For all other cash flow hedges, the amounts 
accumulated in the hedging reserve and cost of hedging reserve are 
recognised in the Group income statement when the hedged item or 
transaction affects the Group income statement.  

Hedge accounting is discontinued when the hedging instrument 
expires or is sold, terminated or exercised or no longer meets the 
Group’s risk management objective. The cumulative gain or loss in 
the hedging reserve and cost of hedging reserve remains until the 
forecast transaction occurs or the original hedged item affects the 
Group income statement.  

If a forecast hedged transaction is no longer expected to occur, the 
cumulative gain or loss in the hedging reserve and cost of hedging 
reserve is reclassified to the Group income statement. 

effective element of any foreign exchange gain or loss from 

Net investment hedging 
Financial instruments are classified as net investment hedges when 
they hedge the Group’s net investment in an overseas operation. 
The
remeasuring the instrument is recognised directly in other 
comprehensive income and accumulated in the translation reserve 
in equity. Any ineffective element is recognised immediately in the 
Group income statement. Gains and losses accumulated in the 
translation reserve are reclassified to the Group income statement 
when the foreign operation is disposed of.  

Offsetting financial instruments 
Financial assets and liabilities are offset and the net amount 
reported in the Group balance sheet when there is a current legally 
enforceable right to offset the recognised amounts and there is an 
intention to settle on a net basis or realise the asset and settle the 
liability simultaneously. 

Provisions  
Provisions are measured at the present value of the expenditures 
expected to be required to settle the obligation using a pre-tax 
discount rate that reflects current market assessments of the time 
value of money and the risks specific to the obligation. The increase 
in the provision due to passage of time is recognised as interest 
expense. Provisions for onerous contracts are recognised when the 
Group believes that the unavoidable costs of meeting or exiting the 
contract exceed the economic benefits expected to be received 
under the contract.  

different countries. Commercial requirements, including payment 

Supplier financing arrangements 
Suppliers can choose whether to access supplier financing 
arrangements, which are provided by different third-party banks 
in
terms or the price paid for goods, do not depend on whether a 
supplier chooses to access such arrangements. The arrangements 
support the Group’s suppliers by giving them the option to 
access
a lower cost than they could 
obtain

funding early, often
themselves. 

at

cost to the supplier that is set by the provider banks but 

Under the arrangements, suppliers may choose to access payment 
early rather than on the Group’s normal payment terms, at a 
funding
based on Tesco’s credit risk and the appropriate country risk 
premium. If
provider banks pay the suppliers on the Group’s normal payment 
terms. The Group pays the provider banks on the Group’s normal 
payment terms, regardless of whether the supplier has chosen to 
access funding early. 

suppliers choose not to access early payment, the 

Management reviews supplier financing arrangements to determine
the appropriate presentation of balances outstanding as
payables or borrowings, dependent on the nature of each
arrangement. Factors considered in determining the appropriate 

trade 

130

Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2023
130 

Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2023 

presentation include the commercial rationale for the
impact on the Group’s working capital positions, credit 
enhancements or other benefits provided to the bank and 
recourse

exposures. 

arrangement, 

Balances outstanding under current supplier financing arrangements 
are classified as trade payables, and cash flows are included in 
operating cash flows, since the financing arrangements are agreed 
between the supplier and the banks, and the Group does not provide 
additional credit enhancement nor obtain any working capital benefit 
from the arrangements. Refer to Note 19. 

Insurance  
Prior to the acquisition of TU on 4 May 2021, the Group generated 
commission from the sale and service of motor and home insurance 
policies underwritten by TU. Following the acquisition, these 
amounts represent intercompany transactions which are fully 
eliminated in the Group income statement. The Group also 
generated commission from the sale and service of motor and home 
insurance policies underwritten by a third-party underwriter until 
August 2021, when the Group brought in-house the writing of home 
and motor insurance policies which were previously underwritten 
through its broker panel. Commission was based on commission 
rates which were independent of the profitability of underlying 
insurance policies. Similar commission income is also generated from 
the sale of white
label insurance products underwritten by other 
third-party providers. This commission income is recognised on a 
net basis as such policies are sold. 

In the case of some commission income on insurance policies 
managed and underwritten by a third party, the Group recognises 
commission income from policy renewals as such policies are sold. 
This is when the Group has satisfied all of its performance obligations 
in relation to the policy sold and it is considered highly probable that 
a significant reversal in the amount of revenue recognised will not 
occur in future periods. This calculation takes into account both 
estimates of future renewal volumes and renewal commission rates. 
A contract asset is recognised in relation to this revenue. This is 
unwound over the remainder of the contract with the customer, 
in

this case being the third-party insurance provider. 

The end policyholders have the right to cancel an insurance policy at 
any time. Therefore, a contract liability is recognised for the amount 
of any expected refunds due and the revenue recognised in relation 
to these sales is reduced accordingly. This contract refund liability is 
estimated using prior experience of customer refunds. The 
appropriateness of the assumptions used in this calculation is 
reassessed at each reporting date. 

Classification of insurance contracts 
Contracts under which the Group accepts significant insurance risk 
from another party (the policyholder) by agreeing to compensate the 
policyholder or other beneficiary if a specified uncertain future event 
(the insured event) adversely affects the policyholder or other 
beneficiary are classified as insurance contracts. These contracts 
remain insurance contracts until all rights and obligations are 
extinguished or expire. Insurance contracts may also transfer 
some

financial risk. 

Insurance income 
Gross written premiums comprise premiums on contracts entered 
into during the year, irrespective of whether they relate in whole or 
in part to a later accounting period, and exclude tax and levies. 
The
Premiums are earned from the date of attachment of risk, over the 
indemnity period, based on the pattern of risks underwritten. 

earned portion of premiums written is recognised as revenue. 

Insurance claims 
Claims and claims handling expenses are recognised as incurred, 
based on the estimated cost of settling all liabilities arising on events 
occurring up to the balance sheet date. 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Reinsurance 
The Group cedes reinsurance in the normal course of business for 
the purpose of limiting its net loss potential through the 
diversification of its risks. Reinsurance arrangements, including 
quota share, excess of loss and adverse development cover 
contracts, do not relieve the Group from its direct obligations to its 
policyholders. Only contracts that give rise to a significant transfer of 
insurance risk are accounted for as reinsurance contracts. Amounts 
recoverable under such contracts are generally recognised in the 
same year as the related claim. Contracts that do not transfer 
significant insurance risk (i.e. financial reinsurance) are accounted 
for as financial instruments. 

Reinsurance assets include balances due from reinsurance 
companies for reinsurance claims. Amounts recoverable from 
reinsurers are estimated in a manner consistent with the 
outstanding claims provision or settled claims associated with the 
reinsured policy. The earned portion of reinsurance premiums 
(insurance premium income ceded to reinsurers) is recognised as 
reinsurance premium expense. The provision for unearned 
reinsurance premiums comprises the element of reinsurance 
premiums relating to services to be received in future years. 
Amounts recoverable under reinsurance contracts are assessed for 
impairment at each year-end date. Such assets are deemed 
impaired if there is objective evidence, as a result of an event that 
occurred after initial recognition, that the Group may not recover all 
amounts due and that the event has a reliably measurable impact on 
the amounts that the Group will receive from the reinsurer. 

Provision for outstanding claims 
The provision for outstanding claims represents the Group’s 
estimate of the ultimate cost of settling all claims incurred but 
unpaid at the reporting date whether reported or not, and related 
internal and external claims handling expenses. Claims outstanding 
are assessed by reviewing individual claims data and making an 
allowance for claims incurred but not yet reported, adjusted for the 
effect of both internal and external foreseeable events, such as 
changes in claims handling procedures, inflation, judicial trends, 
substantively enacted legislative changes and past experience and 
trends. Reinsurance and other recoveries are assessed in a manner 
similar to the claims outstanding and presented separately as assets. 

Unearned premium and unexpired risk provision 
The provision for unearned premiums comprises the proportion of 
gross premiums written, which is estimated to be earned in the 
following or subsequent accounting periods, calculated separately 
for each insurance contract using the daily pro rata method, 
adjusted if necessary to reflect any variation in the incidence of risk 
during the period covered by the contract. Where the value of 
expected claims and expenses attributable to unexpired periods of 
policies in force exceeds the unearned premium provision, a further 
provision is made, calculated by reference to classes of business 
which are managed together. 

Alternative performance measures (APMs) 
In the reporting of financial information, the Directors have adopted 
various APMs. Refer to the Glossary for a full list of the Group’s 
APMs, including comprehensive definitions, their purpose, 
reconciliations to IFRS measures and details of any changes to APMs. 

Judgements and sources of estimation uncertainty 
The preparation of the consolidated Group financial statements 
requires management to make judgements, estimates and 
assumptions in applying the Group’s accounting policies to 
determine the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, income and 
expenses. The estimates and associated assumptions are based on 
historical experience and various other factors that are believed to 
be reasonable under the circumstances. Actual results may differ 
from these estimates. The estimates and underlying assumptions are 
reviewed on an ongoing basis, with revisions to accounting estimates 
applied prospectively. 

Financial statements 

Critical accounting judgements 
Critical judgements, apart from those involving estimations, that are 
applied in the preparation of the consolidated Group financial 
statements are discussed below:  

Leases 
Management exercises judgement in determining the likelihood of
exercising break or extension options in determining the lease term. 
Break and extension options are included to provide operational 
flexibility should the economic outlook for an asset be different to 
expectations, and hence at commencement of the lease, break or 
extension options are not typically considered reasonably certain to 
be exercised, unless there is a valid business reason otherwise.  

The discount rate used to calculate the lease liability is the rate 
implicit in the lease, if it can be readily determined, or the lessee’s 
incremental borrowing rate if not. Management uses the rate implicit 
in the lease where the lessor is a related party (such as leases from 
joint ventures) and the lessee’s incremental borrowing rate for all 
other leases. Incremental borrowing rates are determined monthly 
and depend on the term, country, currency and start date of the 
lease. The incremental borrowing rate is determined based on a 
series of inputs including: the risk-free rate
bond rates; a country-specific risk adjustment; a credit risk 
adjustment based on Tesco bond yields; and an entity-specific 
adjustment where the entity risk profile is different to that of 
the

based on government 

Group. 

Refer to Note 12 for additional disclosures relating to leases. 

Joint ventures and associates 
The Group has assessed the nature of its joint arrangements under 
IFRS 11 ‘Joint arrangements’ and determined them to be joint 
ventures. These assessments required the exercise of judgement 
as

set out in Note 13. 

APMs – Adjusting items 
Adjusting items relate to certain costs or incomes that derive from 
events or transactions that fall within the normal activities of the 
Group but which, individually or, if of a similar type, in aggregate, 
excluded from the Group’s APMs by virtue of their size and 
are
nature in order to provide a helpful alternative perspective of the 
year-on-year trends, performance and position of the Group’s 
trading business that is more comparable over time. This alternative 
view is consistent with how management views the
Committee 
how it is reported internally to the Board and Executive
for performance analysis, planning, reporting, decision-making and 
incentive-setting purposes.  

business, and 

Management exercises judgement in determining the adjustments to 
apply to IFRS measurements, and this assessment covers the nature 
of the item, cause of occurrence and the scale of impact of that 
item on reported performance and individual financial statement 
line
items, as well as consistency with prior periods. Reversals of 
previous adjusting items are assessed based on the same criteria to 
ensure an even-handed treatment of gains and losses. The amount 
and timing of adjusting items can be unpredictable and subject to a 
higher level of scrutiny by users of the accounts. Adjusting items can 
include, but are not limited to: litigation costs; impairment charges 
and reversals; property transactions such as disposals; amortisation 
of acquired intangibles; changes in uncertain tax positions; 
restructuring and redundancy costs; profits or losses on disposal 
of
businesses; net pension finance income/(costs); and fair value 
remeasurements of financial instruments. The tax effect of such 
items is also classified as adjusting.  

The Group income statement is presented in a columnar format 
enable users of the accounts to see the Group’s performance 
to
before adjusting items, the adjusting items, and the statutory total 
on a line-by-line basis. An analysis of the adjusting items included in 
the Group income statement, together with the impact of these 
items on the Group cash flow statement, is disclosed in Note 4. 

Refer to pages 207 to 212 for further details on the Group’s APMs. 

Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2023 

Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2023
131 

131

Financial statements 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Clubcard points breakage 
Clubcard points breakage is the proportion of points that are not 
expected to be redeemed by customers. Management estimates 
breakage based on historical experience of customer redemptions, 
adjusted for any factors which may impact future redemption rates 
such as scheme changes or expected future trends in customer 
behaviour. Changes in breakage estimates would change the 
Clubcard contract liability (deferred revenue) on balance sheet (see 
Note 19) and the timing of revenue recognised in relation to Clubcard 
points. 

Contingent liabilities 
Contingent liabilities are possible obligations whose existence will be 
confirmed only on the occurrence or non-occurrence of uncertain 
future events outside the Group’s control, or present obligations 
that are not recognised because it is not probable that a settlement 
will be required or the value of such a payment cannot be reliably 
estimated. The Group does not recognise contingent liabilities but 
discloses them. Refer to Note 34 for the disclosures.  

Notes to the Group financial statements continued 

Note 1 Accounting policies, judgements and 
estimates continued 
Key sources of estimation uncertainty  
The key assumptions about the future, and other key sources of 
estimation uncertainty at the reporting period end, that may have a 
significant risk of causing a material adjustment to the carrying 
amount of assets and liabilities within the next financial year are 
discussed below: 

Post-employment benefit obligations 
The present value of post-employment benefit obligations is 
determined on an actuarial basis using various assumptions, 
including the
Any changes in these assumptions will impact the
as
and sensitivities for post-employment benefit obligations are 
disclosed in

well as the net pension finance cost/(income). Key

Note 29. 

carrying amount 
assumptions 

discount rate, inflation rate and mortality assumptions. 

Impairment of non-financial assets 
The Group evaluates goodwill and non-current assets for impairment 
as set out in Note 14. The key assumptions and estimates to which 
the recoverable amounts are most sensitive, the methodology for 
calculating them and sensitivities are also disclosed in Note 14. 

Tesco Bank ECL measurement 
The measurement of ECLs for Tesco Bank financial assets requires 
the use of complex models and significant assumptions about future 
macroeconomic conditions and credit behaviour, such as the 
likelihood of customers defaulting and the resulting losses. 
assumptions and sensitivities for Tesco Bank ECLs are 
Key
disclosed

in Note 27. 

Other significant estimates 
Other estimates for which management believes there is a limited 
risk of a material change in the amounts recognised or disclosed in 
the next financial year are discussed below: 

Commercial income 
Management is required to make estimates in determining the 
amount and timing of recognition of commercial income for some
transactions with suppliers. In determining the amount of volume-
related allowances recognised in any period, management estimates 
the probability that the Group will meet contractual target volumes, 
based on historical and forecast performance. There is limited 
estimation involved in recognising income for promotional and 
other

allowances.  

Management assesses its performance against the obligations 
conditional on earning the income, with the income recognised 
either over time as the obligations are met, or recognised at the 
point when all obligations are met, dependent on the contractual 
requirements. Commercial income is recognised as a credit within 
cost of sales. Where the income earned relates to inventories which 
are held by the Group at period ends, the income is included within 
the cost of those inventories, and recognised in cost of sales upon 
sale of those inventories. Management views that the cost of 
inventories sold (which is inclusive of commercial income) provides a 
consistent and complete measure of the Group income statement 
impact of the overall supplier relationships. 

Management considers the best indicator of the estimation 
undertaken is by reference to commercial income balances not 
settled at the balance sheet date, and has therefore provided 
additional disclosures of commercial income amounts reflected in 
the Group balance sheet. Refer to Note 20 for commercial income 
disclosures. 

132

Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2023
132 

Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2023 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Financial statements 

Note 2 Segmental reporting 
The Group’s operating segments are determined based on the Group’s internal reporting to the Chief Operating Decision Maker (CODM). 
The
CODM has been determined to be the Group Chief Executive, with support from the Executive Committee, as the function primarily 
responsible for the allocation of resources to segments and assessment of performance of the segments. 

The principal activities of the Group are presented in the

following segments: 

–  Retailing and associated activities (Retail) in: 

–  UK & ROI – the United Kingdom and Republic of Ireland; and 
–  Central Europe – Czech Republic, Hungary and Slovakia. 

–  Retail banking and insurance services through Tesco Bank in the UK (Tesco Bank). 

This presentation reflects how the Group’s operating performance is reviewed internally by management. 

The CODM uses adjusted operating profit, as reviewed at monthly Executive Committee meetings, as the key measure of the segments’ results 
as
it reflects the segments’ trading performance that aids comparability over time for the financial year under evaluation. Adjusted operating 
profit is a consistent measure within the Group as defined within the Glossary. Refer to Note 4 for adjusting items. Inter-segment revenue 
between the segments is not material. 

Income statement 
The segment results and the reconciliation of the segment measures to the respective statutory items included in the Group income statement 
are as follows: 

52 weeks ended 25 February 2023 
At constant exchange rates 
Continuing operations 
Revenue 
Less: Fuel sales 
APM: Sales 
Adjusted operating profit 
Adjusting items (Note 4) 
Operating profit 
Adjusted operating margin 

52 weeks ended 25 February 2023 
At actual exchange rates 
Continuing operations 
Revenue 
Less: Fuel sales 
APM: Sales 
Adjusted operating profit 
Adjusting items (Note 4) 
Operating profit 
Adjusted operating margin 
Share of post-tax profits of joint ventures and associates 
Finance income 
Finance costs 
Profit before tax 

UK & ROI 
£m 

60,214 
(7,877) 
52,337 
2,307 
(1,058) 
1,249 
3.8% 

Central 
Europe 
£m 

Total Retail at 
constant 
exchange 
£m 

4,468 
(222) 
4,246 
174 
(33) 
141 
3.9% 

64,682 
(8,099) 
56,583 
2,481 
(1,091) 
1,390 
3.8% 

UK & ROI 
£m 

60,246 
(7,877) 
52,369 
2,307 
(1,058) 
1,249 
3.8% 

Tesco 
Bank 
£m 

1,106 
– 
1,106 
143 
(11) 
132 
12.9% 

Central 
Europe 
£m 

4,410 
(229) 
4,181 
180 
(36) 
144 
4.1% 

Total at 
constant 
exchange 
£m 

65,788 
(8,099) 
57,689 
2,624 
(1,102) 
1,522 
4.0% 

Total Retail 
£m 

64,656 
(8,106) 
56,550 
2,487 
(1,094) 
1,393 
3.8% 

Foreign 
exchange 
£m 

(26) 
(7) 
(33) 
6 
(3) 
3 

Tesco 
Bank 
 £m 

1,106 
– 
1,106 
143 
(11) 
132 
12.9% 

Total 
at actual 
exchange 
£m 

65,762 
(8,106) 
57,656 
2,630 
(1,105) 
1,525 
4.0% 

Total 
at actual 
exchange 
£m 

65,762 
(8,106) 
57,656 
2,630 
(1,105) 
1,525 
4.0% 
8 
85 
(618) 
1,000 

Tesco Bank revenue of £1,106m (2022: £922m) comprises interest and similar revenues of £540m (2022: £473m), fees and commissions revenue of 
£257m (2022: £210m) and insurance revenue of £309m (2022: £239m). For insurance, refer to Note 24. 

52 weeks ended 26 February 2022 
At actual exchange rates 
Continuing operations 
Revenue 
Less: Fuel sales 
APM: Sales 
Adjusted operating profit 
Adjusting items (Note 4) 
Operating profit 
Adjusted operating margin 
Share of post-tax profits of joint ventures and associates 
Finance income 
Finance costs 
Profit before tax 

UK & ROI 
£m 

56,404 
(6,420) 
49,984 
2,481 
(290) 
2,191 
4.4% 

Central 
Europe 
£m 

4,018 
(156) 
3,862 
168 
25 
193 
4.2% 

Total Retail 
£m 

60,422 
(6,576) 
53,846 
2,649 
(265) 
2,384 
4.4% 

Tesco 
Bank 
 £m 

922 
– 
922 
176 
– 
176 
19.1% 

Total 
at actual 
exchange 
£m 

61,344 
(6,576) 
54,768 
2,825 
(265) 
2,560 
4.6% 
15 
9 
(551) 
2,033 

Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2023 

Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2023
133 

133

Financial statements 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
  
  
  
  
 
Notes to the Group financial statements continued 

Note 2 Segmental reporting continued 
Balance sheet 
The following tables showing segment assets and liabilities exclude those balances that make up net debt (cash and cash equivalents, short-term 
investments, joint venture loans, bank and other borrowings, lease liabilities, derivative financial instruments and net debt of the disposal group). 
With the exception of lease liabilities which have been allocated to each segment, and Tesco Bank net debt, all other components of net debt 
have been included within the unallocated segment to reflect how these balances are managed. Intercompany transactions have been eliminated 
other than intercompany transactions with Tesco Bank in net debt. 

At 25 February 2023 
Goodwill and other intangible assets 
Property, plant and equipment and investment property 
Right of use assets 
Investments in joint ventures and associates 
Non-current other investments 
Non-current trade and other receivables(a) 
Non-current loans and advances to customers 
Non-current reinsurance assets 
Post-employment benefit surplus 
Deferred tax assets 
Non-current assets(b) 

Inventories and current trade and other receivables(c) 
Current loans and advances to customers  
Current reinsurance assets 
Current other investments 
Total trade and other payables 
Total customer deposits and deposits from banks 
Total insurance contract provisions 
Total provisions 
Deferred tax liabilities 
Net current tax 
Post-employment benefit deficit 
Assets of the disposal group and non-current assets 
classified as held for sale 
Net debt (including Tesco Bank)(d) 
Net assets 

UK & ROI 
£m 
4,715 
15,346 
5,057 
93 
218 
44 
- 
- 
6 
3 
25,482 

3,118 
- 
- 
6 
(8,986) 
- 
- 
(494) 
(74) 
52 
(400) 
25 

(7,036) 
11,693 

Central 
Europe 
£m 
37 
1,468 
433 
- 
- 
2 
- 
- 
- 
22 
1,962 

358 
- 
- 
- 
(595) 
- 
- 
(36) 
(45) 
(16) 
- 
169 

Tesco 
Bank 
 £m 
623 
72 
10 
- 
1,121 
25 
3,029 
145 
- 
57 
5,082 

243 
4,052 
72 
347 
(390) 
(6,750) 
(605) 
(30) 
- 
9 
- 
- 

Unallocated 
£m 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 

Total 
continuing 
operations 
£m 
5,375 
16,886 
5,500 
93 
1,339 
71 
3,029 
145 
6 
82 
32,526 

Discontinued 
operations 
£m 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 

- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 

3,719 
4,052 
72 
353 
(9,971) 
(6,750) 
(605) 
(560) 
(119) 
45 
(400) 
194 

- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
16 

Total 
£m 
5,375 
16,886 
5,500 
93 
1,339 
71 
3,029 
145 
6 
82 
32,526 

3,719 
4,052 
72 
353 
(9,971) 
(6,750) 
(605) 
(560) 
(119) 
45 
(400) 
210 

(553) 
1,244 

151 
2,181 

(2,890) 
(2,890) 

(10,328) 
12,228 

(14) 
2 

(10,342) 
12,230 

(a)  Excludes non-current loans to joint ventures of £8m (2022: £9m), which form part of net debt. 
(b) Excludes derivative financial instruments of £873m (2022: £942m), which form part of net debt. 
(c)  Excludes net interest and other receivables of £8m (2022: £1m), and current loans to joint ventures of £98m (2022: £96m), both forming part of net debt. 
(d) Refer to Note 32. Net debt at 25 February 2023 includes net debt of the disposal group classified as held for sale of £(14)m (2022: £(14)m). 

At 26 February 2022 
Goodwill and other intangible assets 
Property, plant and equipment and investment property 
Right of use assets 
Investments in joint ventures and associates 
Non-current other investments 
Non-current trade and other receivables(a) 
Non-current loans and advances to customers  
Non-current reinsurance assets 
Post-employment benefit surplus 
Deferred tax assets 
Non-current assets(b) 

Inventories and current trade and other receivables(c) 
Current loans and advances to customers 
Current reinsurance assets 
Current other investments 
Total trade and other payables 
Total customer deposits and deposits from banks 
Total insurance contract provisions 
Total provisions 
Deferred tax liabilities 
Net current tax 
Post-employment benefit deficit 
Assets of the disposal group and non-current assets 
classified as held for sale 
Net debt (including Tesco Bank)(d) 
Net assets 

Refer to previous table for footnotes. 

UK & ROI 
£m 
4,700 
15,552 
5,355 
85 
12 
91 
– 
– 
3,150 
2 
28,947 

2,981 
– 
– 
– 
(8,343) 
– 
– 
(401) 
(869) 
90 
(303) 
20 

(7,350) 
14,772 

Central 
Europe 
£m 
31 
1,462 
354 
1 
– 
– 
– 
– 
– 
19 
1,867 

285 
– 
– 
– 
(535) 
– 
– 
(28) 
(41) 
(11) 
– 
310 

(474) 
1,373 

Tesco 
Bank 
 £m 
629 
68 
11 
– 
1,241 
59 
3,141 
184 
– 
64 
5,397 

239 
3,349 
61 
226 
(356) 
(6,379) 
(650) 
(37) 
– 
3 
– 
– 

300 
2,153 

Unallocated 
£m 
– 
– 
– 
– 
– 
– 
– 
– 
– 
– 
– 

Total 
continuing 
operations 
£m 
5,360 
17,082 
5,720 
86 
1,253 
150 
3,141 
184 
3,150 
85 
36,211 

Discontinued 
operations 
£m 
– 
– 
– 
– 
– 
– 
– 
– 
– 
– 
– 

– 
– 
– 
– 
– 
– 
– 
– 
– 
– 
– 
– 

3,505 
3,349 
61 
226 
(9,234) 
(6,379) 
(650) 
(466) 
(910) 
82 
(303) 
330 

– 
– 
– 
– 
– 
– 
– 
– 
– 
– 
– 
38 

Total 
£m 
5,360 
17,082 
5,720 
86 
1,253 
150 
3,141 
184 
3,150 
85 
36,211 

3,505 
3,349 
61 
226 
(9,234) 
(6,379) 
(650) 
(466) 
(910) 
82 
(303) 
368 

(2,678) 
(2,678) 

(10,202) 
15,620 

(14) 
24 

(10,216) 
15,644 

134

Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2023
134 

Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2023 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Financial statements 

Other segment information 

52 weeks ended 25 February 2023 
Capital expenditure (including acquisitions through business combinations): 

Property, plant and equipment(a)(b) 
Goodwill and other intangible assets(c) 

Depreciation and amortisation: 

Property, plant and equipment 
Right of use assets 
Investment property 
Other intangible assets 

Impairment(d): 

(Loss) on financial assets 

UK & ROI 
£m 

Central 
Europe 
£m 

Tesco 
Bank 
£m 

1,176 
259 

(788) 
(500) 
(1) 
(226) 

(5) 

104 
12 

(84) 
(37) 
– 
(10) 

(1) 

14 
37 

(10) 
(2) 
– 
(42) 

(61) 

Total 
£m 

1,294 
308 

(882) 
(539) 
(1) 
(278) 

(67) 

(a)  Includes £248m related to obtaining control of The Tesco Dorney Limited Partnership (2022: £584m related to obtaining control of The Tesco Sarum Limited Partnership). Refer to Note 33 for 

further details. 

(b) Includes £42m (2022: £1m) of property, plant and equipment acquired through business combinations. 
(c)  Includes £31m (2022: £38m) of goodwill and other intangible assets acquired through business combinations. 
(d) Excludes impairment of other non-current assets. Refer to Note 14. 

52 weeks ended 26 February 2022 
Capital expenditure (including acquisitions through business combinations): 

Property, plant and equipment(a)(b) 
Goodwill and other intangible assets(c) 

Depreciation and amortisation: 

Property, plant and equipment 
Right of use assets 
Investment property 
Other intangible assets 

Impairment(d): 

(Loss)/reversal on financial assets 

Refer to previous table for footnotes. 

UK & ROI 
£m 

Central 
Europe 
£m 

Tesco 
Bank 
£m 

1,485 
186 

(792) 
(500) 
(1) 
(224) 

10 

89 
10 

(90) 
(35) 
– 
(11) 

(1) 

14 
71 

(11) 
(2) 
– 
(52) 

30 

Total  
£m 

1,588 
267 

(893) 
(537) 
(1) 
(287) 

39 

Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2023 

Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2023
135 

135

Financial statements 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Notes to the Group financial statements continued 

Note 2 Segmental reporting continued 
Cash flow statement 
The following tables provide a split of cash flows between Retail continuing operations, Tesco Bank and Group discontinued operations. 

52 weeks ended 25 February 2023 
Operating profit/(loss) 
Depreciation and amortisation 
ATM net income 
(Profit)/loss arising on sale of property, plant and equipment, investment property, 
intangible assets, assets held for sale and early termination of leases 
(Profit)/loss arising from sale of other investments 
Net impairment loss on property, plant and equipment, right of use assets, intangible 
assets and investment property 
Net remeasurement loss on non-current assets held for sale 
Other defined benefit pension scheme payments 
Share-based payments 
Tesco Bank fair value movements included in operating profit/(loss) 
Cash flows generated from operations excluding working capital 
(Increase)/decrease in working capital 
Cash generated from/(used in) operations 
Interest paid 
Corporation tax paid 
Net cash generated from/(used in) operating activities* 
Proceeds from sale of property, plant and equipment, investment property, 
intangible assets and assets classified as held for sale 
Purchase of property, plant and equipment, investment property and other long-
term assets – property buybacks 
Purchase of property, plant and equipment, investment property and other long-
term assets – other capital expenditure 
Purchase of intangible assets 
Acquisition of subsidiaries, net of cash acquired 
Increase in loans to joint ventures and associates 
Investments in joint ventures and associates 
Net (investments in)/proceeds from sale of short-term investments 
Proceeds from sale of other investments 
Purchase of other investments 
Dividends received from joint ventures and associates 
Dividends received from Tesco Bank 
Interest received 
Cash inflows from derivative financial instruments 
Cash outflows from derivative financial instruments 
Net cash generated from/(used in) investing activities* 
Own shares purchased for cancellation 
Own shares purchased for share schemes 
Repayment of capital element of obligations under leases 
Cash outflows exceeding the incremental increase in assets in a property buyback 
Repayment of borrowings 
Cash inflows from derivative financial instruments 
Cash outflows from derivative financial instruments 
Dividends paid to equity holders 
Net cash generated from/(used in) financing activities* 

Net increase/(decrease) in cash and cash equivalents  
Cash and cash equivalents at the beginning of the year 
Effect of foreign exchange rate changes 
Cash and cash equivalents at the end of the year 

*  Refer to page 211 for the reconciliation of the APM: Retail free cash flow.  

Before 
adjusting 
items 
£m 
2,487 
1,570 
(16) 
13 

Retail 

Adjusting 
items 
£m 
(1,094) 
76 
- 
(91) 

– 
– 

– 
(23) 
64 
– 
4,095 
468 
4,563 
(643) 
(107) 
3,813 
6 

– 
982 

14 
– 
– 
– 
(113) 
52 
(61) 
– 
– 
(61) 
335 

Retail 
Total 

£m   
1,393   
1,646   
(16)  
(78)  

–   
982   

14   
(23)  
64   
–   
3,982   
520   
4,502   
(643)   
(107)   
3,752   
341   

(14) 

(40) 

(54)  

(902) 

– 

(902)  

(241) 
(66) 
(1) 
(10) 
451 
1 
(206) 
14 
54 
70 
54 
(6) 
(796) 
(781) 
(86) 
(589) 
(21) 
(608) 
232 
(365) 
(858) 
(3,076) 

– 
– 
– 
– 
– 
– 
– 
– 
– 
– 
– 
– 
295 
– 
– 
– 
– 
– 
– 
– 
(1) 
(1) 

(241)  
(66)  
(1)  
(10)  
451   
1   
(206)  
14   
54   
70   
54   
(6)  
(501)  
(781)  
(86)  
(589)  
(21)  
(608)  
232   
(365)  
(859)  
(3,077)  

Before 
adjusting 
items 
£m 
143 
54 
16 
– 

Bank 

Adjusting 
items 
£m 
(11) 
– 
– 
– 

3 
– 

– 
– 
(5) 
70 
281 
(271) 
10 
(9) 
(17) 
(16) 
1 

– 

(15) 

(38) 
(5) 
– 
– 
– 
229 
(323) 
– 
(54) 
– 
– 
– 
(205) 
– 
– 
(4) 
– 
(101) 
– 
(6) 
– 
(111) 

– 
– 

– 
– 
– 
– 
(11) 
(3) 
(14) 
– 
– 
(14) 
– 

– 

– 

– 
– 
– 
– 
– 
– 
– 
– 
– 
– 
– 
– 
– 
– 
– 
– 
– 
– 
– 
– 
– 
– 

Tesco 
Bank 
Total 

£m   
132   
54   
16   
–   

3   
–   

–   
–   
(5)  
70   
270   
(274)  
(4)  
(9)   
(17)   
(30)   
1   

-   

(15)  

(38)  
(5)  
-   
-   
-   
229   
(323)  
-   
(54)  
–   
–   
–   
(205)  
–   
–   
(4)  
–   
(101)  
–   
(6)   
–   
(111)  

(59) 

233 

174   

(332) 

(14) 

(346)  

Discontinued 

operations   

Tesco 
Group 

Total 

£m   
(9)  
–   
–   
2   

–   
–   

9   
–   
–   
–   
2   
(3)  
(1)  
–   
1   
–   
–   

–   

–   

–   
–   
–   
–   
–   
–   
–   
–   
–   
–   
–   
–   
–   
–   
–   
–   
–   
–   
–   
–   
–   
–   

–   

Total 
£m 
1,516 
1,700 
– 
(76) 

3 
982 

23 
(23) 
59 
70 
4,254 
243 
4,497 
(652) 
(123) 
3,722 
342 

(54) 

(917) 

(279) 
(71) 
(1) 
(10) 
451 
230 
(529) 
14 
– 
70 
54 
(6) 
(706) 
(781) 
(86) 
(593) 
(21) 
(709) 
232 
(371) 
(859) 
(3,188) 

(172) 
1,771 
(34) 
1,565 

136

Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2023
136 

Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2023 

 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
   
   
 
 
 
   
 
 
   
   
 
 
   
 
 
   
   
 
 
   
 
 
   
   
 
 
Financial statements 

52 weeks ended 26 February 2022 
Operating profit/(loss) 
Depreciation and amortisation 
ATM net income 
(Profit)/loss arising on sale of property, plant and equipment, investment property, 
intangible assets, assets held for sale and early termination of leases 
(Profit)/loss arising on sale of joint ventures and associates 
(Profit)/loss arising on sale of subsidiaries 
Net impairment loss on property, plant and equipment, right of use assets, intangible 
assets and investment property 
Net remeasurement (gain)/loss on non-current assets held for sale 
Adjustment for non-cash element of pensions charge  
Other defined benefit pension scheme payments 
Share-based payments 
Tesco Bank fair value movements included in operating profit/(loss) 
Cash flows generated from operations excluding working capital 
(Increase)/decrease in working capital 
Cash generated from/(used in) operations 
Interest paid 
Corporation tax paid 
Net cash generated from/(used in) operating activities* 
Proceeds from sale of property, plant and equipment, investment property, 
intangible assets and assets classified as held for sale 
Purchase of property, plant and equipment, investment property and other long-
term assets – property buybacks 
Purchase of property, plant and equipment, investment property and other long-
term assets – other capital expenditure 
Purchase of intangible assets 
Disposal of subsidiaries, net of cash disposed 
Acquisition of subsidiaries, net of cash acquired 
Proceeds from sale of joint ventures and associates 
Increase in loans to joint ventures and associates 
Investments in joint ventures and associates 
Net (investments in)/proceeds from sale of short-term investments 
Proceeds from sale of other investments 
Purchase of other investments 
Dividends received from joint ventures and associates 
Dividends received from Tesco Bank 
Interest received 
Net cash generated from/(used in) investing activities* 
Own shares purchased for cancellation 
Own shares purchased for share schemes 
Repayment of capital element of obligations under leases 
Increase in borrowings 
Repayment of borrowings 
Cash inflows from derivative financial instruments 
Cash outflows from derivative financial instruments 
Dividends paid to equity holders 
Net cash generated from/(used in) financing activities* 

Net increase/(decrease) in cash and cash equivalents  
Cash and cash equivalents at the beginning of the year 
Effect of foreign exchange rate changes 
Cash and cash equivalents at the end of the year 

Refer to previous table for footnote. 

Note 3 Operating expenses 
Auditor’s remuneration 

Before 
adjusting 
items 
£m 
2,649 
1,577 
(14) 
5 

Retail 

Adjusting 
items 
£m 
(265) 
76 
– 
(128) 

– 
– 
– 

– 
7 
(19) 
63 
– 
4,268 
501 
4,769 
(644) 
(195) 
3,930 
– 

(15) 
– 
115 

6 
– 
– 
– 
– 
(211) 
(105) 
(316) 
– 
– 
(316) 
308 

Retail 
Total 

£m   
2,384   
1,653   
(14)  
(123)  

(15)  
–   
115   

6   
7   
(19)  
63   
–   
4,057   
396   
4,453   
(644)  
(195)  
3,614   
308   

(37) 

(43) 

(80)  

(854) 

– 

(854)  

(196) 
– 
– 
– 
(4) 
(11) 
(1,067) 
2 
(1) 
22 
87 
3 
(2,056) 
(278) 
(144) 
(571) 
394 
(754) 
798 
(921) 
(704) 
(2,180) 

– 
117 
– 
15 
– 
– 
– 
– 
– 
– 
– 
– 
397 
– 
– 
– 
– 
– 
– 
– 
(27) 
(27) 

(196)  
117   
–   
15   
(4)  
(11)  
(1,067)  
2   
(1)  
22   
87   
3   
(1,659)  
(278)  
(144)  
(571)  
394   
(754)  
798   
(921)  
(731)  
(2,207)   

Before 
adjusting 
items 
£m 
176 
65 
14 
– 

Bank 

Adjusting 
items 
£m 
– 
– 
– 
– 

(10) 
– 
– 

– 
– 
– 
3 
(28) 
220 
(54) 
166 
(5) 
(4) 
157 
1 

– 

(14) 

(33) 
– 
(48) 
– 
– 
– 
– 
272 
(220) 
10 
(87) 
– 
(119) 
– 
– 
(4) 
– 
(21) 
– 
– 
– 
(25) 

– 
– 
– 

– 
– 
– 
– 
– 
– 
(8) 
(8) 
– 
– 
(8) 
– 

– 

– 

– 
– 
– 
– 
– 
– 
– 
– 
– 
– 
– 
– 
– 
– 
– 
– 
– 
– 
– 
– 
– 
– 

Tesco 
Bank 
Total 

£m   
176   
65   
14   
–   

(10)  
–   
–   

–   
–   
–   
3   
(28)  
220   
(62)  
158   
(5)   
(4)  
149   
1   

–   

(14)  

(33)  
–   
(48)  
–   
–   
–   
–   
272   
(220)  
10   
(87)  
–   
(119)  
–   
–   
(4)  
–   
(21)  
–   
–   
–   
(25)  

(306) 

54 

(252)  

13 

(8) 

5   

Discontinued 

operations   

Tesco 
Group 

Total 

£m   
(51)  
–   
–   
–   

–   
23   
–   

(3)  
–   
–   
–   
–   
(31)  
28   
(3)  
(1)   
(2)  
(6)   
–   

–   

(1)  

–   
44   
–   
–   
–   
–   
–   
–   
–   
–   
–   
–   
43   
–   
–   
(2)  
–   
–   
–   
–   
–   
(2)   

35   

Total 
£m 
2,509 
1,718 
– 
(123) 

(25) 
23 
115 

3 
7 
(19) 
66 
(28) 
4,246 
362 
4,608 
(650) 
(201) 
3,757 
309 

(80) 

(869) 

(229) 
161 
(48) 
15 
(4) 
(11) 
(1,067) 
274 
(221) 
32 
– 
3 
(1,735) 
(278) 
(144) 
(577) 
394 
(775) 
798 
(921) 
(731) 
(2,234) 

(212) 
1,971 
12 
1,771 

Fees payable to the Company’s auditor and its associates for the audit of the Company and Group financial statements 
The audit of the accounts of the Company’s subsidiaries 
Total audit services 
Audit-related assurance services 
Non-audit services 
Total non-audit services 
Total auditor’s remuneration 

52 weeks 
2023 
£m 
3.6 
9.7 
13.3 
1.2 
0.2 
1.4 
14.7 

52 weeks 
2022 
£m 
2.8 
8.9 
11.7 
0.9 
0.6 
1.5 
13.2 

Audit-related assurance services of £1.2m (2022: £0.9m) comprise: review of the Group’s interim report £0.5m (2022: £0.5m) and other services 
£0.7m (2022: £0.4m). In addition to the amounts shown above, the auditor received fees of £0.3m (2022: £0.3m) for the audit of the main Group 
pension schemes, and fees of £0.3m (2022: £0.2m) for the audit of joint ventures. Non-audit services are subject to approval by the Chief Audit 
and Risk Officer and the Audit Committee. Additional information on the non-audit services provided by the auditor is provided in the Audit 
Committee report on page 76, including how

objectivity and independence is safeguarded. 

Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2023 

Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2023
137 

137

Financial statements 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
   
   
 
 
 
   
 
 
   
   
 
 
   
 
 
   
   
 
 
   
 
 
   
   
 
 
Notes to the Group financial statements continued 

Note 3 Operating expenses continued 
Employment costs, including Directors’ remuneration 

Continuing operations 
Wages and salaries 
Social security costs 
Post-employment defined benefits 
Post-employment defined contributions 
Share-based payments expense 
Termination benefits 
Total 

Notes 

29 
29 
28 

52 weeks 
2023 
£m 
6,516 
519 
24 
375 
112 
110 
7,656 

52 weeks 
2022 
£m 
6,410 
493 
40 
361 
122 
40 
7,466 

Post-employment defined contribution charges include £143m (2022: £136m) of salaries paid as pension contributions.  

The table below shows the average number of employees by segment during the financial year. 

Continuing operations 
UK & ROI 
Central Europe 
Tesco Bank 
Total 

Note 4 Adjusting items 
Group income statement 
Refer to Note 1 for further details regarding the assessment of items as adjusting. 

52 weeks ended 25 February 2023 
Profit/(loss) for the year included the following adjusting items: 

Average number 
of employees 
2023 
309,366  
23,971  
3,589  
336,926 

2022   
326,218   
24,935   
3,591   
354,744   

Average number of 
full-time equivalents 

2023 
196,911 
21,998  
3,397  
222,306 

2022 
204,974 
22,895 
3,354 
231,223 

Property transactions(a) 
Net impairment (loss)/reversal of non-
current assets(b) 
Fair value less cost of disposal 
movements on assets held for sale 
Restructuring(c)  
Disposal of Asia operations(d) 
ATM business rates refund(e) 
Release of onerous contract 
provision(f) 
Amortisation of acquired intangible 
assets(g) 
Net pension finance income(h) 
Fair value remeasurements of 
financial instruments(h) 
Total adjusting items from 
continuing operations 
Adjusting items relating to 
discontinued operations(i) 
Total adjusting items 

Administrative 
expenses 
£m 
55 
(17) 

Total adjusting 
items included 
within 
operating profit 
 £m 
91 
(982) 

Share of joint 
venture and 
associates 
profits/(losses) 
£m 
– 
– 

Cost of sales 
£m 
36 
(965) 

Finance 
income/ 
 (costs) 
£m 
– 
– 

Adjusting items 
included within 
discontinued 
operations 
£m 
– 
– 

Taxation 
£m 
29 
129 

Total adjusting 
items 
£m 
120 
(853) 

– 

(107) 
- 
7 
– 

– 

– 
– 

(14) 

(31) 
2 
- 
5 

(76) 

– 
– 

(14) 

(138) 
2 
7 
5 

(76) 

– 
– 

(1,029) 

(76) 

(1,105) 

– 

– 

– 

(1,029) 

(76) 

(1,105) 

– 

– 
– 
– 
– 

– 

– 
– 

– 

– 

- 

– 

– 
– 
– 
– 

– 

80 
(51) 

29 

– 

29 

1 

26 
– 
(1) 
– 

14 

(15) 
12 

195 

– 

195 

– 

– 
– 
– 
– 

– 

– 
– 

– 

(9) 

(9) 

(13) 

(112) 
2 
6 
5 

(62) 

65 
(39) 

(881) 

(9) 

(890) 

(a)  The Group disposed of surplus properties that generated a profit before tax of £91m (2022: £128m). £37m relates to the disposal of mall properties in Central Europe and associated store sale and 

leasebacks (2022: £nil). Refer to Notes 7 and 12 for further details. Taxation includes £63m deferred tax credit on lease simplifications relating to property joint venture structures. 

(b) Refer to Note 14 for further details on net impairment (loss)/reversal of non-current assets. Includes £(7)m of impairment relating to the acquisition of The Tesco Dorney Limited Partnership 

(refer to Note 33).  

(c)  Provisions relating to operational restructuring changes announced as part of ‘Save to invest’, a multi-year programme. The total cost of the programme to date is £(182)m. Future cost savings will 

not be reported within adjusting items. 

(d) £4m relates to software licence fee income (2022: £26m) from services provided to CP Group as part of the Transitional Services Agreement relating to the sale of Asia. £(2)m relates to payment 

of outstanding employer tax liabilities as part of the disposal of Asia. Costs and income in relation to the disposal of Asia have been recognised in adjusting items in previous years. 
(e)  Ruling that Tesco Group is due a refund of business rates relating to external facing ATMs in stores. Similar refunds have been recognised through adjusting items in previous years. 
(f)  Release of onerous contract provisions in ROI that had been charged through adjusting items in previous years. 
(g)  Amortisation of acquired intangibles relates to historical inorganic business combinations and does not reflect the Group’s ongoing trading performance.  
(h)  Net pension finance income and fair value remeasurements of financial instruments are included within adjusting items, as they can fluctuate significantly due to external market factors that are 

outside management’s control. Refer to Note 5 for details of finance income and costs. 

(i)  Refer to Note 7 for explanation of adjusting items relating to discontinued operations. 

138

Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2023
138 

Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2023 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Financial statements 

52 weeks ended 26 February 2022 
Profit/(loss) for the year included the following adjusting items: 

Property transactions 
Net impairment (loss)/reversal of non-
current assets 
Fair value less cost of disposal 
movements on assets held for sale  
Restructuring provisions 
Asia licence fee 
Litigation costs 
Disposal of China associate 
Amortisation of acquired intangible 
assets 
Net pension finance costs 
Fair value remeasurements of 
financial instruments 
Release of tax provisions 
Total adjusting items from 
continuing operations 
Adjusting items relating to 
discontinued operations 
Total adjusting items 

Cost of sales 
£m 
1 
(140) 

Administrative 
expenses 
£m 
127 
25 

Total adjusting 
items included 
within operating 
profit 
 £m 
128 
(115) 

Share of joint 
venture and 
associates 
profits/(losses) 
£m 
– 
– 

Finance 
income/  
(costs) 
£m 
– 
– 

Adjusting items 
included within 
discontinued 
operations 
£m 
– 
– 

Taxation 
£m 
(21) 
(26) 

Total adjusting 
items 
£m 
107 
(141) 

– 

(37) 
– 
– 
– 
– 

– 
– 

– 
(176) 

– 

(176) 

(6) 

(7) 
26 
(193) 
15 
(76) 

– 
– 

– 
(89) 

– 

(89) 

(6) 

(44) 
26 
(193) 
15 
(76) 

– 
– 

– 
(265) 

– 

(265) 

– 

– 
– 
– 
– 
– 

– 
– 

– 
– 

– 

– 

– 

– 
– 
– 
– 
– 

(22)  
123  

– 
101 

– 

101 

– 

8 
(5) 
– 
– 
(7) 

6 
(19) 

56 
(8) 

– 

(8) 

– 

– 
– 
– 
– 
– 

– 
– 

– 
– 

(38)  

(38) 

(6) 

(36) 
21 
(193) 
15 
(83) 

(16) 
104 

56 
(172) 

(38) 

(210) 

Group cash flow statement 
The table below shows the impact of adjusting items on the Group cash flow statement: 

Property transactions(a) 
Poland sale proceeds and costs 
Litigation costs 
Acquisition of property joint venture 
Booker integration cash payments 
Settlement of claims for customer redress in Tesco Bank 
Disposal of China associate 
ATM business rates refund(b) 
Special dividend 
Disposal of Asia operations 
Restructuring(c) 
Total continuing operations 
Cash flows from discontinued operations 
Total 

Cash flows from 
operating activities 

Cash flows from 
investing activities 

Cash flows from 
financing activities 

52 weeks 
2023 
£m 
– 
– 
– 
– 
– 
(4) 
– 
5 
– 
(2) 
(74) 
(75) 
– 
(75) 

52 weeks 
2022 
£m   
–   
–   
(312)   
–   
(18)  
(8)  
–   
14   
–   
–   
–   
(324)   
(1)   
(325)   

52 weeks 
2023 
£m 
335 
– 
– 
(40) 
– 
– 
– 
– 
– 
– 
– 
295 
– 
295 

52 weeks 
2022 
£m   
308   
122   
–   
(43)  
–   
–   
15   
–   
–   
(5)  
–   
397   
44   
441   

52 weeks 
2023 
£m 
– 
– 
– 
– 
– 
– 
– 
– 
(1) 
– 
– 
(1) 
– 
(1) 

52 weeks 
2022 
£m 
– 
– 
– 
– 
– 
– 
– 
– 
(27) 
– 
– 
(27) 
– 
(27) 

(a)  Property transactions include £43m proceeds (2022: £109m) relating to the sale of stores in Poland not included in the sale of the corporate business. £203m proceeds (2022: £nil) relate to the 

disposal of mall properties in Central Europe and the associated store sale and leasebacks. Refer to Notes 7 and 12 for further details.  

(b) Amounts received in the year with respect to the ruling that Tesco Group is due a refund of business rates relating to external facing ATMs in stores. 
(c)  Cash outflows relating to operational restructuring changes as part of the multi-year ‘Save to invest’ programme. 

Note 5 Finance income and costs 

Continuing operations 
Finance income 
Interest receivable and similar income 
Interest receivable on other investments 
Finance income receivable on net investment in leases 
Total finance income 
Finance costs 
GBP MTNs and loans 
EUR MTNs 
USD bonds 
Finance charges payable on lease liabilities 
Other interest payable 
Total finance costs before adjusting items 
Fair value remeasurements of financial instruments* 
Net pension finance income/(cost) 
Total finance costs 
Net finance costs 

Notes 

52 weeks 
2023 
£m 

52 weeks 
2022 
£m 

78 
3 
4 
85 

(160) 
(53) 
(18) 
(373) 
(43) 
(647) 
(51) 
80 
(618) 
(533) 

4 
– 
5 
9 

(161) 
(42) 
(5) 
(405) 
(39) 
(652) 
123 
(22) 
(551) 
(542) 

29 

*  Fair value remeasurements of financial instruments included £70m gain (2022: £nil) relating to the repurchase of long-dated bonds. 

Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2023 

Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2023
139 

139

Financial statements 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Notes to the Group financial statements continued 

Note 6 Taxation 
Recognised in the Group income statement 

Continuing operations 
Current tax (credit)/charge 
UK corporation tax 
Overseas tax 
Adjustments in respect of prior years 

Deferred tax (credit)/charge 
Origination and reversal of temporary differences 
Adjustments in respect of prior years 
Change in tax rate 

Total income tax (credit)/charge 

Reconciliation of effective tax charge 

Continuing operations 
Profit/(loss) before tax 
Tax credit/(charge) at 19.0% (2022: 19.0%) 
Effect of: 

Non-qualifying depreciation* 
Expenses not deductible 
Property items taxed on a different basis to accounting entries 
Impairment of non-current assets 
Banking surcharge tax 
Differences in overseas taxation rates 
Adjustments in respect of prior years 
Share of losses of joint ventures and associates 
Change in tax rate 

Total income tax credit/(charge) 
Effective tax rate 

*  This figure has been reduced by the tax effect of the super-deduction of £30m (2022: £23m) in respect of tax relief for fixed assets. 

Reconciliation of effective tax charge on adjusted profit before tax 

Continuing operations 
Profit/(loss) before tax 
Add: Adjusting items 
Adjusted profit before tax 
Tax credit/(charge) at 19.0% (2022: 19.0%) 
Effect of: 

Non-qualifying depreciation(a)  
Expenses not deductible 
Property items taxed on a different basis to accounting entries 
Banking surcharge tax 
Differences in overseas taxation rates 
Adjustments in respect of prior years 
Share of profits of joint ventures and associates 
Change in tax rate(b)  

Total income tax credit/(charge) before adjusting items 
Adjusted effective tax rate 

(a)  This figure has been reduced by the tax effect of the super-deduction of £30m (2022: £23m) in respect of tax relief for fixed assets. 
(b) Change in tax rate includes £31m (2022: £19m) in relation to provision of deferred tax at 25% (2022: 25%) on assets qualifying for super-deductions. 

Tax on items credited directly to the Group statement of changes in equity 

Continuing operations 
Current tax credit/(charge) on: 
Share-based payments 

Deferred tax credit/(charge) on: 

Share-based payments 

Total tax on items credited/(charged) to the Group statement of changes in equity 

140

Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2023
140 

Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2023 

52 weeks 
2023 
£m 

52 weeks 
2022 
£m 

202 
78 
19 
299 

(18) 
(35) 
1 
(52) 
247 

52 weeks 
2023 
£m 
1,000 
(190) 

(5) 
(21) 
33 
(87) 
(5) 
11 
16 
2 
(1) 
(247) 
24.7% 

52 weeks 
2023 
£m 
1,000 
1,076 
2,076 
(394) 

(5) 
(21) 
– 
(5) 
10 
(3) 
2 
(26) 
(442) 
21.3% 

201 
69 
(55) 
215 

216 
1 
78 
295 
510 

52 weeks 
2022 
£m 
2,033 
(386) 

(7) 
(57) 
7 
(43) 
(13) 
10 
54 
3 
(78) 
(510) 
25.1% 

52 weeks 
2022 
£m 
2,033 
164 
2,197 
(417) 

(7) 
(32) 
(1) 
(13) 
10 
(2) 
3 
(43) 
(502) 
22.8% 

52 weeks 
2023 
£m 

52 weeks 
2022 
£m 

6 

(11) 
(5) 

1 

14 
15 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Financial statements 

Tax relating to components of the Group statement of comprehensive income/(loss) 

Continuing operations 
Current tax credit/(charge) on: 

Pensions 

Deferred tax credit/(charge) on: 

Pensions 
Fair value movement on financial assets at fair value through other comprehensive income 
Fair value movements on cash flow hedges 

Total tax on items credited/(charged) to the Group statement of comprehensive income/(loss) 

52 weeks 
2023 
£m 

52 weeks 
2022 
£m 

124 

719 
11 
20 
874 

124 

(1,030) 
5 
(22) 
(923) 

Deferred tax 
The following are the major deferred tax (liabilities)/assets recognised by the Group and movements thereon during the current and prior 
financial years, measured using the tax rates that are expected to apply when the liability is settled or the asset realised based on the tax rates 
that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date. Deferred tax assets are recognised when it is probable sufficient 
taxable profits will be available to utilise deductible temporary differences or unused tax losses. This assessment is based on the Group’s three-
year long-term plan which is updated and approved annually by the Board and is consistent with the Group’s longer-term viability statement and 
impairment assessments. 

At 27 February 2021 
(Charge)/credit to the Group income statement 
(Charge)/credit to the Group statement of 
changes in equity 
(Charge)/credit to the Group statement of 
comprehensive income/(loss) 
Foreign exchange and other movements 
At 26 February 2022 
(Charge)/credit to the Group income statement 
(Charge)/credit to the Group statement of 
changes in equity 
(Charge)/credit to the Group statement of 
comprehensive income/(loss) 
Foreign exchange and other movements 
At 25 February 2023 

Property-
related 
items(a) 
£m 
(125) 
(227) 
– 

Acquired 
intangibles 
£m 
(98) 
(10) 
– 

Post- 
employment 
benefits(b) 
£m 
582 
(1) 
– 

Share-based 
payments 
£m 
31 
(6) 
14 

Short-term 
timing 
differences 
£m 
69 
(24) 
– 

Tax losses 
£m 
3 
2 
– 

Financial 
instruments 
£m 
42 
(29) 
– 

Total 
£m 
504 
(295) 
14 

– 

– 

(1,030) 

– 
(352) 
(80) 
– 

– 

(2) 
(434) 

– 
(108) 
15 
– 

– 

(2) 
(95) 

(2) 
(451) 
(13) 
– 

719 

– 
255 

– 

– 
39 
11 
(11) 

– 

– 
39 

– 

– 
45 
14 
– 

– 

1 
60 

– 

1 
6 
140 
– 

– 

– 
146 

(17) 

(1,047) 

– 
(4) 
(35) 
– 

31 

– 
(8) 

(1) 
(825) 
52 
(11) 

750 

(3) 
(37) 

(a)  Property-related items include a deferred tax liability on rolled-over gains of £421m (2022: £423m), deferred tax assets on capital losses of £242m (2022: £248m) and deferred tax assets on IFRS 16 

balances of £235m (2022: £238m). The remaining balance relates to accelerated tax depreciation. 

(b) The deferred tax asset on retirement benefits includes a deferred tax asset of £155m (2022: £275m) arising from a one-off contribution of £2.5bn paid in December 2020 on which tax deductions 

are spread over 4 years, with the remaining balance related to the pension schemes in deficit. Refer to Note 29 for further details. 

The following is the analysis of the deferred tax balances after offset: 

Deferred tax assets 
Deferred tax liabilities 

2023 
£m 
82 
(119) 
(37) 

2022 
£m 
85 
(910) 
(825) 

Unrecognised deferred tax assets and liabilities 
Deferred tax assets in relation to continuing operations have not been recognised in respect of the following items, because it is not probable 
that future taxable profits will be available against which the Group can utilise the benefits: 

Deductible temporary differences 
Tax losses 

2023 
£m 
45 
186 
231 

2022 
£m 
47 
178 
225 

As at 25 February 2023, the Group has unused trading tax losses from continuing operations of £1,177m (2022: £590m) available for offset against 
future profits. A deferred tax asset has been recognised in respect of £584m (2022: £26m) of such losses, with £571m (2022: £12m) arising in the 
UK and £13m (2022: £14m) in other jurisdictions. No deferred tax asset has been recognised in respect of the remaining overseas trading tax losses 
of £593m (2022: £564m) due to the unpredictability of future profit streams, with £552m (2022: £527m) arising in the Netherlands, £34m (2022: 
£33m) in Germany and £7m (2022: £4m) in other jurisdictions. Capital losses of £95m in ROI (2022: £91m) have not been recognised as it is not 
expected they will be utilised. There are no losses that will expire included in unrecognised losses. A deferred tax asset has not been recognised in 
respect of deductible temporary differences of £45m (2022: £47m) as it is not expected they will be utilised. There is no expiry date for these 
temporary differences. 

No deferred tax liability is recognised on temporary differences of £4.3bn (2022: £4bn) relating to the unremitted earnings of overseas 
subsidiaries and joint ventures as the Group is able to control the timing of the reversal of these temporary differences and it is probable that 
they will not reverse in the foreseeable future. The deferred tax on unremitted earnings at 25 February 2023 is estimated to be £6m (2022: £5m) 
which relates to taxes payable on repatriation and dividend withholding taxes levied by overseas tax jurisdictions. UK tax legislation relating to 
company distributions provides for exemption from tax for most repatriated profits, subject to certain exceptions. 

Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2023 

Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2023
141 

141

Financial statements 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Notes to the Group financial statements continued 

Note 6 Taxation continued 
Changes in tax law or its interpretation  
The Group operates in a number of territories and so the Group’s profits are subject to tax in many jurisdictions. The Group monitors income tax 
developments in these territories which could affect the Group’s tax liabilities. The Group notes recent developments in relation to the OECD 
Inclusive Framework on Base Erosion and Profit Shifting but does not expect it to have a material impact on the Group’s tax charge.  

Note 7 Discontinued operations and assets classified as held for sale  
Assets and liabilities of the disposal group and non-current assets classified as held for sale 

Assets of the disposal group(a) 
Non-current assets classified as held for sale(b) 
Total assets of the disposal group and non-current assets classified as held for sale 
Liabilities of the disposal group(a) 
Total net assets of the disposal group and non-current assets classified as held for sale 

2023 
£m 
11 
199 
210 
(14) 
196 

2022 
£m 
11 
357 
368 
(14) 
354 

(a)  The disposal group as at 25 February 2023, including £(14)m of net debt (2022: £(14)m), relates to residual properties and leases with respect to the Group’s operation in Poland. Balances as at  

26 February 2022 were also with respect to the Group’s operation in Poland. 

(b) The assets classified as held for sale consist mainly of properties in the UK, Poland and Central Europe due to be sold within one year. Due to the individual nature of each property, fair values are 

classified as Level 3 within the fair value hierarchy. 

Assets classified as held for sale 
During the year the Group sold 17 malls and one retail park in Central Europe, leasing back 17 stores within those sites. Net proceeds from the sale 
and leaseback transaction were £203m. As the sale and leaseback proceeds did not exceed the fair value of the stores sold, the proceeds are 
presented in the ‘investing’ category in the Group cash flow statement. The profit on disposal was £37m. Refer to Note 4. Refer to Note 12 for 
details on the leaseback of the stores. 

Discontinued operations 
Income statement of discontinued operations 

Revenue 
Operating costs 
Adjusted operating profit/(loss) 
Adjusted profit/(loss) after tax 
Loss on disposal of Poland 
Homeplus (Korea) claims settlement(a) 
Other adjusting items(b)(c) 
Tax on adjusting items  
Total adjusting items 
Total profit/(loss) after tax of discontinued operations 

2023   
Total 
£m 

–   
–   
–   
–   
–   
–   
(9)  
–   
(9)   
(9)   

Poland 
£m 
32 
(34) 
(2) 
(2) 
(23) 
– 
3 
– 
(20) 
(22) 

2022 

Other 
£m 
– 
– 
– 
– 
– 
(33) 
4 
11 
(18) 
(18) 

Total 
£m 
32 
(34) 
(2) 
(2) 
(23) 
(33) 
7 
11 
(38) 
(40) 

(a)  £(33)m in the prior year relates to the claims settlement from Homeplus (Korea) purchasers.  
(b) Other adjusting items of £(9)m in the current year includes £(9)m fair value remeasurement of non-current assets classified as held for sale, £(2)m loss on disposal of surplus properties, both 

relating to Poland and £2m income relating to the disposal of Korea.  

(c)  Other adjusting items of £7m in the prior year includes £4m reversal of accruals relating to legal costs and £3m fair value remeasurement of non-current assets classified as held for sale. 

Cash flow statement 

Net cash flows from operating activities 
Net cash flows from investing activities 
Net cash flows from financing activities 
Net cash flows from discontinued operations 

Note 8 Dividends 

Paid prior financial year final dividend(a) 
Paid interim dividend(b) 
Amounts recognised through equity as distributions to owners 
Paid 2021 special dividend 
Dividends paid in the financial year 

Proposed final dividend at financial year end 

2023   
£m   
–   
–   
–   
–   

2023 

2022 

Pence/share 
7.70 
3.85 
11.55 
50.93 

7.05 

£m   
574   
284   
858  
1   
859   

516  

Pence/share 
5.95 
3.20 
9.15 
50.93 

7.70 

2022 
£m 
(6) 
43 
(2) 
35 

£m 
458 
246 
704 
27 
731 

588 

(a)  Excludes £7m prior financial year final dividend waived (2022: £2m) and includes the write-back of unclaimed dividend of £5m (2022: £nil). 
(b)  Excludes £2m interim dividend waived (2022: £1m). 

The proposed final dividend was approved by the Board of Directors on 12 April 2023 and is subject to the approval of shareholders at the AGM. 
will be paid on 23 June 2023 to shareholders who are on the 
The proposed dividend has not been included as a liability as at 25 February 2023. It
Register of members at close of business on 12 May 2023. 

A dividend reinvestment plan (DRIP) is available to shareholders who would prefer to invest their dividends in the shares of the Company. For
those shareholders electing to receive the DRIP, the last date for receipt of a new election is 2 June 2023. 

142

Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2023
142 

Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2023 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Financial statements 

The Group has a share forfeiture programme following the completion of a tracing and notification exercise to any shareholders who have not
had contact with Tesco PLC over the past 12 years, in accordance with the provisions set out in the Company’s Articles of Association. £nil (2022: 
£nil) of unclaimed dividends in relation to these shares have been adjusted for in retained earnings. Refer to Note 30 for further details. 

Note 9 Earnings/(losses) per share and diluted earnings/(losses) per share 
For the 52 weeks ended 25 February 2023 there were 67 million (2022: 88 million) potentially dilutive share options and awards. As the Group has 
recognised a

profit for the year from its continuing operations, dilutive effects have been considered in calculating diluted earnings per share. 

52 weeks ended 25 February 2023 

52 weeks ended 26 February 2022 

Profit/(loss) (£m) 
Continuing operations* 
Discontinued operations 
Total 
Weighted average number of shares (millions) 

Earnings/(losses) per share (pence) 
Continuing operations 
Discontinued operations 
Total 

Potentially 
dilutive share 
options and 
awards 

– 
– 
– 
67 

(0.09) 
– 
(0.09) 

Basic 

754 
(9) 
745 
7,415 

10.17 
(0.12) 
10.05 

*  Excludes profits/(losses) from non-controlling interests of £(1)m (2022: £2m). 

APM: Adjusted diluted earnings/(losses) per share 

Continuing operations 
Profit/(loss) before tax (£m) 
Less: Adjusting items (£m) 
Adjusted profit before tax (£m) 
Adjusted profit before tax attributable to the owners of the parent (£m)* 
Taxation on adjusted profit before tax attributable to the owners of the parent (£m) 
Adjusted profit after tax attributable to the owners of the parent (£m) 

Basic weighted average number of shares (millions) 
Adjusted basic earnings per share (pence) 

Diluted weighted average number of shares (millions) 
Adjusted diluted earnings per share (pence) 

*  Excludes profit/(losses) before tax attributable to non-controlling interests of £(1)m (2022: £2m). 

Note 10 Goodwill and other intangible assets 

Diluted 

Basic 

754   
(9)  
745   
7,482   

10.08   
(0.12)  
9.96   

1,521 
(40) 
1,481 
7,658 

19.86 
(0.52) 
19.34 

Notes 

4 

6 

Cost 
At 26 February 2022 
Foreign currency translation 
Additions 
Acquired through business combinations 
Reclassification 
Disposals 
At 25 February 2023 
Accumulated amortisation and impairment losses 
At 26 February 2022 
Foreign currency translation 
Amortisation charge for the year(c) 
Impairment losses(d) 
Reversal of impairment losses(d) 
Disposals 
At 25 February 2023 

Net carrying value 
At 25 February 2023 
At 26 February 2022 

Goodwill 
£m 

Software(a) 
£m 

Customer 
relationships 
£m 

4,739 
16 
– 
30 
– 
– 
4,785 

448 
10 
– 
– 
– 
– 
458 

4,327 
4,291 

1,901 
14 
274 
– 
20 
(175) 
2,034 

1,344 
15 
200 
28 
(5) 
(172) 
1,410 

624 
557 

718 
– 
– 
– 
– 
– 
718 

300 
– 
76 
– 
– 
– 
376 

342 
418 

Potentially 
dilutive share 
options and 
awards 

– 
– 
– 
88 

(0.22) 
– 
(0.22) 

52 weeks 
2023 
1,000 
1,076 
2,076 
2,077 
(442) 
1,635 

7,415 
22.05 

7,482 
21.85 

Other  
intangible 
assets(b) 
£m 

396 
4 
3 
1 
(20) 
– 
384 

302 
– 
2 
– 
(2) 
– 
302 

82 
94 

Diluted 

1,521 
(40) 
1,481 
7,746 

19.64 
(0.52) 
19.12 

52 weeks 
2022 
2,033 
164 
2,197 
2,195 
(502) 
1,693 

7,658 
22.11 

7,746 
21.86 

Total 
£m 

7,754 
34 
277 
31 
– 
(175) 
7,921 

2,394 
25 
278 
28 
(7) 
(172) 
2,546 

5,375 
5,360 

(a)  Software includes £455m (2022: £396m) net carrying value of internally generated development costs. 
(b) Other intangible assets include pharmacy licences with a net carrying value of £36m (2022: £33m) and various other individually immaterial balances.  
(c)  Of the £78m (2022: £78m) amortisation of customer relationships and other intangible assets, £76m (2022: £76m) has been included within adjusting items. £75m (2022: £75m) of this balance arises from 
amortisation of intangible assets recognised upon the Booker acquisition and £1m (2022: £1m) relates to the amortisation of intangible assets recognised upon the acquisition of Best Food Logistics. 

(d) Refer to Note 14. 

Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2023 

Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2023
143 

143

Financial statements 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Notes to the Group financial statements continued 

Note 10 Goodwill and other intangible assets continued 

Cost 
At 27 February 2021 
Foreign currency translation 
Additions 
Acquired through business combinations 
Disposals 
At 26 February 2022 
Accumulated amortisation and impairment losses 
At 27 February 2021  
Foreign currency translation 
Amortisation charge for the year(c) 
Impairment losses(d) 
Reversal of impairment losses(d) 
Reclassification 
Disposals 
At 26 February 2022 

Refer to previous table for footnotes. 

Note 11 Property, plant and equipment 

Cost 
Opening balance 
Foreign currency translation 
Additions(b)(c) 
Acquired through business combinations 
Reclassification 
Transfers to assets classified as held for sale 
Disposals 
Closing balance 
Accumulated depreciation and impairment losses  
Opening balance 
Foreign currency translation 
Depreciation charge for the year 
Impairment losses(d) 
Reversal of impairment losses(d) 
Reclassification 
Transfers to assets classified as held for sale 
Disposals 
Closing balance 

Land and 
buildings 
£m 

21,977 
204 
591 
42 
3 
(85) 
(82) 
22,650 

6,814 
75 
434 
686 
(168) 
1 
(32) 
(30) 
7,780 

Goodwill 
£m 

Software(a) 
£m 

Customer 
relationships 
£m 

Other  
intangible 
assets(b) 
£m 

4,719 
– 
– 
20 
– 
4,739 

448 
– 
– 
– 
– 
– 
– 
448 

2023 

Other(a) 
£m 

5,649 
65 
661 
– 
(4) 
(5) 
(522) 
5,844 

3,752 
45 
448 
141 
(19) 
– 
(2) 
(513) 
3,852 

1,837 
1 
227 
18 
(182) 
1,901 

1,305 
2 
209 
17 
(7) 
(2) 
(180) 
1,344 

Total 
£m 

27,626   
269   
1,252   
42   
(1)   
(90)   
(604)   
28,494   

10,566   
120   
882   
827   
(187)   
1   
(34)   
(543)   
11,632   

718 
– 
– 
– 
– 
718 

224 
– 
76 
– 
– 
– 
– 
300 

Land and 
buildings 
£m 

21,653 
(76) 
992 
– 
(72) 
(446) 
(74) 
21,977 

6,554 
(25) 
426 
417 
(324) 
– 
(163) 
(71) 
6,814 

395 
1 
2 
– 
(2) 
396 

299 
– 
2 
1 
(1) 
2 
(1) 
302 

2022 

Other(a) 
£m 

5,743 
(15) 
595 
1 
– 
(17) 
(658) 
5,649 

3,897 
(10) 
467 
89 
(43) 
– 
(6) 
(642) 
3,752 

Total 
£m 

7,669 
2 
229 
38 
(184) 
7,754 

2,276 
2 
287 
18 
(8) 
– 
(181) 
2,394 

Total 
£m 

27,396 
(91) 
1,587 
1 
(72) 
(463) 
(732) 
27,626 

10,451 
(35) 
893 
506 
(367) 
– 
(169) 
(713) 
10,566 

Net carrying value(e) 

14,870 

1,992 

16,862   

15,163 

1,897 

17,060 

Construction in progress included above(f) 

109 

278 

387   

97 

212 

309 

(a)  Other assets consist of fixtures and fittings with a net carrying value of £1,496m (2022: £1,387m), office equipment with a net carrying value of £201m (2022: £200m) and motor vehicles with a net 

carrying value of £295m (2022: £310m). Depreciation charge for the year is £(292)m (2022: £(310)m), £(71)m (2022: £(78)m) and £(85)m (2022: £(79)m), respectively. 

(b) Includes £248m of land and buildings related to obtaining control of The Tesco Dorney Limited Partnership, which was impaired by £(7)m on acquisition (2022: £584m of land and buildings related 

to obtaining control of The Tesco Sarum Limited Partnership, which was impaired by £(62)m on acquisition). Refer to Note 33. 

(c)  Includes £29m (2022: £37m) relating to other property buyback transactions. 
(d) Refer to Note 14. 
(e)  Includes £2,814m (2022: £2,231m) of assets pledged as security for secured bonds (refer to Note 21) and £783m (2022: £914m) of property held as security in favour of the Tesco PLC Pension 

Scheme (refer to Note 29). 

(f)  Construction in progress does not include land. 

Note 12 Leases 
Group as lessee 
Lease liabilities represent rentals payable by the Group for certain retail, distribution and office properties and other assets such as motor 
vehicles. The leases have varying terms, purchase options, escalation clauses and renewal rights. Purchase options and renewal rights, where 
they occur, are at market value. Escalation clauses are in line with market practices and include inflation-linked, fixed rates, resets to market 
rents and hybrids of these. 

On 6 October 2022, the Group obtained control of The Tesco Dorney Limited Partnership (2022: The Tesco Sarum Limited Partnership on 17 
December 2021), previously accounted for as a joint venture, through the acquisition of the other partner’s 50% interest, at which point the 
associated property leases from the joint venture became intercompany leases. Refer to Note 33 for further details.  

144

Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2023
144 

Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2023 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
Financial statements 

Right of use assets 

Net carrying value  
Opening balance 
Additions (including sale and leaseback transactions)(a) 
Acquired through business combinations 
Depreciation charge for the year 
Impairment losses(b) 
Reversal of impairment losses(b) 
Derecognition on acquisition of property joint venture(c) 
Other movements(d) 
Closing balance 

Land and 
buildings 
£m 

2023 

Other 
£m 

5,634 
378 
4 
(501) 
(394) 
72 
(198) 
392 
5,387 

86 
64 
- 
(38) 
- 
- 
- 
1 
113 

Total 
£m 

5,720   
442   
4   
(539)   
(394)   
72   
(198)   
393   
5,500   

Land and 
buildings 
£m 

2022 

Other 
£m 

5,866 
544 
– 
(497) 
(195) 
234 
(243) 
(75) 
5,634 

85 
39 
– 
(40) 
–  
– 
– 
2 
86 

(a)  Includes £70m of land under an external lease related to obtaining control of The Tesco Dorney Limited Partnership. Refer to Note 33. 
(b) Refer to Note 14. 
(c)  Refer to Note 33. 
(d) Other movements include lease terminations, modifications and reassessments, foreign exchange, reclassifications between asset classes and entering into finance subleases. 

Lease liabilities 
The following tables show the discounted lease liabilities included in the Group balance sheet and a maturity analysis of the contractual 
undiscounted lease payments: 

Current 
Non-current 
Total lease liabilities 

Maturity analysis – contractual undiscounted lease payments 
Within one year 
Greater than one year but less than two years 
Greater than two years but less than three years 
Greater than three years but less than four years 
Greater than four years but less than five years 
Greater than five years but less than ten years 
Greater than ten years but less than fifteen years 
After fifteen years 
Total undiscounted lease payments 

2023 
£m 
595 
7,132 
7,727 

2023 
£m 
944 
901 
878 
856 
824 
3,383 
2,035 
1,076 
10,897 

Total 
£m 

5,951 
583 
– 
(537) 
(195) 
234 
(243) 
(73) 
5,720 

2022 
£m 
547 
7,411 
7,958 

2022 
£m 
934 
911 
863 
840 
820 
3,407 
2,223 
1,517 
11,515 

A reconciliation of the Group’s opening to closing lease liabilities balance is presented in Note 32. 

Amounts recognised in the Group income statement 

Continuing operations 
Interest on lease liabilities 
Variable payment expenses not included in lease liabilities 
Expenses relating to short-term leases 
Expenses relating to leases of low value assets (excluding amounts already included in short-term leases above) 

52 weeks 
2023 
£m 
373 
1 
24 
1 

52 weeks 
2022 
£m 
405 
– 
26 
1 

Sale and leaseback 
During the year the Group sold 17 malls and one retail park in Central Europe, leasing back 17 stores within those sites. Refer to Note 7 for details 
on the net proceeds and profit from the transaction. The stores are being leased back over a 15-year lease term at below-market rentals with 
options to extend, and the store leases have resulted in lease liability additions of £36m. The sale and leaseback transaction allows the Group to 
relinquish control over the malls while continuing to operate the stores within those sites.  

Amounts recognised in the Group cash flow statement 

Total cash outflow for leases* 

* 

Includes £6m (2022: £5m) related to Tesco Bank. 

52 weeks 
2023 
£m 
966 

52 weeks 
2022 
£m 
982 

Future possible cash outflows not included in the lease liability 
Some leases contain break clauses or extension options to provide operational flexibility. Potential future undiscounted lease payments not 
included in the reasonably certain lease term, and hence not included in lease liabilities, total £9.1bn (2022: £9.5bn). 

Future increases or decreases in rentals linked to an index or rate are not included in the lease liability until the change in cash flows takes effect. 
Approximately 76% (2022: 75%) of the Group’s lease liabilities are subject to inflation-linked rentals, of which 86% (2022: 87%) have inflation caps, 
with a weighted average cap of 3.4% (2022: 4.1%). A further 16% (2022: 16%) are
subject to rent reviews. Rental changes linked to inflation or rent 
reviews typically occur on an annual or five-yearly basis. Of the inflation-linked leases with caps, 30% (2022: 29%) of the lease liability value was 
hedged through index-linked swaps (refer to Note 27).  

The Group is committed to payments totalling £110m (2022: £54m) in relation to leases that have been signed but have not yet commenced. 

Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2023 

Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2023
145 

145

Financial statements 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Notes to the Group financial statements continued 

Note 12 Leases continued 
Group as lessor 
The Group leases out owned properties and sublets leased properties under operating and finance leases. Such properties include malls, mall
units, stores, units within stores, distribution centres and residential properties. 

Amounts recognised in the Group income statement 

Continuing operations 
Finance lease – interest income(a) 
Operating lease – rental income(b) 

(a)  Includes £4m (2022: £4m) of sublease interest income. 
(b) Includes £23m (2022: £20m) of sublease rental income. 

52 weeks 
2023 
£m 
4 
90 

52 weeks 
2022 
£m 
5 
90 

Finance lease payments receivable 
The finance lease receivable (net investment in the lease) included in the Group balance sheet is £36m (2022: £81m). The movement in the year is 
primarily driven by the derecognition of finance lease receivables following the acquisition of The Tesco Dorney Limited Partnership. Refer to Note 33.  

Operating lease payments receivable maturity analysis 

Within one year 
Greater than one year but less than two years 
Greater than two years but less than three years 
Greater than three years but less than four years 
Greater than four years but less than five years 
Greater than five years but less than ten years 
Greater than ten years but less than fifteen years 
After fifteen years 
Total undiscounted operating lease payments receivable 

2023 
£m 
61 
77 
56 
40 
27 
49 
20 
42 
372 

2022 
£m 
68 
87 
67 
49 
33 
58 
23 
49 
434 

Note 13 Group entities 
The Group consists of the ultimate Parent Company, Tesco PLC, and a number of subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates held directly or
indirectly by Tesco PLC. See pages 199 to 203 for a complete list of Group entities. 

Subsidiaries 
The accounting year ends of the subsidiaries consolidated in these financial statements are on or around 25 February 2023.  

Unconsolidated structured entities 
In prior years, the Group sponsored a number of structured entities. The Group led the formation of the entities and its name appears in the 
name of the entities and/or on the debt issued by the entities. The structured entities were set up to finance property purchases by some of the 
UK property joint ventures in which the Group typically holds a 50% equity interest. The structured entities obtain debt financing from third-party 
investors and lend the funds to these joint ventures, who use the funds to purchase the properties. 

The liabilities of the UK property joint ventures include the loans due to these structured entities. The Group’s exposure to the structured entities 
is limited to the extent of the Group’s interests in the joint ventures. The liabilities of the structured entities are non-recourse to the Group. 

The Group concluded that it does not control, and therefore should not consolidate, these structured entities since it does not have power over 
the relevant activities of the structured entities, or exposure to variable returns from these entities.  

Consolidated structured entities 
The Group has a number of securitisation structured entities established in connection with Tesco Bank’s credit card securitisation transactions 
as well as financing structured entities controlled as a result of the acquisition of UK property joint ventures. Although none of the equity of these 
entities is owned by the Group, the Group has rights to variable returns from its involvement with these entities and has the ability to affect those 
returns through its power over them under contractual agreements. As
therefore accounted for as subsidiaries of the Group. 

such, these entities are effectively controlled by the Group, and are 

The securitisation structured entities have financial year ends of 31 December. The management accounts of these entities are used to 
consolidate the results to 25
the Group financial year end.  

February 2023 within these financial statements. The financial year ends of the financing structured entities align to 

Interests in joint ventures and associates 
Principal joint ventures and associates 
The Group’s principal joint ventures and associates are: 

Nature of  
relationship 

Business  
activity 

Share of issued share 
capital, loan capital 
and debt securities 

Country of 
incorporation 

Principal area  
of operation 

Included in ‘UK property joint ventures’: 
The Tesco Coral Limited Partnership 
The Tesco Blue Limited Partnership 
The Tesco Passaic Limited Partnership 
The Tesco Navona Limited Partnership 
The Arena Unit Trust 
Included in ‘Other joint ventures and associates’: 
Tesco Mobile Limited 
Booker India Limited 
Trent Hypermarket Private Limited 

Joint venture 
Joint venture 
Joint venture 
Joint venture 
Joint venture 

Property investment 
Property investment 
Property investment 
Property investment 
Property investment 

Joint venture 
Joint venture 
Joint venture 

Telecommunications 
Retail 
Retail 

50% 
50% 
50% 
50% 
50% 

50% 
49% 
50% 

England 
England 
England 
England 
Jersey 

England 
India 
India 

United Kingdom 
United Kingdom 
United Kingdom 
United Kingdom 
United Kingdom 

United Kingdom 
India 
India 

146

Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2023
146 

Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2023 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Financial statements 

The accounting period end dates of the joint ventures and associates consolidated in these financial statements range from 31 December 2022 
25 February 2023. The accounting period end dates of joint ventures differ from those of the Group for commercial reasons and depend 
to
upon
the requirements of the joint venture partner as well as those of the Group. The accounting period end dates of the associates are 
different from those of the Group as they depend upon the requirements of the parent companies of those entities. 

There are no significant restrictions on the ability of joint ventures and associates to transfer funds to the parents, other than those imposed by 
the Companies Act 2006 or equivalent local regulations.  

The UK property joint ventures involve the Group partnering with third parties in carrying out some property investments in order to enhance 
returns from property and access funding, while reducing risks associated with sole ownership. These property investments generally cover 
shopping centres and standalone stores. The Group enters into leases for some or all of the properties held in the joint ventures. These leases 
provide the Group with some rights over alterations and adjacent land developments. In some cases the Group has the ability to substitute 
properties in the
property management activities for third-party rentals of shopping centre units. 

joint ventures with alternative properties of similar value, subject to strict eligibility criteria. In other cases, the Group carries out 

The property investment activities are carried out in separate entities, usually partnerships or limited liability companies. The Group has assessed 
its ability to direct the relevant activities of these entities and any impact on Group returns and concluded that the entities qualify as joint 
ventures since decisions regarding them require the unanimous consent of both equity holders. This assessment included not only rights within 
the joint venture agreements, but also any rights within other contractual arrangements between the Group and the entities. 

The Group made a number of judgements in arriving at this determination, the key ones being: 

–  since the provisions of the joint venture agreements require the relevant decisions impacting investor returns to be either unanimously agreed 
by both joint venturers at the same time, or in some cases to be agreed sequentially by each venturer at different stages, there is joint decision 
making within the joint venture; 

–  since the Group’s leases are priced at fair value, and any rights embedded in the leases are consistent with market practice, they do not 
provide the Group with additional control over the joint ventures nor do they infer an obligation by the Group to fund the settlement of 
liabilities of the joint ventures; 

–  any options to purchase the other joint venturers’ equity stakes are priced at market value, and only exercisable at future dates, hence they 

do

not provide control to the Group at the current time; 

–  where the Group has a right to substitute properties in the joint ventures, the rights are strictly limited and are at fair value, hence do not 

provide control to the Group; and 

–  where the Group carries out property management activities for third-party rentals in shopping centres, these additional activities are 

controlled through joint venture agreements or lease agreements, and do not provide the Group with additional powers over the joint venture. 

During the current financial year, the Group obtained control of The Tesco Dorney Limited Partnership, which was previously accounted for as a 
joint venture, through the acquisition of the other partner’s 50% interest. Refer to Note 33 for further details.  

Summarised financial information for joint ventures and associates 
The summarised financial information below reflects the amounts presented in the financial statements of the relevant joint ventures and 
associates, and not the Group’s share of those amounts. These amounts have been adjusted to conform to the Group’s accounting policies 
where required. The summarised financial information for UK property joint ventures has been aggregated in order to provide useful information 
to users without excessive detail, since these entities have similar characteristics and risk profiles largely based on their nature of
geographic market. 

activities and 

Summarised balance sheet 
Non-current assets(a) 
Current assets (excluding cash and cash equivalents) 
Cash and cash equivalents 
Current liabilities(b) 
Non-current liabilities(b) 
Net liabilities 

Summarised income statement 
Revenue 
Profit/(loss) after tax(c) 

UK property joint ventures 

2023 
£m 

2,032 
8 
21 
(287) 
(2,277) 
(503) 

203 
– 

2022 
£m 

2,480 
31 
37 
(316) 
(2,907) 
(675) 

232 
– 

(a)  The non-current asset balances of UK property joint ventures are reflected at historical depreciated cost to conform to the Group’s accounting policies. The aggregate fair values in the financial 

statements of the UK property joint ventures are £2,988m (2022: £3,666m). 

(b) The current and non-current liabilities of UK property joint ventures largely comprise loan balances of £(2,248)m (2022: £(2,733)m) and derivative swap balances of £(287)m (2022: £(435)m) entered 

into to hedge the cash flow variability exposures of the joint ventures.  

(c)  Profit/(loss) after tax includes £65m (2022: £20m) of interest cost. 

Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2023 

Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2023
147 

147

Financial statements 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Notes to the Group financial statements continued 

Note 13 Group entities continued 

Reconciliation to carrying amounts: 
Opening balance 
Share of profits/(losses)* 
Dividends received from joint ventures and associates 
Closing balance 

Group’s share in ownership 
Group’s share of net liabilities 
Deferred property profits offset against carrying amounts 
Cumulative unrecognised losses* 
Cumulative unrecognised hedge reserves* 
Carrying amount 

UK property joint ventures 

2023 
£m 

– 
12 
(12) 
– 

50% 
(252) 
(60) 
168 
144 
– 

2022 
£m 

– 
20 
(20) 
– 

50% 
(338) 
(60) 
179 
219 
– 

*  The share of profit for the year for UK property joint ventures related to £12m (2022: £20m) dividends received from joint ventures with £nil carrying amounts (2022: £nil). £12m of profit (2022: 

£11m) and £75m of increase (2022: £49m of decrease) in the fair values of derivatives arising from these entities have been included in cumulative unrecognised losses and cumulative 
unrecognised hedge reserves, respectively. 

As at 25 February 2023, the Group had £106m (2022: £105m) loans to UK property joint ventures. 

Other joint ventures and associates 
The Group also has interests in a number of individually immaterial joint ventures and associates excluding UK property joint ventures.  

Aggregate carrying amount of individually immaterial joint ventures  
Group’s share of profits/(losses) for the year 

The aggregate carrying amount and Group’s share of profit/(losses) for the year of associates are immaterial.  

Note 14 Impairment of non-current assets 
Impairment losses and reversals 
No impairment of goodwill was recognised in the current year (2022: £nil).  

Joint ventures 
2023 
£m 
93 
(4) 

2022 
£m 
86 
(5) 

The table below summarises the Group’s pre-tax impairment losses and reversals on other non-current assets, aggregated by segment due to 
the large number of individually immaterial store cash-generating units. This
includes any losses recognised immediately prior to classifying an 
asset or disposal group as held for sale but excludes all impairments post classification as held for sale. There were no impairment losses or 
reversals in the year (2022: £nil) with respect to investments in joint ventures and associates and no impairments in other non-current assets in 
Tesco Bank (2022: £nil). All

impairment losses and reversals are classified as adjusting items.  

52 weeks ended 25 February 2023 
Group balance sheet 
Other intangible assets 
Property, plant and equipment 
Right of use assets 
Investment property 
Total impairment (loss)/reversal of other non-current assets 
Group income statement 
Cost of sales  
Administrative expenses  
Total impairment (loss)/reversal from continuing operations 

52 weeks ended 26 February 2022 
Group balance sheet 
Other intangible assets 
Property, plant and equipment 
Right of use assets 
Investment property 
Total impairment (loss)/reversal of other non-current assets 
Group income statement 
Cost of sales  
Administrative expenses  
Total impairment (loss)/reversal from continuing operations 

UK & ROI 

Central Europe 

Total 

Impairment 
loss 
£m 

(28) 
(779) 
(373) 
(1) 
(1,181) 

(1,155) 
(26) 
(1,181) 

Impairment 
reversal 

£m   

6   
181   
65   
2   
254   

245   
9   
254   

Impairment 
loss 
£m 

Impairment 
reversal 

£m   

Impairment 
loss 
£m 

– 
(48) 
(21) 
– 
(69) 

(69) 
– 
(69) 

1   
6   
7   
–   
14   

14   
-   
14   

(28) 
(827) 
(394) 
(1) 
(1,250) 

(1,224) 
(26) 
(1,250) 

Impairment 
reversal 

£m   

7   
187   
72   
2   
268   

259   
9   
268   

Net 
Impairment 
(loss)/reversal 
£m 

(21) 
(640) 
(322) 
1 
(982) 

(965) 
(17) 
(982) 

UK & ROI 

Central Europe 

Total 

Net 

Impairment 
loss 
£m 

Impairment 
reversal 
£m 

Impairment 
loss 
£m 

Impairment 
reversal 
£m 

Impairment 
loss 
£m 

Impairment 
reversal 
£m 

Impairment 
(loss)/reversal 
£m 

(17) 
(496) 
(183) 
(6) 
(702) 

(682) 
(20) 
(702) 

8   
319   
228   
1   
556   

536   
20   
556   

(1) 
(10) 
(12) 
– 
(23) 

(19) 
(4) 
(23) 

–   
48   
6   
–   
54   

25   
29   
54   

(18) 
(506) 
(195) 
(6) 
(725) 

(701) 
(24) 
(725) 

8   
367   
234   
1   
610   

561   
49   
610   

(10) 
(139) 
39 
(5) 
(115) 

(140) 
25 
(115) 

The net impairment loss in UK & ROI includes an impairment loss of £7m in the UK in respect of the Group obtaining control of The Tesco Dorney 
Limited Partnership (2022: £62m impairment loss in UK & ROI in respect of the Group obtaining control of The Tesco Sarum Limited Partnership). 
Refer to Note 33 for further details. 

148

Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2023
148 

Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2023 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
   
 
   
 
 
   
 
   
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
   
 
   
 
 
   
 
   
 
   
 
Financial statements 

The majority of the net impairment charge relates to increased discount rates due to increases in government bond rates as a result of the prevailing 
macroeconomic uncertainty. See the Key assumptions and sensitivity section of this note for applicable discount rates. Property fair values in the 
UK have also decreased due to the weakening of the property investment market in the last six months, which has led to increased yields.  

The remaining other non-current assets impairment losses and reversals for the Group largely reflect normal fluctuations expected from  
store-level performance, as well as any specific store closures. 

Net carrying value of non-current assets 
The net carrying values of other non-current assets and the recoverable amounts of impaired other non-current assets for which an impairment 
loss has been recognised or reversed have been aggregated by segment due to the large number of individually immaterial store cash-generating 
units. The amounts below exclude assets or disposal groups classified as held for sale. 

At 25 February 2023 
Net carrying value 
Other intangible assets 
Property, plant and equipment 
Right of use assets 
Investment property 
Other non-current assets 
Goodwill(a) 
Investments in joint ventures and associates(b) 
Net carrying value of non-current assets 
Recoverable amount of impaired other non-current assets for which an impairment 
loss has been recognised or reversed, supported by: 
Value in use 
Fair value less costs of disposal(c) 

UK & ROI 
£m 

Central Europe 
£m 

Tesco Bank 
£m 

888 
15,331 
5,057 
15 
21,291 
3,827 
93 
25,211 

3,657 
1,984 
5,641 

37 
1,459 
433 
9 
1,938 
– 
– 
1,938 

140 
169 
309 

123 
72 
10 
– 
205 
500 
– 
705 

– 
– 
– 

(a)  Goodwill of £4,327m (2022: £4,291m) consists of UK £3,793m (2022: £3,788m), ROI £34m (2022: £3m) and Tesco Bank £500m (2022:
(b) The carrying value of the Group’s investments includes Trent Hypermarket Private Limited £55m (2022: £55m). 
(c)  Due to the individual nature of each property, fair values are classified as Level 3 within the fair value hierarchy. 

£500m). 

At 26 February 2022 
Net carrying value 
Other intangible assets 
Property, plant and equipment 
Right of use assets 
Investment property 
Other non-current assets 
Goodwill(a) 
Investments in joint ventures and associates(b) 
Net carrying value of non-current assets 
Recoverable amount of impaired other non-current assets for which an impairment 
loss has been recognised or reversed, supported by: 
Value in use 
Fair value less costs of disposal(c) 

Refer to previous table for footnotes. 

UK & ROI 
£m 

Central Europe 
£m 

Tesco Bank 
£m 

909 
15,538 
5,355 
14 
21,816 
3,791 
85 
25,692 

2,534 
1,456 
3,990 

31 
1,454 
354 
8 
1,847 
– 
1 
1,848 

78 
51 
129 

129 
68 
11 
– 
208 
500 
– 
708 

– 
– 
– 

Total 
£m 

1,048 
16,862 
5,500 
24 
23,434 
4,327 
93 
27,854 

3,797 
2,153 
5,950 

Total 
£m 

1,069 
17,060 
5,720 
22 
23,871 
4,291 
86 
28,248 

2,612 
1,507 
4,119 

Impairment methodology 
Cash-generating units 
The Group treats each store as a separate cash-generating unit for impairment testing of other intangible assets, property, plant and equipment, 
right of use assets and investment property. The Group allocates goodwill to groups of cash-generating units, where each country represents a 
group of cash-generating units for the Group’s retail operations, as this represents the lowest level at which goodwill is monitored by 
management. Tesco Bank and dunnhumby each represent separate cash-generating units. 

The recoverable amount of each store cash-generating unit is the higher of its value in use and its fair value less costs of disposal. The 
recoverable amount of a group of cash-generating units to which goodwill has been allocated is determined based on value in use calculations. 

Central assets such as distribution centres and associated costs are allocated to store cash-generating units based on level of
use, estimated 
with reference to sales. Urban fulfilment centres and associated costs that are part of a store are included in the store cash–generating unit. 
Standalone customer fulfilment centres and associated costs are each treated as a separate cash-generating unit.  

Value in use 
Retail  
Estimates for value in use calculations include discount rates, long-term growth rates, expected changes to future cash flows, including volumes 
and prices, and the probabilities assigned to cash flow scenarios. Estimates are based on past experience and expectations of future changes in 
the market, including the prevailing economic climate and global economy, competitor activity, market dynamics, changing customer behaviours, 
structural challenges facing retail and the resilience afforded by the Group’s operational scale.  

Cash flow projections are based on the Group’s three-year internal forecasts, the results of which are reviewed by the Board. The forecasts 
include best estimate assumptions on inflation, which differ by both country and revenue and cost categories. The forecasts are extrapolated to 
five years based on management’s expectations, and beyond five years based on estimated long-term average growth rates. Long-term growth 
rates for the Retail business are based on inflation forecasts by recognised bodies. Cash flow forecasts are allocated to store-level cash-
generating units based on their relative current year actual sales performance, after adjusting for one-off cash flows affecting particular stores. 

Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2023 

Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2023
149 

149

Financial statements 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Notes to the Group financial statements continued 

applied to the cash flows derived from the three-year internal forecasts. Additional scenarios take account of the risks

Note 14 Impairment of non-current assets continued 
The Group applies an expected cash flow approach by probability-weighting different cash flow scenarios. The greatest probability weighting 
is
presented by a 
macroeconomic downturn, higher levels of operating costs and climate change, consistent with the viability statement scenarios (see the
Longer
term viability statement in the Strategic report) as well as an upside scenario. The viability statement scenarios reflect ‘severe but 
plausible’ risks which are adjusted for impairment testing in order to reflect management’s best estimate of future economic conditions, 
including any reasonably possible upside to the three-year internal forecasts. 

In addition to the climate change scenario included within the probability-weighted cash flows, the Group incorporates other climate change 
related assumptions into the impairment modelling, including, but not limited to, investments in technology to aid the Group’s net zero 
commitments, the costs associated with replacing assets with more environmentally-friendly alternatives, and assumptions over the cash flow 
profile of the Group’s fuel business. 

Management estimates discount rates using pre-tax rates that reflect the market assessment as at the balance sheet date of the time value of 
money and the risks specific to the cash-generating units. The pre-tax discount rates are derived from the Group’s post-tax weighted average 
cost of capital, as adjusted for the specific risks relating to each geographical region and on a nominal basis. Risk-free rates are based on 
government bond rates in each
geographical region and equity risk premia and equity beta are based on forecasts by recognised bodies. 
The

Group uses the capital asset pricing model to calculate the cost of equity. 

Tesco Bank goodwill 
Tesco Bank value in use is calculated by discounting equity cash flows, defined as the excess above the regulatory requirement. Cash flow 
projections are based on the Bank’s three-year internal forecasts, approved by the Board. The forecasts are extrapolated to five years based 
on
on inflation and GDP growth forecasts by recognised bodies. The discount rate is the cost of equity of Tesco Bank. Risk-free rates, equity risk 
premia and the equity beta are derived from recognised bodies. 

management’s expectations and beyond five years based on estimated long-term average growth rates. The long-term growth rate is based 

Fair value less costs of disposal 
Fair values of owned properties are determined with regard to the market rent for the stores or for alternative uses with investment yields 
appropriate to reflect the physical characteristics of the property, location, infrastructure, redevelopment potential and other factors. In
cases, fair values include residual valuations where stores may be viable for redevelopment. Fair values of leased properties are determined 
with
property and the local rental market, adjusted for a suitable void period. Fair values of the Group’s properties were determined with the 
assistance of independent professional valuers where appropriate. Costs of disposal are estimated based on past experience in each 
geographical region. 

regard to the discounted market rent for the property over the remaining period of the lease, reflecting the condition and location of the 

some 

Investments in joint ventures and associates 
The recoverable values of investments in joint ventures and associates are estimated taking into account forecast cash flows, equity valuations of 
comparable entities and/or recent transactions for comparable businesses. 

Key assumptions and sensitivity 
Key assumptions 
For value in use calculations, the key assumptions to which the recoverable amounts are most sensitive are discount rates, long-term growth
rates and future cash flows (incorporating sales volumes, prices and costs). For fair value less costs of disposal calculations, the key assumption is 
property

fair values.  

The discount rates and long-term growth rates for each group of cash-generating units to which goodwill has been allocated are: 

Pre-tax discount rates 
Post-tax discount rates 
Long-term growth rates 

UK 

2023 
% 
8.6 - 8.8 
6.5 - 6.6 
2.0 

2022 
% 

6.4 – 7.8   
4.8 – 5.8   
1.9   

ROI 

2023 
% 
7.4 
6.5 
2.0 

2022 
% 
5.4   
4.7   
1.9   

Tesco Bank 

2023 
% 
16.0 
12.0 
1.7 

2022 
% 
13.7 
10.8 
1.6 

The discount rates and long-term growth rates for the Group’s portfolio of store cash-generating units, aggregated by segment due to the large 
number of individually immaterial store cash-generating units, are: 

Pre-tax discount rates 
Post-tax discount rates 
Long-term growth rates 

UK & ROI 

Central Europe 

2023 
% 
7.4 - 8.6 
6.5 
2.0 

2022 
% 

5.4 – 7.8   
4.7 – 5.8   
1.9   

2023 
% 
8.0 - 16.8 
6.3 – 11.1 
2.0 – 3.2 

2022 
% 
5.7 – 11.3 
4.5 – 8.8 
2.0 – 3.0 

Sensitivity  
The Group has carried out sensitivity analyses on the reasonably possible changes in key assumptions in the impairment tests for (a) each group 
of cash-generating units to which goodwill has been allocated and (b) for its portfolio of store cash-generating units. Management has extended 
the reasonably possible movements in the future cash flows and property fair values sensitivities disclosed given the level of volatility seen in 
these inputs since the previous year end, driven by the wider macroeconomic environment. 

(a)  Except for Tesco Bank goodwill, neither a reasonably possible increase of 1.0%pt in discount rates, a 10.0% decrease in future cash flows nor 
a 1.0%pt decrease in long-term growth rates would indicate impairment in any group of cash-generating units to which goodwill has been 
allocated.  

150

Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2023
150 

Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2023 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Financial statements 

For Tesco Bank, the following table shows the assumptions adopted and the amount by which these assumption values would have to 
change to make the recoverable amount equal to the carrying value, the headroom sensitivity, and the impact of reasonably possible 
changes to these assumptions: 

Key assumption 
Post-tax discount rates* 

Annual equity cash flows 

Long-term growth rates 

Assumption value 
12.0% 

Headroom sensitivity 
Increase of 0.3%pt 

Reasonably possible 
change 
Increase of 1.0%pt  

Impact on impairment 
£m 
(114) 

Variable 

Decrease of 4.3% 

Decrease of 10.0% 

1.7% 

Decrease of 0.4%pt 

Decrease of 1.0%pt 

(71) 

(72) 

(b)  While there is not a significant risk of an adjustment to the carrying amount of any one store cash-generating unit that would be material 
to the Group as a whole in the next financial year, the table below summarises the reasonably possible changes in key assumptions which 
most impact the impairment of the Group’s entire portfolio of store cash-generating units, presented in aggregate due to the large 
number of individually immaterial store cash-generating units. The impairment is not highly sensitive to the probability weightings 
assigned to the cash flow scenarios. 

Key assumption 
Post-tax discount rates* 

Future cash flows 

Long-term growth rates 

Property fair values 

Reasonably possible change 
Increase of 1.0%pt for each geographic region 
Decrease of 1.0%pt for each geographic region 
Increase of 10.0% for each geographic region 
Decrease of 10.0% for each geographic region 
Increase of 1.0%pt for each geographic region 
Decrease of 1.0%pt for each geographic region 
Increase of 10.0% for each geographic region 
Decrease of 10.0% for each geographic region 

*  Sensitivities are applied to post-tax discount rates used to derive the pre-tax discount rates. 

Note 15 Other investments 

Impact on impairment 
Increase 
Decrease 
Decrease 
Increase 
Decrease 
Increase 
Decrease 
Increase 

Investments in debt instruments – Retail(b)  
Investments in debt instruments – Bank  
Investments in equity instruments – Retail  
Property fund and other investments – Bank(c)  
Other investments 
Of which: 
Current 
Non-current 

2023 

Fair value 
through 
profit/loss 
£m 
- 
- 
- 
20 
20 

Fair value  
through other 
comprehensive 
income 
£m 
- 
565 
14 
- 
579 

At amortised 
cost(a) 
£m 
210 
883 
– 
– 
1,093 

303 
790 
1,093 

1 
19 
20 

49 
530 
579 

2022 

Fair value 
through 
profit/loss 
£m 
- 
- 
- 
25 
25 

Fair value  
through other 
comprehensive 
income 
£m 
- 
585 
12 
- 
597 

At amortised 
cost(a) 
£m 
- 
857 
- 
- 
857 

75 
782 
857 

- 
25 
25 

151 
446 
597 

Total 
£m 
210   
1,448   
14   
20   
1,692   

353   
1,339   
1,692   

(a) The allowances for expected credit losses in the year are immaterial (2022: immaterial). Refer to Note 27. 
(b) Includes £210m (2022: £nil) of secured bond assets of which £199m relates to the purchase of debt held in UK property joint ventures. 
(c) Includes £19m (2022: £23m) of property fund investments which were recognised following the acquisition of Tesco Underwriting Limited.  

Note 16 Inventories 

Goods held for resale 
Development properties 

2023 
£m 
2,507 
3 
2,510 

2023 
£m 
(479) 
434 
279 
(321) 
273 
(267) 
205  
(217) 

Total 
£m 
- 
1,442 
12 
25 
1,479 

226 
1,253 
1,479 

2022 
£m 
2,336 
3 
2,339 

Goods held for resale are net of commercial income. Refer to Note 20. 

Cost of inventories from continuing operations recognised as an expense for the 52 weeks ended 25 February 2023 was £48,822m (52 weeks 
ended 26 February 2022: £45,136m). Inventory losses and provisions from continuing operations recognised as an expense for the 52 weeks 
ended 25 February 2023 were £1,220m (52 weeks ended 26 February 2022: £1,002m).  

Note 17 Trade and other receivables 

Trade receivables 
Prepayments 
Accrued income(a) 
Other receivables 
Amounts owed by joint ventures and associates (Note 31)(b) 
Total trade and other receivables 
Of which: 
Current 
Non-current 

2023 
£m 
531 
133 
223 
374 
133 
1,394 

1,315 
79 
1,394 

2022 
£m 
457 
135 
211 
478 
141 
1,422 

1,263 
159 
1,422 

(a)  Accrued income includes contract assets of £32m (2022: £51m) primarily relating to commission income on insurance policies managed and underwritten by a third party. The expected credit loss 

was immaterial as at 25 February 2023 (2022:

immaterial). 

(b) Expected credit losses on amounts owed by joint ventures and associates are not material. 

Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2023 

Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2023
151 

151

Financial statements 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Notes to the Group financial statements continued 

Note 17 Trade and other receivables continued 
Trade receivables include commercial income. Refer to Note 20. Trade receivables are generally non interest-bearing. Credit terms vary by 
country and the nature of the debt, ranging from seven to 60 days. 

The tables below present the ageing of receivables and related allowances for expected credit losses: 

At 25 February 2023 
Trade receivables 
Other receivables 
Trade and other receivables 

Allowance for expected credit losses: 
At the beginning of the year 
Increase in allowance, including recoveries, charged to the Group income 
statement 
At the end of the year 

At 26 February 2022 
Trade receivables 
Other receivables 
Trade and other receivables 

Allowance for expected credit losses: 
At the beginning of the year 
Decrease in allowance, including recoveries, released to the Group income 
statement 
Amounts written off 
At the end of the year 

Not 
past due 
£m 
505 
339 
844 

(22) 
(2) 

(24) 

Not 
past due 
£m 
430 
442 
872 

(22) 
– 

– 
(22) 

Up to six 
months 
past due 
£m 
53 
19 
72 

(4) 
(2) 

(6) 

Up to six 
months 
due 
past
£m 
52 
34 
86 

(11) 
7 

– 
(4) 

Note 18 Cash and cash equivalents and short-term investments 
Cash and cash equivalents 

Cash at bank and on hand
Short-term deposits
Cash and cash equivalents in the Group balance sheet  
Bank overdrafts
Cash and cash equivalents in the Group cash flow statement 

Short-term investments 

Money market funds, deposits and similar instruments 

Six to 
12 months 
past due 
£m 
7 
16 
23 

Greater than 
12 months 
past due 
£m 
9 
19 
28 

(5) 
(1) 

(6) 

(25) 
(1) 

(26) 

Six to 
12 months 
past due 
£m 
4 
4 
8 

past

Greater than 
12 months 
due 
£m 
6 
19 
25 

(6) 
1 

– 
(5) 

(30) 
1 

4 
(25) 

2023 
£m 
2,426 
39 
2,465 
(900) 
1,565 

2023 
£m 
1,628 

Total 
£m 
574 
393 
967 

(56) 
(6) 

(62) 

Total 
£m 
492 
499 
991 

(69) 
9 

4 
(56) 

2022 
£m
2,322
23
2,345
(574)
1,771

2022 
£m 
2,076 

Cash and cash equivalents includes £87m (2022: £84m) of restricted amounts mainly relating to the Group’s pension schemes and employee 
benefit trusts. 

Note 19 Trade and other payables 

Trade payables 
Other taxation and social security 
Other payables 
Amounts payable to joint ventures and associates (Note 31) 
Accruals  
Contract liabilities 
Total trade and other payables 
Of which: 
Current 
Non-current 

2023 
£m 
6,359 
399 
1,886 
7 
877 
443 
9,971 

9,818 
153 
9,971 

2022 
£m 
5,641 
411 
1,905 
9 
827 
441 
9,234 

9,181 
53 
9,234 

Trade and other payables are net of commercial income. Refer to Note 20.  

Contract liabilities represent consideration received for performance obligations not yet satisfied, predominantly in relation to Clubcard points. 
The majority of the revenue deferred at the current financial year end will be recognised in the following financial year. 

Trade payables include £687m (2022: £935m) that suppliers have chosen to early-fund under supplier financing arrangements. Refer to Note 1. 
Amounts in trade payables that are overdue for payment to the provider are immaterial.  

152

Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2023
152 

Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2023 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Financial statements 

Note 20 Commercial income 
Below are the commercial income balances included within inventories and trade and other receivables, or netted against trade and other 
payables. Amounts received in advance of income being earned are included in accruals. 

Current assets 
Inventories 
Trade and other receivables 
Trade/other receivables 
Accrued income 
Current liabilities 
Trade and other payables 

Trade payables 
Accruals 

2023 
£m 

(18) 

67 
127 

112 
(5) 

2022 
£m 

(15) 

68 
124 

112 
– 

Note 21 Borrowings 
Borrowings are classified as current and non-current based on their scheduled repayment date, and not their maturity date. Repayments of 
principal amounts are classified as current if the repayment is scheduled to be made within one year of the balance sheet date. 

Bank loans and overdrafts(a) 
Tesco Bank Senior MREL Notes(b) 
Secured bonds(c) 

5.5457% Secured Bond 
6.067% Secured Bond 
SONIA + 1.3193% Secured Bond 
6.0517% Secured Bond 
5.6611% Secured Bond 
5.4111% Secured Bond 
LPI and RPI-linked bonds(d) 

3.322% LPI MTN 
1.982% RPI MTN 

Sustainability-linked bonds(e) 

1.875% MTN 
0.375% MTN 

Fixed bonds  
5% MTN 
1.375% MTN 
2.5% MTN 
2.5% MTN 
0.875% MTN 
6% MTN 
2.75% MTN 
5.5% MTN 
6.15% USD Bond 
4.875% MTN 
5.125% MTN 
5.2% MTN 

Of which: 
Current 
Non-current 

Par value 
– 
£145m 

£235m 
£200m 
£50m 
£266m 
£289m 
£187m 

£392m 
£346m 

£400m 
€750m 

£71m 
€750m 
€473m 
£400m 
€750m 
£38m 
£450m 
£67m 
$355m 
£14m 
€235m 
£14m 

Maturity 
– 
Jul 2025 

Feb 2029 
Feb 2029 
Feb 2029 
Oct 2039 
Oct 2041 
Jul 2044 

Nov 2025 
Mar 2036 

Nov 2028 
Jul 2029 

Mar 2023 
Oct 2023 
Jul 2024 
May 2025 
May 2026 
Dec 2029 
Apr 2030 
Jan 2033 
Nov 2037 
Mar 2042 
Apr 2047 
Mar 2057 

2023 
£m 
928 
137 

225 
195 
49 
337 
378 
158 

396 
349 

398 
523 

75 
651 
424 
378 
663 
43 
359 
78 
366 
14 
213 
14 
7,351 

1,770 
5,581 
7,351 

2022 
£m 
605 
244 

251 
194 
48 
568 
579 
– 

377 
312 

398 
576 

77 
634 
403 
397 
630 
44 
414 
79 
338 
14 
203 
14 
7,399 

725 
6,674 
7,399 

(a)  Bank loans and overdrafts includes £900m (2022: £574m) of bank overdrafts. £895m (2022: £567m) is held under a notional pooling arrangement which does not meet the criteria to be

presented 

net of cash on the balance sheet. Refer to Note 18. 

(b) These notes are 3.5% Tesco Bank MREL compliant senior debt and were issued on 25 July 2019. The scheduled redemption date is July 2024. During the year there was a partial redemption by 

Tesco Bank of its issued MREL debt. 

(c)  The bonds are secured by a charge over the property, plant and equipment held within The Tesco Property Limited Partnership, The Tesco Atrato Limited Partnership, The Tesco Sarum Limited 
Partnership and The Tesco Dorney Limited Partnership respectively, all of which are 100% owned subsidiaries of Tesco PLC. The carrying amount of assets pledged as security for secured bonds 
is £802m, £1,065m, £708m and £239m (2022: £818m, £892m, £521m and £nil), respectively. £51m (2022: £50m) is the total principal repayment due within the next 12 months and the remainder is 
payable in quarterly instalments until the maturity date. 

(d) These bonds are redeemable at par, indexed for increases in the RPI over the life of the MTN. However, for the LPI-linked bond, the maximum indexation of the principal in any one year is 5%, with 

a minimum of 0%. For the RPI-linked bond, refer to Note 27.  

(e)  These are sustainability-linked bonds referencing the Group’s KPI for Group Greenhouse Gas (GHG) Emissions reduction (Scope 1 and 2, in tCO2e). The Sustainability Performance Target they are 

linked to is to reduce the Group GHG Emissions by 60% by 2025 with respect to a 2015/16 baseline. 

Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2023 

Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2023
153 

153

Financial statements 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Notes to the Group financial statements continued 

Note 22 Provisions 

At 26 February 2022 
Foreign currency translation 
Reclassifications 
Amount released in the year 
Amount provided in the year 
Amount utilised in the year 
Unwinding of discount 
At 25 February 2023 

The balances are analysed as follows: 

Current 
Non-current 

Property 
provisions 
£m 
213 
1 
– 
(21) 
37 
(11) 
3 
222 

Restructuring 
provisions 
£m 
44 
1 
– 
(8) 
147 
(78) 
– 
106 

Legal and 
regulatory 
provisions 
£m 
44 
– 
10 
(3) 
7 
(4) 
– 
54 

Operational 
insurance 
provisions 
£m 
135 
1 
– 
(23) 
91 
(46) 
– 
158 

Other 
provisions 
£m 
30 
1 
(10) 
(5) 
8 
(4) 
– 
20 

2023 
£m 
366 
194 
560 

Total 
£m 
466 
4 
– 
(60) 
290 
(143) 
3 
560 

2022 
£m 
283 
183 
466 

Provisions are discounted based on the relevant risk-free rate and are risk-adjusted through adjusting the cash flow estimates. Refer to Note 14 
for details of how risk-free rates are derived. Where material, provisions are discounted based on country-specific nominal risk-free rates, with a 
weighted average risk-free rate of 3.8% (2022: 1.6%). 

Property provisions 
Property provisions comprise onerous contracts related to unprofitable stores and vacant properties, decommissioning provisions and 
remediation works and dilapidations provisions.  

Dilapidations are recognised where there is a present obligation to repair and restore leased properties to their preoccupancy state at the end 
of
the lease term. The provision is based on best estimates for individual properties, with reference to previous experience and size of leased 
property, or specific agreements with the landlord where relevant. The term is measured in accordance with the outstanding length of leases or 
the expected timing of specific obligations. 

Onerous contract provisions are recognised where the unavoidable costs of meeting the obligations under the contract exceed the economic 
benefits expected to be received under it. The timing of provisions is determined by reference to the contract giving rise to the obligations.  

Decommissioning provisions reflect the Group’s long-term obligation for site-level environmental remediation works, arising from government 
regulations and changing consumer habits. The extent and cost of future environmental remediation represents a best estimate applied across 
the property portfolio based on past experience, the extent of remediation work required and the expected timing of activity, for which there is a 
high level of uncertainty. 

Amounts provided in the year primarily relate to decommissioning and amounts released in the year primarily relate to releases of dilapidation 
and similar remediation provisions. 

The expected undiscounted ageing of property provisions as at 25 February 2023: 

Property provisions 

Current 
£m 
38 

1 to 5 years 
£m 
46 

6 to 10 years 
£m 
23 

11 to 15 years 
£m 
17 

Over 15 years 
£m 
247 

Total 
£m 
371 

Restructuring provisions 
Restructuring provisions of £106m, primarily relating to expected employee costs, are expected to be fully utilised in the following financial year to 
24 February 2024. The provision is calculated in line with the expected settlement costs of impacted employees and excludes future operating costs.  

Legal and regulatory provisions 
Legal and regulatory provisions contain balances in relation to either ongoing or expected legal proceedings against the Group, or for costs 
associated with regulatory matters and/or breaches. Due to the nature of legal and regulatory matters, including unpredictable timings of legal 
cases or regulatory investigations, there is often uncertainty as to if or when provisions will be fully utilised.  

This balance consists of various individually immaterial provisions. 

Operational insurance provisions 
Insurance provisions relate to outstanding liabilities from public and employer’s liability and third-party motor claims across the Group’s trading 
operations, separate to the Tesco Underwriting insurance balances in Note 24. Provisions relate to claims arising from incidents reported prior 
to
the reporting date, including an allowance for those currently incurred but not reported. Amounts are measured considering claims history, 
including claims volume and average cost of claims, with assessment and projection by third-party actuaries. Releases in the year primarily relate 
to improved estimates of future outflows from revised actuarial valuations. The balance as at the financial year end is expected to be materially 
utilised within three years from the reporting date.  

Other provisions 
Other provisions amounts primarily relate to a Tesco Bank expected credit loss provision recognised under IFRS 9 which exceeds the gross 
carrying amount of the related financial asset, primarily loans to customers. Further information on expected credit losses can be found within 
Note 27. The remaining balance relates to individually immaterial provisions that do not fall into any of the other categories. 

154

Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2023
154 

Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2023 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Note 23 Loans and advances to customers 
Tesco Bank has loans and advances to customers, split by maturity, as follows: 

Repayable on demand or at short notice 
Within three months 
Greater than three months but less than one year 
Greater than one year but less than five years 
After five years 

Expected credit loss allowance for loans and advances to customers 
Loans and advances to customers 
Of which:  
Current 
Non-current 

Financial statements 

2023 
£m 
– 
4,151 
178 
2,667 
546 
7,542 
(461) 
7,081 

4,052 
3,029 
7,081 

2022 
£m 
2 
3,561 
161 
2,718 
537 
6,979 
(489) 
6,490 

3,349 
3,141 
6,490 

At 25 February 2023, £2.9bn (2022: £3.0bn) of the credit card portfolio had its beneficial interest assigned to a securitisation special purpose 
entity, Delamare Cards Receivables Trustee Limited, for use as collateral in securitisation transactions. The total encumbered portion of this 
portfolio is £1.1bn (2022: £1.2bn). 

At 25 February 2023, Delamare Cards MTN Issuer PLC had £1.8bn (2022: £1.8bn) notes in issue in relation to securitisation transactions.  

At 25 February 2023, £1.6bn (2022: £1.4bn) of the class A retained credit card-backed notes are held within their single collateral pool. 

Fair value hedge adjustments 
Fair value hedge adjustments amounting to a liability of £75m (2022: liability of £30m) are in respect of fixed rate personal loans. These 
adjustments are largely offset by derivatives, which are used to manage interest rate risk and are designated as fair value hedges of loans and 
advances to customers. 

Refer to Note 27 for allowance for expected credit losses disclosures. 

Note 24 Insurance 
Balances in this note relate to the Group’s subsidiary, Tesco Underwriting Limited (TU), part of the Tesco Bank operating segment.  

Insurance profit/(loss) 

Gross insurance premium income 

Insurance premium income ceded to reinsurers 

Current year claims paid 
Change in prior year claims provision 
Additional liabilities arising during the year 
Insurance claims incurred 
Reinsurers’ share of claims incurred* 
Net insurance claims 

Net insurance profit/(loss) 

* 

Includes £20m (2022: £3m) related to reinsurance quota share commission and profit commission. 

Insurance contract provisions and reinsurance assets 

The following tables show the breakdown of the Group’s insurance contract provisions and reinsurance assets: 

Unearned premiums 
Claims  
Total insurance contract provisions 
Of which:  
Current 
Non-current 

Gross 
£m 
174 
431 
605 

570 
35 

2023 

Reinsurance 
£m 
(73) 
(144) 
(217) 

(72) 
(145) 

Net 
£m 
101   
287   
388   

498   
(110)  

Gross 
£m 
156 
494 
650 

623 
27 

2022 

Reinsurance 
£m 
(64) 
(181) 
(245) 

(61) 
(184) 

52 weeks 
2023 
£m 
309 

52 weeks 
2022 
£m 
239 

(139) 

(140) 
100 
(135) 
(175) 
90 
(85) 

85 

(105) 

(104) 
52 
(98) 
(150) 
62 
(88) 

46 

Net 
£m 
92 
313 
405 

562 
(157) 

Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2023 

Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2023
155 

155

Financial statements 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
Notes to the Group financial statements continued 

Note 24 Insurance continued 
Gross insurance provisions, unlike reinsurance assets, are classified as current or non-current based on contractual rights to defer settlement 
for at least 12 months after the reporting period, rather than expected timing of settlement. See Note 27 for the expected cash outflows in 
relation to these balances. 

Analysis of movement in insurance contract provisions 
Opening balance 
Acquired through business combinations 
Claims (paid)/recovered through insurers 
Movement in claims outstanding 
Changes in provisions for unearned premiums  
Closing balance 

Analysis of movement in provision for gross unearned premiums 
Opening balance 
Acquired through business combinations 
Premiums written during the year  
Less: premiums earned during the year 
Closing balance 

Analysis of movement in outstanding claims 
Opening balance 
Acquired through business combinations 
Current period claims  
Change in prior year claims 
Current year claims paid 
Prior year claims paid 
Closing balance 

Gross 
£m 
650 
– 
(259) 
196 
18 
605 

2023 

Reinsurance 
£m 
(245) 
– 
108 
(71) 
(9) 
(217) 

2023 
Salvage and 
subrogation 
recoveries 
£m 
(22) 
– 
(34) 
13 
– 
– 
(43) 

Gross 
£m 
494 
– 
309 
(113) 
(140) 
(119) 
431 

Net 
£m 
405   
–   
(151)   
125   
9   
388   

Net 
£m 
472   
–   
275   
(100)  
(140)  
(119)  
388   

Gross 
£m 
– 
650 
(171) 
156 
15 
650 

2022 

Reinsurance 
£m 
– 
(247) 
66 
(59) 
(5) 
(245) 

2023 
£m 
156 
– 
327 
(309) 
174 

2022 
Salvage and 
subrogation 
recoveries 
£m 
– 
(16) 
(20) 
14 
– 
– 
(22) 

Gross 
£m 
– 
509 
213 
(57) 
(104) 
(67) 
494 

Net 
£m 
– 
403 
(105) 
97 
10 
405 

2022 
£m 
– 
141 
254 
(239) 
156 

Net 
£m 
– 
493 
193 
(43) 
(104) 
(67) 
472 

Funds withheld 
Funds withheld of £123m (2022: £115m), included within trade and other payables, represent the balance due to reinsurers arising from Quota 
Share arrangements, by which a fixed proportion of both premiums and losses are ceded to third-party reinsurers as part of the overall 
reinsurance protection strategy. 

Process used to determine assumptions 
The nature of insurance makes it very difficult to predict with certainty the likely outcome of any particular claim and the ultimate cost of notified 
claims. Each notified claim is assessed on a separate, case‐by‐case basis with due regard to the claim circumstances and historical evidence of 
the size of similar claims and provisions are based on information currently available. However, the ultimate liabilities may vary as a result of 
subsequent developments.  

Sources of data 
The sources of data used as inputs for the assumptions are internal, using detailed studies that are carried out at least annually to ensure that 
the assumptions are consistent with observable market prices or other published information. When there is insufficient information to make a 
reliable best estimate of claims development, suitable benchmark assumptions are used. 

Methods 
The cost of outstanding claims and the incurred but not reported (IBNR) claims provisions are estimated using various statistical methods, which 
extrapolate the development of paid and incurred claims, average cost per claim and ultimate claim numbers for each accident period based 
upon observed development of earlier periods, with reference to suitable benchmarks. The key methods are: 

–  development factor methods, which use historical data to estimate the paid and incurred to date as proportions of the ultimate claim cost; 
–  individual claim assessment methods, which use claim‐specific details for large individual claims to estimate the ultimate claim cost; and 
–  benchmarking methods, which use the experience of comparable, more mature classes, or market data to estimate the cost of claims. 

To the extent that these methods use historical claims development information, they also assume that the historical claims development 
pattern will occur again in the future, after allowing (where possible) for instances where this might not be the case, such as changing economic 
or legal trends. 

156

Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2023
156 

Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2023 

 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
Financial statements 

Recoveries 
The provisions are initially estimated at a gross level and a separate calculation is carried out to estimate the size of reinsurance recoveries.  
The Group is covered by a variety of excess of loss reinsurance programmes. The methods used by the Group take into account historical data, 
specific details for individual large claims and details of the reinsurance programme to assess the expected size of reinsurance recoveries. 
Recoveries through salvage and subrogation are estimated and recorded separately based on a combination of suitable benchmark assumptions 
and the observed development to date. 

Ogden rate 
The majority of claims are not discounted as they are expected to settle within four years or less. For long-term personal injury claims the 
personal injury discount rate (Ogden rate) is used. For claims provisions in relation to periodic payments orders, a long-term expected investment 
return is used as the discount rate. This is set by the Ministry of Justice and is used by the courts to calculate lump sum personal injury payments. 
Reserves are assessed at the current rate of (0.25)%. 

Analysis of claims development – gross of reinsurance and net of salvage and subrogation recoveries 

Estimate of gross ultimate claim costs 
At end of accident year 
One year later 
Two years later 
Three years later 
Four years later 
Five years later 
Six years later 
Seven years later 
Eight years later 
Nine years later 
Current estimate of cumulative claims 
Cumulative payments to date 
Claims outstanding prior to 2013 accident year 
Current gross claims provision 
Provision for claims handling costs  
Fair value adjustment to claims outstanding 
provisions as a result of TU acquisition 
Total gross claims outstanding provisions 

2013 
£m 
391 
388 
373 
383 
363 
360 
361 
360 
360 
360 
360 
(349) 
– 
11 
– 
– 

2014 
 £m 
349 
353 
379 
353 
360 
347 
350 
343 
345 
– 
345 
(328) 
– 
17 
– 
– 

2015 
£m 
327 
343 
343 
323 
311 
305 
305 
306 
– 
– 
306 
(299) 
– 
7 
– 
– 

Accident year(a)(b) 

2016 
£m 
371 
372 
335 
325 
323 
309 
304 
– 
– 
– 
304 
(291) 
– 
13 
– 
– 

2017 
£m 
304 
299 
269 
258 
253 
251 
– 
– 
– 
– 
251 
(248) 
– 
3 
– 
– 

2018 
£m 
317 
297 
268 
271 
259 
– 
– 
– 
– 
– 
259 
(239) 
– 
20 
– 
– 

2019 
£m 
282 
288 
271 
235 
– 
– 
– 
– 
– 
– 
235 
(204) 
– 
31 
– 
– 

2020 
£m  
220 
209 
184 
– 
– 
– 
– 
– 
– 
– 
184 
(137) 
– 
47 
– 
– 

2021 
£m 
224 
204 
– 
– 
– 
– 
– 
– 
– 
– 
204 
(138) 
– 
66 
– 
– 

2022 
£m 
48 
278 
– 
– 
– 
– 
– 
– 
– 
– 
278 
(162) 
– 
116 
– 
– 

Total 
2023 
£m 
£m 
– 
41 
– 
– 
– 
– 
– 
– 
– 
– 
– 
– 
– 
– 
– 
– 
– 
– 
– 
– 
41 
2,767 
(9)  (2,404) 
18 
– 
381 
32 
5 
– 
2 
– 

– 

– 

– 

– 

– 

– 

– 

– 

– 

– 

– 

388 

(a)  The information in the above claims development table covers the period from which the earliest material claim arose in TU for which there is still uncertainty about the amount and timing of the 

claims payments and therefore reflects claims development in respect of claims arising prior to the acquisition of TU in 2021. 

(b) TU changed its reporting date from 31 December to 28 February during 2022. However, accident years remained consistent with a calendar year. Consequently, the first development year from 

2022 onwards represents only two months of claims development. 

Analysis of claims development – net of reinsurance and net of salvage and subrogation recoveries 

Estimate of ultimate claim costs 
At end of accident year 
One year later 
Two years later 
Three years later 
Four years later 
Five years later 
Six years later 
Seven years later 
Eight years later 
Nine years later 
Current estimate of cumulative claims 
Cumulative payments to date 
Claims outstanding prior to 2013 accident year 
Current net claims provision 
Provision for claims handling costs  
Fair value adjustment to claims outstanding 
provisions as a result of TU acquisition 
Total net claims 

Refer to previous table for footnotes. 

Accident year(a)(b) 

2013 
£m 
379 
380 
368 
371 
359 
355 
356 
355 
353 
350 
350 
(347) 
– 
3 
– 
– 

2014 
 £m 
336 
338 
349 
343 
339 
338 
340 
334 
335 
– 
335 
(323) 
– 
12 
– 
– 

2015 
£m 
320 
327 
331 
315 
306 
301 
301 
301 
– 
– 
301 
(295) 
– 
6 
– 
– 

2016 
£m 
310 
319 
302 
292 
292 
287 
287 
– 
– 
– 
287 
(280) 
– 
7 
– 
– 

2017 
£m 
276 
270 
252 
242 
239 
239 
– 
– 
– 
– 
239 
(236) 
– 
3 
– 
– 

2018 
£m 
259 
259 
233 
247 
236 
– 
– 
– 
– 
– 
236 
(220) 
– 
16 
– 
– 

2019 
£m 
236 
255 
244 
222 
– 
– 
– 
– 
– 
– 
222 
(197) 
– 
25 
– 
– 

2020 
£m  
144 
125 
109 
– 
– 
– 
– 
– 
– 
– 
109 
(96) 
– 
13 
– 
– 

2021 
£m 
127 
119 
– 
– 
– 
– 
– 
– 
– 
– 
119 
(84) 
– 
35 
– 
– 

2022 
£m 
37 
171 
– 
– 
– 
– 
– 
– 
– 
– 
171 
(94) 
– 
77 
– 
– 

2023 
£m 
32 
– 
– 
– 
– 
– 
– 
– 
– 
– 
32 
(4) 
– 
28 
– 
– 

Total 
£m 
– 
– 
– 
– 
– 
– 
– 
– 
– 
– 
2,401 
(2,176) 
12 
237 
5 
2 

– 

– 

– 

– 

– 

– 

– 

– 

– 

– 

– 

244 

Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2023 

Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2023
157 

157

Financial statements 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Notes to the Group financial statements continued 

Note 25 Customer deposits and deposits from banks 

Customer deposits 
Deposits from banks 

Of which: 
Current 
Non-current 

2023 
£m 
5,770 
980 
6,750 

4,485 
2,265 
6,750 

2022 
£m 
5,327 
1,052 
6,379 

4,729 
1,650 
6,379 

Deposits from banks include balances of £906m (2022: £902m) drawn under the Bank of England’s Term Funding Scheme with incentives for 
small
and medium-sized enterprises (TFSME). Also included are balances of £74m (2022: £150m) which have been sold under sale and 
repurchase

agreements. 

Note 26 Financial instruments 
The Group recognises the following financial instruments on its balance sheet. The Group’s exposure to the risks associated with its financial 
assets and liabilities is discussed in Note 27. 

At 25 February 2023 
Financial assets  
Cash and cash equivalents  
Short-term investments 
Trade receivables  
Other receivables 
Joint ventures and associates loan receivables 
Loans and advances to customers  
Other investments 
Derivative financial instruments: 

Interest rate swaps 
Cross-currency swaps 
Index-linked swaps 
Foreign currency forward contracts 
Diesel forward contracts 

Financial liabilities 
Trade payables  
Other payables  
Accruals  
Borrowings 
Customer deposits  
Deposits from banks  
Lease liabilities 
Derivative financial instruments: 

Interest rate swaps 
Cross-currency swaps 
Foreign currency forward contracts 
Diesel forward contracts 

At amortised 
cost 
£m 

Notes 

At fair value 
through profit 
or loss 
£m 

At fair value 
through other 
comprehensive 
income 
£m 

18 
18 
17 
17 
31 
23 
15 

19 
19 
19 
21 
25 
25 
12 

2,433 
968 
531 
374 
106 
7,081 
1,093 

– 
– 
– 
– 
– 
12,586 

(6,359) 
(1,886) 
(877) 
(7,351) 
(5,770) 
(980) 
(7,727) 

– 
– 
– 
– 
(30,950) 

32 
660 
– 
– 
– 
– 
20 

123 
211 
551 
41 
4 
1,642 

– 
– 
– 
– 
– 
– 
– 

(159) 
(141) 
(72) 
(15) 
(387) 

– 
– 
– 
– 
– 
– 
579 

– 
– 
– 
– 
– 
579 

– 
– 
– 
– 
– 
– 
– 

– 
– 
– 
– 
– 

Total 
£m 

2,465 
1,628 
531 
374 
106 
7,081 
1,692 

123 
211 
551 
41 
4 
14,807 

(6,359) 
(1,886) 
(877) 
(7,351) 
(5,770) 
(980) 
(7,727) 

(159) 
(141) 
(72) 
(15) 
(31,337) 

158

Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2023
158 

Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2023 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Financial statements 

At amortised 
cost 
£m 

Notes 

At fair value 
through profit 
or loss 
£m 

At fair value 
through other 
comprehensive 
income 
£m 

18 
18 
17 
17 
31 
23 
15 

19 
19 
19 
21 
25 
25 
12 

2,319 
906 
457 
478 
105 
6,490 
857 

– 
– 
– 
– 
– 
11,612 

(5,641) 
(1,905) 
(827) 
(7,399) 
(5,327) 
(1,052) 
(7,958) 

– 
– 
– 
(30,109) 

26 
1,170 
– 
– 
– 
– 
25 

55 
223 
666 
44 
23 
2,232 

– 
– 
– 
– 
– 
– 
– 

(273) 
(85) 
(25) 
(383) 

– 
– 
– 
– 
– 
– 
597 

– 
– 
– 
– 
– 
597 

– 
– 
– 
– 
– 
– 
– 

– 
– 
– 
– 

Total 
£m 

2,345 
2,076 
457 
478 
105 
6,490 
1,479 

55 
223 
666 
44 
23 
14,441 

(5,641) 
(1,905) 
(827) 
(7,399) 
(5,327) 
(1,052) 
(7,958) 

(273) 
(85) 
(25) 
(30,492) 

At 26 February 2022 
Financial assets  
Cash and cash equivalents  
Short-term investments* 
Trade receivables  
Other receivables 
Joint ventures and associates loan receivables 
Loans and advances to customers  
Other investments 
Derivative financial instruments: 

Interest rate swaps 
Cross-currency swaps 
Index-linked swaps 
Foreign currency forward contracts 
Diesel forward contracts 

Financial liabilities 
Trade payables  
Other payables  
Accruals  
Borrowings 
Customer deposits  
Deposits from banks  
Lease liabilities 
Derivative financial instruments: 

Interest rate swaps 
Cross-currency swaps 
Foreign currency forward contracts 

*  Comparatives have been re-presented for reclassification of certain short-term investments from amortised cost to fair value through profit or loss.  

The expected maturity of financial assets and liabilities is not considered to be materially different to their current and non-current classification. 

The fair value of assets and liabilities measured at amortised cost and at fair value are shown below.  

Fair value of financial assets and liabilities measured at amortised cost 
The table excludes cash and cash equivalents, short-term investments, trade receivables/payables, other receivables/payables, accruals and 
deposits from banks where the carrying values approximate fair value. The levels in the table refer to the fair value measurement.  

Financial assets measured at amortised cost 
Loans and advances to customers 
Investments in debt instruments at amortised cost(a) 
Joint ventures and associates loan receivables(b) 
Financial liabilities measured at amortised cost 
Borrowings 

Amortised cost(a) 
Bonds in fair value hedge relationships 

Customer deposits  

2023 

Carrying 
value 
£m 

7,081 
1,093 
106 

(5,227) 
(2,124) 
(5,770) 

Fair 
value 

£m   

7,058   
1,097   
111   

(5,496)  
(2,167)  
(5,640)  

2022 

Carrying 
value 
£m 

6,490 
857 
105 

(5,057) 
(2,342) 
(5,327) 

Fair 
value 
£m 

6,566 
867 
126 

(5,942) 
(2,401) 
(5,296) 

Level 

3 
1 and 2  
2 

1  
1 
3 

(a)  These are principally Level 1 instruments.  
(b) Joint ventures and associates loan receivables carrying amounts of £106m (2022: £105m) are presented in the Group balance sheet net of deferred profits of £38m (2022: £38m) historically arising 

from the sale of property assets to joint ventures.  

Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2023 

Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2023
159 

159

Financial statements 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
Notes to the Group financial statements continued 

Note 26 Financial instruments continued 
Fair value measurement by level of fair value hierarchy  
The following table presents the Group’s financial assets and liabilities that are measured at fair value, by level of fair value hierarchy: 

–  quoted prices (unadjusted) in active markets for identical assets or liabilities (Level 1); 
–  inputs other than quoted prices included within Level 1 that are observable for the asset or liability, either directly (that is, as prices) or 

indirectly (that is, derived from prices) (Level 2); and 

–  inputs for the asset or liability that are not based on observable market data (that is, unobservable inputs) (Level 3). 

exchange rates from highly liquid markets. For Level 3 assets and liabilities, uncollateralised derivatives are valued as per Level 2 but 

Level 2 assets are valued by discounting future cash flows using externally sourced market yield curves, including interest rate curves and 
foreign
include certain data sources which are significantly less liquid; unlisted investments are valued based on less observable inputs such as 
recent

funding rounds. 

At 25 February 2023 
Assets 
Investments at fair value through other comprehensive income 
Short-term investments at fair value through profit or loss 
Cash and cash equivalents at fair value through profit or loss 
Investments at fair value through profit or loss 
Derivative financial instruments: 

Interest rate swaps 
Cross-currency swaps 
Index-linked swaps 
Foreign currency forward contracts 
Diesel forward contracts 

Total assets 
Liabilities 
Derivative financial instruments: 

Interest rate swaps 
Cross-currency swaps 
Foreign currency forward contracts 
Diesel forward contracts 

Total liabilities 
Net assets/(liabilities) 

At 26 February 2022 
Assets 
Investments at fair value through other comprehensive income 
Short-term investments at fair value through profit or loss* 
Cash and cash equivalents at fair value through profit or loss 
Investments at fair value through profit or loss 
Derivative financial instruments: 

Interest rate swaps 
Cross-currency swaps 
Index-linked swaps 
Foreign currency forward contracts 
Diesel forward contracts 

Total assets 
Liabilities 
Derivative financial instruments: 

Interest rate swaps 
Cross-currency swaps 
Foreign currency forward contracts 

Total liabilities 
Net assets/(liabilities) 

Level 1 
£m 

565 
660 
– 
– 

– 
– 
– 
– 
– 
1,225 

– 
– 
– 
– 
– 
1,225 

Level 1 
£m 

585 
1,170 
– 
– 

– 
– 
– 
– 
– 
1,755 

– 
– 
– 
– 
1,755 

Level 2 
£m 

Level 3 
£m 

– 
– 
32 
– 

123 
41 
119 
41 
4 
360 

(73) 
(4) 
(72) 
(15) 
(164) 
196 

14 
– 
– 
20 

– 
170 
432 
– 
– 
636 

(86) 
(137) 
– 
– 
(223) 
413 

Level 2 
£m 

Level 3 
£m 

– 
– 
26 
23 

55 
25 
115 
44 
23 
311 

(273) 
(85) 
(25) 
(383) 
(72) 

12 
– 
– 
2 

– 
198 
551 
– 
– 
763 

– 
– 
– 
– 
763 

Total 
£m 

579 
660 
32 
20 

123 
211 
551 
41 
4 
2,221 

(159) 
(141) 
(72) 
(15) 
(387) 
1,834 

Total 
£m 

597 
1,170 
26 
25 

55 
223 
666 
44 
23 
2,829 

(273) 
(85) 
(25) 
(383) 
2,446 

*  Comparatives have been re-presented for reclassification of certain short-term investments from amortised cost to fair value through profit or loss.  

During the financial year, there were no transfers (2022: no transfers) between Level 1 and Level 2 fair value measurements.  

160

Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2023
160 

Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2023 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Financial statements 

Level 3 Instruments 
During the financial year, there were £nil (2022: £nil) of transfers from Level 3 to Level 2 and £nil (2022: £nil) transfer from Level 3 to Level 1. There 
were £18m of transfers of unlisted investments (2022: £nil) and £(223)m of derivative liabilities (2022: derivative assets of £749m) to Level 3 from 
Level 2 and £nil (2022: £nil) to Level 3 from Level 1.  

As part of financial risk management, the Group holds certain uncollateralised derivative financial instruments, including interest rate and 
inflation swaps, cross-currency swaps and forward contracts. These are valued using relevant inputs which are considered observable (Level 2), 
such as forward rates and foreign exchange rates from available market data. Unobservable inputs (Level 3) relate to the funding valuation 
adjustment (FVA), which is the estimate of the adjustment to the fair value that a market participant would make to account for funding costs. 
These are calculated on the future valuation of the derivative, based on the best estimate available to management of suitable relevant cost of 
funds. A 10 basis points increase in the cost of funds would increase the FVA by £11m (2022: £18m). 

The following table presents the changes in Level 3 instruments: 

At the beginning of the year 
Gains/(losses) recognised in finance costs* 
Gains/(losses) recognised in other comprehensive income not reclassified to the 
income statement 
Gains/(losses) recognised in other comprehensive income that may subsequently 
be reclassified to the income statement 
Additions 
Disposals 
Transfers of assets/(liabilities) into Level 3 
At the end of the year  

*  All gains or losses are unrealised.  

2023 

2022 

Uncollateralised 
derivatives 
£m 
749 
(114) 
– 

6 

– 
(39) 
(223) 
379 

Unlisted 
 investments 

£m   
14   
–   
2   

–   

–   
–   
18   
34   

Uncollateralised 
derivatives 
£m 
– 
– 
– 

Unlisted 
investments 
£m 
11 
– 
4 

– 

– 
– 
749 
749 

– 

1 
(2) 
– 
14 

Offsetting of financial assets and liabilities 
The following tables show those financial assets and liabilities subject to offsetting, enforceable master netting arrangements and 
similar

agreements: 

At 25 February 2023 
Financial assets 
Derivative financial instruments 
Trade receivables 
Total assets 
Financial liabilities 
Derivative financial instruments 
Trade payables 
Repurchases, securities lending and similar agreements 
Total liabilities 

At 26 February 2022 
Financial assets 
Derivative financial instruments 
Trade receivables 
Total assets 
Financial liabilities 
Derivative financial instruments 
Trade payables 
Repurchases, securities lending and similar agreements 
Total liabilities 

Related amounts not offset in  
the Group balance sheet 

Gross amounts of 
recognised 
financial assets/ 
(liabilities) 
£m 

Gross amounts of 
financial assets/ 
(liabilities) offset 
in the Group 
balance sheet 
£m 

Net amounts 
included 
in the Group 
balance sheet 
£m 

Financial 
instruments 
£m 

Collateral  
(received)/ 
pledged 
£m 

Net amount 
£m 

930 
601 
1,531 

(387) 
(6,429) 
(74) 
(6,890) 

– 
(70) 
(70) 

– 
70 
– 
70 

930 
531 
1,461 

(387) 
(6,359) 
(74) 
(6,820) 

(142) 
– 
(142) 

142 
– 
– 
142 

(104) 
– 
(104) 

– 
– 
74 
74 

684 
531 
1,215 

(245) 
(6,359) 
– 
(6,604) 

Related amounts not offset in  
the Group balance sheet 

Gross amounts of 
recognised 
financial assets/ 
(liabilities) 
£m 

Gross amounts of 
financial assets/ 
(liabilities) offset in 
the Group 
balance sheet 
£m 

Net amounts 
included 
in the Group 
balance sheet 
£m 

Financial 
instruments 
£m 

Collateral  
(received)/ 
pledged 
£m 

Net amount 
£m 

1,011 
526 
1,537 

(383) 
(5,710) 
(150) 
(6,243) 

– 
(69) 
(69) 

– 
69 
– 
69 

1,011 
457 
1,468 

(383) 
(5,641) 
(150) 
(6,174) 

(246) 
– 
(246) 

246 
– 
– 
246 

(18) 
– 
(18) 

– 
– 
150 
150 

747 
457 
1,204 

(137) 
(5,641) 
– 
(5,778) 

For the financial assets and liabilities subject to enforceable master netting arrangements above, each agreement between the Group and the 
counterparty allows for net settlement of the relevant financial assets and liabilities when both elect to settle on a net basis. In the absence of 
such an election, financial assets and liabilities will be settled on a gross basis. However, each party to the master netting agreement or similar 
agreement will have the option to settle all such amounts on a net basis in the event of default of the other party. 

Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2023 

Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2023
161 

161

Financial statements 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Notes to the Group financial statements continued 

Note 27 Financial risk management 
The Group’s financial risk management is carried out under policies approved and authority delegated by the Board of Directors, including 
parameters for risk management across the Group. The financial risk management in relation to Retail is carried out by a central treasury 
department. Tesco Bank has a separate formal structure for reporting, monitoring and managing its financial risks appropriate to the nature of its 
business as a regulated financial institution.  

The main financial risks faced by the Group, including Retail and Tesco Bank, and the management of these risks are set out below and include 
market risk (foreign exchange, interest rate, inflation and commodity prices), credit risk, liquidity risk, capital risk and insurance risk. Additional 
information on the management of the financial risks specifically relating to Tesco Bank is also set out on page 170.  

Tesco Group  
(a) Market risk  
Foreign exchange risk management 

the cost of future purchases of 

Description of risks  
Transactional exposure that arises 
from
goods, where those purchases are 
denominated in a currency other than 
the functional currency of the 
purchasing company. 

Translation exposure that arises from 
exchange rate movements in 
connection with translating the Group’s 
foreign subsidiaries’ revenue and 
expenses, assets and liabilities into 
Pound Sterling.  

  Management policy  
  The Group’s policy is to hedge currency exposure that 
could significantly impact the Group income statement 
with a minimum (20%) and maximum (80%) hedge level 
of forecast uncommitted exposure within at least the 
next 12 months. 

  Translation risk related to foreign subsidiaries is not 
actively hedged, however to reduce this exposure in 
relation to the net assets of foreign subsidiaries, net 
investment hedging is undertaken.  

Loans to and from subsidiaries in 
currencies other than in the entity’s 
functional currency. 

  The Group’s policy is that 100% of the foreign exchange 
risk is hedged.  

Debt issued in a currency other than 
Pound Sterling. 

  The Group’s policy is to swap 100% of the foreign 
currency debt back to Pound Sterling, unless there are 
appropriate matching foreign currency assets.  

  Hedging strategy 
  Foreign currency forward contracts or purchased 
currency options, which are designated as cash flow 
hedges. These are denominated in the same currency 
as the highly probable future sales and purchases, 
which are expected to occur within a maximum 24-
month period, and the hedge ratio is determined 
to

1:1. 

be

  Euro-denominated borrowings are used to hedge the 
exposure of a portion of the Group’s net investments in 
overseas operations which have a
currency, against changes in value due to changes in 
foreign exchange rates. The Group has established a 
hedge ratio of 1:1, as the underlying risk of the hedging 
instrument is identical to the hedged risk component. 

Euro functional 

  Foreign currency derivatives and borrowings in 
matching currencies, which are not formally designated 
as accounting hedges as gains and losses will naturally 
offset in the income statement. 

  Cross-currency swaps, which are designated as fair 
value hedges. 

Residual exposure is present arising largely from cash and cash equivalents balances that are not in the functional currency of the entity holding 
these balances. The Group income statement impact of foreign currency exchange rate movements on these residual balances is disclosed in the 
sensitivity table on page 164.  

Interest rate risk management 

Description of risks  
Debt issued at variable interest rates as 
well as cash deposits and short-term 
investments, giving rise to cash flow risk, 
and debt issued at fixed interest rates 
giving rise to fair value risk.  

  Management policy  
  The Group’s policy is to manage interest rate risk in 
total balance sheet debt (including senior unsecured 
debt, lease liabilities, cash and cash equivalents and 
investments) to a range of 55%-85% fixed. 

  Hedging strategy  
  Interest rate swap contracts are used to fix interest 
rates on senior unsecured debt or investments issued 
at floating rates, creating a fair value hedge; and for 
senior unsecured debt or investments issued at fixed 
rates to generate variable interest exposure, creating a 
cashflow hedge. The terms of the swap contracts 
match the terms of the borrowings or investments 
including notional amounts and maturity, interest 
settlement and interest rate reset dates, and the 
Group has established a hedge ratio of 1:1 for the 
hedging relationships as the underlying risk of the 
derivative contract is identical to that of the 
hedged

item.  

Different repricing dates of the assets 
and liabilities in Tesco Bank’s banking 
activities and unexpected changes to 
the yield curve, giving rise to volatility in 
earnings and economic value of these 
assets and liabilities. 

  Tesco Bank has established limits for risk appetite and 
stress tests are performed using sensitivity to 
fluctuations in underlying interest rates in order to 
monitor this risk. Tesco Bank also use the capital at risk 
approach, which assesses the sensitivity of a reduction 
in the Bank’s capital to movements in interest rates. 

  Tesco Bank uses interest rate swap contracts as fair 
value hedges, to swap fixed rate exposures of 
investment securities, loans and advances to 
customers and customer deposits, back to a 
benchmark floating rate where no existing offset is 
available. 

The scenarios considered include both parallel and 
non-parallel movements of the yield curve and have 
been designed to assess impacts across a suitable 
range of severe but plausible movements in 
interest

rates. 

162

Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2023
162 

Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2023 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Financial statements 

The table below shows the interest rate risk profile for the Group’s financial instruments:  

2023 

2022 

Cash and cash equivalents 
Short-term investments 
Investments in debt instruments at amortised cost 
Investments at fair value through other comprehensive income 
Investments at fair value through profit or loss 
Joint ventures and associates loan receivables 
Lease liabilities 
Bank and other borrowings 
Loans and advances to customers  
Customer deposits  
Deposits from banks  
Derivative effect: 

Interest rate swaps 
Cross-currency swaps 
Index-linked swaps 

Total 

Percentage of interest-bearing debt at fixed rate 
Weighted average rate of interest paid on senior unsecured 
debt, excluding joint ventures and associates 

Fixed 
£m 
– 
– 
617 
570 
20 
106 
(7,727) 
(6,054) 
3,314 
(5,770) 
– 

190 
959 
(346) 
(14,121) 

Floating 
£m 
2,465 
1,628 
476 
9 
– 
– 
– 
(1,297) 
3,767 
– 
(980) 

(190) 
(959) 
346 
5,265 

Fixed 
£m 
– 
– 
518 
590 
25 
105 
(7,958) 
(6,465) 
3,293 
(5,327) 
– 

(729) 
895 
(310) 
(15,363) 

Floating 
£m 
2,345 
2,076 
339 
7 
– 
– 
– 
(934) 
3,197 
– 
(1,052) 

729 
(895) 
310 
6,122 

Total 

£m   
2,465   
1,628   
1,093   
579   
20   
106   
(7,727)  
(7,351)  
7,081   
(5,770)  
(980)  

–   
–   
–   
(8,856)  

75%   
3.87% 

Total 
£m 
2,345 
2,076 
857 
597 
25 
105 
(7,958) 
(7,399) 
6,490 
(5,327) 
(1,052) 

– 
– 
– 
(9,241) 

66% 
2.34% 

Inflation risk management 

Description of risks  
Index-linked debt, where the principal is 
indexed to increase/decrease in line 
with RPI or LPI.  

  Management policy  
  The Group’s policy is to hedge inflation in total balance 
sheet debt (including index-linked bonds and RPI-linked 
lease liabilities) on a portfolio basis alongside its interest 
rate risk management.
Interest and inflation risk in total 
balance sheet debt are managed to a combined target 
of 50% fixed, with a tolerance of 15%, where RPI-linked 
rents are considered to be floating. 

  Hedging strategy  
  LPI-linked debt, where the principal is indexed to RPI, 
with an annual maximum increase of 5% and a 
minimum of 0% is hedged 100% using derivative 
contracts swapping it to be fixed. 

Refer to Note 12 for information on the Group’s exposure to inflation-linked leases. 

Commodity risk management 

Description of risks  
Changes in commodity prices largely 
relating to diesel for own use. 

  Management policy  
  The Group policy is to hedge a minimum of 50% of the 
forecast uncommitted exposure within the next 12 
months. 

  Hedging strategy  
  Forward derivative contracts which are designated as 
cash flow hedges are used to hedge future purchases 
of diesel for own use. These are denominated in the 
same currency and volume as the forecast purchases 
and the hedge ratio is determined to be 1:1. 

Financial instruments not qualifying for hedge accounting 
The Group’s policy does not permit use of derivatives for trading purposes. However, some derivatives do not qualify for hedge accounting, or
specifically not designated as a hedge where gains and losses on the hedging instrument and the hedged item naturally offset in the Group income 
statement. These instruments include index-linked swaps, interest rate swaps, cross-currency swaps and foreign currency forward contracts. 

are 

Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2023 

Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2023
163 

163

Financial statements 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Notes to the Group financial statements continued 

Note 27 Financial risk management continued 
Sensitivity analysis 
The impact on the financial statements of the Group, including Retail and Tesco Bank, from foreign currency, inflation, interest rate and 
commodity price volatility is discussed below. 

The analysis excludes the impact of movements in market variables on the carrying value of pension and other post-employment benefit 
obligations and on the retranslation of overseas net assets. However, it does include the foreign exchange sensitivity resulting from local entity 
non-functional currency financial instruments. 

The sensitivity analysis has been prepared on the basis that the amount of net debt, the ratio of fixed to floating interest rates of the debt and
derivatives portfolio, and the proportion of financial instruments in foreign currencies are all constant and on the basis of the hedge designations 
in place at 25 February 2023. It should be noted that the sensitivity analysis reflects the impact on income and equity due to financial instruments 
held at the balance sheet date. It does not reflect any change in sales or costs that may result from changing interest or

exchange rates.  

The following assumptions were made in calculating the sensitivity analysis: 

–  the sensitivity of interest payable to movements in interest rates is calculated on net floating rate exposures on debt, deposits and derivative 

instruments with no sensitivity assumed for RPI-linked borrowings, which have been swapped to fixed rates; 

–  changes in the carrying value of derivative financial instruments designated as fair value hedges against movements in interest rates or foreign 
exchange rates have an immaterial effect on the Group income statement and equity due to compensating adjustments in the carrying value 
of

debt; 

–  changes in the carrying value of financial instruments designated as net investment hedges against movements in foreign exchange rates are 

recorded directly in the Group statement of comprehensive income/(loss); 

–  all other changes in the carrying value of derivative financial instruments designated as hedging instruments are fully effective with no impact 

on the Group income statement; and 

–  the floating leg of any swap or any floating rate debt is treated as not having any interest rate already set, therefore a change in interest rates 

affects a full 12-month period for the interest payable portion of the sensitivity calculations. 

Using the above assumptions, the following table shows the quantitative effect on the Group income statement and the Group statement of 
changes in equity that would result, at the balance sheet date, from changes in interest rates, inflation rates, currency exchange rates and 
commodity prices that

are reasonably possible for major currencies where there have recently been significant movements: 

1% increase in interest rates (2022: 1%) 
5% appreciation of the Euro (2022: 10%) 
10% appreciation of the US Dollar (2022: 10%) 
50 basis points parallel upward shift in the forward inflation curve (2022: 100 basis points) 
10% increase in commodity prices (2022: 10%)* 

*  Relating to diesel prices only, where derivatives are used to hedge risk. 

2023 

2022 

Income 
gain/(loss) 
£m 
(48) 
(11) 
34 
101 
1 

Equity 
gain/(loss) 
£m 

3   
(79)  
118   
–   
13   

Income 
gain/(loss) 
£m 
12 
(19) 
(11) 
337 
1 

Equity 
 gain/(loss) 
£m 
4 
(123) 
69 
– 
9 

A decrease in interest rates and commodity prices, depreciation of foreign currencies and downward shift in the forward inflation curve would 
have the opposite effect to the impact in the table above. 

The impact on the Group income statement resulting from changes in foreign exchange rates against GBP in relation to financial instruments 
(excluding those arising on consolidation) is minimal as Group policy dictates that all material income statement foreign exchange exposures 
are

hedged.  

In prior years, the Group entered into a number of derivative index-linked contracts with external counterparties, to economically hedge a 
proportion of the Group’s exposure to index-linked lease liabilities with its joint ventures. These are specifically not designated as accounting 
hedges, but are economic hedges. However, the gains and losses on the hedging instrument and hedged item do not
income statement. This mismatch arises due to different accounting outcomes of IFRS 9 and IFRS 16, which results in a timing difference.  

naturally offset in the Group 

The impact on the Group statement of comprehensive income/(loss) from changing exchange rates results from the revaluation of financial 
liabilities used as net investment hedges. The impact on the Group statement of comprehensive income/(loss) will largely be offset by the 
revaluation in equity of the hedged assets in the Group statement of changes in equity. 

Derivatives and hedging exposures  
Derivatives are used to hedge exposure to market risks, some of which are economic hedges and others are formally designated hedging 
instruments with hedge accounting applied. The main sources of hedge ineffectiveness are the effects of the counterparties’ and the Group’s 
own credit risk on the fair value of derivatives. 

The fair value and notional amounts of derivatives analysed by hedge type are shown on page 165. 

164

Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2023
164 

Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2023 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Financial statements 

Fair value hedges 
Interest rate swaps 
Cross-currency swaps 
Cash flow hedges 
Interest rate swaps 
Index-linked swaps 
Foreign currency forward contracts 
Diesel forward contracts 
Derivatives not in a formal hedge 
relationship 
Interest rate swaps 
Cross-currency swaps 
Index-linked swaps 
Foreign currency forward contracts 
Diesel forward contracts 
Total 

Asset 

Liability 

Asset 

Liability 

2023 

2022 

Fair value 
£m 

Notional 

£m   

Fair value 
£m 

Notional  
£m 

Fair value 
£m 

Notional 
£m 

Fair value 
£m 

Notional 
£m 

122 
– 

– 
240 
30 
4 

1 
211 
311 
11 
– 
930 

2,692   
–   

–   
738   
1,091   
14   

38   
822   
2,074   
821   
2   
8,292   

(147) 
(137) 

(3) 
– 
(58) 
(13) 

(9) 
(4) 
– 
(14) 
(2) 
(387) 

2,552   
662   

50   
–   
1,352   
119   

696   
100   
–   
539   
13   
6,083   

53 
– 

– 
230 
33 
23 

2 
223 
436 
11 
– 
1,011 

2,994   
–   

–   
683   
1,264   
65   

86   
845   
2,574   
750   
–   
9,261   

(65) 
(85) 

(11) 
– 
(8) 
– 

(197) 
– 
– 
(17) 
– 
(383) 

1,386 
630 

50 
– 
435 
– 

58 
15 
– 
844 
– 
3,418 

The following table sets out the maturity profile and average interest rates and foreign currency exchange rates of the hedging instruments used 
in the Group’s hedging strategies: 

Maturity profile 
Notional amount (£m) 
Fair value hedges 
Interest rate swaps – GBP 
Interest rate swaps – EUR 
Cross currency swaps (GBP: EUR)* 
Cash flow hedges  
Index-linked swaps 
Interest rate swaps 
Average net interest rate (pay)/receive 
Fair value hedges 
Interest rate swaps – GBP 
Interest rate swaps – EUR 
Cross currency swaps (GBP: EUR)* 
Cash flow hedges 
Index-linked swaps 
Interest rate swaps 

Up to 
one year 

2023 

One to  
five years 

More than 
five years 

Up to 
one year 

2022 

One to  
five years 

More than 
five years 

1,366 
662 
– 

– 
– 

(1.78)% 
(1.81)% 
– 

– 
– 

2,663 
– 
– 

392 
– 

(1.43)% 
– 
– 

(4.23)% 
– 

553   
–   
662   

346   
50   

(3.40)%  
–   
(4.65)%  

(4.21)%  
(4.46)%  

852 
– 
– 

– 
– 

0.14% 
– 
– 

– 
– 

2,296 
630 
– 

373 
– 

0.49% 
0.82% 
– 

(4.23)% 
– 

602 
– 
630 

310 
50 

(0.01)% 
– 
(1.17)% 

(4.21)% 
(4.46)% 

*  Average exchange rate for cross-currency swaps (GBP:EUR) is 1.13 (2022: 1.13).  

At 25 February 2023, foreign currency forward contracts, designated as cash flow hedges, equivalent to £2.4bn were outstanding (2022: £1.7bn). 
These forward contracts are largely in relation to purchases of Euros (notional €0.4bn) (2022: notional €0.7bn) and US Dollars (notional $1.1bn) 
(2022: notional $0.9bn) with varying maturities up to July 2024. 

For the above currencies the rates ranged from Euro/GBP 1.107 to 1.181 (2022: 1.082 to 1.195) and USD/GBP from 1.102 to 1.264 (2022: 1.319 to 1.419). 

Forward commodity contracts hedging diesel purchases for own use as at 25 February 2023 had a GBP notional of £148m (2022: £65m) at a rate 
of £494 to £980 (2022: £267 to £571) per tonne. 

The notional and fair values of these contracts is shown in the table above. 

The following table sets out the details of the hedged exposures covered by the Group’s fair value hedges: 

Balance sheet 
classification 

Carrying amount 
assets/(liabilities) 
£m 

2023 

Accumulated 
amounts of fair 
value adjustments 
on hedged item 
assets/(liabilities) 
£m 

Changes in fair 
value for 
calculating 
hedge 
ineffectiveness 
£m 

2022 

Accumulated 
amounts of fair 
value adjustments 
on hedged item 
assets/(liabilities) 
£m 

Changes in fair 
value for 
calculating hedge 
ineffectiveness 
£m 

Carrying amount 
assets/(liabilities) 
£m 

Interest rate risk 
Fixed-rate loans 

Fixed-rate savings 

Fixed-rate investment securities 

Fixed-rate bonds* 

Loans and 
advances to 
customers 
Customer 
deposits 
Investments in 
debt instruments 
at amortised cost 
Borrowings 

2,393 

(695) 

406 

(75) 

2 

(44) 

(44)   

3,384 

(30) 

1   

(33)   

(1,481) 

504 

– 

(11) 

(37) 

– 

(22) 

(2,605) 

198 

(141)   

(2,796) 

40 

(101) 

*  The accumulated amount of fair value adjustments remaining in the Group balance sheet for hedged items that have ceased to be adjusted for hedging gains and losses was £(82)m for fixed-rate 

bonds (2022: £(101)m). 

Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2023 

Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2023
165 

165

Financial statements 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
   
 
   
 
 
 
   
 
   
 
   
 
 
 
   
 
   
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
Notes to the Group financial statements continued 

Note 27 Financial risk management continued 
The following table sets out information regarding the change in value of the hedged item used in calculating hedge ineffectiveness as well as the 
impacts on the hedging reserve for cash flow hedge designations:  

2023 

Change in  
value of hedging 
instrument for 
calculating 
hedge 
ineffectiveness 
£m 

Change in value 
of hedged item 
for calculating 
hedge 
ineffectiveness 
£m 

2022 

Cumulative 
impact on 
hedging reserve(a)  
£m 

Change in  
value of hedging 
instrument for 
calculating hedge 
ineffectiveness 
£m 

Change in value 
of hedged item 
for calculating 
hedge 
ineffectiveness 
£m 

Cumulative 
impact on hedging 
reserve(a)  
£m 

9 
8 

47 

7 

– 

24 
(8) 

(47) 

(7) 

– 

42   
8   

(25)  

(10)  

34   

72 
(17) 

50 

12 

– 

(72) 
17 

(50) 

(12) 

– 

90 
1 

16 

23 

36 

Interest rate/inflation risk 

Index‑linked bonds 
Borrowings 

Foreign currency risk 
Trade payables 

Commodity risk 
Trade payables 

Hedging instrument 

Index-linked swaps 
Interest rate swaps 

Foreign currency 
forward contracts 

Diesel forward 
contracts 

Interest rate/foreign currency risk 

MTNs(b)  

Cross-currency swaps 

(a)  Excludes deferred tax.  
(b) This is a discontinued hedge.  

The following table sets out information regarding the effectiveness of hedging relationships designated by the Group, as well as the impacts on 
profit or loss and other comprehensive income: 

Fair value hedges – interest rate risk 

Borrowings  

Line item in Group 
income statement 
that includes hedge 
ineffectiveness 

2023   

Hedge 
ineffectiveness 
recognised 
 in profit or loss 
£m 

2022 
Hedge 
ineffectiveness 
recognised  
in profit or loss 
£m 

Finance income 

4   

1 

The following table presents a reconciliation by risk category of the cash flow hedge and cost of hedging reserves and an analysis of other 
comprehensive income in relation to hedge accounting: 

Interest rate/inflation risk 

At 27 February 2021 
Net fair value gains/(losses) 
Amount reclassified to finance income/(cost) 
in Group income statement 
Amount reclassified to inventories 
Tax 
At 26 February 2022 
Net fair value gains/(losses) 
Amount reclassified to finance income/(cost) 
in Group income statement 
Amount reclassified to inventories 
Tax 
At 25 February 2023 

Index-linked swaps 
£m 
57 
26 
(6) 

– 
(9) 
68 
9 
(54) 

– 
11 
34 

Interest rate swaps 

£m   
15   
17   
(33)   

–   
2   
1   
8   
(2)   

–   
(2)   
5   

Interest rate/ 
foreign currency risk 

Cross-currency swaps 
£m 
36   
–   
(6)  

Foreign currency/commodity risk 
Foreign currency 
forward contracts(a) 
£m 
6 
(5) 
– 

Diesel forward 
contracts(a) 
£m 
(24) 
39 
– 

Hedging reserve(b) 
£m 
90 
77 
(45) 

–   
(3)   
27   
–   
(2)  

–   
–   
25   

18 
(4) 
15 
47 
(3) 

(87) 
4 
(24) 

12 
(8) 
19 
7 
– 

(40) 
7 
(7) 

30 
(22) 
130 
71 
(61) 

(127) 
20 
33 

(a)  Net fair value gains/(losses) relates to inventory cash flow hedges of £54m (2022: £33m) and other cash flow hedges of £nil (2022: £1m). 
(b) The Group’s cost of hedging reserve is £nil (2022: £nil). 

166

Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2023
166 

Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2023 

 
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Financial statements 

Net investment hedges 
The details of the hedging instruments and movements in cumulative impact on net investment hedges in other comprehensive income are set 
out below: 

At 27 February 2021 
Change in value for calculating ineffectiveness 
Reclassified to Group income statement(b) 
At 26 February 2022 
Change in value for calculating ineffectiveness 
At 25 February 2023 

Nominal amount of hedging 
instrument  
£m 

  Nominal amount of hedged 
item  
£m 
1,300   
(40)  
–   
1,260   
65   
1,325   

(1,300)  
40   
–   
(1,260)  
(65)   
(1,325)  

Cumulative impact on net 
investment hedges(a)  
£m 
(1,012) 
40 
243 
(729) 
(65) 
(794) 

(a)  As at 25 February 2023 the discontinued hedge balance is £(765)m (2022: £(765)m).  
(b) In the prior year there was a reclassification to the income statement from the translation reserve of £243m relating to the disposal of the Group’s operation in Poland. 

Net investment hedge ineffectiveness was £nil (2022: £nil) during the year.  

During the current financial year, currency movements increased the net value, after the effects of hedging, of the Group’s overseas assets 
by
currency

£120m (2022: decrease by £39m). The Group also ensures that each subsidiary is appropriately hedged in respect of its non-functional 

assets.  

(b) Credit risk 

Description of risk 
A counterparty will not meet its 
obligations leading to a financial loss for 
the Group. This arises from cash and 
cash equivalents, short-term 
investments, trade receivables, other 
receivables, joint venture and associate 
loan receivables, loans and advances to 
customers, reinsurance assets, other 
investments, and derivative financial 
instruments.  

  Management policy  
  For cash and cash equivalents, short-term 
investments, other investments and derivative financial 
instruments: 
–  The Group holds positions with an approved list of 

investment-grade rated counterparties. 

–  Counterparty credit limits are set to minimise the 

concentration of risk and are set taking into account 
the type and value of the specific financial asset.  
For trade receivables, other receivables, joint venture 
and associate loan receivables, loans and advances to 
customers and reinsurance assets: 
–  The Group’s credit risk is managed with various 

mitigating controls including credit checks, credit 
insurance and master netting agreements. Due to 
the nature of the Retail and Tesco Bank businesses, 
there is little concentration of risk due to the large 
number of customers which are spread across wide 
geographical areas. 

  Measurement  
  The Group monitors the exposure, credit rating, 
outlook and credit default swap levels of these 
counterparties on a regular basis.  

Counterparty credit limits are reviewed every six 
months (every two years at Tesco Bank), and may 
be

updated throughout the financial year. 

Refer to page 171 for information on the expected 
credit losses of these assets. 

Maximum exposure to credit risk 
The maximum exposure to credit risk at the end of the reporting period reflects the carrying amount of each class of financial assets, including 
loan commitments which are not recognised on the balance sheet. Joint ventures and associates loan receivables in the table below are gross of 
deferred profits historically arising from the sale of property assets to joint ventures (refer to Note 31). The Group’s maximum exposure to credit 
risk

is £27.1bn (2022: £26.8bn).  

The net counterparty exposure under derivative contracts is £0.7bn (2022: £0.7bn).  

The Group’s maximum gross exposure to credit risk is analysed below by class of financial instrument, including for financial instruments that are 
not subject to ECL i.e. derivative financial instruments and cash balances with central banks: 

Cash and cash equivalents(a) 
Short-term investments 
Trade receivables 
Other receivables 
Joint ventures and associates loan receivables 
Loans and advances to customers  
Other investments 
Derivative financial assets: 
Interest rate swaps 
Cross-currency swaps 
Index-linked swaps 
Foreign currency forward contracts 
Diesel forward contracts 

Off balance sheet: 
Loan commitments(b) 
Maximum exposure to credit risk 

(a)  Cash balances with central banks of £1.6bn (2022: £1.5bn) are included within cash and cash equivalents. 
(b) Loan commitments represents the undrawn amount contractually committed by Tesco Bank. 

2023 
£m 
2,465 
1,628 
531 
374 
144 
7,081 
1,692 

123 
211 
551 
41 
4 

2022 
£m 
2,345 
2,076 
457 
478 
143 
6,490 
1,479 

55 
223 
666 
44 
23 

12,212 
27,057 

12,363 
26,842 

Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2023 

Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2023
167 

167

Financial statements 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Notes to the Group financial statements continued 

Note 27 Financial risk management continued 
Counterparty credit rating  
The table below provides details of financial assets by long-term credit rating of investment-grade rated counterparties: 

Rating 
Money market funds, deposits and 
similar instruments 
Investments in debt instruments at 
amortised cost(a) 
Investments at fair value through other 
comprehensive income(b) 
Investments at fair value through profit 
or loss(c) 
Derivative financial assets: 
Interest rate swaps 
Cross-currency swaps 
Index-linked swaps 
Foreign currency forward contracts 
Diesel forward contracts 

2023 

2022 

AAA 
660 

486 

94 

–  

– 
– 
– 
– 
– 

AA 
200 

57 

84 

1  

121 
– 
– 
– 
– 

A 
468 

339 

233 

– 

2 
186 
120 
31 
– 

BBB 
300 

199 

154 

– 

– 
25 
431 
10 
4 

Total   
1,628   

1,081   

565   

1   

123   
211   
551   
41   
4   

AAA 
1,170 

529 

133 

–  

– 
– 
– 
– 
– 

AA 
350 

92 

95 

2  

45 
– 
– 
2 
– 

A 
481 

236 

238 

– 

10 
221 
115 
36 
14 

BBB 
75 

– 

119 

– 

– 
2 
551 
5 
10 

Total 
2,076 

857 

585 

2 

55 
223 
666 
43 
24 

(a)  Excludes £12m (2022: nil) of investments in debt instruments that do not have a credit rating. 
(b) Excludes £14m (2022: £12m) of investments in equity instruments that do not have a credit rating. 
(c)  Excludes £19m (2022: £23m) of property fund investments that do not have a credit rating. 

The low credit risk exemption has been applied to cash and cash equivalents, money market funds, deposits and similar investments, investments 
in debt instruments at fair value through other comprehensive income (FVOCI), investments at fair value through profit or loss (FVPL) and 
investments in debt instruments at amortised cost, except those investments held in Tesco Bank, as these are held with counterparties with 
investment-grade ratings (BBB or above) or are short-term in nature. The expected credit loss is immaterial.  

Expected credit losses  
The Group applies either the simplified approach or the three-stage model for expected credit losses, depending on the nature of the financial 
asset. Refer to Note 1 for further detail. 

The Group’s financial assets are written off when the balance is known not to be recoverable or the Group is time-barred from recovering a 
balance under local legislation. 

The expected credit losses for Retail are immaterial. Gross loans to related parties of £144m (2022: £143m) are presented net of loss allowances 
of £nil (2022: £nil) and deferred profits of £38m
probability of default (PD), exposure at default (EAD) and the loss given default (LGD) for the relevant time period and for each specific loan and by 
discounting back to the balance

£38m) on the Group balance sheet. The ECL is determined by multiplying together the 

sheet date. 

(2022:

For details of credit risk relating to reinsurance assets and the expected credit losses on loans and advances to customers and investments held 
in Tesco Bank, refer to the separate section on Tesco Bank financial risk factors on page 173. 

(c) Liquidity risk 

Description of risk 
Difficulty in meeting the obligations 
associated with the Group’s financial 
liabilities. 

  Management policy  
  The Group finances its liquidity position and its 
operations by a combination of retained profits, 
disposals of assets, debt capital market issuance, 
commercial paper, bank borrowings and leases. The 
policy is to maintain a prudent level of cash together 
with sufficient committed bank facilities to meet 
liquidity needs as they arise, to maintain a smooth debt 
profile and ensure maturing senior unsecured debt will 
not exceed £1.5bn in any 12-month period. 

  Measurement  
  Liquidity risk is continuously monitored by short-term 
and long-term cash flow forecasts.  

The Group is investment-grade rated with all three major credit rating agencies and retains access to capital markets so that maturing debt may 
be refinanced as it falls due.  

Rating agency 
Fitch 
Moody’s 
Standard & Poor’s 

Short-term  
rating 

F3 
P–3 
A–3 

2023 
Long-term  
rating 

BBB– 
Baa3 
BBB– 

Outlook   

Stable   
Stable   
Stable   

Short-term  
rating 

F3 
P–3 
A–3 

2022 
Long-term  
rating 

BBB– 
Baa3 
BBB– 

Outlook 

Stable 
Stable 
Stable 

The Group has a £15.0bn Euro Medium Term Note programme, of which £3.8bn was in issue at 25 February 2023 (2022: £3.9bn), plus £0.4bn 
equivalent of USD-denominated notes issued under Rule 144A documentation (2022: £0.3bn). 

168

Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2023
168 

Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2023 

 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
Financial statements 

Borrowing facilities 
The Group has the following undrawn committed facilities available at 25 February 2023, in respect of which all conditions precedent had been 
met as at that date: 

Expiring in less than one year 
Expiring between one and two years 
Expiring in more than two years 
Total 

2023 
£m 
38 
200 
2,500 
2,738 

2022 
£m 
38 
200 
2,500 
2,738 

During the current financial year, the multicurrency £2.5bn revolving facility was renegotiated and extended for three years, maturing in 2025. The 
cost of the facility is linked to three ESG targets and includes the use of risk-free rates rather than SONIA. All three targets were met during the 
financial year ending 25 February 2023, leading to a reduction in the interest rate loan margin. 

In addition, Tesco Bank has a separate £200m committed repurchase facility, maturing in 2024.  

Both facilities incur commitment fees at market rates and would provide funding at floating rates. There were no withdrawals from the facilities 
during the year.  

Maturities of financial liabilities 
The following is an analysis of the undiscounted contractual cash flows payable under financial liabilities and derivative liabilities, taking into 
account contractual terms that provide the counterparty a choice of when (the earliest date) an amount is repaid by the Group. The potential 
cash outflow is considered acceptable as it is offset by financial assets. 

The undiscounted cash flows will differ from both the carrying values and fair values. Floating-rate interest and inflation is estimated using the 
prevailing rate at the balance sheet date. Cash flows in foreign currencies are translated using spot rates at the balance sheet date.  

At 25 February 2023 
Non-derivative financial liabilities 
Bank and other borrowings 
Interest payments on borrowings 
Customer deposits  
Deposits from banks 
Lease liabilities 
Trade payables 
Other payables 
Accruals 
Derivative financial liabilities 
Net settled derivative contracts – receipts 
Net settled derivative contracts – payments 
Gross settled derivative contracts – receipts 
Gross settled derivative contracts – payments 
Total on balance sheet 

Off balance sheet  
Contractual lending commitments  
Total  

At 26 February 2022 
Non-derivative financial liabilities 
Bank and other borrowings 
Interest payments on borrowings 
Customer deposits  
Deposits from banks  
Lease liabilities 
Trade payables 
Other payables 
Accruals 
Derivative financial liabilities 
Net settled derivative contracts – receipts 
Net settled derivative contracts – payments 
Gross settled derivative contracts – receipts* 
Gross settled derivative contracts – payments* 
Total on balance sheet 

Off balance sheet  
Contractual lending commitments  
Total  

Due within 
 1 year 
£m 

Due between 
1 and 2 
years 
£m 

Due between 
2 and 3 
years 
£m 

Due between 
3 and 4 
years 
£m 

Due between 
4 and 5 
years 
£m 

Due beyond 
5 years 
£m 

(1,685) 
(192) 
(4,593) 
(124) 
(944) 
(6,359) 
(1,740) 
(877) 

51 
(82) 
1,788 
(1,899) 
(16,656) 

(618) 
(175) 
(935) 
(142) 
(901) 
– 
(31) 
– 

34 
(44) 
80 
(115) 
(2,847) 

(893) 
(159) 
(160) 
(814) 
(878) 
– 
(62) 
– 

31 
(19) 
9 
(40) 
(2,985) 

(728) 
(131) 
(29) 
– 
(856) 
– 
(21) 
– 

8 
(48) 
116 
(147) 
(1,836) 

(71) 
(122) 
(119) 
– 
(824) 
– 
(2) 
– 

17 
(15) 
2 
(30) 
(1,164) 

(3,654) 
(891) 
– 
– 
(6,494) 
– 
(30) 
– 

30 
(22) 
667 
(708) 
(11,102) 

(12,212) 
(28,868) 

– 
(2,847) 

– 
(2,985) 

– 
(1,836) 

– 
(1,164) 

– 
(11,102) 

Due within 
 1 year 
£m 

Due between 
1 and 2 
years 
£m 

Due between 
2 and 3 
years 
£m 

Due between 
3 and 4 
years 
£m 

Due between 
4 and 5 
years 
£m 

Due beyond 
5 years 
£m 

(625) 
(199) 
(4,677) 
(163) 
(934) 
(5,641) 
(1,863) 
(827) 

4 
(18) 
1,282 
(1,295) 
(14,956) 

(12,363) 
(27,319) 

(757) 
(197) 
(444) 
(17) 
(911) 
– 
(11) 
– 

9 
(65) 
3 
(21) 
(2,411) 

– 
(2,411) 

(708) 
(179) 
(160) 
(115) 
(863) 
– 
– 
– 

4 
(148) 
3 
(20) 
(2,186) 

(896) 
(161) 
(24) 
(805) 
(840) 
– 
(1) 
– 

3 
(8) 
3 
(18) 
(2,747) 

(701) 
(134) 
(25) 
– 
(820) 
– 
(1) 
– 

– 
(7) 
3 
(17) 
(1,702) 

(3,720) 
(999) 
– 
– 
(7,147) 
– 
(29) 
– 

– 
(10) 
662 
(729) 
(11,972) 

– 
(2,186) 

– 
(2,747) 

– 
(1,702) 

– 
(11,972) 

*  Comparatives have been re-presented on a gross basis and include derivatives of £1,955m which were previously presented net within receipts and payments. 

Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2023 

Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2023
169 

169

Financial statements 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Notes to the Group financial statements continued 

Note 27 Financial risk management continued 
The Group is not subject to covenants in relation to its facilities and borrowings. There is an element of seasonality in the Group’s operations, 
however the overall impact on liquidity is not considered significant.  

(d) Other risks 
Risk 
Capital risk  

Description of risk 
Ability to continue as a going concern 
in order to provide returns to 
shareholders and benefits for other 
stakeholders, while protecting and 
strengthening the Group balance 
sheet through the appropriate 
balance of debt and equity funding.  

Operational 
insurance risk 

The Group is inadequately protected 
from liabilities arising from 
unforeseen events in its operations. 

Management policy  
The Group manages its capital structure (net debt plus 
equity) and makes adjustments to it: 
–  in light of changes to economic conditions and the 

strategic objectives of the Group. 

  Measurement  
  Refer to Note 32 for the value of the 
Net debt, and the Group statement of 
changes in equity for the value of the 
Group’s equity. 

–  through dividend payments to shareholders, buying 
back shares and cancelling them or issuing new 
shares. During the current financial year, the Group 
completed the share buyback programme and 
cancelled these shares (refer to Note 30).  

–  by raising finance in the public debt markets and 
borrowing centrally and locally from financial 
institutions, using a variety of capital market 
instruments and borrowing facilities to meet the 
requirements of each local business. 

The Group purchased assets, earnings and combined 
liability protection from the open insurance market for 
higher value losses only. 
The risk not transferred to the insurance market is 
retained within the Group with some cover being 
provided by the Group’s captive insurance
ELH Insurance Limited in Guernsey, which is 
consolidated in the Group financial statements, 
combined liability. 
covering assets, earnings and

company, 

  Refer to Note 22 for details on 
operational insurance provisions.  

Tesco Bank 
Information on the management of the financial risks specifically relating to Tesco Bank, which is additional to the information provided for the 
Group overall, is set out below:  

(a) Capital risk  

Description of risk 
Tesco Bank, including TU, has insufficient capital resources to 
support its plan and meet minimum capital requirements. 

  Management policy  
  Tesco Bank  
It is Tesco Bank’s policy to maintain a strong capital base, to expand it as appropriate and to 
utilise it efficiently throughout its activities to optimise the return to shareholders while 
maintaining a prudent relationship between the capital base and the underlying risks of the 
business. In carrying out this policy, Tesco Bank has regard to the supervisory requirements 
of the Prudential Regulation Authority (PRA). 

Insurance capital 
Solvency II (SII) came into force on 1 January 2016. It provides a framework for managing and 
measuring the risks and the solvency position for all
Following the UK’s departure from the EU, the SII framework continues to be applied in the 
UK and its requirements are applicable to TU. TU assesses its Solvency Capital Requirement 
(SCR) using a Partial Internal Model for capital which was approved by the PRA in 2020. TU 
models a range of stress and scenario tests that are published in its annual Solvency and 
Financial Condition Report. These show that TU’s capital position is resilient to a range of 
possible scenarios. TU also maintains a capital contingency plan supported by its direct 
shareholder, Tesco Personal Finance plc. 

insurance companies in the EU. 

170

Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2023
170 

Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2023 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Financial statements 

Tesco Bank capital resources 
The following table analyses the regulatory capital resources of Tesco Personal Finance Group PLC (TPFG), being the regulated entity at the 
balance sheet date: 

Common equity tier 1 capital: 
Shareholders’ funds and non-controlling interests, net of tier 1 regulatory adjustments 
Tier 2 capital: 
Qualifying subordinated debt 
Other interests 
Total tier 2 regulatory adjustments 
Total regulatory capital 

2023 
£m 

1,548 

235 
– 
(42) 
1,741 

2022 
£m 

1,528 

235 
– 
(42) 
1,721 

IFRS 9 became effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2018 and is reflected in the Tesco Bank disclosures. Tesco Bank has 
elected to use the transitional arrangements available under Article 473a of the Capital Requirements Regulations (CRR). These arrangements 
allow the IFRS 9 impact on capital to be phased in over a period of five years. On 27 June 2020, the CRR was further amended to accelerate 
specific CRR2 measures and implement a new IFRS 9 transitional relief calculation which applies additional relief to increases in expected credit 
losses (ECL) provisions arising as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic. 

The resulting impact is the IFRS 9 transitional arrangements have been extended by two years and a new modified calculation has been introduced. 

Insurance capital 
Available capital has remained above the SCR requirement during the period to 25 February 2023 and capital coverage of TU’s SCR at the end of 
February 2023 was 159.0% (2022: 151.0%) (unaudited). 

During the year, the Group was compliant with the externally imposed capital requirements. 

(b) Liquidity risk 

Description of risk 
The risk that Tesco Bank has insufficient liquidity resources to 
meet its obligations as they fall due. Funding risk is the risk 
that Tesco Bank does not have sufficiently stable and diverse 
sources of funding. 

  Management policy  
  Tesco Bank, including TU, operates within a liquidity risk management policy framework 
(LRMP) to ensure that sufficient funds are available at all times to meet demands from 
depositors, to fund agreed advances, to meet other commitments as and when they fall 
due, and to ensure risk appetite is met. 

Liquidity and funding risks are assessed through the individual liquidity adequacy 
assessment process on at least an annual basis. Formal limits are set within the LRMP to 
maintain liquidity risk exposures within the liquidity risk appetite set by Tesco Bank’s Board 
of Directors and key liquidity measures are monitored on a regular basis. Tesco Bank 
maintains a conservative liquidity and funding profile to confirm that it is able to meet 
its

financial obligations under normal and stressed market conditions. 

The table below shows information about the timing of cash outflows in relation to insurance claims liabilities, net of salvage and subrogation 
recoveries, based on current best estimates. The estimated phasing is based on current estimates and the actual timing of
future settlement 
cash flows may differ from that disclosed below:  

Due within one year 
Due between two and five years 
Due beyond five years 
Total outstanding claims, net of salvage and subrogation recoveries 

(c) Credit risk 

2023 

£m 
101 
162 
125 
388 

%   
26   
42   
32   
100   

2022 

£m 
83 
194 
195 
472 

% 
18 
41 
41 
100 

Description of risk 
Retail customer or counterparty to a wholesale transaction 
will fail to meet its obligations in accordance with 
contractually agreed terms and Tesco Bank will incur losses 
as a result.  

Credit risk principally arises from the Bank’s retail lending 
activities but also from the placement of surplus funds with 
other banks and money market funds, investments in 
transferable securities and interest rate and foreign exchange 
derivatives.  

In addition, credit risk arises from contractual arrangements 
with third parties where payments and commissions are due 
to the Bank for short periods of time.  

  Management policy  
  To minimise the potential exposure to bad debts that are outside risk appetite, processes, 
systems and limits have been established that cover the end-to-end retail credit risk 
customer life cycle. These include credit scoring, affordability, credit
policies and guides, 
and monitoring and reporting. The Bank is also exposed to wholesale credit risk primarily 
through its treasury activities. 

Controls and risk mitigants include daily monitoring of exposures, investing in 
counterparties with investment-grade ratings, restricting the amount that can be invested 
with one counterparty and credit-rating mitigation techniques. Assessment of the 
expected credit loss (ECL) on loans and advances to customers has taken into account a 
range of macroeconomic scenarios.  

Reinsurance assets are subject to annual impairment assessment based on the credit 
ratings of the existing reinsurers which are monitored by TU’s Reinsurance Committee. 

Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2023 

Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2023
171 

171

Financial statements 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Notes to the Group financial statements continued 

Note 27 Financial risk management continued 
Maximum exposure to credit risk 
The table below presents Tesco Bank’s maximum exposure to credit risk i.e. total gross exposure, by stages and by class of financial instruments. 
For financial assets, the balances are based on gross carrying amounts. For loan commitments, the amounts represent the amounts for which 
Tesco Bank is contractually committed: 

Stage 1 

Stage 2 

Stage 3 

Total 

At 25 February 2023 
Loans and advances to customers 
Investments at FVOCI 
Investments in debt instruments at 
amortised cost 
Loan commitments – loans and 
advances to customers(a) 
Total gross exposure 

Loss allowance 
Loans and advances to customers(a) 
Investments at FVOCI(b) 
Investments in debt instruments at 
amortised cost 
Total loss allowance 

Net exposure 
Loans and advances to customers 
Investments at FVOCI 
Investments in debt instruments at 
amortised cost 
Total net exposure 

Coverage 
Loans and advances to customers 

£m   
5,792   
565   
883 

Not past 
 due  
£m 
1,559 
– 
– 

<30 days  
past due  
£m 
40 
– 
– 

>30 days  
past due 
£m 
24 
– 
– 

11,508   

690 

18,748   

2,249 

57   
1   
–   

58   

5,735   
564   
883 

7,182   

258 
– 
– 

258 

1,301 
– 
– 

1,301 

6 

46 

19 
– 
– 

19 

21 
– 
– 

21 

– 

24 

14 
– 
– 

14 

10 
– 
– 

10 

Total 

£m   
1,623   
–   
–   

696   

2,319   

291   
–   
–   

291   

1,332   
–   
– 

1,332   

£m   
202   
–   
– 

8   

210   

113   
–   
–   

113   

89   
–   
– 

89   

£m 
7,617 
565 
883 

12,212 

21,277 

461 
1 
– 

462 

7,156 
564 
883 

8,603 

1%   

17% 

48% 

58% 

18%   

56%   

6% 

(a)  The loss allowance in respect of loan commitments in relation to credit card products is included within the total loss allowance for loans and advances to customers above to the extent that it is 

below the gross carrying amount of loans and advances to customers. Where the loss allowance exceeds the gross carrying amount, any excess is included within provisions. 

(b) The loss allowance for investments at FVOCI is not recognised in the carrying amount of the investments as the carrying amount is their fair value. 

Stage 1 

Stage 2 

Stage 3 

Total 

At 26 February 2022 
Loans and advances to customers 
Investments at FVOCI 
Investments in debt instruments at 
amortised cost 
Loan commitments – loans and 
advances to customers(a) 
Total gross exposure 

Loss allowance 
Loans and advances to customers(a) 
Investments at FVOCI(b) 
Investments in debt instruments at 
amortised cost 
Total loss allowance 

Net exposure 
Loans and advances to customers 
Investments at FVOCI 
Investments in debt instruments at 
amortised cost 
Total net exposure 

Coverage 
Loans and advances to customers 

Refer to previous table for footnotes. 

£m 
5,973   
585   
857   

12,029   

19,444   

95   
1   
–   

96   

5,878   
584   
857   

7,319   

Not past 
 due  
£m 
797 
– 
– 

325 

1,122 

247 
– 
– 

247 

550 
– 
– 

550 

<30 days  
past due  
£m 
22 
– 
– 

>30 days  
past due 
£m 
16 
– 
– 

2 

24 

9 
– 
– 

9 

13 
– 
– 

13 

1 

17 

10 
– 
– 

10 

6 
– 
– 

6 

Total 
£m 
835   
–   
–   

328   

£m 
201   
–   
–   

6   

£m 
7,009 
585 
857 

12,363 

1,163   

207   

20,814 

266   
–   
–   

266   

569   
–   
–   

569   

128   
–   
–   

128   

73   
–   
–   

73   

489 
1 
– 

490 

6,520 
584 
857 

7,961 

2%   

31% 

41% 

63% 

32%   

64%   

7% 

For reinsurance assets the maximum exposure to credit risk is their carrying amount. Refer to page 176 for the credit rating of the reinsurers. 

Expected credit losses (ECL) 
The ECL is determined by multiplying together the probability of default (PD), exposure at default (EAD) and loss given default (LGD) for the
relevant time period and for each asset category and by discounting back to the balance sheet date. The ECL calculation and the measurement 
of significant deterioration in credit risk both incorporate forward-looking information using a range of macroeconomic scenarios, with key 
variables being the Bank of England base rate, unemployment rate and gross domestic product. The
historical patterns observed over a range of economic cycles. 

economic variables are based on 

key

172

Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2023
172 

Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2023 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
   
   
 
   
 
 
 
   
   
 
 
   
 
 
 
   
   
 
   
 
 
 
   
   
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
   
   
 
   
 
 
 
   
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
   
   
 
   
 
 
 
   
   
 
 
   
 
 
 
   
   
 
   
 
 
 
   
   
 
 
   
 
 
 
   
   
 
   
 
 
 
   
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
Financial statements 

The tables below present the reconciliations of ECL allowances on loans and advances to customers: 

At 25 February 2023 
Gross exposure 
Loan commitments 
Total exposure 

Allowance for expected credit losses 
At 26 February 2022 
Transfers: 
Transfers from stage 1 to stage 2 
Transfers from stage 2 to stage 1 
Transfers to stage 3 
Transfers from stage 3 
Movements recognised in the Group income statement: 
Net remeasurement following transfer of stage 
New financial assets originated 
Financial assets derecognised during the current financial year 
Changes in risk parameters and other movements 
Other movements: 
Write-offs and asset disposals 
Transfers to provisions for liabilities and charges 
At 25 February 2023 

Reconciliation to Group balance sheet 
Gross exposure 
Allowance for expected credit losses 

Fair value adjustment 
Carrying value at 25 February 2023 

At 26 February 2022 
Gross exposure 
Loan commitments 
Total exposure 

Allowance for expected credit losses 
At 27 February 2021 
Transfers: 
Transfers from stage 1 to stage 2 
Transfers from stage 2 to stage 1 
Transfers to stage 3 
Transfers from stage 3 
Movements recognised in the Group income statement: 
Net remeasurement following transfer of stage 
New financial assets originated 
Financial assets derecognised during the current financial year 
Changes in risk parameters and other movements 
Other movements: 
Write-offs and asset disposals 
Transfers to provisions for liabilities and charges 
At 26 February 2022 

Reconciliation to Group balance sheet 
Gross exposure 
Allowance for expected credit losses 

Fair value adjustment 
Carrying value at 26 February 2022 

Stage 1 
£m 
5,792 
11,508 
17,300 

2023 

Stage 2 
£m 
1,623 
696 
2,319 

Stage 3 
£m 
202 
8 
210 

Total 
£m 
7,617 
12,212 
19,829 

(266) 

(128) 

(489) 

(95) 

21 
(20) 
3 
(1) 

8 
(25) 
6 
48 

– 
(2) 
(57) 

(21) 
20 
21 
(2) 

(27) 
(63) 
5 
41 

2 
(1) 
(291) 

5,792 
(57) 
5,735 

1,623 
(291) 
1,332 

Stage 1 
£m 
5,973 
12,029 
18,002 

2022 

Stage 2 
£m 
835 
328 
1,163 

Stage 3 
£m 
201 
6 
207 

– 
– 
(24) 
3 

(54) 
(7) 
3 
(11) 

105 
- 
(113) 

202 
(113) 
89 

– 
– 
– 
– 

(73) 
(95) 
14 
78 

107 
(3) 
(461) 

7,617 
(461) 
7,156 
(75) 
7,081 

Total 
£m 
7,009 
12,363 
19,372 

(131) 

(341) 

(153) 

(625) 

19 
(45) 
5 
(2) 

34 
(21) 
15 
36 

– 
(5) 
(95) 

5,973 
(95) 
5,878 

(19) 
45 
38 
(3) 

(12) 
(9) 
16 
24 

2 
(7) 
(266) 

835 
(266) 
569 

– 
– 
(43) 
5 

(58) 
(4) 
3 
(10) 

132 
– 
(128) 

201 
(128) 
73 

– 
– 
– 
– 

(36) 
(34) 
34 
50 

134 
(12) 
(489) 

7,009 
(489) 
6,520 
(30) 
6,490 

Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2023 

Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2023
173 

173

Financial statements 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Notes to the Group financial statements continued 

Note 27 Financial risk management continued 
Tesco Bank defines four classifications of credit quality for all credit exposures: high, satisfactory, low and below standard. Credit exposures are 
segmented according to the probability of default (PD), with credit impaired reflecting a PD of 100%.  

At 25 February 2023 
Loans and advances to customers: 
High quality 
Satisfactory quality 
Low quality and below standard 
Credit impaired 

At 26 February 2022 
Loans and advances to customers: 
High quality 
Satisfactory quality 
Low quality and below standard 
Credit impaired 

12-month PD 
% 

≤3.02 
>3.03 - 11.10 
≥11.11 
100 

12-month PD 
% 

≤3.02 
>3.03 – 11.10 
≥11.11 
100 

Stage 1 
£m 

5,598 
186 
8 
– 
5,792 

Stage 1 
£m 

5,666 
288 
19 
– 
5,973 

Stage 2 
£m 

742 
610 
271 
– 
1,623 

Stage 2 
£m 

300 
390 
145 
– 
835 

Stage 3 
£m 

– 
– 
– 
202 
202 

Stage 3 
£m 

– 
– 
– 
201 
201 

Total 
£m 

6,340 
796 
279 
202 
7,617 

Total 
£m 

5,966 
678 
164 
201 
7,009 

Default 
An account is deemed to have defaulted when Tesco Bank considers that a customer is in significant financial difficulty and that the customer 
meets certain quantitative and qualitative criteria regarding their ability to make contractual payments when due. This includes instances where: 

–  the customer makes a declaration of significant financial difficulty;  
–  the customer or third-party agency communicates that it is probable that the customer will enter bankruptcy or another form of financial 

restructure such as insolvency or repossession; 

–  the account has been transferred to recoveries and the relationship is terminated; 
–  an account’s contractual payments are more than 90 days past due; or 
–  where the customer is deceased. 

A loan deemed uncollectable is written off against the related provision after all of the necessary procedures have been completed and the 
amount of the loss has been determined. Tesco Bank may write off loans that are still subject to enforcement activity. The outstanding 
contractual amount of such assets written off was £115m (2022: £110m). 

that was expected at the reporting date at initial recognition (PD threshold). Tesco Bank has established PD thresholds for each type of 

a backstop based on arrears status. For each financial asset, Tesco Bank compares the lifetime PD at the reporting date with the lifetime 

Significant increase in credit risk 
At each reporting date, the change in credit risk of the financial asset is observed using a set of quantitative and qualitative criteria, together 
with
PD
product which
customers in financial difficulty; risk-based pricing post-origination; credit indebtedness; credit limit decrease; and pre-delinquency information. 
As a backstop, Tesco Bank considers that if an account’s contractual payments are more than 30 days past due then a significant increase in 
credit risk has taken place.  

vary depending on initial term and term remaining. A number of qualitative criteria are in place such as: forbearance offered to 

Tesco Bank has commissioned four scenarios from its third-party provider: a Base scenario; an Upside scenario; and two different Downside 
scenarios. The Base scenario assumes the continuation of war in Ukraine affecting energy prices and inflation, with GDP not expected to return to 
pre-pandemic levels until Q2 2025. The scenario projects cost-of-living pressures continuing, real disposable income declining and 
unemployment peaking at 5.7% by Q4 2024. The Upside scenario sees a dissipation in global supply chain disruption and a peak unemployment 
rate of 4.4% in 2024, while Downside scenario 1 assumes a 7.3% unemployment peak by 2025. Downside scenario 2 postulates spikes in energy 
prices, higher inflation and further deprecation of Sterling against the US Dollar, with subsequent GDP declines and a 9.6% unemployment peak in 
2025. These scenarios are also reviewed to ensure an unbiased estimate of ECL by ensuring the credit loss distribution under a larger number of 
scenarios is adequately captured using these four scenarios and their respective weightings. The Base, Upside, Downside 1 and Downside 2 
scenarios have been assigned weighting of 40%, 30%, 25% and 5% respectively. 

The economic scenarios used include the following ranges of key indicators: 

As at 25 February 2023 (five-year average)  
Bank of England base rate(a) 
Gross domestic product(b) 
Unemployment rate 
Unemployment rate peak in year 

As at 26 February 2022 (five-year average)  
Bank of England base rate(a) 
Gross domestic product(b) 
Unemployment rate 
Unemployment rate peak in year 

(a)  Simple average. 
(b) Annual growth rates. 

174

Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2023
174 

Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2023 

Base 
40% 
3.8% 
1.0% 
5.2% 
5.4% 

Base 
40% 
1.0% 
1.8% 
4.1% 
4.2% 

Upside 
30% 
3.0% 
1.5% 
4.2% 
4.2% 

Upside 
30% 
1.2% 
2.2% 
3.9% 
3.9% 

Downside 1  
25% 
4.7% 
0.4% 
6.5% 
6.8% 

Downside 1  
25% 
0.7% 
1.5% 
4.9% 
5.1% 

Downside 2 
5% 
5.8% 
(0.1)% 
8.4% 
8.9% 

Downside 2 
5% 
0.4% 
1.2% 
6.3% 
6.7% 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Financial statements 

Key assumptions and sensitivity 
The key assumptions to which the Tesco Bank ECL is most sensitive are macroeconomic factors, probability of default (PD), loss given default 
(LGD), PD threshold (staging) and expected lifetime (revolving credit facilities). The table below sets out the changes in the ECL allowance that 
would arise from reasonably possible changes in these assumptions from those used in Tesco Bank’s calculations as at 25 February 2023 and 
excludes specific management overlays which are discussed further below:  

Key assumption 
Closing ECL allowance 
Macroeconomic factors (100% weighted) 

Probability of default 

Loss given default 

Probability of default threshold (staging) 

Expected lifetime (revolving credit facility) 

Reasonably possible change 

Upside scenario 
Base scenario 
Downside scenario 1 
Downside scenario 2 
Increase of 10% (2022: 2.5%) 
Decrease of 10% (2022: 2.5%) 
Increase of 2.5% 
Decrease of 2.5% 
Increase of 20% 
Decrease of 20% 
Increase of 1 year 
Decrease of 1 year 

Impact on the loss allowance 

2023 
£m 
461 
(59) 
(11) 
65 
161 
32 
(31) 
10 
(10) 
(9) 
13 
3 
(5) 

2022 
£m 
489 
(27) 
(13) 
31  
110  
6  
(6) 
7  
(7) 
(9) 
13  
11  
(10) 

Despite stability in the performance of the underlying portfolio, the increased risk from a high inflationary environment and cost-of-living crisis 
creates uncertainty on future loss projections and the current model outputs. As a result, Tesco Bank has recognised certain specific 
management overlays, to address the prevailing downside risks and ensure the potential impacts of future stress are adequately provided for, 
detailed below: 

Overlay 
Underestimation risk 

Cost of living 

Consumer spending 

Emergence of customer defaults 

War in Ukraine 
Total overlays 

Description of adjustment 
Risk that the beneficial impact of recent credit loss trends incorporated 
into credit risk models are transitive and may reverse due to the 
uncertain economic climate 
A portion of Tesco Bank’s customers may be more impacted by cost-of-
living pressures, with deterioration in their ability to repay unsecured 
lending balances 
In respect of the beneficial modelling impact of lower consumer 
spending through the pandemic 
The emergence of defaults will be more aligned with previous economic 
downturns 
Further potential inflationary pressures on cost of living 

2023 
£m 
68 

22 

– 

– 

– 
90 

2022 
£m 
– 

75 

113 

19 

6 
213 

Forbearance 
Tesco Bank could be exposed to unacceptable levels of bad debt and also suffer reputational damage if it did not provide adequate support to
customers who are experiencing financial difficulties. Forbearance is relief granted by a lender to assist customers in financial difficulty, through 
arrangements which temporarily allow the customer to pay an amount other than the contractual amounts due. These temporary arrangements 
may be initiated by the customer or Tesco Bank where financial distress would prevent repayment within the original terms and conditions of the 
contract. The main aim of forbearance is to support customers in returning to a position where they are able to meet their contractual obligations. 

Tesco Bank has adopted the definition of forbearance in the European Banking Authority’s (EBA) final draft Implementing Technical Standards (ITS) 
of July 2014 and reports all accounts meeting this definition, providing for them appropriately.  

Tesco Bank has well defined forbearance policies and processes. A number of forbearance options are made available to customers. These 
routinely, but not exclusively, include the following: 

–  arrangements to repay arrears over a period of time, by making payments above the contractual amount, that ensure the loan is repaid within 

the original repayment term; and 

–  short-term concessions, where the borrower is allowed to make reduced repayments (or in exceptional circumstances, no repayments) on a 

temporary basis to assist with short-term financial hardship. 

Credit cards  
Loans 

(d) Insurance risk 

Description of risk 
Risks accepted through the provision of insurance products 
in return for a premium, exposed through the wholly-owned 
subsidiary of Tesco Bank, TU. These risks may or may not 
occur as expected and the amount and timing of these risks 
are uncertain and determined by events outside of the 
Group’s control (e.g. flood or vehicular accident). 

Gross loans and 
advances subject to 
forbearance programmes 

Forbearance programmes as a 
proportion of total loans and  

advances

by category 

Proportion of forbearance 
programmes covered by allowance  

for

expected credit losses 

2023 
£m 
102 
30 

2022 
£m 
106   
39   

2023 
% 
3 
1 

2022 
% 
3   
1   

2023 
% 
49 
31 

2022 
% 
51 
47 

  Management policy  
  TU operates a separate risk framework with dedicated risk and compliance teams and a 
suite of TU risk policies to ensure that the TU insurance portfolio is operating within agreed 
risk appetite. 

Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2023 

Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2023
175 

175

Financial statements 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Notes to the Group financial statements continued 

Note 27 Financial risk management continued 
Types of insurance risk 
Risks 
Underwriting 

Description of risks  
Policies not priced correctly due to underestimating 
the frequency and/or severity of the claims and/or 
that payments are required under conditions that 
were not anticipated. 

Claims reserving 

Estimates of insurance liabilities prove to be 
insufficient through inaccurate forecasting, adverse 
random variation and additional expenses. 

  Mitigation 
  The Group has large numbers of policyholders with homogeneous 
exposures such as car and home policies. Products are priced 
based on the Group’s knowledge using past exposures, historical 
losses (plus an appropriate allowance for IBNR losses) and external 
data sources, with the appropriate adjustments to reflect 
anticipated future market conditions and expenses. 

  The aim of the reserving policy is to provide estimates of 

insurance liabilities that are accurate and reliable across each line 
of business and are consistent over the time period required to 
settle all the claims. Provisions are monitored on an ongoing basis 
by a Reserving Committee and the TU Board, and an annual 
independent review is undertaken. 

Claims management  Claims management risk may arise in the event of 

  The Group’s approach to claims management focuses upon 

Reinsurance 

inaccurate or incomplete case reserving or 
settlement, poor customer service, claims fraud, 
ineffective or inefficient claim processes or 
costs of handling claims. 
excessive

Reinsurance contracts, placed to reduce exposure 
to
specific risks, event and accumulations, fail to 
perform as planned and do not reduce the gross 
cost
by
reinsurance
in

of claims in terms of the limits purchased, 

risks not being appropriately covered, by 

bad debts or by there not being gaps 

the programme. 

creating a successful balance between satisfying the needs of the 
customer against control of the overall cost of the provision of 
the
provider. Customers include both the insured as well as others 
that believe the insured has breached a duty of care. 

service that meets those needs in agreement with its service 

  The reinsurance programme is subject to considerable scenario 
planning and approved by the Reinsurance Committee and the 
TU
Board. All reinsurers in the reinsurance programme have a 
minimum credit rating of A.  

Concentration of insurance risk 
Concentration of insurance risk may exist where a particular event or series of events could impact significantly upon the Group’s liabilities. Such 
concentrations may arise from a single insurance contract or through a small number of related contracts. The following are key categories of 
concentration risks that might result in significant impacts to the Group: 

Category 
High-severity,  
low-frequency event 
concentrations 

Description 
High-severity, low-frequency events (e.g. natural 
disasters) represent a material risk as the occurrence 
of such an event would have a significant adverse 
impact on TU’s cash flows and profitability. 

  Mitigation 
  Making appropriate allowance within the price calculated by 

underwriters and by purchasing a reinsurance programme that 
limits the impact of these events, using non-proportional 
reinsurance treaties to manage retention levels and the limits 
of

protection. 

Geographic and 
demographic 
concentrations 

Material geographical concentrations of risk exist 
property portfolios such that natural disasters 
in
(e.g.
floods) may give rise to a large number of 
material damage and business interruption claims. 

Economic conditions  The insurance portfolio exposes a potential 

  The Group only writes policies in the UK. TU

models its exposure to 

this risk to estimate its probable maximum loss and purchases 
reinsurance to significantly reduce its exposure to such events. 

accumulation of different risks in the event of difficult 
economic conditions or more challenging points in 
the underwriting cycle. 

  The Group aims to ensure it charges the right premium for the 
business underwritten and it focuses on maintaining prices in 
such
to

difficult market conditions. It also monitors claims closely 

identify any that may be exaggerated or fraudulent. 

Total aggregate 
exposure 

The total aggregate exposure that the Group is 
prepared to accept in relation to concentrations 
of

risk. 

  The exposures are monitored on a regular basis by reviewing 

reports which show the key aggregations to which the Group is 
exposed and by using a number of modelling tools to monitor 
aggregation and simulate catastrophe losses in order to measure 
the effectiveness of the reinsurance programmes, and to quantify 
the net exposure. Additional stress and scenario tests are run 
using these models during the year. 

TU has carried out sensitivity analyses on the reasonably possible changes in its key business drivers, including interest yields, expenses and gross 
loss ratio, as well as executing the stress and scenario testing programme on the insurance risk as part of their contingency planning. These do 
not indicate a material impact to the Group’s overall financial position and performance. 

176

Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2023
176 

Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2023 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Note 28 Share-based payments 
The table below shows amounts charged to the Group income statement in respect of share-based payments: 

Income statement 
Equity-settled share-based payment charge 
Cash-settled National Insurance contributions  

Financial statements 

2023 
£m 

101 
11 
112 

2022 
£m 

109 
13 
122 

The table below shows amounts included in the Group cash flow statement in relation to share-based payments and own shares purchased for 
share schemes: 

Share-based payment charge included in operating profit/(loss) 
Share-based payments non-cash movement 
Increase/(decrease) in trade and other payables* 
Included in Group operating cash flows 

Cash paid to purchase own shares including related fees and taxes 
Cash received from employees exercising SAYE options 
Included in Group financing cash flows 

*  Shares withheld from employees in order to settle their tax liability and National Insurance.  

2023 
£m 
(112) 
59 
53 
– 

(134) 
48 
(86) 

The table below presents the components of share-based payments recognised in the Group statement of changes in equity:  

(Increase)/decrease in own shares held* 

Shares delivered to employees 
Cash received from employees exercising SAYE options 
Share-based payments charge to the income statement 
Movements in shares withheld to settle employee tax 
Other movements 
Increase/(decrease) to retained earnings  

Included in the Group statement of changes in equity 

*  Decrease in own shares held is the gross amount of shares that the employees are entitled to receive.  

2023 
£m 
157 

(157) 
48 
101 
4 
3 
(1) 

156 

2022 
£m 
(122) 
66 
56 
– 

(191) 
47 
(144) 

2022 
£m 
139 

(139) 
47 
109 
– 
(5) 
12 

151 

Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2023 

Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2023
177 

177

Financial statements 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Notes to the Group financial statements continued 

Note 28 Share-based payments continued 
Share option, share bonus and incentive schemes 
The Company had 10 share option schemes and four discretionary share award schemes in operation during the financial year, all of which are 
equity-settled schemes: 

  UK colleagues 

  UK colleagues 

  ROI colleagues 

Arrangement 
  Participants 
Savings-related option schemes 
The Savings-related 
Share Option 
Scheme (1981) 
The Irish Savings-
related Share Option 
Scheme (2000) 
The Savings-related 
Share Option 
Scheme (2021) 
The International 
Savings-related 
Share Option 
Scheme (2021) 
The Booker Group 
PLC Savings-Related 
Share Option Plan 
(2008) (Booker 
SAYE)(a) 
Discretionary option schemes(b) 
The Executive 
Incentive Plan (2014) 

  Selected senior 
executives 

  ROI colleagues  

  Booker colleagues 

The Group Bonus 
Plan 

  Selected senior 
executives and 
senior managers 

The Performance 
Share Plan (2011) 

The Long Term 
Incentive Plan (2015) 

The Booker Group 
PLC Performance 
Share Plan (2008) 
(Booker PSP and 
CSOP)(a) 

  Selected senior 
executives and 
senior managers 

  Selected senior 
executives and 
senior managers 
  Selected Booker 
senior colleagues 
(Booker) 

Discretionary share award schemes(c) 
  Selected senior 
The Performance 
executives and 
Share Plan (2011) and 
senior managers 
the Long Term 
Incentive Plan (2021) 
The Group Bonus 
Plan and the 
Deferred Bonus Plan 
(2019) 

  Selected senior 
executives and 
senior managers  

Term 

  Vesting requirements 

Three or five years. 

Three or five years. 

Three or five years. 

Three or five years. 

Three years.  

Granted as a proportion of annual bonus following 
the completion of a required service period, 
normally exercisable between three and 10 years 
from the date of grant for nil consideration. 
Granted as a proportion of annual bonus following 
the completion of a required service period and is 
normally exercisable between three and 10 years 
from the date of grant for nil consideration. No 
further options will be granted under this scheme. 
Normally exercisable between the vesting date(s) 
set at grant and 10 years from the date of grant 
for nil consideration. No further options will be 
granted under this scheme. 
Normally exercisable between the vesting date(s) 
set at grant and 10 years from the date of grant 
for nil consideration. 
Normally exercisable between the third 
anniversary of the original date of grant and 10 
years from the date of grant for nil consideration. 
No further options will be granted under this 
scheme. 

  The options are capable of being exercised at the end of 
the term at a subscription price of not less than 80% of 
the average of the middle-market quotations of an 
Ordinary share over the three dealing days immediately 
preceding the offer date. 

  The options over Tesco Shares are capable of being 
exercised at the end of the term at a subscription price 
equivalent to not less than 80% of the average of the 
middle-market quotations of a Booker Share over the 
three dealing days immediately preceding the offer date. 

  Dependent on the achievement of corporate 
performance, individual targets and continuous 
employment.  

  Conditional upon the achievement of specified 
performance targets over a three-year period and/or 
continuous employment. 

  Conditional upon the achievement of specified 
performance targets over a three-year period and 
continuous employment. Company Share Option Plan 
options (CSOP options) which are linked to the Booker 
PSP options are exercisable at a subscription price 
equivalent to the market value of the Booker Shares at 
the time of grant. 

Awards made under these plans will normally vest 
on the vesting date(s) set on the date of the 
award for nil consideration.  

  Conditional on the achievement of specified 
performance targets over a three-year performance 
period and/or continuous employment. 

Granted based on a percentage of salary, which is 
determined by the achievement of corporate and 
individual performance targets. The fair value of 
shares awarded under these schemes is their 
market value on the date of award. Expected 
dividends are not incorporated into the fair value. 

  Conditional on completion of continuous employment 
and achievement of corporate and individual 
performance targets. 

(a)  Following completion of the acquisition of Booker Group PLC by Tesco PLC, Booker colleagues elected to roll over their existing options over Booker Shares under the Booker SAYE into equivalent 
options over Ordinary shares in Tesco PLC (Tesco Shares), and Booker senior colleagues elected to roll over their existing Booker PSP and Booker CSOP Options over Booker Shares into equivalent 
options over Tesco Shares. 

(b) The Executive Directors participate in short-term bonus and long-term incentive schemes designed to align their interests with those of shareholders. Full details of these schemes can be found 

in the Directors’ remuneration report. 

(c)  Until 2017, nil-cost options were awarded to selected senior executives using the Group Bonus Plan and Performance Share Plan, and conditional share awards were granted to selected senior 

executives and senior managers. Since 2018, conditional share awards have been granted to all eligible colleagues. 

178

Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2023
178 

Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2023 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Financial statements 

The following tables reconcile the number of share options outstanding and the weighted average exercise price (WAEP): 

For the 52 weeks ended 25 February 2023 

Outstanding at 26 February 2022 
Granted 
Forfeited 
Exercised 
Outstanding at 25 February 2023 
Exercise price range (pence) 

Weighted average remaining 
contractual life (years)* 
Exercisable at 25 February 2023 
Exercise price range (pence) 

Weighted average remaining 
contractual life (years)* 

Savings-related 
Share Option Schemes 

Irish Savings and International 
Savings-related  
Share Option Schemes 

Nil cost 
Share Option Schemes 

Booker Group PLC Savings 
Related Share Option Plan 

Booker Group PLC 
Performance Share  
Plan Scheme 

Options 
160,485,413 
69,276,094 
(28,999,777) 
(24,725,935) 
176,035,795 

Options 
WAEP   
6,801,511 
 208.34   
2,012,450 
182.00   
(1,278,338) 
216.86   
(811,416) 
188.54   
199.35    6,724,207 

WAEP   

Options 
 212.23    2,012,486 
99,189 
182.00   
– 
214.54   
– 
187.99   
2,111,675 
205.67   

73,974 

168.00 to 
242.00 
2.83   

188.23   
188.00 to 
190.00 
–   

168.00 to 
260.00 
2.53   

840 

188.00   

2,111,675 

188.00 to 
188.00 
–   

WAEP   
–   
–   
–   
–   
–   
–   

3.22   

–   
–   

3.22   

Options 
10,417 
– 
(10,417) 
– 
– 

– 

WAEP   
 152.01   
–   
152.01   
–   
–   
–   

Options 
541,516 
 –  
(43,288) 
(131,589) 
366,639 

366,639 

–   

–   
–   

–   

WAEP 
– 
– 
– 
– 
– 
– 

– 

– 
– 

– 

*   Contractual life represents the period from award to the scheme end date. Certain schemes may be exercised later than vesting date at the discretion of the individual.  

Share options were exercised on a regular basis throughout the financial year. The average share price during the 52 weeks ended 25 February 
2023 was 248.40p (2022: 254.05p). 

For the 52 weeks ended 26 February 2022 

Savings-related 
Share Option Schemes 

Irish Savings and International 
Savings-related  
Share Option Schemes 

Nil cost 
Share Option Schemes 

Options 
166,407,076 
37,771,601 
(17,812,002) 
(25,881,262) 
160,485,413 

2,014,843 

WAEP   
193.86   
242.00   
200.19   
169.98   
208.34   
151.00 to 
242.00 
2.68   

189.58   
151.00 to 
190.00 
0.42   

Options 
7,586,269 
1,440,203 
(1,212,568) 
(1,012,393) 
6,801,511 

Options 
WAEP   
7,217,383 
194.35   
217,095 
260.00   
– 
191.82   
170.70   
(5,421,992) 
212.23    2,012,486 

168.00 to 
260.00 
2.59   

78,774 

189.57    2,012,486 

168.00 to 
190.00 
0.42   

WAEP   
–   
–   
–   
–   
–   
–   

4.22   

–   
–   

4.22   

Booker Group PLC Savings
Option Plan 
Related Share
Options 
686,755 
 –  
(151,253) 
(525,085) 
10,417 

WAEP   
152.58   
–   
151.93   
152.78   
152.01   

2,171 

137.45 to 
152.78 
0.49   

 149.09   

137.45 to 
152.78 
0.41   

Booker Group PLC 
Performance Share  

Scheme 

Plan
Options 
860,757 
– 
(68,551) 
(250,690) 
541,516 

541,516 

WAEP 
– 
– 
– 
– 
– 
– 

– 

– 
– 

– 

Outstanding at 27 February 2021 
Granted 
Forfeited 
Exercised 
Outstanding at 26 February 2022 
Exercise price range (pence) 

Weighted average remaining 
contractual life (years)* 
Exercisable at 26 February 2022 
Exercise price range (pence) 

Weighted average remaining 
contractual life (years)* 

Refer to previous table for footnote.  

The fair value of savings-related share options schemes is estimated at the date of grant using the Black-Scholes option pricing model. The
following table gives the assumptions applied to the options granted in the respective periods shown. No assumption has been made to 
incorporate the effects of expected early exercise. 

Expected dividend yield (%) 
Expected volatility (%) 
Risk-free interest rate (%) 
Expected life of option (years) 
Weighted average fair value of options granted (pence) 
Probability of forfeiture (%) 
Share price (pence) 
Weighted average exercise price (pence) 

2023  
SAYE 
4.96-5.43 
22.25-22.53 
3.54-3.59 
3 or 5 
46.32 
7-9 
202.35 
182.00 

2022 
SAYE 
4.10–4.17 
21.79-21.89 
1.38-1.39 
3 or 5 
38.52 
7-10 
268.50 
242.00 

Volatility is a measure of the amount by which a price is expected to fluctuate during a period. The measure of volatility used in the Group’s 
option pricing models is the annualised standard deviation of the continuously compounded rates of return on the share over a period of time. 
In
estimating the future volatility of the Company’s share price, the Board considers the historical volatility of the share price over the most recent 
period that is generally commensurate with the expected term of the option, taking into account the remaining contractual life of the option. 

Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2023 

Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2023
179 

179

Financial statements 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Notes to the Group financial statements continued 

Note 28 Share-based payments continued 
The number and weighted average fair value (WAFV) of share bonuses granted during the financial year were: 

Group Bonus Plan and Deferred Bonus Plan 
Performance Share Plan and Long Term Incentive Plan 
Joining award* 

*  Joining award granted during the financial year to Executive Directors under Listing Requirement 9.4.2. 

2023 

2022 

Number  
of shares 
19,076,406 
22,817,391 
– 

WAFV  
pence   
265.58   
254.91   
–   

Number  
of shares 
10,713,313 
41,639,089 
2,336,887 

WAFV  
pence 
232.25 
240.31 
223.35 

Note 29 Post-employment benefits 
Pensions 
The Group operates a variety of post-employment benefit arrangements, covering both funded and unfunded defined benefit schemes and 
defined contribution schemes. 

Defined contribution 
Defined contribution schemes are open to all Tesco employees in the UK. 

Under the Group’s defined contribution pension schemes, employees of the Group pay contributions to an independently administered fund, 
into which the Group also pays contributions based upon a fixed percentage of the employee’s contributions. The Group has no further payment 
obligations once its contributions have been paid. Contributions paid for defined contribution schemes in continuing operations of £375m (2022: 
£361m) have been recognised in the Group income statement. This includes £143m (2022: £136m) of salaries paid as pension contributions. 

Defined benefit schemes 
The Group has a defined benefit pension deficit of £400m (2022: £303m deficit), and a defined benefit pension surplus of £6m (2022: £3,150m), 
comprising a number of schemes. The most significant schemes are for the Group’s employees in the UK and ROI, which are closed to future 
accrual. The defined benefit pension deficit in the UK represents 102% of the net Group deficit. In the prior year, the defined benefit pension 
surplus in the UK represented 103% of the net Group surplus. 

United Kingdom 
The principal plan within the Group is the Tesco PLC Pension Scheme (the Scheme), the assets of which are held as a segregated fund and 
administered by the Trustee. 

The Scheme is established under trust law and has a corporate trustee (the Trustee) that is required to run the Scheme in accordance with
Scheme’s Trust Deed and Rules and to comply with all relevant legislation. Responsibility for governance of the Scheme lies with the
The

Trustee is a company whose directors comprise: 

Trustee. 

the 

1.  representatives of the Group; 
2. independent trustees; and 
3. representatives of the Scheme participants, in accordance with its articles of association and UK pension law. 

Scheme funding 
The Group considers two measures of the pension surplus/deficit. The accounting position is shown on the Group balance sheet. The funding 
position, calculated at the triennial funding valuation, is used to agree contributions made to the schemes. The two measures will vary because 
they
are for different purposes, and are calculated at different dates and in different ways. The key calculation difference is that the funding 
position considers the expected returns of scheme assets when calculating the liability, whereas the accounting, position calculated under IAS
discounts liabilities based on corporate bond yields. 

19 

The most recent completed triennial funding valuation of the Scheme was performed as at 31 March 2022 using the projected unit credit method. 
The funding position was

a surplus of £0.9bn. The Scheme remained in a funding surplus as at 25 February 2023.  

Subsequent to this triennial funding valuation it was agreed that no further pension deficit contributions would be required, with contributions 
next expected to be assessed at the 31 March 2025 triennial review. The Group was paying £25m per annum to meet expenses of the Scheme, 
including the Pension Protection Fund levy. This expense payment fell to £17m per annum from October 2022. In addition the market value of 
assets held as security in favour of the Scheme is at least £775m (2022: £775m). 

The most recent Booker Pension Scheme triennial funding valuation showed a funding deficit of £139m at 31 March 2022, with agreed 
contributions of £17m per annum until the end of 2028. The most recent Budgens Pension Scheme triennial funding valuation showed a funding 
surplus of £0.4m at 31

March 2021. No contributions were required for the Budgens Scheme. 

IFRIC 14 
For schemes in an accounting surplus position, these surpluses are recognised on the balance sheet in line with IFRIC 14, as the Group has an 
unconditional legal right to any future economic benefits by way of future refunds following a gradual settlement. 

180

Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2023
180 

Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2023 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Financial statements 

Maturity profile of the defined benefit obligation 
The estimated duration of the Scheme defined benefit obligation is an indicator of the weighted average term of benefit payments after 
discounting. For the Scheme this is 18 years. 

Around 39% of the undiscounted benefits are due to be paid beyond 30 years’ time, with the last payments expected to be over 80 years from 
now. The estimated undiscounted benefit payments expected to be paid out over the life of the Scheme are shown below.  

£bn

5

4

3

2

1

0

1-5

6-10

11-15

16-20

21-25

26-30

31-35

36-40

41-45

46-50

51-55

56-60

61-65

66-70

70+

Deferred members

Current pensioners

The defined benefit obligation held by the Scheme is broken down as follows:  

Years

Deferred members 
Current pensioners 

Risks 
The Group bears a number of risks in relation to the Scheme, which are described below: 

% 
77 
23 

Risk 
Investment 

Inflation 

Interest rate 

Description of risk 

  The Scheme’s defined benefit 
obligation is calculated using a 
discount rate set with reference to 
corporate bond yields. If the return on 
the Scheme’s assets underperform 
this rate, the accounting deficit 
will

increase. 

If the Scheme’s assets underperform 
the expected return for the funding 
may require additional 
valuation, this
contributions to be
made by the 
Group. 

  The Scheme’s defined benefit 

obligation is linked to inflation. A higher 
rate of expected long-term inflation 
will therefore lead to higher liabilities, 
19 and funding liability. 
both for the IAS

If the Scheme’s funding liability 
increases, this may
contributions to be made by 
the

Group. 

require additional 

  A decrease in corporate bond yields in 
isolation is expected to increase the 
accounting deficit. Similarly, a 
decrease in gilt yields in isolation is 
expected to have an adverse impact 
on the funding position of the Scheme. 
This may lead to additional 
contributions being made by the
Group. 

  Mitigation 
  The Trustee and the Group regularly monitor the funding position and operate a 

diversified investment strategy. 

The Trustee and the Group take a balanced approach to investment risk and have a 
long-term plan to significantly reduce the investment risk within the Scheme. 

The Trustee considers climate risk as one of the key investment risks faced by the 
Scheme and has set up a Responsible Investment Committee to consider climate-
related issues relating to the Scheme. 

The Scheme has also made a commitment to aim for investments to be net zero by 2050. 
Further details on the metrics, targets and actions taken in relation to climate risk can be 
seen in the Scheme’s Climate Change Report. 

  As part of the investment strategy, the Trustee aims to mitigate this risk through 

investment in a liability-driven investment (LDI)

portfolio. 

The portfolio invests in assets which increase in value as inflation expectations increase. 
This mitigates the impact of any adverse movement in long-term inflation expectations. 

The Scheme’s holdings are designed to hedge against inflation risk
funded liabilities. 

for most of the 

Additionally, changes to future benefits were introduced in June 2012 to reduce the 
Scheme’s exposure to inflation risk by changing the basis for calculating the rate of 
increase in pensions to CPI (previously RPI). 

  As part of the investment strategy, the Trustee aims to mitigate this risk through 

investment in an LDI portfolio.  

The portfolio invests in assets which increase in value as interest rates decrease. The 
Scheme’s holdings are designed to hedge against interest rate risk for most of the 
funded liabilities.  

Because the aim of the portfolio is to mitigate risk for the funding position, 
ineffectiveness in hedging for the accounting deficit can arise where corporate bond 
and gilt yields diverge. This is partially offset by the Scheme’s holdings in corporate 
bonds. 

Using an LDI portfolio means a rise in interest rates can lead to collateral calls. The 
Trustee and the Group regularly monitor and manage the level of liquidity to ensure it 
remains appropriate. 

Life expectancy 

  The Scheme’s obligations are to 

provide benefits for the life of the 
member and so increases in life 
expectancy will lead to a higher 
defined benefit obligation. 

  To reduce this risk, changes to future benefits were introduced in June 2012 to increase 

the age at which members can take their full pension by around two years.  

The Trustee and the Group regularly monitor the impact of changes in longevity on the 
Scheme defined benefit obligation. 

Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2023 

Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2023
181 

181

Financial statements 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Notes to the Group financial statements continued 

Note 29 Post-employment benefits continued 
The operations and audit pensions committee was set up in 2015 to further strengthen the Scheme’s Trustee governance and provide greater 
oversight and stronger internal control over the Group’s risks. The Group pensions committee was also set up in 2018 to provide an additional 
layer of
funding position, fund performance and impacts of any regulatory changes. 

governance and risk management. Further mitigation of the risks is provided by external advisors and the Trustee who considers the 

Scheme principal assumptions 
Financial assumptions 
The principal assumptions, on a weighted average basis, used by external actuaries to value the defined benefit obligation of the Scheme were as
follows: 

Discount rate 
Price inflation 
Rate of increase in deferred pensions* 
Rate of increase in pensions in payment* 
Benefits accrued before 1 June 2012 
Benefits accrued after 1 June 2012 

* 

In excess of any guaranteed minimum pension (GMP) element. 

2023 
% 
4.9 
3.0 
2.6 

2.9 
2.5 

2022 
% 
2.8 
3.3 
2.9 

3.1 
2.8 

Discount rate 
The discount rate for the Scheme is determined by reference to market yields of high-quality corporate bonds of suitable currency and term
the Scheme cash flows and extrapolated based on the trend observable in corporate bond yields. 

to 

Inflation 
The inflation assumption is used to determine increases in pensions linked to RPI and CPI inflation within sections of the Scheme, subject to 
relevant maximum and minimum increases. 

RPI inflation is derived by reference to the difference between fixed-interest and index-linked long-term government bonds. To account for the 
premium that investors are willing to pay to mitigate the risk that inflation is higher than expected, the inflation assumption incorporates an 
inflation risk premium. CPI inflation is set by reference to RPI. 

The Group uses a bifurcated approach to pre- and post-2030 assumptions, reflecting the impact of the RPI reforms from 2030 onwards. 
In
consultation with external actuaries, the inflation risk premium has been set at 0.3% p.a. pre-2030 and 0.5% p.a. post-2030, which is a 
weighted average of 0.43% (2022: 0.42%). The CPI differential has been set as 1.0% p.a. pre-2030 and 0.1% p.a. post-2030, which is a weighted 
average of 0.48% lower than RPI (2022: 0.39%). 

Mortality assumptions 
The Trustee’s actuary conducted a mortality analysis of the Scheme as part of the triennial funding valuation process. Subsequent to this analysis, 
the Group adopted the best estimate assumptions for the calculation of the defined benefit obligation for the main UK scheme.  

future mortality improvements from 2018 has been updated to be in line with CMI 2021, with a long-term improvement rate

The mortality assumptions used are based on tables that have been projected to 2018 with CMI 2020 improvements. In addition, the allowance
for
10% weighting applied to both 2020 and 2021 data, reflecting the expectation that the COVID-19 pandemic has had an impact on future life 
expectancies. 

of

1.25% p.a. and a 

The base tables used in calculating the mortality assumptions are different for various categories of members, as shown below: 

Male 

Female 

Staff 
Senior Manager 
Staff 
Senior Manager 

Pensioner 
96% of SAPS S3 Normal Heavy 
112% of SAPS S3 Normal Light 
105% of SAPS S3 Normal Heavy 
87% of SAPS S3 All Middle 

Non-Pensioner 
100% of SAPS S3 Normal Heavy 
113% of SAPS S3 Normal Light 
109% of SAPS S3 Normal Heavy 
87% of SAPS S3 All Middle 

The following table illustrates the expectation of life of an average member retiring at age 65 at the balance sheet date and a member reaching 
65 at the balance sheet date +25 years. A comparison between the two retiree dates illustrates the expected improvements in mortality 
age
the
over

next 25 years. 

Retiring at the balance sheet date at age 65: 

Retiring at the balance sheet date +25 years at age 65: 

Male 
Female 
Male 
Female 

2023 
Years 
20.0 
22.5 
21.4 
24.2 

2022 
Years 
20.8 
22.4 
22.1 
24.1 

182

Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2023
182 

Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2023 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Financial statements 

Sensitivity analysis of significant actuarial assumptions 
The sensitivity of significant assumptions upon the Scheme defined benefit obligation are detailed below: 

Financial assumptions – Increase/(decrease) in UK defined benefit obligation 
Impact of 0.1% increase of the assumption 
Impact of 0.1% decrease of the assumption 
Impact of 1.0% increase of the assumption 
Impact of 1.0% decrease of the assumption 

Mortality assumptions – Increase/(decrease) in UK defined benefit obligation 
Impact of 1 year increase in longevity 
Impact of 1 year decrease in longevity 

2023 

2022 

Discount rate 
£m 
(213) 
226 
(1,921) 
2,498 

Inflation rate 

£m   
201   
(201)  
2,147   
(1,783)  

Discount rate 
£m 
(404) 
404 
(3,467) 
4,732 

Inflation rate 
£m 
367 
(349) 
3,889 
(3,173) 

2023 
£m 
364 
(402) 

2022 
£m 
697 
(715) 

The sensitivities reflect the range of recent assumption movements and illustrate that the financial assumption sensitivities do not move in a 
linear fashion. Movements in
in
movements

the defined benefit obligation from discount rate and inflation rate changes may be partially offset by 

assets. 

Overseas 
The Group operates defined benefit schemes in ROI. An external actuary, using the projected unit credit method, carried out the latest
assessment of the ROI schemes as at 25 February 2023. At the financial year end, the accounting deficit relating to ROI was £nil

(2022: £97m). 

Post-employment benefits other than pensions 
The Group operates a scheme offering post-retirement healthcare benefits. The cost of providing these benefits has been accounted for on a
similar basis to that used for defined benefit pension schemes. 

The accounting deficit as at 25 February 2023 of £4m (2022: £6m) was determined in accordance with the advice of external actuaries.  
During the current financial year, £nil (2022: £nil) has been charged to the Group income statement and £nil (2022: £nil) of benefits were paid. 

Plan assets 
The Group’s pension schemes hold assets that both provide returns and mitigate risk, including the volatility of future pension payments. 

The table below shows a breakdown of the combined investments held by the Group’s schemes: 

Equities 
UK 
Europe 
Rest of the world 

Bonds 
Government 
Corporates – investment grade 
Corporates – non-investment grade 

Property 
UK 
Rest of the world 

Alternative assets 
Hedge funds 
Private equity 
Other 

LDI portfolio 
Cash 
Total fair value of plan assets 

2023 

Quoted 
£m 

Unquoted 
£m 

32 
76 
516 
624 

363 
570 
211 
1,144 

2 
2 
4 

– 
– 
162 
162 
8,173 
859 
10,966 

– 
– 
– 
– 

– 
– 
– 
– 

1,094 
567 
1,661 

64 
1,032 
1,793 
2,889 
(2,491) 
– 
2,059 

Total 
£m 

32 
76 
516 
624 

363 
570 
211 
1,144 

1,096 
569 
1,665 

64 
1,032 
1,955 
3,051 
5,682 
859 
13,025 

2022 

Quoted 
£m 

Unquoted 
£m 

136 
691 
3,492 
4,319 

1,394 
3,376 
1,123 
5,893 

94 
7 
101 

– 
– 
218 
218 
5,163 
1,037 
16,731 

– 
– 
– 
– 

– 
– 
– 
– 

1,514 
550 
2,064 

311 
1,509 
1,779 
3,599 
(4) 
– 
5,659 

Total 
£m 

136 
691 
3,492 
4,319 

1,394 
3,376 
1,123 
5,893 

1,608 
557 
2,165 

311 
1,509 
1,997 
3,817 
5,159 
1,037 
22,390 

% 

–   
1   
4   
5   

3   
4   
2   
9   

8   
4   
12   

–   
8   
15   
23   
44   
7   
100   

% 

1 
3 
16 
20 

6 
15 
5 
26 

7 
2 
9 

1 
7 
9 
17 
23 
5 
100 

Quoted assets are those with a quoted price in an active market. Unquoted assets are valued in accordance with IFRS 13, using the most 
appropriate level within the fair value hierarchy based on the specifics of the asset class, and in line with industry standard guidelines, including 
the RICS methodology for property and the IPEV guidelines for private equity. 

The LDI portfolio consists of assets, including gilts and index-linked gilts, cash and money market funds of the value of £8,376m (2022: £8,986m) 
and associated repurchase agreements and swaps of £(2,694)m (2022: £(3,827)m). Other alternative assets include infrastructure and private 
credit investments. Other
derivative. The fall in fair value is attributable to the increase in gilt yields during the year. 

derivatives are included in the asset category to which they relate, reflecting the underlying nature and exposure of the 

The plan assets include £240m (2022: £244m) relating to property used by the Group. Group property with net carrying value of £783m 
(2022:

£914m) (refer to Note 11) and a value to the Scheme of at least £775m (2022: £775m) is held as security in favour of the Scheme. 

Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2023 

Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2023
183 

183

Financial statements 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Notes to the Group financial statements continued 

Note 29 Post-employment benefits continued 
Movement in the Group pension surplus/(deficit) during the financial year 

Fair value of plan assets 

Defined benefit obligation 

Net defined benefit surplus/(deficit) 

Opening balance 
Current service cost 
Settlement charge(a) 
Finance income/(cost) 
Included in the Group income statement 

Remeasurement gain/(loss): 

Financial assumptions gain/(loss) 
Demographic assumptions gain/(loss) 
Experience gain/(loss) 
Return on plan assets excluding finance income 

Foreign currency translation 
Included in the Group statement of comprehensive 
income/(loss) 

Member contributions 
Employer contributions 
Additional employer contributions 
Benefits paid 
Scheme settlement 
Other movements 
Closing balance 
Withholding tax on surplus(b)  
Closing balance, net of withholding tax 
Consisting of: 

Schemes in deficit 
Schemes in surplus(c) 
Deferred tax asset/(liability) 
Surplus/(deficit) in schemes at the end of the year, 
net of deferred tax 

2023 
£m 
22,390 
– 
– 
607 
607 

– 
– 
– 
(9,518) 
15 
(9,503) 

– 
24 
20 
(513) 
– 
(469) 
13,025 

2022 
£m 
20,082   
–   
–   
391   
391   

–   
–   
–   
2,385   
(9)  
2,376   

2   
33   
16   
(502)  
(8)  
(459)  
22,390   

2023 
£m 
(19,543) 
(24) 
– 
(527) 
(551) 

7,652 
(228) 
(1,244) 
– 
(18) 
6,162 

– 
– 
– 
516 
– 
516 
(13,416) 

2022 
£m 
(21,304)  
(39)   
(1)   
(413)   
(453)  

1,881   
21   
(212)   
–   
13   
1,703   

(2)  
–   
–   
505   
8   
511   
(19,543)   

2023 
£m 
2,847 
(24) 
– 
80 
56 

7,652 
(228) 
(1,244) 
(9,518) 
(3) 
(3,341) 

– 
24 
20 
3 
– 
47 
(391) 
(3) 
(394) 

(400) 
6 
100 
(294) 

2022 
£m 
(1,222) 
(39) 
(1) 
(22) 
(62) 

1,881 
21 
(212) 
2,385 
4 
4,079 

– 
33 
16 
3 
– 
52 
2,847 
– 
2,847 

(303) 
3,150 
(726) 
2,121 

(a)  Settlement charge on Londis Scheme buy-out in 2022. 
(b) Recognised through other comprehensive income in remeasurements of defined benefit pension schemes. 
(c)  In 2023, schemes in surplus in the UK are presented on the balance sheet net of a 35% withholding tax. 

Note 30 Share capital and other reserves 
Share capital 

Allotted, called-up and fully paid: 
At the beginning of the year 
Shares cancelled 
At the end of the year  

2023 
Ordinary shares of 6 ⅓p each 

2022 
Ordinary shares of 6 ⅓p each 

Number 

£m 

Number 

7,637,986,531 
(319,645,336) 
7,318,341,195 

484    7,731,707,820 
(93,721,289) 
463    7,637,986,531 

(21)  

£m 

490 
(6) 
484 

No shares were issued during the current financial year in relation to share options.  

The Group has a share forfeiture programme, following the completion of a tracing and notification exercise to any shareholders who have not
had contact with the Company over the past 12 years, in accordance with the provisions set out in the Company’s Articles of Association. 
Under
the share forfeiture programme, the shares and dividends associated with shares of untraced members are forfeited, with the resulting 
proceeds transferred to the Group to use for good causes in line with the Group’s corporate responsibility strategy. During the current financial 
year, the Group received £nil (2022: £nil) proceeds from sale of untraced shares and £5m (2022: £nil) write-back of unclaimed dividends, which 
are reflected in share premium and retained earnings, respectively. 

As at 25 February 2023, the Directors were authorised, on behalf of the Company, to purchase up to a maximum in aggregate of 762.0 million 
(2022: 773.2 million) Ordinary shares until the conclusion of the 2023 AGM. 

The holders of Ordinary shares are entitled to receive dividends as declared from time to time and are entitled to one vote per share at general 
meetings of the Company. 

184

Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2023
184 

Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2023 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
   
 
 
 
   
 
   
 
 
 
 
   
 
   
 
 
 
   
 
   
  
    
 
    
 
   
 
   
 
 
 
   
 
   
 
   
 
   
 
   
 
   
 
   
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
Capital 
redemption 
reserve 
£m 
22 

Hedging 
reserve* 
£m 
130 

Translation 
reserve 
£m 
202 

Own 
shares 
held 
£m 
(365) 

Merger  
reserve 
£m 
3,090 

Other reserves 
The table below sets out the movements in other reserves: 

At 26 February 2022 
Other comprehensive income/(loss) 
Retranslation of net assets of overseas subsidiaries, joint ventures and 
associates, net of hedging instruments 
Gains/(losses) on cash flow hedges 
Cash flow hedges reclassified and reported in the Group income statement 
Tax relating to components of other comprehensive income (Note 6) 
Total other comprehensive income/(loss) 
Inventory cash flow hedge movements 
(Gains)/losses transferred to the cost of inventory 
Total inventory cash flow hedge movements 
Transactions with owners 
Own shares purchased for cancellation 
Own shares cancelled 
Own shares purchased for share schemes 
Share–based payments (Note 28) 
Total transactions with owners 
At 25 February 2023 

– 

– 
– 
– 
– 

– 
– 

– 
21 
– 
– 
21 
43 

– 

63 
(61) 
22 
24 

(127) 
(127) 

– 
– 
– 
– 
– 
27 

120 

– 
– 
– 
120 

– 
– 

– 
– 
– 
– 
– 
322 

*  Movements in cost of hedging reserve is £nil (2022: £nil) and balance at 25 February 2023 is £nil (2022: £nil).  

At 27 February 2021 
Other comprehensive income/(loss) 
Retranslation of net assets of overseas subsidiaries, joint ventures and 
associates, net of hedging instruments 
Movements in foreign exchange reserve and net investment hedging on 
subsidiary disposed, reclassified and reported in the Group income 
statement  
Gains/(losses) on cash flow hedges 
Cash flow hedges reclassified and reported in the Group income statement 
Tax relating to components of other comprehensive income (Note 6) 
Total other comprehensive income/(loss) 
Inventory cash flow hedge movements 
(Gains)/losses transferred to the cost of inventory 
Total inventory cash flow hedge movements 
Transactions with owners 
Own shares purchased for cancellation 
Own shares cancelled 
Own shares purchased for share schemes 
Share–based payments (Note 28) 
Total transactions with owners 
At 26 February 2022 

Refer to previous table for footnote. 

Capital 
redemption 
reserve 
£m 
16 

Hedging 
reserve* 
£m 
90 

Translation 
reserve 
£m 
175 

– 

– 

– 
– 
– 
– 

– 
– 

– 
6 
– 
– 
6 
22 

– 

– 

77 
(45) 
(22) 
10 

30 
30 

– 
– 
– 
– 
– 
130 

(39) 

66 

– 
– 
– 
27 

– 
– 

– 
– 
– 
– 
– 
202 

Financial statements 

Total 
£m 
3,079 

120 

63 
(61) 
22 
144 

(127) 
(127) 

(758) 
816 
(188) 
157 
27 
3,123 

Total 
£m 
3,183 

(39) 

66 

77 
(45) 
(22) 
37 

30 
30 

(301) 
270 
(279) 
139 
(171) 
3,079 

– 

– 
– 
– 
– 

– 
– 

(758) 
795 
(188) 
157 
6 
(359) 

Own 
shares 
held 
£m 
(188) 

– 

– 

– 
– 
– 
– 

– 
– 

– 

– 
– 
– 
– 

– 
– 

– 
– 
– 
– 
– 
3,090 

Merger  
reserve 
£m 
3,090 

– 

– 

– 
– 
– 
– 

– 
– 

(301) 
264 
(279) 
139 
(177) 
(365) 

– 
– 
– 
– 
– 
3,090 

Own shares held 
The own shares held represents shares in Tesco PLC purchased from the market and held by the Tesco International Employee Benefit Trust to 
satisfy share awards under the Group’s share scheme plans (refer to Note 28), and shares purchased for cancellation as part of the share buyback 
programme. Shares purchased for cancellation are included in own shares held until cancellation, at which point the consideration is transferred to 
retained earnings, and the nominal value of the shares is transferred from share capital to the capital redemption reserve. Own shares held can 
include equity elements of forward contracts where the Group has an obligation to purchase its own shares. 

The table below presents the reconciliation of own shares purchased for cancellation between the Group statement of changes in equity and the 
Group cash flow statement:  

Own shares purchased for cancellation 
Included in the Group statement of changes in equity(a)(b) 
Payments in relation to prior year financial liabilities  
Outstanding amount recognised as financial liabilities(c) 
Included in the Group cash flow statement(d) 

2023 
£m 
(758) 
(23) 
– 
(781) 

2022 
£m 
(301) 
– 
23 
(278) 

(a)  319.6 million (2022: 93.7 million) shares were cancelled, representing 4.4% of the called-up share capital as at 25 February 2023 (2022: 1.2%). This includes 4.8 million shares purchased not yet 
cancelled as at 26 February 2022 with total consideration of £14m. The total consideration of £795m (2022: £264m), including expenses of £9m (2022: £1m), was charged to retained earnings.  

(b) During the financial year, the aggregate nominal value of shares cancelled and transferred to the capital redemption reserve was £21m (2021: £6m). 
(c)  Shares to be delivered under a share repurchase agreement with an external bank, included in other payables.  
(d) 314.8 million (2022: 98.5 million) shares purchased at an average price of £2.48 per share (2022: £2.82). 

Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2023 

Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2023
185 

185

Financial statements 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Notes to the Group financial statements continued 

Note 30 Share capital and other reserves continued 
The table below presents the reconciliation of own shares purchased for share schemes between the Group statement of changes in equity and 
the Group cash flow statement:  

Own shares purchased for share schemes 
Included in the Group statement of changes in equity 
Payments in relation to prior year financial liabilities 
Outstanding amount recognised as financial liabilities* 
Shares withheld to settle employee tax 
Cash received from employees exercising SAYE options 
Included in the Group cash flow statement 

2023 
£m 
(188) 
(50) 
55 
49 
48 
(86) 

2022 
£m 
(279) 
- 
50 
38 
47 
(144) 

*  A financial liability of £55m (2022: £50m) in respect of shares to be delivered under a share repurchase agreement with an external bank is included in other payables.  

The number of Ordinary shares held by the Tesco International Employee Benefit Trust at 25 February 2023 was 55.6 million (2022: 49.9 million). 
This represents 0.76% of called-up share capital at the end of the year (2022: 0.65%).  

Capital redemption reserve  
The capital redemption reserve relates to the repurchase and cancellation of shares of the Company. During the financial year, the aggregate 
nominal value of shares cancelled and transferred to the capital redemption reserve was £21m (2022: £6m). 

Merger reserve  
The merger reserve represents the difference between the market value and nominal value of shares issued for the acquisition of Booker on 
2

March 2018. 

Note 31 Related party transactions  
Transactions between the Company and its subsidiaries, which are related parties, have been eliminated on consolidation and are not disclosed 
in this note. Transactions between the Group and its joint ventures and associates are disclosed below: 

Transactions 

Sales to related parties 
Purchases from related parties 
Dividends received 
Injection of equity funding 

Sales to related parties consist of service/management fees and loan interest.  

Transactions between the Group and the Group’s pension plans are disclosed in Note 29. 

Balances 

Amounts owed to related parties 
Amounts owed by related parties 
Lease liabilities payable to related parties(a) 
Loans to related parties (net of deferred profits)(b) 

Joint ventures 
2023 
£m 
599 
122 
14 
10 

2022 
£m 
501 
111 
32 
11 

Joint ventures 

2023 
£m 
(7) 
27 
(1,950) 
106 

2022 
£m 
(9) 
36 
(2,335) 
105 

(a)  Lease liabilities payable to related parties represent leases entered into by the Group for properties held by joint ventures. Refer to Note 13 for further details. 
(b) Loans to related parties of £106m (2022: £105m) are presented net of deferred profits of £38m (2022: £38m), historically arising from the sale of property assets to joint ventures.  

Refer to Note 13 for further details. For loans to related parties, a 12-month expected credit loss (ECL) allowance is recorded on initial recognition. In the current and prior financial years, the ECL 
allowance was immaterial.  

Amounts owed to and owed by related parties are measured at amortised cost and the carrying values approximate fair value. The undiscounted 
cash flow amounts owed to related parties are due within one year and do not differ from the amounts included in the table above. 

There were no transactions or balances held with associates in the current or prior financial year.  

A number of the Group’s subsidiaries are members of one or more partnerships to whom the provisions of the Partnerships (Accounts) 
Regulations 2008 apply. The financial statements for those partnerships have been consolidated into these financial statements pursuant to 
Regulation 7 of the Regulations. 

186

Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2023
186 

Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2023 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Financial statements 

Transactions with key management personnel 
Members of the Board of Directors and Executive Committee of Tesco PLC are deemed to be key management personnel.  

Cost of key management personnel compensation for the financial year was as follows: 

Salaries and short-term benefits 
Pensions and cash in lieu of pensions 
Share-based payments 
Joining costs and loss of office costs 

Attributable to: 
The Board of Directors (including Non-executive Directors) 
Executive Committee (members not on the Board of Directors) 

2023 
£m 
23 
1 
21 
– 
45 

13 
32 
45 

2022 
£m 
21 
2 
24 
2 
49 

11 
38 
49 

During the year, 7,730,565 (2022: 8,946,423) performance shares and 2,807,091 (2022: 1,178,795) bonus shares were granted to key management 
personnel under the Performance Share Plan and Deferred Bonus Plan 2019, respectively. Vesting will be conditional on the achievement of 
specified performance targets over a three-year performance period and/or continuous employment. The cost of these awards will be spread 
over the vesting period. 

Of the key management personnel who had transactions with Tesco Bank during the financial year, the following balances were held at the 
financial year end: 

At 25 February 2023 
At 26 February 2022 

Credit card, mortgage and  
 personal loan balances  

Current and saving  
deposit accounts 

Number of key 
management 
personnel 
6 
5 

Number of key 
management 
personnel 
6 
4 

£m 
–   
–   

£m 
1 
– 

Note 32 Analysis of changes in net debt 
Net debt, as defined in the Glossary, excludes the net debt of Tesco Bank but includes that of discontinued operations. Balances and movements 
in respect of the total Group and Tesco Bank are presented to allow reconciliation between the Group balance sheet and the Group cash flow 
statement. 

2023 

2022 

Bank and other borrowings, excluding overdrafts 
Lease liabilities 
Net financing derivatives 
Share purchase obligations  
Liabilities from financing activities  

Cash and cash equivalents in the balance sheet 
Overdrafts* 

Cash and cash equivalents (including overdrafts) in the 
cash flow statement 
Short-term investments 
Joint venture loans 
Interest and other receivables 
Net operating and investing derivatives  
Net debt of disposal group 
Less: Share purchase obligations  
Net debt APM 

Group 
£m 
(6,451) 
(7,727) 
472 
(55) 
(13,761) 
2,465 
(900) 
1,565 

1,628 
106 
8 
71 
(14) 
55 

Bank 
£m 
(375) 
(23) 
(9) 
– 
(407) 
444 
– 
444 

– 
– 
– 
114 
– 
– 

Retail   
£m   
(6,076)   
(7,704)   
481 
(55)   
(13,354)   
2,021 
(900)   
1,121 

1,628 
106 
8 
(43)   
(14)   
55 

(10,493)   

Group 
£m 
 (6,825) 
 (7,958) 
 553  
 (73) 
 (14,303) 
 2,345  
 (574) 
 1,771  

 2,076  
 105  
 1  
 75  
 (14) 
 73  

Bank 
£m 
 (481) 
 (26) 
 (6) 
–  
 (513) 
 789  
 –  
 789  

 –  
 –  
 –  
 24  
 –  
 –  

Retail 
£m 
 (6,344) 
 (7,932) 
 559  
 (73) 
 (13,790) 
 1,556  
 (574) 
 982  

 2,076  
 105  
 1  
 51  
 (14) 
 73  
 (10,516) 

*  Overdraft balances are included within borrowings in the Group balance sheet, and within cash and cash equivalents in the Group cash flow statement. Refer to Note 18. 

Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2023 

Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2023
187 

187

Financial statements 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Notes to the Group financial statements continued 

Note 32 Analysis of changes in net debt continued 
A reconciliation between movements in Net debt and the Group cash flow statement is presented below: 

Opening Net debt  
Change in liabilities from Group financing activities 
Less: Change in cash flows arising from share purchase obligations  
Less: Change in cash flows from Tesco Bank financing activities 
Change in Net debt from financing activities 
Net increase/(decrease) in Retail cash and cash equivalents including overdrafts* 
Interest paid on components of Net debt  
Interest received on components of Net debt  
Net increase/(decrease) in short-term investments 
Net increase/(decrease) in joint venture loans 
Change in cash flows from operating and investing derivatives  
Other changes in Net debt from cash flow activities 
Retail net interest charge on components of Net debt 
Retail fair value and foreign exchange movements of Net debt 
Retail other non-cash movements 
Acquisitions and disposals 
Change in Net debt from non-cash movements  
Closing Net debt 

2023 
£m 
(10,516) 
2,327 
(886) 
(111) 
1,330 
173 
643 
(70) 
(451) 
1 
(48) 
248 
 (558) 
 (254) 
 (697) 
 (46) 
(1,555) 
(10,493) 

2022 
£m 
 (11,955) 
 1,359  
 (278) 
 (25) 
 1,056  
 (221) 
 645  
 (3) 
 1,067  
 4  
–  
 1,492  
 (632) 
 199  
 (492) 
 (184) 
 (1,109) 
 (10,516) 

*  Net increase/(decrease) in Retail cash and cash equivalents including overdrafts includes £nil (2022: £35m) movement in cash and cash equivalents of discontinued operations and £(1)m (2022: 

£(4)m) intragroup funding and intercompany transactions. 

The table below sets out the movements in liabilities arising from financing activities:   

At 26 February 2022 
Cash flows arising from financing activities  
Cash flows arising from operating activities: 

Interest paid 

Non-cash movements: 

Fair value gains/(losses) 
Foreign exchange  
Interest income/(charge) 
Acquisitions and disposals(d) 
Lease additions, terminations, 
modifications and reassessments 
Share purchase agreements  

 At 25 February 2023 

Bank and other 
borrowings, excluding 
overdrafts 
£m  
(6,825) 
709 

Lease liabilities 
£m  
(7,958) 
593 

Net financing 
derivatives(a) 
£m 
553 
139 

Share purchase 
obligations(b) 
£m 
(73) 
886 

Liabilities from Group 
financing activities(c) 
£m 
(14,303) 
2,327 

241 

199 
(160) 
(227) 
(388) 
– 

– 
(6,451) 

373 

– 
(45) 
(373) 
381 
(698) 

– 
(7,727) 

44 

(170) 
– 
(55) 
(39) 
– 

– 
472 

– 

– 
– 
– 
– 
– 

(868) 
(55) 

658 

29 
(205) 
(655) 
(46) 
(698) 

(868) 
(13,761) 

(a)  Net financing derivatives comprise those derivatives which hedge the Group’s exposures in respect of lease liabilities and borrowings. Net operating and investing derivatives, which form part of 

the Group’s Net debt APM, are not included.  

(b) Share purchase obligations form part of the liabilities arising from the Group’s financing activities, but do not form part of Net debt. Cash flows arising from financing activities exclude £(29)m 

(2022: £(191)m) cash outflows relating to other cancellable arrangements and £48m (2022: £47m) cash received from employees exercising SAYE options. 

(c)  Liabilities from Group financing activities are represented to include liabilities from share purchase obligations of £(55)m (2022: £(73)m) and exclude net operating and investing derivatives of £71m 

(2022: £75m). 

(d) Acquisitions and disposals include a derecognition of £385m of lease liabilities and an increase of £(384)m in borrowings and £(39)m in net financing derivatives from the acquisition of The Tesco 

Dorney Limited Partnership. Refer to Note 33. 

At 27 February 2021 
Cash flows arising from financing activities  
Cash flows arising from operating activities:  

Interest paid 

Non-cash movements: 

Fair value gains/(losses) 
Foreign exchange  
Interest income/(charge) 
Acquisitions and disposals 
Lease additions, terminations, 
modifications and reassessments 
Share purchase agreements  
Discontinued operations 

At 26 February 2022 

Refer to previous table for footnotes. 

Bank and other 
borrowings, excluding 
overdrafts 
£m  
 (6,736) 
 381  

Lease liabilities 
£m  
 (8,402) 
 577  

Net financing derivatives(a) 
£m 
 521  
 123  

Share purchase 
obligations(b) 
£m 
 –  
 278  

Liabilities from Group 
financing activities(c) 
£m 
 (14,617) 
 1,359  

 202  

 82  
 61  
 (209) 
 (606) 
 –  

 –  
 –  
 (6,825) 

 405  

–  
 14  
 (405) 
 355  
 (492) 

– 
 (10) 
 (7,958) 

 36  

 (30) 
 –  
 (33) 
 (64) 
 –  

 –  
 –  
 553  

 –  

 –  
 –  
 –  
 –  
 –  

 (351) 
–  
 (73) 

 643  

 52 
 75  
 (647) 
 (315) 
 (492) 

 (351) 
 (10) 
 (14,303) 

188

Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2023
188 

Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2023 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Financial statements 

Note 33 Acquisitions 
Acquisition of property joint venture – The Tesco Dorney Limited Partnership 
On 6 October 2022, the Group obtained control of The Tesco Dorney Limited Partnership (the partnership), previously accounted for as a joint 
venture, through the acquisition of the other partner’s 50% interest for £40m. The Group paid £12m stamp duty on the acquisition. The 
partnership had bond and derivative liabilities, and long-leased four stores and three mixed-use sites anchored by stores which the partnership 
previously leased to the Group. The Group in turn subleases certain commercial units and residential accommodation to third parties. The 
acquisition, which has been treated as an asset acquisition, increased the Group’s owned and leased property portfolio and borrowings, 
replacing the Group’s associated right of use assets and lease liabilities. 

The table below sets out the values to the Group in respect of obtaining control of the partnership: 

Property, plant and equipment  
Right of use assets 
Cash and cash equivalents  
Other working capital 
Borrowings 
Derivative liabilities 
Total assets and liabilities acquired  
Consideration paid 
Stamp duty paid 
Derecognition of the Group’s lease liabilities with the partnership 
Derecognition of the Group’s right of use assets with the partnership 
Derecognition of the Group’s finance lease receivable  
Total cost* 

*  The carrying value of the pre-existing joint venture interest was £nil.  

Notes 
11 
12 

32 
32 

32 
12 

The Group recognised the following gains and losses as an adjusting item within cost of sales in the Group income statement. The related tax 
charge on acquisition of £29m has also been classified as an adjusting item. Refer to Note 4 for further details. 

Impairment of property, plant and equipment acquired  
Total adjusting gain/(loss) within cost of sales 
Taxation – adjusting item 
Total adjusting gain/(loss) after taxation 

 Notes 
14 

4 

£m 
248 
70 
12 
(3) 
(384) 
(39) 
(96) 
40 
12 
(385) 
198 
39 
(96) 

£m 
(7) 
(7) 
(29) 
(36) 

Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2023 

Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2023
189 

189

Financial statements 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Notes to the Group financial statements continued 

Note 34 Commitments and contingencies 
Capital commitments 
At 25 February 2023, there were commitments for capital expenditure contracted for, but not incurred, of £200m (2022: £193m), principally 
relating to store development. 

Subsidiary audit exemptions 
The following UK subsidiary undertakings are exempt from the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 (the Act) relating to the audit of 
individual accounts by virtue of section 479A of the Act. 

Name 
Booker Group Limited 
Booker Wholesale Holdings Limited 
Buttoncase Limited 

Dillons Newsagents Limited 
Giant Booker Limited 
Launchgrain Limited 
Makro Holding Limited 

Company 
number 
5145685 
5137980 
5298861 

140624 
65519 
5260856 
4310463 

Name 
Tapesilver Limited 
Tesco Aqua (GP) Limited 
Tesco Atrato (1LP) Limited 

Tesco Atrato (GP) Limited 
Tesco Blue (3LP) Limited 
Tesco Brislington Limited 
Tesco Bury Limited 

Makro Properties Limited 

1273672 

Oakwood Distribution Limited 
Spen Hill Developments Limited 
Spen Hill Management Limited 
Spen Hill Properties (Holdings) PLC 
Spen Hill Regeneration Limited 
T & S Stores Limited 

5721635 
4827219 
2460426 
2412674 
6418300 
1228935 

Tesco Distribution Holding 
Limited 
Tesco Dorney (1LP) Limited 
Tesco Dorney (GP) Limited 
Tesco Family Dining Limited 
Tesco Food Sourcing Limited 
Tesco Freetime Limited 
Tesco Fuchsia (3LP) Limited 

Company 
number 
5205362 
5721654 
6969529 

6969536 
10127682 
10701640 
3854371 

3193655 

8255488 
8255493 
8514605 
7502096 
4345023 
10127851 

Company 
number 
Name 
8312532 
Tesco Gateshead Property Limited 
Tesco Maintenance Limited 
6003554 
Tesco Mobile Communications Limited  4780729 

Tesco Mobile Services Limited 
Tesco Navona (1LP) Limited 
Tesco Passaic (1LP) Limited 
Tesco Property Partner (GP No.2) 
Limited 
Tesco Property Partner (GP) Limited 

4780734 
7459436 
7121667 
5179150 

4945955 

Tesco Property Partner (No.1) Limited  4945945 
5721630 
Tesco Red (GP) Limited 
7849948 
Tesco Sarum (1LP) Limited 
7849882 
Tesco Sarum (GP) Limited 
3159425 
Tesco TLB Properties Limited 

Tesco PLC will guarantee all outstanding liabilities that these subsidiaries are subject to as at the financial year ended 25 February 2023 in 
accordance with section 479C of the Act, as amended by the Companies and Limited Liability Partnerships (Accounts and Audit Exemptions 
and
Change of Accounting Framework) Regulations 2012. In addition, Tesco PLC will guarantee any contingent and prospective liabilities that 
these

subsidiaries are subject to.  

Tesco Bank 
At 25 February 2023, Tesco Bank had contractual lending commitments totalling £12.2bn (2022: £12.4bn). The contractual amounts represent 
the

amounts that would be at risk should the available facilities be fully drawn upon and not the amounts at risk at the reporting date. 

Contingent liabilities 
As previously reported, Tesco Stores Limited (TSL) (along with all the major supermarkets) has received claims from current and former hourly-
paid store colleagues alleging that they do work of equal value to that of colleagues working in its distribution centres and that differences in 
terms and conditions relating to pay are not objectively justifiable (the Equal Pay Claims). The claimants are seeking the differential between the 
pay terms looking back, and equivalence of pay terms moving forward. As at the date of this disclosure, there are approximately 42,000 claims 
against TSL, with the number of claims expected to continue to increase as the litigation progresses. 

UK equal pay law provides that an employee is entitled to the same terms in relation to pay as those of a comparator of the opposite sex in the 
same employment if they are employed to do work of equal value. The legislation achieves this by implying a clause into the contract of 
employment, which has the effect of importing into the employee’s contract the more favourable term(s) of the comparator. 

Equal pay claims are typically heard in three stages and the claimants have to win at every stage in order to succeed. The first stage is 
comparability, which is effectively a technical gateway to the claims proceeding. The claimants have to show that there is a valid basis in law for 
comparing their pay and the pay of any comparator. One of the legal bases here is that pay terms are set by the same body. Following a European 
court ruling on this, TSL has made a concession on comparability. 

The second and third stages are an equal value assessment and the consideration of TSL’s material factor defences (non-discriminatory reasons 
for differentials in pay terms) to any claims which succeed at the equal value assessment stage. Completion of these two stages is a lengthy 
process and likely to take many years with hearings and appeals a part of that process. A final date is impossible to predict with any certainty and 
any final decision may be delayed further by any final appeals. 

At present, the total number of Equal Pay Claims that may be received, the merits, and likely outcome of those claims and of TSL’s defences to 
them, and the potential impact on the Group, are subject to various and substantial uncertainties. There are multiple factual and legal defences 
to these claims and the Group intends to defend them vigorously, while at the same time taking appropriate steps to mitigate the risks. The 
Group therefore cannot make an assessment of the likely outcome of the litigation, or the potential quantum of its liability or the potential impact 
on the Group at this stage. Depending on the outcome at the various stages of the Equal Pay Claims, and dependent on the number of any 
ultimately successful claims, the potential quantum of its liability could be material. 

There are a number of other contingent liabilities that arise in the normal course of business, which if realised, are not expected to result in a 
material liability to the Group. 

Note 35 Events after the reporting period 
On 27 February, the Group issued a €500m and a £250m bond, maturing 2031 and 2035 respectively. There
reporting period requiring disclosure. 

were no other events after the 

190

Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2023
190 

Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2023 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Tesco PLC – Parent Company balance sheet 

Non–current assets 
Investments 
Receivables 
Derivative financial instruments 

Current assets 
Receivables 
Cash on hand 
Derivative financial instruments 

Current liabilities 
Payables 
Borrowings 

Net current assets/(liabilities) 

Non–current liabilities 
Payables  
Borrowings 
Derivative financial instruments 
Deferred tax liabilities  

Net assets 
Equity 
Share capital 
Share premium 
Other reserves 
Retained earnings (including profit/(loss) for the financial year of £2,064m (2022: £31m)) 
Total equity 

The notes on pages 193 to 198 form part of these financial statements. 

Financial statements 

25 February 
2023 
£m 

26 February  
2022 
£m 

Notes 

6 
7 
11 

7 

11 

8 
10 

8 
10 
11 
9 

14 

14 

16,970 
234 
935 
18,139 

860 
103 
2 
965 

(244) 
(141) 
(385) 
580 

(2,132) 
(1,450) 
(5) 
(19) 
(3,606) 
15,113 

463 
5,165 
2,793 
6,692 
15,113 

17,013 
261 
1,069 
18,343 

518 
29 
– 
547 

(763) 
(50) 
(813) 
(266) 

(1,831) 
(1,433) 
(86) 
(32) 
(3,382) 
14,695 

484 
5,165 
2,804 
6,242 
14,695 

Ken Murphy 
Directors 

Imran Nawaz 

The Parent Company financial statements on pages 191 to 198 were approved and authorised for issue by the Directors on 12 April 2023. 

Tesco PLC  
Registered number 00445790 

Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2023 

Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2023
191 

191

Financial statements 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Tesco PLC – Parent Company statement of changes in equity 

At 26 February 2022 
Profit/(loss) for the year 
Other comprehensive income/(loss)  
Gains/(losses) on cash flow hedges 
Cash flow hedges reclassified and reported in the Company 
income statement 
Tax relating to components of other comprehensive income 
(Note 9) 
Total other comprehensive income/(loss) 
Total comprehensive income/(loss) 
Transactions with owners 
Own shares purchased for cancellation 
Own shares cancelled 
Own shares purchased for share schemes 
Share-based payments  
Dividends 
Total transactions with owners  
At 25 February 2023 

At 27 February 2021 
Profit/(loss) for the year 
Other comprehensive income/(loss)  
Gains/(losses) on cash flow hedges 
Cash flow hedges reclassified and reported in the Company 
income statement 
Tax relating to components of other comprehensive income 
Total other comprehensive income/(loss) 
Total comprehensive income/(loss) 
Transactions with owners 
Own shares purchased for cancellation 
Own shares cancelled 
Own shares purchased for share schemes 
Share-based payments  
Dividends 
Total transactions with owners  
At 26 February 2022 

Share capital 
(Note 14)  
£m 
484 
– 

Share premium 
£m 
5,165 
– 

 Other reserves 
(Note 14) 
£m 
2,804 
– 

Retained earnings 
£m 
6,242 
2,064 

Total equity 
£m 
14,695 
2,064 

– 
– 

– 

– 
– 

– 
(21) 
– 
– 
– 
(21) 
463 

– 
– 

– 

– 
– 

– 
– 
– 
– 
– 
– 
5,165 

7 
(58) 

13 

(38) 
(38) 

(758) 
816 
(188) 
157 
– 
27 
2,793 

– 
– 

– 

– 
2,064 

– 
(795) 
– 
39 
(858) 
(1,614) 
6,692 

7 
(58) 

13 

(38) 
2,026 

(758) 
– 
(188) 
196 
(858) 
(1,608) 
15,113 

Share capital 
(Note 14) 
£m 
490 
– 

Share premium 
£m 
5,165 
– 

Other reserves 
(Note 14) 
£m 
2,972 
– 

Retained earnings 
£m 
7,130 
31 

Total equity 
£m 
15,757 
31 

– 
– 

– 
– 
– 

– 
(6) 
– 
– 
– 
(6) 
484 

– 
– 

– 
– 
– 

– 
– 
– 
– 
– 
– 
5,165 

31 
(18) 

(10) 
3 
3 

(301) 
270 
(279) 
139 
– 
(171) 
2,804 

– 
– 

– 
– 
31 

– 
(264) 
– 
49 
(704) 
(919) 
6,242 

31 
(18) 

(10) 
3 
34 

(301) 
– 
(279) 
188 
(704) 
(1,096) 
14,695 

The Company has considered the profits available for distribution to shareholders. At 25 February 2023, the Company had retained earnings of 
£6.7bn (2022: £6.2bn), of which the unrealised profit elements are £1.7bn (2022: £1.7bn) of share-based payment reserves and £0.7bn (2022: 
£0.7bn) of dividends received from subsidiary undertakings not yet settled by qualifying consideration. After deducting the cost of its own shares 
held in trust of £0.4bn (2022: £0.4bn), the Company had profits available for distribution of £3.9bn (2022: £3.4bn). 

The notes on pages 193 to 198 form part of these financial statements. 

192

Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2023
192 

Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2023 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Notes to the Parent Company financial statements 

Note 1 Authorisation of financial statements 
and statement of compliance with FRS 101 
The Parent Company financial statements for the 52 weeks ended 
February 2023 were approved by the Board of Directors on 
25
12
April 2023 and the Company balance sheet was signed on the
Board’s behalf by Ken Murphy and Imran Nawaz. 

These financial statements were prepared in accordance with 
Financial Reporting Standard 101, ‘Reduced Disclosure Framework’ 
(FRS 101). The Company meets the definition of a qualifying entity 
under FRS 100, ‘Application of Financial Reporting Requirements’ 
as

issued by the Financial Reporting Council. 

The Company’s financial statements are presented in Pounds Sterling, 
its functional currency, generally rounded to the nearest

million. 

The principal accounting policies adopted by the Company are 
set
out in Note 2. The financial statements have been prepared 
under the historical cost convention, except for certain financial 
instruments and share-based payments that have been 
measured

fair value. 

at

Note 2 Accounting policies 
Basis of preparation of financial statements 
The Parent Company financial statements have been prepared in 
accordance with FRS 101 and the Companies Act 2006 (the Act).  

FRS 101 sets out a reduced disclosure framework for a ‘qualifying 
entity’ as defined in the standard, which addresses the financial 
reporting requirements and disclosure exemptions in the 
individual
financial statements of qualifying entities that otherwise 
apply the recognition, measurement and disclosure requirements 
of

adopted

IFRS. 

The financial year represents the 52 weeks to 25 February 2023 
(prior financial year 52 weeks to 26 February 2022). 

As permitted by FRS 101, the Company has taken advantage of the 
disclosure exemptions available under that standard in relation to 
business combinations, financial instruments, capital management, 
presentation of comparative information in respect of certain 
assets, presentation of a cash flow statement, impairment of 
assets,
share-based payments and related party transactions. The 
Company has also taken advantage of the exemption in relation to 
disclosure of the possible impact of the application of a new IFRS 
that has been issued but is not yet effective. Where required, 
equivalent disclosures are given in the consolidated
statements of Tesco PLC. 

financial 

The Parent Company financial statements are prepared on a going 
concern basis as set out in Note 1 of the consolidated Group financial 
statements of Tesco PLC. 

The Directors have taken advantage of the exemption available under 
section 408 of the Companies Act 2006 and not presented an 
income statement or a statement of comprehensive income for
the

Company alone. 

A summary of the Company’s significant accounting policies is set 
out below. 

Investments in subsidiaries and joint ventures 
Investments in subsidiaries and joint ventures are stated at cost less, 
where appropriate, provisions for impairment. The Company tests 
the investment balances for impairment annually or when there are 
indicators of impairment.  

Foreign currencies 
Transactions in foreign currencies are translated to the functional 
currency at the exchange rate on the date of the transaction. 
At
each balance sheet date, monetary assets and liabilities that are 
denominated in foreign currencies are retranslated to the functional 
currency at the rates prevailing on the balance sheet date. 

Financial statements 

Share-based payments 
The fair value of employee share option plans is calculated at 
the
grant date using the Black-Scholes model. The
charged to the Company income statement over
The value of the charge is adjusted to reflect expected and actual 
levels of vesting. Where the Company awards shares or options to 
employees of subsidiary entities, this is treated as a capital 
contribution. 

resulting cost is 
the

vesting period. 

Own shares held 
Own shares represent the shares of Tesco PLC that are held by the 
Tesco International Employee Benefit Trust, or which are purchased 
and held for cancellation as part of the share buyback programme. 
The Company adopts a
accounts for the Trust as an extension of the Company. Shares 
purchased for cancellation are included in own shares held until 
cancellation, at which point they are transferred to retained earnings. 
Own shares held can include equity elements of forward contracts 
where the Group has an obligation to purchase its own shares. 

‘look-through’ approach which, in substance, 

Financial instruments 
Financial assets and financial liabilities are recognised in the 
Company balance sheet when the Company becomes party to 
the

contractual provisions of the instrument. 

Receivables 
Receivables are recognised initially at fair value, and subsequently 
at
expected credit losses. 

amortised cost using the effective interest rate method, less any 

Financial liabilities and equity instruments  
Financial liabilities and equity instruments are classified according 
the substance of the contractual arrangements entered into. 
to
An
equity instrument is any contract that gives a residual interest in 
the assets of the Company after deducting all of its liabilities. Equity 
instruments issued by the Company are recorded as the proceeds 
received, net of direct issue costs. 

Interest-bearing borrowings 
Interest-bearing bank loans and overdrafts are initially recognised at 
fair value and net of attributable transaction costs. Subsequent to 
initial recognition, interest-bearing borrowings are stated at amortised 
cost with any differences between proceeds and redemption value 
being recognised in the Company income statement over the period 
of

the borrowings on an effective interest basis.  

Payables 
Payables are recognised initially at fair value and subsequently at 
amortised cost using the effective interest rate method. 

Derivative financial instruments and hedge accounting 
The Company uses derivative financial instruments to hedge its 
exposure to foreign exchange and interest rate risks arising from 
operating, financing and investing activities. The Company does not 
hold or issue derivative financial instruments for trading purposes. 

Derivative financial instruments are recognised and stated at fair 
value. Where derivatives do not qualify for hedge accounting, any 
gains or losses on remeasurement are immediately recognised in 
the
Company income statement. Where derivatives qualify for hedge 
accounting, recognition of any resultant gain or loss depends on the 
nature of the hedge relationship and the item being hedged. In order 
to qualify for hedge accounting, the Company is required to 
document from inception, the relationship between the item 
being

hedged and the hedging instrument. 

Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2023 

Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2023
193 

193

Financial statements 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Notes to the Parent Company financial statements continued 

Note 2 Accounting policies continued 
The Company is also required to document and demonstrate an 
assessment of the relationship between the hedged item and the 
hedging instrument, which shows that the hedge will be highly effective 
on an ongoing basis. This effectiveness testing is performed at each 
reporting date to ensure that the hedge remains highly effective. 

Derivative financial instruments with maturity dates of more than 
one year from the reporting date are disclosed as non-current. 

Fair value hedging 
Derivative financial instruments are classified as fair value hedges 
when they hedge the Company’s exposure to changes in the fair 
value of a recognised asset or liability. Changes in the fair value of 
derivatives that are designated and qualify as fair value hedges are 
recorded in the Company income statement, together with any 
changes in the fair value of the hedged item that are attributable 
to

the hedged risk.  

Taxation 
The tax expense included in the Company income statement 
consists of current and deferred tax. 

Current tax is the expected tax payable on the taxable income for
the financial year, using tax rates enacted or substantively enacted
by the balance sheet date. Tax expense is recognised in the 
Company income statement except to the extent that it relates 
items recognised in the Company statement of comprehensive 
to
income or directly in the Company statement of changes in equity, 
in
which case it is recognised in the Company statement of 
comprehensive income or directly in the Company statement 
of

changes in equity, respectively. 

Deferred tax is provided using the balance sheet liability method, 
providing for temporary differences between the carrying amounts 
of assets and liabilities for financial reporting purposes and the 
amounts used for taxation purposes. 

Deferred tax is calculated at the tax rates that are expected to apply 
in the period when the liability is settled or the asset realised,
based 
on the tax rates that have been enacted or substantively enacted by 
the balance sheet date. Deferred tax is charged or credited in the 
Company income statement, except when it relates
charged or credited directly to equity or other comprehensive 
income/(loss), in which case the deferred tax
equity, or other comprehensive income/(loss), respectively. 

is also recognised in 

to items 

Judgements and sources of estimation uncertainty 
The preparation of the Company financial statements requires 
management to make judgements, estimates and assumptions 
in
applying the Company’s accounting policies to determine the 
reported amounts of assets, liabilities, income and expenses.  

The estimates and associated assumptions are based on historical 
experience and various other factors that are believed to be 
reasonable under the circumstances. Actual results may differ 
from
are
estimates applied prospectively. 

these estimates. The estimates and underlying assumptions 

reviewed on an ongoing basis, with revisions to accounting 

The preparation of the Company financial statements for the 
financial year did not require the exercise of any critical accounting
judgements or significant estimates.  

New standards and amendments effective for the 
current financial year 
New standards, interpretations and amendments effective in the 
current financial year have not had a material impact on the 
Company. 

Note 3 Auditor remuneration 
Fees payable to the Company’s auditor for the audit of the Company 
and Group financial statements are disclosed in Note 3 to
the Group 
financial statements. 

Note 4 Dividends 
For details of dividends see Note 8 to the Group financial

statements. 

If the hedge no longer meets the criteria for hedge accounting, 
the
adjustment to the carrying amount of a hedged item is 
amortised
period to

the Company income statement over the remaining

to
maturity. 

Cash flow hedging 
Derivative financial instruments are classified as cash flow hedges 
when they hedge the Company’s exposure to variability in cash flows 
that are either attributable to a particular risk associated with a 
recognised asset or liability, or a highly probable forecasted 
transaction. The effective element of any gain or loss from 
remeasuring the derivative designated as the hedging instrument 
is
income and accumulated in the hedging reserve. Any cost of 
hedging, such as the change in fair value related to forward points 
and currency basis adjustment is separately accumulated in the 
cost
immediately in the Company income statement. 

recognised directly in the Company statement of comprehensive 

of hedging reserve. The ineffective element is recognised 

The associated cumulative gain or loss is reclassified from other
comprehensive income and recognised in the Company income 
statement in the same period or periods during which the
transaction affects the Company income statement. The 
classification of the effective portion when recognised in the 
Company income statement is the same as the classification of 
the
of the derivative instrument that does not meet the criteria for an 
effective hedge is recognised immediately in the Company income 
statement within finance income or costs. 

hedged transaction. Any element of the remeasurement criteria 

hedged 

Hedge accounting is discontinued when the hedging instrument 
expires or is sold, terminated or exercised, or no longer qualifies 
hedge accounting. At that point in time, any cumulative gain or 
for
loss on the hedging instrument recognised in equity is retained in 
the
Company statement of changes in equity until the forecasted 
transaction occurs or the original hedged item affects the Company 
income statement. If a forecast hedged transaction is
longer 
expected to occur, the net cumulative gain or loss recognised in 
the
Company income statement. 

Company statement of changes in equity is reclassified to the 

no

Pensions 
The Company participates in a Group defined benefit pension 
scheme which is closed to future accrual. The net defined benefit 
cost and deficit/surplus for the scheme are borne and recognised by 
another Group company, Tesco Stores Limited, as per the stated 
policy of the Group. The Company also participates in a defined 
contribution scheme open to all UK employees. Payments to this 
scheme are recognised as an expense as they fall due. 

194

Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2023
194 

Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2023 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Note 5 Employment costs, including Directors’ remuneration 

Wages and salaries 
Social security costs 
Pension costs 
Share-based payments expense 
Total 

Financial statements 

Notes 

13 
12 

2023 
£m 
12 
2 
1 
9 
24 

2022 
£m 
13 
2 
1 
3 
19 

The amounts above include recharges from other Group companies for Tesco PLC-related activities. 

The average number of employees (all Directors of the Company) during the financial year was 12 (2022: 13). 

The Schedule 5 requirements of SI 2008/410 for Directors’ remuneration are included within the Directors’ remuneration report on pages 77 to 
101. 

Note 6 Investments 

Cost 
At 26 February 2022 
Capital contributions 
Return of capital contributions 
At 25 February 2023 

Accumulated impairment losses 
At 26 February 2022 and at 25 February 2023 

Net carrying value 
At 25 February 2023 
At 26 February 2022 

There were no impairments or disposals in the current financial year. 

The list of the Company’s subsidiary undertakings and joint ventures is shown on pages 199 to 203. 

Note 7 Receivables 

Amounts owed by Group undertakings* 
Other receivables 
Total receivables 
Of which: 
Current 
Non-current 

*  Amounts owed by Group undertakings are interest-bearing, with interest rates ranging from 4.4% to 6.0% and with maturities up to and including March 2025. 

The expected credit loss on receivables is immaterial (2022: immaterial). 

Note 8 Payables 

Amounts owed to Group undertakings* 
Other payables 
Taxation and social security 
Total payables 
Of which: 
Current 
Non-current 

*  Amounts owed to Group undertakings are interest-bearing, with interest rates ranging from 2.7% to 5.2% and with maturities up to and including February 2051. 

2023 
£m 

17,926 
96 
(139) 
17,883 

(913) 

16,970 
17,013 

2022 
£m 
760 
19 
779 

518 
261 
779 

2022 
£m 
2,487 
105 
2 
2,594 

763 
1,831 
2,594 

2023 
£m 
1,072 
22 
1,094 

860 
234 
1,094 

2023 
£m 
2,302 
71 
3 
2,376 

244 
2,132 
2,376 

Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2023 

Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2023
195 

195

Financial statements 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Notes to the Parent Company financial statements continued 

Note 9 Taxation 

The deferred tax liability recognised by the Company, and the movements thereon, during the current financial year are as follows: 

At 26 February 2022 
Movement in other comprehensive income for the year 
At 25 February 2023 

Note 10 Borrowings 

Bank loans and overdrafts 
LPI and RPI-linked bonds* 

3.322% LPI MTN 
1.982% RPI MTN 
Other borrowings 

5% MTN 
6% MTN 
5.5% MTN 
6.15% USD Bond 
4.875% MTN 
5.125% MTN 
5.2% MTN 

Of which: 
Current 
Non-current 

Par value 

Maturity 

£392m 
£346m 

Nov 2025 
Mar 2036 

£71m 
£38m 
£67m 
$355m 
£14m 
€235m 
£14m 

Mar 2023 
Dec 2029 
Jan 2033 
Nov 2037 
Mar 2042 
Apr 2047 
Mar 2057 

Financial 
instruments 
£m 
(32) 
13 
(19) 

2022 
£m 
25 

377 
312 

77 
44 
79 
338 
14 
203 
14 
1,483 

50 
1,433 
1,483 

2023 
£m 
43 

396 
349 

75 
43 
78 
366 
14 
213 
14 
1,591 

141 
1,450 
1,591 

*  These bonds are redeemable at par, indexed for increases in the RPI over the life of the MTN. However, for the LPI-linked bond, the maximum indexation of the principal in any one year is 5%, with 

a minimum of 0%. For the RPI-linked bond, refer to Note 27 of the Group financial statements. 

Note 11 Derivative financial instruments 

Fair value hedges 
Interest rate swaps and similar 
instruments 
Cash flow hedges 
Index-linked swaps 
Derivatives not in a formal hedge 
relationship 
Cross-currency swaps 
Index-linked swaps 
Interest rate swaps and similar 
instruments 
Total 

2023 

2022 

Asset 

Liability 

Asset 

Liability 

Fair value 
£m 

Notional 

£m   

Fair value 
£m 

Notional 

£m   

Fair value 
£m 

Notional 

£m   

Fair value 
£m 

Notional 
£m 

2 

65   

235 

738   

170 
530 
– 

937 

404   
3,089   
–   

4,296   

– 

– 

(5) 
– 
– 

(5) 

–   

–   

100   
–   
– 

100   

5 

65   

231 

683   

197 
636 
– 

447   
3,089   
–   

1,069 

4,284   

– 

– 

– 
– 
(86) 

(86) 

– 

– 

15 
– 
1 

16 

Note 12 Share-based payments 
The Company’s equity-settled share-based payment schemes comprise various share schemes designed to reward Executive Directors.  

For further information on these schemes, including the valuation models and assumptions used, refer to Note 28 of the Group financial statements. 

Share option schemes  
The number of options and weighted average exercise price (WAEP) of share option schemes relating to the Company employees are: 

For the 52 weeks ended 25 February 2023 

Outstanding at 26 February 2022 
Granted 
Forfeited 
Exercised 
Outstanding at 25 February 2023 
Exercise price range (pence) 
Weighted average remaining contractual life (years) 
Exercisable at 25 February 2023 
Exercise price range (pence) 
Weighted average remaining contractual life (years) 

Savings-related 
Share Option Scheme 

Nil cost 
share options 

Options 
– 
9,890 
– 
– 
9,890 
– 
– 
– 

WAEP   
–   
182.00   
–   
–   
182.00   
–   
3.52   
–   
–   
–   

Options 
– 
– 
– 
– 
– 
– 
– 
– 

WAEP 
– 
– 
– 
– 
– 
– 
– 
– 
– 
– 

196

Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2023
196 

Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2023 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
   
 
   
 
 
 
   
 
   
 
   
 
 
 
   
 
   
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
For the 52 weeks ended 26 February 2023 

Outstanding at 27 February 2021 
Granted 
Forfeited 
Exercised 
Outstanding at 26 February 2022 
Exercise price range (pence) 
Weighted average remaining contractual life (years) 
Exercisable at 26 February 2022 
Exercise price range (pence) 
Weighted average remaining contractual life (years) 

Financial statements 

Savings-related 
Share Option Scheme 

Nil cost 
share options 

Options 
9,574 
– 
(1,596) 
(7,978) 
– 
– 
– 
– 

Options 
3,140,804 
82,736 
– 
(3,223,540) 
– 
– 
– 
– 

WAEP   
188.00   
–   
188.00   
188.00   
–   
–   
–   
–   
–   
–   

WAEP 
– 
– 
– 
– 
– 
– 
– 
– 
– 
– 

Share bonus and incentive schemes 
Executive Directors participate in the Group Bonus Plan, a performance-related bonus scheme. The amount paid is based on a percentage of 
salary and is paid partly in cash and partly in shares. Bonuses are awarded to Executive Directors who have completed a required service period 
and depend on the achievement of the corporate and individual performance targets. For further information on these schemes, including the 
valuation models and assumptions used, refer to Note 28 of the Group financial statements. 

The number and weighted average fair value (WAFV) of share bonuses granted during the financial year were: 

Group Bonus Plan 
Performance Share Plan 
Joining award* 

2023 

Number  
of shares 
810,608 
2,252,917 
– 

WAFV  
pence   
274.10   
255.40   
–   

2022 

Number  
of shares 
– 
2,672,421 
2,336,887 

WAFV  
pence 
– 
222.47 
223.35 

*  Joining award granted during the prior financial year to Executive Directors under Listing Requirement 9.4.2. 

Note 13 Pensions 
The total cost of participation in the Tesco Retirement Savings Plan (a defined contribution scheme) to the Company was £1m (2022: £1m). Further 
disclosure relating to all schemes can be found in Note 29 to the Group financial statements. 

Note 14 Called-up share capital and reserves 
Refer to Note 30 of the Group financial statements. 

Other reserves 
The table below sets out the movements in other reserves: 

At 26 February 2022 
Other comprehensive income/(loss)  
Gains/(losses) on cash flow hedges 
Cash flow hedges reclassified and reported in the Company income 
statement 
Tax relating to components of other comprehensive income (Note 9) 
Total other comprehensive income/(loss) 
Transactions with owners 
Own shares purchased for cancellation  
Own shares cancelled 
Own shares purchased for share schemes 
Share-based payments 
Total transactions with owners  
At 25 February 2023 

Capital 
redemption 
reserve 
£m 
22 

Hedging reserve 
£m 
97 

Own shares held 
£m 
(365) 

Merger reserve 
£m 
3,050 

– 
– 

– 
– 

– 
21 
– 
– 
21 
43 

7 
(58) 

13 
(38) 

– 
– 
– 
– 
– 
59 

– 
– 

– 
– 

(758) 
795 
(188) 
157 
6 
(359) 

– 
– 

– 
– 

– 
– 
– 
– 
– 
3,050 

Total 
£m 
2,804 

7 
(58) 

13 
(38) 

(758) 
816 
(188) 
157 
27 
2,793 

Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2023 

Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2023
197 

197

Financial statements 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Notes to the Parent Company financial statements continued 

Note 14 Called-up share capital and reserves continued 

At 27 February 2021 
Other comprehensive income/(loss)  
Gains/(losses) on cash flow hedges 
Cash flow hedges reclassified and reported in the Company income 
statement 
Tax relating to components of other comprehensive income 
Total other comprehensive income/(loss) 
Transactions with owners 
Own shares purchased for cancellation  
Own shares cancelled 
Own shares purchased for share schemes 
Share-based payments 
Total transactions with owners  
At 26 February 2022 

Note 15 Contingent liabilities and guarantees 
Contingent liabilities 
Refer to Note 34 of the Group financial statements. 

Capital 
redemption 
reserve 
£m 
16 

Hedging reserve 
£m 
94 

Own shares held 
£m 
(188) 

Merger reserve 
£m 
3,050 

– 
– 

– 
– 

– 
6 
– 
– 
6 
22 

31 
(18) 

(10) 
3 

– 
– 
– 
– 
– 
97 

– 
– 

– 
– 

(301) 
264 
(279) 
139 
(177) 
(365) 

– 
– 

– 
– 

– 
– 
– 
– 
– 
3,050 

Total 
£m 
2,972 

31 
(18) 

(10) 
3 

(301) 
270 
(279) 
139 
(171) 
2,804 

Guarantees 
The Company has entered into financial guarantee contracts to guarantee indebtedness held on the balance sheets of Group undertakings 
amounting to £3.4bn (2022:
liability position at the reporting date total £0.2bn (2022: £0.1bn).  

£3.5bn). The Company has also guaranteed derivative agreements of Group undertakings, of which those in a net 

In addition, the Company has guaranteed the rental payments of certain Group undertakings relating to a portfolio of retail stores, distribution 
centres and mixed-use retail developments amounting to £5.1bn (2022: £5.6bn). 

The Company has also guaranteed £0.9bn (2022: £0.9bn) drawn by Tesco Bank under the Bank of England’s Term Funding Scheme with incentives 
for small and medium-sized enterprises (TFSME). 

The likelihood of the above items being called upon is considered remote. 

Note 16 Events after the reporting period 
On 27 February 2023, a subsidiary of the Company issued a €500m and a £250m bond, maturing 2031 and 2035 respectively, which have been 
were no other events after the reporting period requiring disclosure.
guaranteed by the Company. There

198

Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2023
198 

Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2023 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Related undertakings of the Tesco Group 

Financial statements 

In accordance with section 409 of the Companies Act 2006 and Schedule 4 of The Large and Medium-sized Companies and Groups 
(Accounts
and Reports) Regulations 2008, a full list of related undertakings, registered office address and the percentage of share class owned as 
at 26 February 2023 are disclosed below. Changes to the list of related undertakings since the year-end date are detailed in the footnotes below. 
All undertakings are indirectly owned by Tesco PLC unless otherwise stated. 

Subsidiary undertakings incorporated in the United

Kingdom 

Name of undertaking 

Acklam Management Company 
Limited 
Armitage Finance Unlimited  
Bath Upper Bristol Road 
Management Company Limited 
Berry Lane Management 
Company Limited 
BF Limited  

Bishop’s Group Limited  
Booker Cash & Carry Limited  
Booker Direct Limited  
Booker Group Limited  

Booker Limited 
Booker Retail Partners (GB) 
Limited  
Booker Retail Limited  
Booker Pension Trustees Limited  
Booker Wholesale Holdings 
Limited  
Booker Unapproved Scheme 
Trustees Ltd 
Bourne End Residential 
Management Company Limited 
Broughton Retail Park Nominee 1 
Limited 
Broughton Retail Park Nominee 2 
Limited 
Broughton Retail Park Nominee 3 
Limited 
Broughton Retail Park Nominee 4 
Limited 
Budgen Holdings Limited  
Budgens Pension Trustees No.2 
Limited 
Budgens Property Investments 
Limited 
Budgens Stores Limited  
Buttoncase Limited† 

Canterbury Road Management 
Limited 
Cardiff Cathays Terrace 
Management Company Limited 
Day And Nite Stores Limited 

Dillons Newsagents Limited*  
dunnhumby International Limited  
dunnhumby Limited 

dunnhumby Overseas Limited  
dunnhumby Trustees Limited  
Giant Bidco Limited  
Giant Booker Limited  
Giant Midco Limited  
Highams Green Management 
Company Limited 
IRTH (15) Limited  
IRTH (19) Limited  

Launchgrain Limited† 

Linnco Limited  

Registered 
address 

1  

1  
1  

1  

8  

8  
8  
8  
8  

8  
8  

8  
8  
8  

8  

1  

1  

1  

1  

1  

8 
8  

8  

8  
1  

1  

1  

Class of share held 

Limited by Guarantee 

GBP0.90 Ordinary  
Limited by Guarantee  

Limited by Guarantee  

GBP0.000000011111111 
Ordinary  
GBP0.01 Ordinary  
GBP1.00 Ordinary  
GBP0.01 Ordinary  
GBP0.00000000055625 
Ordinary 
GBP1.00 Ordinary  
GBP1.00 Ordinary  

GBP0.10 Ordinary  
Limited by Guarantee  
GBP0.01 Ordinary A1  

Limited by Guarantee  

Limited by Guarantee  

GBP1.00 Ordinary  

GBP1.00 Ordinary  

GBP1.00 Ordinary  

GBP1.00 Ordinary  

GBP1.00 Ordinary  
GBP1.00 Ordinary  

GBP1.00 Ordinary  

GBP1.00 Ordinary  
GBP1.00 2% Cumulative  
Redeemable Preference 
GBP1.00 Ordinary  
Limited by Guarantee  

Limited by Guarantee  

2  

GBP1.00 Cumulative 
Convertible Participating 
Preferred Ordinary 
GBP1.00 Cumulative  
Redeemable Preference 
GBP1.00 Ordinary  
2   GBP0.25 Non–Voting Ordinary 
GBP1.00 Ordinary  
4  
GBP0.05 Ordinary 
4 
GBP0.10 A Ordinary 
GBP0.10 Deferred  
GBP1.00 Ordinary  
GBP1.00 Ordinary  
GBP1.00 Ordinary  
GBP0.0025 Ordinary  
GBP1.00 Ordinary  
Limited by Guarantee 

4  
4  
8  
8  
8  
1  

% held by 
Group 

 – 

100 
– 

– 

100 

100 
100 
100 
100 

100 
100 

100 
– 
100 

– 

– 

100 

100 

100 

100 

100 
100 

100 

100 
100 

100 
– 

– 

100 

100 

100 
100 
100 
100 
100 
100 
100 
100 
100 
100 
100 
 – 

100 
100 

8  
8  

1  

8  

GBP1.00 Ordinary  
USD0.000000052383172 
Ordinary 

GBP1.00 Ordinary 

GBP1.00 Ordinary  

100 

100 

Name of undertaking 
Londis (Holdings) Limited  
Londis Pension Trustees Limited  
Makro Holding Limited  
Makro Properties Limited  
Makro Self Service Wholesalers 
Limited 
Maldon Finance Limited  

Murdoch Norton Limited 
Oakwood Distribution Limited  
One Stop Community Stores 
Limited 
One Stop Convenience Stores 
Limited 
One Stop Stores Limited†(a)  
One Stop Stores Trustee Services 
Limited 
Orpington (Station Road) Limited  
Oxford Fox and Hounds 
Management Company Limited 
PTLL Limited  
Reskammel Property Company 
Limited 
Ritter-Courivaud Limited  
Seacroft Green Nominee 1 Ltd 
Seacroft Green Nominee 2 Ltd  
Spen Hill Developments Limited  
Spen Hill Management Limited†(b)  
Spen Hill Properties (Holdings) 
plc† 
Spen Hill Regeneration Limited  
Spen Hill Residential No 1 Limited  
Spen Hill Residential No 2 Limited  
Station House Welling 
Management Limited 
Statusfloat Limited  
T&S Stores Limited†  
Tapesilver Limited†  
Teesport (GP) Limited  
Tesco (Overseas) Limited†  
Tesco Aqua (FinCo2) Limited  
Tesco Aqua (GP) Limited  

Tesco Aqua (Nominee 1) Limited  
Tesco Aqua (Nominee 2) Limited  
Tesco Aqua (Nominee Holdco) 
Limited 
Tesco Atrato (1LP) Limited  
Tesco Atrato (GP) Limited  

Tesco Atrato (Nominee 1) Limited  
Tesco Atrato (Nominee 2) Limited  
Tesco Atrato (Nominee Holdco) 
Limited 
Tesco Atrato Depot Propco 
Limited  
Tesco Blue (3LP) Limited  
Tesco Blue (GP) Limited  

Tesco Blue (Nominee 1) Limited 
Tesco Blue (Nominee 2) Limited  

Registered 
address 
8  
8  
8  
8  
8  

1  

Class of share held 
GBP50.00 Ordinary  
GBP1.00 Ordinary  
GBP1.00 Ordinary  
GBP1.00 Ordinary 
GBP1.00 Ordinary A 
GBP1.00 Ordinary B  
GBP0.01 Ordinary  
GBP0.000000000592 A 
Preference  
GBP0.000000000222 B 
Preference  
GBP0.000000000740 C 
Preference 
GBP0.05 Ordinary 
8 
1  
GBP1.00 Ordinary  
2   GBP0.00001200004 Ordinary 

2  

2  
2  

1  
1  

1  
1 

8  
1  
1  
1  
1  
1  

1  
1  
1  
1  

1  
2 
1  
1  
1  
1  
1  

1  
1  
1  

1  
1  

1  
1  
1  

1  

1  
1  

1  
1  

GBP1.00 Ordinary  

GBP1.00 Ordinary  
GBP1.00 Ordinary  

GBP1.00 Ordinary  
Limited by Guarantee  

GBP1.00 Ordinary  
GBP1.00 Ordinary 

GBP0.10 Ordinary  
GBP1.00 Ordinary  
GBP1.00 Ordinary 
GBP1.00 Ordinary  
GBP1.00 Ordinary  
GBP1.00 Ordinary  

GBP1.00 Ordinary  
GBP1.00 Ordinary  
GBP1.00 Ordinary  
Limited by Guarantee  

GBP1.00 Ordinary  
 GBP0.05 Ordinary  
GBP1.00 Ordinary  
GBP1.00 Ordinary  
GBP1.00 Ordinary  
GBP1.00 Ordinary  
GBP0.0001 A Ordinary  
GBP0.0001 B Ordinary  
GBP1.00 Ordinary  
GBP1.00 Ordinary  
GBP1.00 Ordinary  

GBP1.00 Ordinary  
GBP1.00 A Ordinary  
GBP1.00 B Ordinary  
GBP1.00 Ordinary  
GBP1.00 Ordinary  
GBP1.00 Ordinary  

GBP1.00 Ordinary  

GBP1.00 Ordinary  
GBP1.00 A Ordinary  
GBP1.00 B Ordinary  
GBP1.00 Ordinary  
GBP1.00 Ordinary  

% held by 
Group 
100 
100 
100 
100 
100 
100 
100 
100 

100 

100 

100 
100 
100 

100 

100 
100 

100 
– 

100 
100 

100 
100 
100 
100 
100 
100 

100 
100 
100 
– 

100 
100 
100 
100 
100 
100 
100 
100 
100 
100 
100 

100 
100 
100 
100 
100 
100 

100 

100 
100 
100 
100 
100 

Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2023 

Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2023
199 

199

Financial statements 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Related undertakings of the Tesco Group continued 

Subsidiary undertakings incorporated in the United Kingdom continued 

Name of undertaking 
Tesco Blue (Nominee Holdco) 
Limited 
Tesco Brislington Limited 
Tesco Corporate Treasury 
Services PLC† 
Tesco Bury Limited 
Tesco Depot Propco Limited  
Tesco Distribution Holdings 
Limited 
Tesco Distribution Limited  
Tesco Dorney (1LP) Limited  
Tesco Dorney (GP) Limited 

Tesco Dorney (Nominee 1) 
Limited  
Tesco Dorney (Nominee 2) 
Limited 
Tesco Dorney (Nominee Holdco) 
Limited 
Tesco Employees’ Share Scheme 
Trustees Limited†(c) 
Tesco Family Dining Limited  
Tesco Food Sourcing Limited  
Tesco Freetime Limited  
Tesco Fuchsia (3LP) Limited  
Tesco Gateshead Property 
Limited 
Tesco Holdings Limited†  

Tesco International Services 
Limited† 
Tesco Lagoon GP Limited  
Tesco Maintenance Limited  
Tesco Mobile Communications 
Limited† 
Tesco Mobile Services Limited  
Tesco Navona (1LP) Limited  
Tesco Navona (GP) Limited  

Tesco Navona (Nominee 1) 
Limited 
Tesco Navona (Nominee 2) 
Limited 
Tesco Navona (Nominee Holdco) 
Limited 
Tesco Navona PL Propco Limited  
Tesco Overseas Investments 
Limited† 
Tesco Passaic (1LP) Limited  
Tesco Passaic (GP) Limited  

Tesco Passaic (Nominee 1) 
Limited 
Tesco Passaic (Nominee 2) 
Limited 
Tesco Passaic (Nominee Holdco) 
Limited 
Tesco Passaic PL Propco Limited  
Tesco Pension Investment 
Limited(d) 
Tesco Pension Trustees Limited†  
Tesco Personal Finance Group 
PLC† 

Tesco Personal Finance PLC  
Tesco Property (Nominees) 
Limited 
Tesco Property (Nominees) 
(No.1) Limited 
Tesco Property (Nominees) 
(No.2) Limited 
Tesco Property Finance 1 Holdco 
Limited 
Tesco Property Finance 1 PLC  

Tesco Property Holdings (No.2) 
Limited 

Registered 
address 
1  

Class of share held 
GBP1.00 Ordinary  

% held by 
Group 
100 

1 
1  

1 
1  
1  

1  
1  
1 

1  

1  

1  

1  

1  
1  
1  
1  
1  

1  

1 

5  
1  
1  

1  
1  
1  

1  

1  

1  

1  
1  

1  
1  

1  

1  

1  

1  
1  

1  
6 

6  
11  

11  

11  

1  

1 

1  

GBP1.00 Ordinary 
GBP1.00 Ordinary  

GBP1.00 Ordinary 
GBP1.00 Ordinary  
GBP1.00 Ordinary  

GBP1.00 Ordinary  
GBP1.00 Ordinary  
GBP1.00 A Ordinary 
GBP1.00 B Ordinary  
GBP1.00 Ordinary  

GBP1.00 Ordinary  

GBP1.00 Ordinary  

GBP1.00 Ordinary  

GBP1.00 Ordinary  
GBP1.00 Ordinary  
GBP1.00 Ordinary  
GBP1.00 Ordinary  
GBP1.00 Ordinary  

GBP0.10 Ordinary 
GBP1.00 Preference  
GBP1.00 Ordinary  

GBP1.00 Ordinary  
GBP1.00 Ordinary  
GBP1.00 Ordinary  

GBP1.00 Ordinary  
GBP1.00 Ordinary  
GBP1.00 Ordinary A  
GBP1.00 Ordinary B  
GBP1.00 Ordinary  

GBP1.00 Ordinary  

GBP1.00 Ordinary  

GBP1.00 Ordinary  
GBP1.00 Ordinary  

GBP1.00 Ordinary  
GBP1.00 Ordinary A  
GBP1.00 Ordinary B  
GBP1.00 Ordinary  

GBP1.00 Ordinary  

GBP1.00 Ordinary  

GBP1.00 Ordinary  
GBP1.00 Ordinary  

GBP1.00 Ordinary  
GBP0.10 A Ordinary  

GBP0.10 B Ordinary  
GBP0.10 C Ordinary  
GBP0.10 Ordinary  
GBP1.00 Ordinary  

GBP1.00 Ordinary  

GBP1.00 Ordinary  

GBP1.00 Ordinary  

GBP1.00 Ordinary  
GBP0.25 Ordinary(e)  

GBP1.00 Ordinary  

100 
100 

100 
100 
100 

100 
100 
100 
100 
100 

100 

100 

100 

100 
100 
100 
100 
100 

100 
100 
100 

100 
100 
100 

100 
100 
100 
100 
100 

100 

100 

100 
100 

100 
100 
100 
100 

100 

100 

100 
100 

100 
100 

100 
100 
100 
100 

100 

100 

100 

100 
100 

100 

Name of undertaking 

Tesco Property Holdings Limited  

Tesco Property (Nominees) 
(No.3) Limited  

Tesco Property (Nominees) 
(No.4) Limited 

Tesco Property Nominees (No.5) 
Limited 

Tesco Property Nominees (No.6) 
Limited 

Tesco Property Partner (GP) 
Limited† 

Tesco Property Partner (GP 
No.2) Limited 
Tesco Property Partner (No.1) 
Limited† 

Tesco Property (Sparta 
Nominees) Limited 
Tesco Red (GP) Limited  

Tesco Red (Nominee 1) Limited  
Tesco Red (Nominee 2) Limited  
Tesco Red (Nominee Holdco) 
Limited 
Tesco Sarum (1LP) Limited  
Tesco Sarum (GP) Limited 

Tesco Sarum (Nominee 1) 
Limited  
Tesco Sarum (Nominee 2) 
Limited  
Tesco Sarum (Nominee Holdco) 
Limited 
Tesco Seacroft Ltd  
Tesco Secretaries Limited  
Tesco Services Limited  
Tesco Stores Limited  

Tesco TLB Properties Limited  

Tesco Underwriting Limited  

The Big Food Group Limited  
The Teesport Limited 
Partnership  
The Tesco Aqua Limited 
Partnership 
The Tesco Atrato Limited 
Partnership 
The Tesco Blue Limited 
Partnership 
The Tesco Dorney Limited 
Partnership 
The Tesco Navona Limited 
Partnership 
The Tesco Passaic Limited 
Partnership 
The Tesco Property Limited 
Partnership 
The Tesco Property (No.2) 
Limited Partnership 
The Tesco Red Limited 
Partnership 
The Tesco Sarum Limited 
Partnership 
TPI Fund Managers Limited  
TPT Holdco No.1 Limited  
Transcend Retail Solutions 
Limited(f) 
WBD (Chesterfield Management) 
Limited 
Weymouth Avenue (Dorchester) 
Limited 
Waterside General Partner 
Limited  

200

Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2023
200 

Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2023 

Class of share held 

GBP1.00 Ordinary  

GBP1.00 Ordinary 

% held by 
Group 

100 

100 

GBP1.00 Ordinary  

100 

GBP1.00 Ordinary  

100 

GBP1.00 Ordinary  

100 

Registered 
address 

1  

1  

1  

1  

1  

1 

1 

1 

1  

1  

1 

1 
1 

1  
1 

1 

1 

1 

1  
1  
1  
1  

1  

31  

8  
1  

1  

1  

1  

1  

1  

1  

1  

GBP1.00 A Ordinary 
GBP1.00 B Ordinary  

GBP1.00 A Ordinary  
GBP1.00 B Ordinary 

GBP1.00 Ordinary 

GBP1.00 Ordinary 

GBP0.00001 Ordinary A  

GBP0.00001 Ordinary B  

GBP1.00 Ordinary  

GBP1.00 Ordinary  
GBP1.00 Ordinary  

GBP1.00 Ordinary  
GBP1.00 Ordinary A 
GBP1.00 Ordinary B 
GBP1.00 Ordinary  

GBP1.00 Ordinary  

GBP1.00 Ordinary  

GBP1.00 Ordinary  
GBP1.00 Ordinary  
GBP1.00 Ordinary  
GBP1.00 Ordinary  
GBP1.00 A Preference  
GBP1.00 B Preference 
GBP0.0000001 A Ordinary  
GBP0.0000001 B Ordinary  
GBP1.00 A Ordinary 
GBP1.00 B Ordinary  
GBP0.10 Ordinary  
Limited Partnership  

Limited Partnership  

Limited Partnership  

Limited Partnership  

Limited Partnership  

Limited Partnership  

Limited Partnership  

Limited Partnership  

33  

Limited Partnership  

1  

1  

1  
1  
1 

78 

1  

13 

Limited Partnership  

Limited Partnership  

GBP1.00 Ordinary  
GBP1.00 Ordinary  
GBP1.00 Ordinary 

GBP1.00 Ordinary 

GBP1.00 Ordinary  

GBP1.00 Ordinary 

100 
100 

100 
100 

100 

100 

100 

100 

100 

100 
100 

100 
100 
100 
100 

100 

100 

100 
100 
100 
100 
100 
100 
100 
100 
100 
100 
100 
100 

100 

100 

100 

100 

100 

100 

100 

100 

100 

100 

100 
100 
100 

100 

100 

100 

  
  
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Financial statements 

Name of undertaking 
Tesco Sourcing Chile SpA 
Tesco Corporate Treasury 
Services Europe Designated 
Activity Company 
Tesco Franchise Stores ČR s.r.o.  
Tesco Franchise Stores SR s.r.o. 
Tesco-Global Stores Privately Held 
Company Limited 
Tesco Holdings B.V.  
Tesco International Clothing Brand 
s.r.o. 
Tesco International Franchising 
s.r.o. 
Tesco International Sourcing 
Limited 
Tesco Ireland Holdings Limited  
Tesco Ireland Limited  
Tesco Ireland Pension Trustees 
Limited 
Tesco Joint Buying Service 
(Shanghai) Co., Limited 
Tesco Mobile Ireland Limited  
Tesco Sourcing India Private 
Limited 
Tesco Stores ČR a.s.  
Tesco Stores SR, a.s.  
Tesco Technology and Services 
Europe sp. z o.o. 
Tesco Trustee Company of Ireland 
Limited† 
TESCO-BST Üzleti és Technológiai 
Szolgáltatások Zârtköruen Múködó 
Részvénytársaság 

Registered 
address 
22  
24 

Class of share held 
CLP482.69 Ordinary  
EUR1.00 Ordinary  

% held by 
Group 
100 
100 

7  
68 
32  

40  
58  

58  

20  

24  
24  
24  

76  

24  
41  

7  
58  
3 

24  

25  

CZK2,000,000 Ordinary  
EUR1.00 Ordinary  
HUF10 Common  

EUR1.00 Ordinary  
EUR1.00 Ordinary  

100 
100 
100 

100 
100 

EUR1.00 Ordinary  

100 

HKD10 Ordinary  

100 

EUR 0.00008 Ordinary  
EUR1.25 Ordinary  
EUR1.25 Ordinary  

100 
100 
100 

USD1.00 Ordinary  

100 

EUR1.00 Ordinary  
INR10 Ordinary  

CZK250 Ordinary  
EUR33,193.918875 Ordinary  
PLN50 Ordinary 

100 
100 

100 
100 
100 

EUR1.25 Ordinary  

100 

HUF100,000 Ordinary  

100 

International subsidiary undertakings

Name of undertaking 

Arena (Jersey) Management 
Limited† 
Cheshunt Holdings Guernsey 
Limited 
dunnhumby Korea Limited  
dunnhumby (Malaysia) Sdn Bhd  
dunnhumby (Thailand) Limited  
dunnhumby Australia Pty Ltd  
dunnhumby Brasil Consultoria Ltda  
dunnhumby Canada Limited  
dunnhumby Chile SpA  
dunnhumby Colombia S.A.S.  
dunnhumby Consulting Services 
India Private Limited  
dunnhumby Czech s.r.o. 

dunnhumby Denmark ApS  
dunnhumby Finland Oy  
dunnhumby France SAS  
dunnhumby Germany GmbH  
dunnhumby Hungary Kft 
dunnhumby Inc.  
dunnhumby Information 
Technology Consulting (Shanghai) 
Company Limited 
dunnhumby Ireland Limited  
dunnhumby IT Services India Private 
Limited  
dunnhumby Italia Srl.  
dunnhumby Japan K.K.  
dunnhumby México S. de R.L. de 
C.V.  
dunnhumby Netherlands B.V.  
dunnhumby New Zealand  
dunnhumby Norge A.S. 
dunnhumby Poland sp. z o.o.  
dunnhumby Singapore Pte Ltd  
dunnhumby SARL  
dunnhumby Serviços de Promoção 
Digital Ltda  
dunnhumby Slovakia s.r.o.  
dunnhumby Spain S.L. 
dunnhumby South Africa (Pty) Ltd  
dunnhumby Ventures LLC  
Edson Properties Limited  
ELH Insurance Limited  
Fiora Hypermarket Limited 

Fiora Online Limited 
Gresham Properties Limited 
Joyce’s Supermarkets (Oranmore) 
ULC 
Monread Developments Limited  
Nabola Development Limited  

Opal Jewel sp. z o.o. 
Shopping Mall Eden s.r.o. 
Tesco Akadémia Képzési és 
Fejlesztési Korátolt Felelősségű 
Társaság 
Tesco Bengaluru Private Limited  
Tesco Capital No. 1 Limited† 

Registered 
address 

33  

27  

Class of share held 

% held by 
Group 

GBP1.00 Ordinary  

100 

GBP1.00 Ordinary  

100 

KRW5,000 Ordinary  
66  
MYR1.00 Ordinary  
10  
THB100 Ordinary  
73  
AUD1.00 Ordinary  
65  
BRL1.00 Ordinary  
16  
CAD1.00 Ordinary  
59  
48  
CLP500,000 Ordinary  
74   COP0.1582528881 Ordinary  
INR1.00 Ordinary  
60  

7 

CZK200,000 Basic Business 
Share  
DKK1.00 Ordinary  
57  
EUR25 Ordinary  
30  
EUR2.00 Ordinary  
80  
14  
EUR1.00 Ordinary  
32   Registered capital HUF1.00 
35   No par value Common stock  
USD1.00 Ordinary 
62  

67  
36  

37  
38  
69  

70  
64  
56 
42  
19  
61  
16  

58  
50  
43  
44  
24  
71  
26 

26 
77 
79 

24  
24  

75 
7 
32  

EUR1.00 Ordinary  
INR 10.00 Ordinary  

EUR100,000 Quota  
JPY10,000 Ordinary  
MXN1,500 Common  

EUR100 Ordinary  
NZD1.00 Ordinary  
NOK100 Ordinary 
PLN50 Ordinary  
SGD1.00 Ordinary  
EUR100 Ordinary  
BRL1.00 Ordinary 

EUR5,000 Ordinary  
EUR1.00 Ordinary  
No par value Ordinary  
–  
EUR1.00 Ordinary  
GBP1.00 Ordinary  
INR10 Equity  
INR10 10% Non-Convertible 
Redeemable Preference 
INR10 0.10% Non-
Convertible Redeemable 
Preference 
NR10 Equity 
EUR1.00 Ordinary 
EUR1.00 Ordinary 

EUR0.001 Ordinary  
EUR1.25 A Ordinary  
EUR1.25 B Ordinary  
PLN50 Ordinary 
CZK100,000 Ordinary 
HUF1.00 Business Share  

41  
28  

INR10.00 Ordinary  
GBP0.50 A Ordinary  
GBP0.50 B Ordinary  
GBP0.01 Preference  
Guaranteed Cumulative 
Fixed Rate Preference 
  GBP0.01 Preferred Ordinary  

100 
100 
100 
100 
100 
100 
100 
100 
100 

100 

100 
100 
100 
100 
100 
100 
100 

100 
100 

100 
100 
100 

100 
100 
50 
100 
100 
100 
100 

100 
100 
100 
– 
100 
100 
100 
100 

100 

75 
100 
100 

100 
100 
100 
100 
100 
100 

100 
100 
100 
100 
100 

100 

Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2023 

Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2023
201 

201

Financial statements 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Related undertakings of the Tesco Group continued 

Subsidiary undertakings in liquidation 
The following subsidiary undertakings were incorporated in the 
United Kingdom 

Associated undertakings 
The following associated undertakings were incorporated in the 
United Kingdom 

Name of undertaking 
Alfred Preedy & Sons Limited(g) 

Buttoncable Limited(h)  
Comar Limited†(i) 
dunnhumby Holding Limited 
Paper Chain (East Anglia) Limited  
Reefknot Technology Limited 
Stewarts Supermarkets Limited† 
Tesco Aqua (3LP) Limited  
Tesco International Internet 
Retailing Limited† 
Tesco PEG Limited  
Tesco PENL Limited  
Tesco Property Partner (No.2) 
Limited 
Tesco Red (3LP) Limited(i) 
Tesco TLB Finance Limited(i) 

Registered 
address 

Class of share held 

% held by 
Group 

9 

GBP1.00 Deferred 
GBP1.00 Ordinary 
GBP1.00 Ordinary  
9  
GBP1.00 Ordinary  
9  
GBP1.00 Ordinary 
9 
USD0.001 Ordinary  
9  
GBP1.00 Ordinary 
9 
GBP1.00 Ordinary 
9 
9  
GBP1.00 Ordinary  
9  GBP0.0000013543 Ordinary 

9  
9  
1  

9  
9  

GBP0.01 Ordinary  
GBP1.00 Ordinary  
GBP0.000000660039866 
Ordinary  
GBP1.00 Ordinary  
GBP1.00 Ordinary  

100 
100 
100 
100 
100 
100 
100 
100 
100 
100 

100 
100 
100 

100 
100 

The following subsidiary undertakings were incorporated outside of 
the United Kingdom 

Name of undertaking 

Registered 
address 

dunnhumby Advertising 
(Shanghai) Co., Ltd(j) 
Dunnhumby Bilgisayar Bilişim 
Teknolojileri ve Danşmanlk Hizmetleri 
Limited Company(k) 
(Tasfiye Halinde Dunnhumby Bilgisayar 
Bilişim Teknolojileri ve Danşmanlk 
Hizmetleri Limited Şirketi) 
Patrick C. Joyce Supermarket 
(headford) ULC  
Sociomantic Labs Internet Services 
Limited Company(k)  
(Tasfiye Halinde Sociomantic Labs 
İnternet Hizmetleri Limited Şirketi) 
Sociomantic Labs Private Limited  

Tesco Capital No.2 Limited  

WSC Properties Limited 

23  

18 

77  

51 

46 

17  

24 

Class of share held 

EUR130,000 Registered 
Capital 
TRY25,000 Ordinary 

EUR1.25 Ordinary  

TRY25.00 Ordinary 

 INR10 Ordinary  
GBP0.01 Floating Rate 
Redeemable Preference  
GBP1.00 Ordinary 
EUR0.0000005 Ordinary 

% held by 
Group 

100 
100 

100 

100 

100 
100 

100 
100 

Name of undertaking 

Broadfields Management 
Limited 
Shire Park Limited 
Tesco Coral (GP) Limited*  
Tesco Coral (Nominee) Limited  
Tesco Jade (GP) Limited  

Tesco Jade (Nominee) Limited 
Tesco Mobile Limited*  

The Tesco Coral Limited 
Partnership 

Registered 
address 

12 

15 
1  
1  
29  

29 
1  

1  

Class of share held 

% held by 
Group 

 GBP0.10 Ordinary 

35.33 

 GBP1.00 Ordinary 
GBP1.00 A Ordinary  
GBP1.00 Ordinary  
GBP1.00 A Ordinary  
GBP1.00 B Ordinary  
GBP1.00 Ordinary 
GBP0.10 A Ordinary  
GBP0.90 B Ordinary  
Limited Partnership  

48.57 
100 
100 
30 
30 
30 
100 
100 
50.05 

The following associated undertakings were incorporated outside of 
the United Kingdom 

Name of undertaking 

The Arena Unit Trust 
The Blackpool Unit Trust 
The Broadstairs Unit Trust 
The Coventry Unit Trust 
Booker India Limited 

Booker Satnam Wholesale 
Limited 
China Wisdom dunnhumby 
Limited 
China Wisdom dunnhumby 
(Shanghai) Limited 
dunnhumby Mitsui Bussan 
Customer Science Co., Ltd 
Merrion Shopping Centre Ltd 
Tesco Mobile ČR s.r.o.  
Tesco Mobile Slovakia s.r.o.  
THPL Support Services Limited 
Trent Hypermarket Private 
Limited 

Registered 
address 

 33 
33 
33 
33 
26 

54 

Class of share held 

– 
- 
- 
- 
INR10 Ordinary 
INR5.00 Compulsorily 
Convertible Preference 
INR1.00 Ordinary 

 53 

 CNY264,000.01 Ordinary 

63 

55 

24 
7 
72 
26 
26 

 CNY1.00 Ordinary 

JPY50,000 Ordinary 

 EUR0.012697 Ordinary 
 CZK100,000 Ordinary 
 EUR1.00 Ordinary  
INR100 Equity 
 INR10.00 Equity  

% held by 
Group 

 50 
50 
50 
50 
49 
49 

49 

 50 

50 

50 

51.87 
50 
50 
50 
50 

Consolidated structured entities 

Name of undertaking 

Delamare Cards Holdco Limited  
Delamare Cards MTN Issuer PLC  
Delamare Cards Receivables Trustee 
Limited 
Delamare Cards Funding 1 Limited  
Delamare Cards Funding 2 Limited  
Delamare Finance PLC  
Delamare Group Holdings Limited  
Tesco Property Finance 2 PLC 
Tesco Property Finance 5 PLC 
Tesco Property Finance 6 PLC 

Registered 
address  

47 
47 
47 

47 
47 
11  
11  
11 
11 
11 

Nature of business 

Securitisation entity 
Securitisation entity 
Securitisation entity 

Securitisation entity 
Securitisation entity 
Securitisation entity 
Securitisation entity 
Securitisation entity 
Securitisation entity 
Securitisation entity 

*  Undertaking where other share classes are held by a third party. 
† 

Interest held directly by Tesco PLC. 

(a)  95% held by Tesco PLC. 
(b) 66.6% held by Tesco PLC. 
(c)  50% held by Tesco PLC. 
(d) Shares held by Tesco Pension Trustees Limited (TPTL), the corporate trustee of the 

Tesco
PLC Pension Scheme (the Scheme). On behalf of the Scheme, TPTL holds a 50% 
shareholding in three property joint ventures with Tesco, and is the sole shareholder of 
TPT Holdco No.1 Limited and Tesco Pension Investment Limited. 

(e)  One ordinary share of the same class partly paid. 
(f)  Company was incorporated on 31/03/2023. 
(g)  Company was dissolved on 08/03/2023. 
(h)  Company was dissolved on 05/04/2023. 
(i)  Company was dissolved on 09/03/2023. 
(j)  Company was dissolved on 17/03/2023. 
(k)  Company was put into liquidation on 24/02/2021. 

202

Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2023
202 

Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2023 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Financial statements 

Paseo de General Martinez Campos, nº 9 1º izquierda, 28010 Madrid, Spain 
Istiklal Caddesi Beyoglu Is Merkezi No: 187/5 Galatasaray, Istanbul, Turkey 

50 
51 
52  Centre de Commerces et de, Loisirs, Cite Europe, 62231 Coquelles, France 
53 
54  Unit 607, 6th floor, Trade Centre, Bandra Kurla Complex, Bandra East, Mumbai, 

Suite 1106-8, 11/F Tai Yau Building, No 181 Johnston Road, Wanchai, Hong Kong 

400051, Maharashtra, India 
Kojimachiterrace 4F, Kojimachi 3-1, Chiyoda-ku, Tokyo, Japan 
6th floor, Tordenskioldsgate 8-10, Oslo, Norway 
c/o Coop Danmark, Roskildevej 65, 2620 Albertslund, Denmark 

55 
56 
57 
58  Cesta na Senec 2, Bratislava, 821 04, Slovakia 
59 
60 

1400-340 Albert Street, Ottawa, Ontario K1R 0A5, Canada 
4th Floor, Tower B, Paras Twin Towers, DLF Golf Course Road, Sector 54, Gurgaon, 
Haryana-HR, 122002, India 
48 rue Cambon, 75001, Paris, France 
Room 1001, Enterprise Development Tower, Unit 01 - 10th Floor, No 398, Jiangsu 
Road, Changning District, Shanghai 200050, People’s Republic of China 
63  Room 2393, 2/F, No.3 Xuanhua Road, Changning District, Shangha, People’s 

61 
62 

Republic of China 

64  RSM New Zealand, Level 2, 60 Highbrook Drive, East Tamaki, Auckland, 2013, New 

Zealand 

65  C/O RSM Australia Pty Ltd, Level 21, 55 Collins Street, Melbourne, VIC 3000, 

66 
67 
68 
69 

70 

Australia 
(Gran Seoul, Cheongjin-dong) 7F, 33, Jong-ro, Jongno-gu (07326), South Korea 
Floor 3, 2 Harbour Square, Crofton Road, Dun Laoghaire, Dublin A96D6R0, Ireland 
Veterná 7310/40, 917 01 Trnava, Slovakia 
Artemio Del Valle Arizpe 16 Piso 2 COL. Del Valle C.P. 03100 Benito Juarez Ciudad De 
Mexico, Mexico 
Regus Amsterdam Sloterdijk Teleport Towers, Kingsfordweg 151, 1043 
GR
Dorey Court, Admiral Park, St. Peter Port, GY1 4AT, Guernsey 
Einsteinova 24, Bratislava 851 01, Slovakia 

71 
72 
73  No 319 Chamchuri Square Building, 24th Floor, Office no. 24116, Phayathai road, 

Amsterdam, The Netherlands 

Pathumwan sub district, Pathumwan District, Bangkok 10330, Thailand 
74  Calle CR 48 NO 32B SUR 139 OF 909 P 9, Envigado, Antioquia, Colombia  
75 
76 

ul. Gorczewska 216, 01-460 Warsaw, Poland 
Unit 01, 02, 06, 07, 08, 09, Floor 17, No. 610 Xujiahui Road, Huangpu District, 
Shanghai, People’s Republic of China 
Gresham House, Marine Road, Dun Laoghaire, Dublin A96 HX70 
Barratt House Cartwright Way Forest Business Park, Bardon Hill, Coalville, 
Leicestershire, LE67 1UF, United Kingdom 
79  Church Road, Headford, 0000 Galway, Ireland 
80 

Spaces les Halles - Spaces 40 rue du Louvre 75001, Paris, France 

77 
78 

1 

2 
3 
4 
5 

6 
7 
8 

9 
10 

11 
12 
13 
14 
15 

16 

17 
18 
19 

20 

21 
22 

23 

Kingdom 

Lumpur, Malaysia 

Tesco House, Shire Park, Kestrel Way, Welwyn Garden City, AL7 1GA, 
United
Apex Road, Brownhills, Walsall, West Midlands, WS8 7HU, United Kingdom 
ul. Przy Rondzie 4, 31-547 Kraków, Poland 
184 Shepherds Bush Road, London, W6 7NL, United Kingdom 
C/O Morton Fraser LLP, 5th Floor, Quartermile Two, 2 Lister Square, Edinburgh, 
Scotland, EH3 9GL, United Kingdom 
2 South Gyle Crescent, Edinburgh, EH12 9FQ, United Kingdom 
Vršovická 1527/68b, Vršovice, 100 00 Prague 10, Czech Republic 
Equity House, Irthlingborough Road, Wellingborough, Northamptonshire, NN8 1LT, 
United Kingdom 
Ernst & Young LLP, 1 More London Place, London, SE1 2AF, United Kingdom 
Suite 13.03, 13th Floor, Menara Tan & Tan, 207 Jalan Tun Razak, 50400 
Kuala
1 Bartholomew Lane, London, EC2N 2AX, United Kingdom 
2 Paris Parklands, Railton Road, Guildford, Surrey, GU2 9JX, United Kingdom 
Suite 1, 3rd Floor 11-12 St. James’s Square, London, United Kingdom, SW1Y 4LB 
Ritterstraße 6, 10969 Berlin, Germany 
Riverside House, 3 Place Farm, Wheathampstead, St. Albans, AL4 8SB, 
United
Avenida Brigadeiro Luis Antônio, no. 3530, 3rd Floor, CJ 31 and 32, Jardim Paulista, 
01402-001 São Paulo, Brazil 
c/o Ernst & Young LLP, Castle Street, St Helier, JE1 1EY, Jersey 
Yeni Havaalan Caddesi, No. 40 Cigli, Izmir, 35610 Turkey 
c/o GT Law LLC, 3 Church Street #15-02, Samsung Hub, Singapore 049483, 
Singapore 
31st Floor AIA Kowloon Tower, Landmark East, 100 How Ming Street, Kowloon, 
Hong
5 Esperidon Street, 4th floor, 2001 Strovolos, Nicosia, Cyprus 
Avenida Santa María 5888, Piso 2 Zona A, Oficina 4, Vitacura, Santiago, 7660268, 
Chile 
Eco City Centro, 901-12 office, 9 / F 1788 West Nanjing Road, Jingan District, 
Shanghai, People’s Republic of China 

Kingdom  

Kong 

24  Gresham House, Marine Road, Dun Laoghaire, Co. Dublin, Ireland 
25 
26 
27 
28 
29  C/O Tmf Group 8th Floor, 20 Farringdon Street, London, United Kingdom, EC4A 

ll38, Budapest, Váci út, 187, Hungary 
Taj Building, 2nd Floor, 210, Dr D.N. Road, Fort, Mumbai, 400001, India 
PO Box 25, Regency Court, Glategny Esplanade, St. Peter Port, Guernsey, GY1 3AP  
Level 1, IFC1 Esplanade, St Helier, Jersey, JE2 3BX 

4AB 
c/o Rantalainen Oy, Helsinki Rajatorpantie 8, 01600 Vantaa, Finland 
The Omnibus Building, Lesbourne Road, Reigate, Surrey, RH2 7LD, United Kingdom 
2040 Budaörs, Kinizsi, ÚT 1-3, Hungary 
47 Esplanade, St Helier, Jersey, JE1 0BD 

30 
31 
32 
33 
34  No. 725 Metropolis Building, Level, 20, Suite 161, Sukhumvit Road, Klongtan Nua Sub-

35 

District, Wattana District, BANGKOK 10110, Thailand 
c/o The Corporation Trust Company, 1209 Orange Street, Corporation Trust 
Center, Wilmington, DE 19801, United States 

36  Ground Floor and First Floor, Worldmark 1, Asset Area 11, Aerocity, Hospitality 

37 
38 

District, Indira Ghandi Int. Airport, New Delhi, South West Delhi DL 110037, India 
Foro Buonaparte 67, 20121 Milano, Italy 
9th Floor, Shiroyama Trust Tower, 4-3-1, Toranomon 4-chome, Minato-ku, Tokyo 
105-6009, Japan 
38/39 Fitzwilliam Square, Dublin 2, Ireland 

39 
40  Willemsparkweg 150H, 1071 HS, Amsterdam, The Netherlands 
81 & 82, EPIP Area, Whitefield, Bangalore, 560066, India 
41 
ul. Grzybowska 2/29, Warsaw, Poland 
42 
c/o Eversheds Sutherland, 3rd Floor, 54 Melrose Boulevard, Melrose Arch, 
43 
Gauteng, 2196, South Africa 
3300 Great American Tower, 301 East Fourth Street, Cincinnati, OH, 45202, United 
States 

44 

45  Windward 1, Regatta Office Park, PO Box 897, Grand Cayman KY1 – 1103, 

Cayman

Islands 

46  C/o Vaish Associates, 106, Peninsula Centre, Dr. S. S. Rao Road, Parel Mumbai - 

400012, India 
6th Floor, 125 London Wall, London, EC2Y 5AS, United Kingdom 
Antonio Bellet 444 Oficina 504 Comuna de Providencia, Ciudad de Santiago, Chile  
163 Tras Street, #03-01, Lian Huat Building, 079024, Singapore 

47 
48 
49 

Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2023 

Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2023
203 

203

Financial statements 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Supplementary information (unaudited) 

One-year like-for-like sales performance (exc. VAT, exc. fuel)  

UK & ROI 
UK 
ROI 
Booker 

Central Europe 
Total Retail 

Q1 
2022/23 
1.5% 
(1.5)% 
(2.4)% 
19.4% 
9.0% 
2.0% 

Q2 
2022/23 
3.9% 
2.8% 
2.4% 
9.3% 
11.8% 
4.5% 

Q3 
2022/23 
5.2% 
4.3% 
5.3% 
9.3% 
12.3% 
5.7% 

Like-for-like sales 
Q4 
2022/23 
8.1% 
7.6% 
7.8% 
11.1% 
8.5% 
8.2% 

Three-year like-for-like sales performance (exc. VAT, exc. fuel)  

H1 
2022/23 
2.7% 
0.7% 
(0.1)% 
13.9% 
10.4% 
3.2% 

H1 
2022/23 
11.5% 
9.9% 
12.1% 
21.0% 
11.0% 
11.5% 

H1 
2022/23 
2.6% 
0.6% 
1.0% 
13.8% 
9.5% 
3.1% 
24.6% 
3.5% 

H2 
2022/23 
6.7% 
6.0% 
6.6% 
10.2% 
10.3% 
6.9% 

H2 
2022/23 
15.5% 
14.1% 
17.3% 
23.6% 
15.5% 
15.5% 

Constant rates 
H2 
2022/23 
6.8% 
6.0% 
9.7% 
10.2% 
10.4% 
7.1% 
16.0% 
7.2% 

FY 
2022/23 
4.7% 
3.3% 
3.3% 
12.0% 
10.4% 
5.1% 

FY 
2022/23 
13.5% 
12.0% 
14.7% 
22.2% 
13.2% 
13.5% 

FY 
2022/23 
4.7% 
3.3% 
5.4% 
12.0% 
10.0% 
5.1% 
20.1% 
5.3% 

Q2 
2022/23 
13.3% 
11.6% 
14.3% 
22.3% 
10.6% 
13.1% 

H1 
2022/23 
2.6% 
0.6% 
(0.6)% 
13.8% 
5.9% 
2.8% 
24.6% 
3.1% 

Q3 
2022/23 
13.7%  
11.9% 
14.3% 
24.0% 
16.9% 
13.9% 

Like-for-like sales 
Q4 
2022/23 
17.3% 
16.3% 
20.1% 
23.1% 
14.2% 
17.1% 

Actual rates 

H2 
2022/23 
7.0% 
6.0% 
13.2% 
10.2% 
10.7% 
7.2% 
16.0% 
7.4% 

FY 

2022/23   
4.8%   
3.3%   
6.3%   
12.0%   
8.3%   
5.0%   
20.1%   
5.3%   

Revenue (exc. VAT, inc. fuel) 

Local currency 
(m) 
48,917 
3,077 
8,684 
45,603 
668,601 
1,580 

£m   
48,917   
2,645   
8,684   
1,601   
1,451   
1,358   

Average exchange 
rate 
1.0 
1.2 
1.0 
28.5 
460.8 
1.2 

Closing exchange 
rate  
1.0 
1.1 
1.0 
26.8 
430.4 
1.1 

25 February 2023 

26 February 2022 

No. of stores 
2,605 
276 
286 
182 
119 
45 
8 
3,521 

Million sq. ft. 
5.6 
2.9 
8.2 
8.8 
8.4 
3.7 
1.0 
38.6 

% of total 

sq. ft.   
14.6%   
7.6%   
21.2%   
22.8%   
21.6%   
9.6%   
2.6%   
100.0%   

No. of stores 
2,556 
281 
286 
182 
120 
45 
8 
3,478 

Million sq. ft. 
5.5 
3.0 
8.3 
8.8 
8.4 
3.7 
1.0 
38.7 

% of total 
sq. ft. 
14.2% 
7.8% 
21.4% 
22.7% 
21.7% 
9.6% 
2.6% 
100.0% 

UK & ROI 
UK 
ROI 
Booker 

Central Europe 
Total Retail 

Q1 
2022/23 
9.7% 
8.1% 
10.1% 
19.6% 
11.3% 
9.9% 

Total sales performance (exc. VAT, exc. fuel)  

UK & ROI 
UK 
ROI 
Booker 

Central Europe 
Total Retail 
Tesco Bank 
Total Group  

Country detail – Retail 

UK 
ROI 
Booker 
Czech Republic 
Hungary 
Slovakia 

UK sales area by size of store 

Store size (sq. ft.) 
0-3,000 
3,001-20,000 
20,001-40,000 
40,001-60,000 
60,001-80,000 
80,001-100,000 
Over 100,000 
Total* 

*  Excludes Booker and franchise stores.  

204

Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2023
204 

Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2023 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Other information 
Other information 

Group space summary 
Actual Group space – store numbers(a) 

Large(d) 
Convenience 
Dotcom only 

Total Tesco 

One Stop(e) 
Booker 
Jack’s 
UK(e) 
ROI(f) 
UK & ROI(e) 

Czech Republic(e) 
Hungary 
Slovakia(e) 

Central Europe(e) 
Group(e) 

UK (One Stop) 
Czech Republic 
Slovakia 

Franchise stores 
Total Group 

Actual Group space – ‘000 sq. ft.(a) 

Large(d) 
Convenience 
Dotcom only 

Total Tesco 

One Stop(e) 
Booker 
Jack’s 
UK(e) 
ROI(f) 
UK & ROI(e) 

Czech Republic(e) 
Hungary 
Slovakia(e) 

Central Europe(e) 
Group(e) 

UK (One Stop) 
Czech Republic 
Slovakia 

Franchise stores 
Total Group 

2021/22 
year end 
798 
1,966 
6 
2,770 
695 
192 
13 
3,670 
152 
3,822 
185 
198 
154 
537 
4,359 
252 
126 
15 
393 
4,752 

2021/22 
year end 
31,402 
5,287 
716 
37,405 
1,134 
8,210 
128 
46,877 
3,344 
50,221 
4,248 
5,927 
3,143 
13,318 
63,539 
367 
115 
13 
495 
64,034 

Openings 
2 
50 
– 
52 
18 
– 
– 
70 
14 
84 
4 
– 
3 
7 
91 
53 
4 
12 
69 
160 

Openings 
26 
129 
– 
155 
37 
– 
– 
192 
126 
318 
46 
– 
31 
77 
395 
71 
3 
11 
85 
480 

Closures/ 
disposals 
(1) 
(18) 
– 
(19) 
(1) 
(1) 
(7) 
(28) 
– 
(28) 
(2) 
(1) 
–  
(3) 
(31) 
(14) 
(6) 
(2) 
(22) 
(53) 

Closures/ 
disposals 
(65) 
(72) 
– 
(137) 
(2) 
(29) 
(65) 
(233) 
– 
(233) 
(22) 
(3) 
– 
(25) 
(258) 
(18) 
(4) 
(1) 
(23) 
(281) 

Net gain/ 
 (reduction)(b) 
1 
32 
– 
33 
17 
(1) 
(7) 
42 
14 
56 
2 
(1) 
3 
4 
60 
39 
(2) 
10 
47 
107 

Repurposing/ 
extensions(c) 
64 
– 
– 
64 
– 
– 
(63) 
1 
8 
9 
(126) 
(254) 
(27) 
(407) 
(398) 
– 
– 
– 
– 
(398) 

2022/23  
year end 
799 
1,998 
6 
2,803 
712 
191 
6 
3,712 
166 
3,878 
187 
197 
157 
541 
4,419 
291 
124 
25 
440 
4,859 

Net gain/ 
 (reduction) 
25 
57 
- 
82 
35 
(29) 
(128) 
(40) 
134 
94 
(102) 
(257) 
4 
(355) 
(261) 
53 
(1) 
10 
62 
(199) 

Repurposing/ 
extensions(c) 
6 
– 
– 
6 
– 
– 
(6) 
– 
1 
1 
8 
13 
14 
35 
36 
– 
– 
– 
– 
36 

2022/23  
year end  
31,427 
5,344 
716 
37,487 
1,169 
8,181 
– 
46,837 
3,478 
50,315 
4,146 
5,670 
3,147 
12,963 
63,278 
420 
114 
23 
557 
63,835 

(a)  Continuing operations.  
(b) The net gain/(reduction) reflects the number of store openings less the number of store closures/disposals.  
(c)  Repurposing of retail selling space 
(d) Six Jack’s stores converted to Large stores; reflected within repurposing/extensions.  
(e)  Excludes franchise stores. 
(f)  Openings include 10 stores as a result of the acquisition of Joyce’s stores, one of which we will sell as a condition of the clearance of the transaction.  

205 

Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2023 

Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2023

205

Other information 
 
 
 
 
 
2022/23  
year end 
31,427 
5,344 
716 
37,487 
1,169 
8,181 
46,837 
3,478 
50,315 
4,146 
5,670 
3,147 
12,963 
63,278 
420 
114 
23 
557 
63,835 

Openings 
36 
196 
– 
232 
68 
– 
300 
51 
351 
20 
– 
59 
79 
430 
161 
3 
10 
174 
604 

Closures/ 
disposals 
(15) 
(21) 
– 
(36) 
(9) 
– 
(45) 
(17) 
(62) 
(13) 
– 
– 
(13) 
(75) 
(16) 
(3) 
– 
(19) 
(94) 

Repurposing/ 
extensions 
– 
– 
– 
– 
– 
– 
– 
– 
– 
(80) 
(305) 
(27) 
(412) 
(412) 
– 
– 
– 
– 
(412) 

Net gain/ 
 (reduction) 
21 
175 
– 
196 
59 
– 
255 
34 
289 
(73) 
(305) 
32 
(346) 
(57) 
145 
– 
10 
155 
98 

Supplementary information (unaudited) continued 

Group space forecast to 24 February 2024 – ‘000 sq. ft.(a) 

Large 
Convenience 
Dotcom only 

Total Tesco 

One Stop(b) 
Booker 
UK(b) 
ROI 
UK & ROI(b) 

Czech Republic(b) 
Hungary 
Slovakia(b) 

Central Europe(b) 
Group(b) 

UK (One Stop) 
Czech Republic 
Slovakia 

Franchise stores 
Total Group 

(a)  Continuing operations. 
(b) Excludes franchise stores. 

Tesco Bank income statement 

Revenue 
Interest receivable and similar income 
Fees and commissions receivable 
Gross insurance premium income 

Direct costs 
Interest payable 
Fees and commissions payable 
Insurance premium income ceded to reinsurers 
Insurance claims incurred 
Reinsurers’ share of claims incurred 

Other income/(expenses) 
Gross profit 

Other expenses 
Staff costs 
Premises and equipment 
Other administrative expenses 
Depreciation and amortisation 
Impairment (loss)/reversal on financial assets 
Adjusted operating profit 

Adjusting items(b)  
Operating profit/(loss) 

2023/24  
year end 
31,448 
5,519 
716 
37,683 
1,228 
8,181 
47,092 
3,512 
50,604 
4,073 
5,365 
3,179 
12,617 
63,221 
565 
114 
33 
712 
63,933 

2022(a) 
£m 

473 
210 
239 
922 

(42) 
(20) 
(105) 
(150) 
62 
(255) 
15 
682 

(210) 
(68) 
(193) 
(65) 
30 
176 

– 
176 

2 
(4) 
(2) 
3 
175 

2023(a) 
£m 

540 
257 
309 
1,106 

(99) 
(10) 
(139) 
(175) 
90 
(333) 
(5) 
768 

(218) 
(70) 
(222) 
(54) 
(61) 
143 

(11) 
132 

2 
(8) 
(2) 
– 
124 

Finance income/(costs): movements on derivatives and hedge accounting 
Finance income/(costs): interest 
Finance income/(costs): leases 
Share of profit/(loss) of joint venture 
Profit/(loss) for the year 

(a)  These results are for the 12 months ended 28 February 2023 and the previous period represents the 12 months ended 28 February 2022. 
(b) Adjusting items of £(11)m in 2023 (2022: £nil) relate to operational restructuring changes, as part of the multi-year ‘Save to invest’ programme. Refer to Note 4 for further details. 

206

Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2023
206 

Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2023 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Glossary – Alternative performance measures 

Other information 
Other information 

Introduction 
In the reporting of financial information, the Directors have adopted various Alternative performance measures (APMs). 

These measures are not defined by International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) and therefore may not be directly comparable with other 
companies’ APMs, including those in the Group’s industry. APMs should be considered in addition to, and are not intended to be a substitute for, 
or superior to, IFRS measures.  

Purpose 
The Directors believe that these APMs assist in providing additional useful information on the trends, performance and position of the Group. 
APMs aid comparability between geographical units or provide measures that are widely used across the industry. They also aid comparability 
between reporting periods; adjusting for certain costs or incomes that derive from events or transactions that fall within the normal activities 
of
the Group but which, by virtue of their size or nature, are adjusted, can provide a helpful alternative perspective on year-on-year trends, 
performance and position that aids comparability over time. 

The alternative view presented by these APMs is consistent with how management views the business, and how it is reported internally to the 
Board and Executive Committee for performance analysis, planning, reporting, decision-making and incentive-setting purposes. 

Further information on the Group’s adjusting items, which is a critical accounting judgement, can be found in Notes 1 and 4. 

Some of the Group’s IFRS measures are translated at constant exchange rates. Constant exchange rates are the average actual periodic 
exchange rates for the previous financial period and are used to eliminate the effects of exchange rate fluctuations in assessing performance. 
Actual exchange rates are the average actual periodic exchange rates for that financial period. 

Changes to APMs 
The Adjusted diluted earnings per share (adjusted for share consolidation) APM was previously provided to aid year-on-year comparability in the 
event of a share consolidation. The APM is no longer relevant for the 2022/23 financial year so has been removed.  

Group APMs  

APM 
Income statement 
Revenue measures 
Sales 

Closest equivalent  
IFRS measure 

Adjustments to reconcile  
to IFRS measure 

  Definition and purpose 

Revenue 

–  Fuel sales 

Growth in sales 

No direct equivalent  

–  Ratio N/A 

Like-for-like (LFL) 

No direct equivalent 

–  Ratio N/A 

  –  Excludes the impact of fuel sales made at petrol filling stations to 
demonstrate the Group’s performance in the retail and financial 
services businesses. It removes volatilities outside of the control 
of management, associated with the movement in fuel prices.  

is a key management incentive metric. 

–  This
–  This measure is also presented on a Retail and Tesco Bank basis. 
  –  Growth in sales is a ratio that measures year-on-year movement 

in Group sales for continuing operations for 52
the annual rate of increase in the Group’s sales and is 
considered a good indicator of how rapidly the
business is growing. 

Group’s core 

weeks. It shows 

  –  Like-for-like is a measure of growth in Group online sales and 
sales from stores that have been
open for at least a year (but 
excludes prior year sales of stores closed during the year) at 
constant foreign exchange rates. It is a widely used indicator of a 
retailer’s current trading performance and is important when 
comparing growth between retailers that have different profiles 
of expansion, disposals and closures.  

207 

Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2023 

Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2023

207

Other information 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Glossary – Alternative performance measures continued 

Closest equivalent  
IFRS measure 

Adjustments to reconcile to 
IFRS measure 

  Definition and purpose 

APM 

Profit measures 

Adjusted operating profit  

Operating profit from 
continuing operations(a) 

–  Adjusting items(b) 

Adjusted total finance costs   Finance costs 

–  Adjusting items(b) 

  –  Adjusted operating profit is the headline measure of the 
Group’s performance, based on operating profit from 
continuing operations before the impact of adjusting items. 
Refer to the APM Purpose section of the Glossary and Note 1 for 
further information on adjusting items. 

–  Amortisation of acquired intangibles is included within adjusting 

items because it relates to historical inorganic business 
combinations and does not reflect the Group’s ongoing trading 
performance (related revenue and other costs from 
acquisitions are not adjusted).  

–  This is a key management incentive metric. 
–  This measure is also presented on a Retail and Tesco Bank basis. 
  –  Adjusting items within finance costs include net pension finance 
income/costs and fair value remeasurements. Net pension 
finance income/costs are impacted by corporate bond yields, 
which can fluctuate significantly and are reset each year based 
on external market factors that are outside management’s 
control. Fair value remeasurements are impacted by changes to 
credit risk and various market indices, applying to financial 
instruments resulting from liability management exercises, 
which can fluctuate significantly outside of management’s 
control. This measure helps to provide an alternative view of 
year-on-year trends in the Group’s finance costs. 

Adjusted profit before tax  

Profit before tax 

–  Adjusting items(b) 

  –  This measure is the summation of the impact of all adjusting 

Adjusted operating margin  

No direct equivalent 

–  Ratio N/A 

Adjusted diluted earnings  
per share  

Diluted earnings per share 
from continuing operations 

–  Adjusting items(b) 

Retail EBITDA (earnings 
before adjusting items, 
interest, tax, depreciation 
and amortisation)  

Retail operating profit from 
continuing operations(a) 

–  Adjusting items(b) 
–  Depreciation and 
amortisation 

Net interest margin 

No direct equivalent 

–  Ratio N/A 

Tax measures 

Adjusted effective tax rate 

Effective tax rate 

–  Adjusting items(b) 

items on profit before tax. Refer to the APM Purpose section of 
the Glossary and Note 1 for further information on adjusting 
items. 

  –  Operating margin is calculated as adjusted operating profit 
divided by revenue. Progression in operating margin is an 
important indicator of the Group’s operating efficiency. 

  –  This metric shows the adjusted profit after tax from continuing 
operations attributable to owners of the parent divided by the 
weighted average number of ordinary shares in
issue during the 
financial period, adjusted for the effects of potentially dilutive 
share options.  

  –  This measure is widely used by analysts, investors and other 
users of the accounts to evaluate comparable profitability of 
companies, as it excludes the impact of differing capital 
structures and tax positions, variations in tangible asset 
portfolios and differences in identification and recognition of 
intangible assets. It is used to derive the Net debt/EBITDA and 
Total indebtedness ratios, and Fixed charge cover APMs. 

  –  Net interest margin is calculated by dividing Tesco Bank 

annualised net interest income, less annualised lease interest 
expense, by average interest-bearing assets. 

–  It is a measure of the gross profitability of Tesco Bank’s lending 

operations. 

  –  Adjusted effective tax rate is calculated as total income tax 
credit/(charge) excluding the tax impact of adjusting items, 
divided by adjusted profit before tax. This APM provides an 
indication of the ongoing tax rate across the Group. 

208

Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2023
208 

Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2023 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
APM 
Balance sheet measures 
Net debt 

No direct equivalent 

Closest equivalent  
IFRS measure 

Other information 
Other information 

Adjustments to reconcile  
to IFRS measure 

  Definition and purpose 

–  N/A 

  –  Net debt excludes the net debt of Tesco Bank but includes 
of the discontinued operations to reflect the net debt 

that
obligations of the Retail business.  

–  Net debt comprises bank and

other borrowings, lease liabilities, 
net derivative financial instruments, joint venture loans, and net 
interest receivables/payables, offset by cash and cash 
equivalents and short-term investments. 

–  It is a useful measure of the progress in generating cash and 
strengthening of the Group’s balance sheet position, and 
is

measure widely used by

credit rating agencies. 

a

Net debt/EBITDA ratio 

No direct equivalent 

–  Ratio N/A 

  –  Net debt/EBITDA ratio is calculated as Net debt divided by the 

rolling 12-month Retail EBITDA. It is a measure of the Group’s 
ability to meet its payment obligations, showing how long it 
would take the Group to repay its current net debt if both net 
debt and EBITDA remained constant. It is widely used by analysts 
and credit rating agencies. 

Total indebtedness  

No direct equivalent 

–  N/A 

  –  Total indebtedness is Net debt plus the IAS 19 deficit in any 

pension schemes (net of associated deferred tax) to provide 
an
overall view of the Group’s obligations, including the long-
term commitments to the Group’s pension schemes. Pension 
surpluses are not included. It is an important measure of the 
long-term obligations of the Group and is a measure widely 
used by credit rating agencies. 

Total indebtedness ratio 

No direct equivalent 

–  Ratio N/A 

  –  Total indebtedness ratio is calculated as Total indebtedness 

Fixed charge cover 

No direct equivalent 

–  Ratio N/A 

Capex 

Property, plant and 
equipment, intangible 
asset, and investment 
property additions, 
excluding those from 
business combinations 

–  Additions relating to 
property buybacks 
–  Additions relating to 
decommissioning 
provisions and similar 
items 

divided by the rolling 12-month Retail EBITDA. It is a measure of 
the Group’s ability to meet its payment obligations and is widely 
used by analysts and credit rating agencies. 

  –  Fixed charge cover is calculated as the rolling 12-month Retail 
EBITDA divided by the sum of net finance costs (excluding net 
pension finance income/costs, finance charges payable on 
lease liabilities, capitalised interest and fair value 
remeasurements) and all lease liability payments from 
continuing operations. It is a measure of the Group’s ability to 
meet its payment obligations and is widely used by analysts 
and

credit rating agencies. 

  –  Capex excludes additions arising from business combinations 

and buybacks of properties (typically stores), as well as additions 
relating to decommissioning provisions and similar items. 
–  Property buybacks are variable in timing, with the number and 

value of buybacks dependent on opportunities that arise within 
any given financial year. Excluding property buybacks therefore 
gives an alternative view of trends in capital expenditure in the 
Group’s ongoing trading operations.  

–  Additions relating to decommissioning provisions and similar 
items are adjusted because they do not result in near-term 
cash outflows. 

Cash flow measures 
Retail free cash flow 

No direct equivalent 

–  N/A 

  –  Retail free cash flow includes continuing cash flows from 

operating and investing activities for the Retail business, the 
market purchase of shares net of proceeds from shares issued 
in relation to share schemes and repayment of obligations 
under leases, excluding the effects of Tesco Bank’s cash flows. 
The following items are excluded: investing cash flows that 
increase/decrease items within Net debt; proceeds from the 
sale of property, plant and equipment, investment property, 
intangible assets and assets classified as held for sale; cash 
utilised to buy back property; proceeds from the sale of 
subsidiaries; cash utilised in business acquisitions; cash used for 
investment in joint ventures, associates and unlisted equity 
investments; and adjusting cash items in operating cash 
activities.  

–  By adjusting for these factors, which can have unpredictable 

timings or amounts, or can be driven by external events or non-
operational business decisions (such as acquisitions and 
disposals of properties as opportunities arise), the Directors 
and management believe this provides a view of free cash flow 
generated by the Group’s retail trading operations that is more 
predictable and comparable over time, and reflects the cash 
available to shareholders.  

–  This is a key management incentive metric. 

(a)  Operating profit is presented on the Group income statement. It is not defined per IFRS, however, is a generally accepted profit measure. 
(b) Refer to Note 1 and Note 4.  

Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2023 

Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2023
209 

209

Other information 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Glossary – Alternative performance measures  continued 

APMs: Reconciliation of income statement measures 

Retail EBITDA 

Operating profit 
Less: Adjusting items 
Adjusted operating profit 
Less: Tesco Bank adjusted operating profit 
Retail adjusted operating profit 
Add: Retail depreciation and amortisation before adjusting items 
Retail EBITDA 

Net interest margin 

Tesco Bank revenue 
Less: Tesco Bank revenue from fees and commissions receivable 
Less: Tesco Bank revenue from gross insurance premium income 
Tesco Bank interest expense within operating profit  
Tesco Bank interest expense within finance income/(costs)  
Net interest income  
Average interest earning assets  
Net interest margin (%) 

APMs: Reconciliation of balance sheet measures 

Net debt 
A reconciliation of Net debt is provided in Note 32.  

Net debt/EBITDA and Total indebtedness ratio 

Net debt 
Retail EBITDA  
Net debt/EBITDA ratio  

Net debt  
Add: Defined benefit pension deficit, net of deferred tax  
Total indebtedness  
Retail EBITDA  
Total indebtedness ratio 

Fixed charge cover 

Net finance costs  
Less: Net pension finance income/(costs)  
Less: Fair value remeasurements of financial instruments  
Adjusted total finance costs  
Less: Finance charges payable on lease liabilities  
Adjusted total finance costs, excluding capitalised interest and finance charges payable on lease liabilities 
Add: Total lease liability payments  
Less: Discontinued operations total lease liability payments  

Retail EBITDA 
Fixed charge cover (ratio) 

Notes 
2 
2 
2 
2 
2 
2 

Notes 
2 
2 
2 

Notes 
32 

32 
29 

Notes 
5 
5 
5 

5 

12 

APM  
2023 
 £m 
1,525 
1,105 
2,630 
(143) 
2,487 
1,570 
4,057 

APM  
2023 
£m 
1,106 
(257) 
(309) 
(99) 
(8) 
433 
8,835 
4.9% 

APM  
2023 
£m 
10,493 
4,057 
2.6 

10,493 
300 
10,793 
4,057 
2.7 

APM  
2023 
£m  
533 
80 
(51) 
562 
(373) 
189 
966 
- 
1,155 
4,057 
3.5 

APM 
2022 
£m  
2,560 
265 
2,825 
(176) 
2,649 
1,577 
4,226 

APM 
2022 
£m  
922 
(210) 
(239) 
(42) 
(4) 
427 
8,505 
5.0% 

APM 
2022 
£m 
10,516 
4,226 
2.5 

10,516 
242 
10,758 
4,226 
2.5 

APM 
2022  
£m 
542 
(22) 
123 
643 
(405) 
238 
977 
(2) 
1,213 
4,226 
3.5 

210

Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2023
210 

Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2023 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Capex 

Property, plant and equipment additions(a) 
Other intangible asset additions(a) 
Less: Additions from obtaining control of property joint venture(b) 
Less: Additions from other property buybacks 
Less: Additions relating to decommissioning provisions and similar items 
Capex 

(a)  Excluding amounts acquired through business combinations. 
(b) Acquisition of The Tesco Dorney Limited Partnership in 2023 and The Tesco Sarum Limited Partnership in 2022. 

APMs: Reconciliation of cash flow measures 

Cash generated from/(used in) operating activities 
Cash generated from/(used in) investing activities 
Less: Cash generated from/(used in) operating activities in Tesco Bank 
Less: Cash generated from/(used in) operating activities in discontinued operations 
Less: Cash generated from/(used in) investing activities in Tesco Bank 
Less: Cash generated from/(used in) investing activities in discontinued operations 

Own shares purchased in relation to share schemes 
Retail repayments of capital element of obligations under leases 
Exclude/add back: 

Retail proceeds from sale of property, plant and equipment, investment property, intangible assets and 
assets classified as held for sale 
Retail purchase of property, plant and equipment, investment property and other long-term assets – 
property buybacks 
Retail disposal of subsidiaries, net of cash disposed 
Retail acquisition of businesses, net of cash acquired 
Retail investments in/(proceeds from sale of) joint ventures and associates 
Retail adjusting net cash (generated from)/used in operating activities 
Retail increase in loans to joint ventures and associates 
Retail net investments in/(proceeds from sale of) other investments 
Retail net investments in/(proceeds from sale of) short-term investments 
Retail cash inflows from derivative financial instruments within investing activities 
Retail cash outflows from derivative financial instruments within investing activities 

Retail free cash flow 

The following table reconciles the Retail free cash flow APM to that previously presented: 

Retail free cash flow 
Retail proceeds from sale of property, plant and equipment, investment property, intangible assets and 
assets classified as held for sale 
Retail purchase of property, plant and equipment and investment property – property buybacks 
Retail cash outflows exceeding the incremental increase in assets in a property buyback 
Retail disposal of subsidiaries, net of cash disposed 
Retail acquisition of businesses, net of cash acquired 
Retail (investments in)/proceeds from sale of joint ventures and associates 
Retail (investments in)/proceeds from sale of other investments 
Retail adjusting net cash (generated from)/used in operating activities 
Memo: Retail free cash flow including cash flows from non-major corporate 
acquisitions and disposals, cash flows from the sale or buyback of properties, 
and Retail adjusting cash flows from operating activities 

Other information 
Other information 

Notes 
11 
10 
11 
11 

Notes 
2 
2 
2 
2 
2 
2 
2 
2 
2 

2 

2 

2 
2 
2 
2 
2 
2 
2 
2 
2 
2 

Notes 
2 
2 

2 
2 
2 
2 
2 
2 
2 
2 

APM  
2023 
 £m 
1,252 
277 
(248) 
(29) 
(17) 
1,235 

APM  
2023 
 £m 
3,722 
(706) 
30 
– 
205 
– 
3,251 
(86) 
(589) 

(341) 

54 

– 
66 
10 
61 
1 
205 
(451) 
(54) 
6 
2,133 

APM  
2023 
 £m 
2,133 
341 

(54) 
(21) 
– 
(66) 
(10) 
(205) 
(61) 
2,057 

APM 
2022 
£m  
1,587 
229 
(584) 
(37) 
(94) 
1,101 

APM 
2022 
£m  
3,757 
(1,735) 
(149) 
6 
119 
(43) 
1,955 
(144) 
(571) 

(308) 

80 

(117) 
– 
(4) 
316 
4 
(1) 
1,067 
– 
– 
2,277 

APM 
2022 
£m  
2,277 
308 

(80) 
– 
117 
– 
4 
1 
(316) 
2,311 

Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2023 

Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2023
211 

211

Other information 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
Glossary – Other 

Other 
CPI 
Consumer price index.  

Capital employed 
This is calculated as net assets less net debt less net assets of the 
disposal group and non-current assets classified as held for sale. 

Dividend per share 
This is calculated as interim dividend per share paid plus final 
dividend per share declared in respect of that financial year. 

Enterprise value 
This is calculated as market capitalisation plus net debt. 

Expected credit loss (ECL) 
Credit loss represents the portion of the debt that a company is 
unlikely to recover. The expected credit loss is the projected future 
losses based on probability-weighted calculations. 

ESG 
Environmental, social and governance. 

FTE 
Full-time equivalents. 

LPI 
Limited price index. 

Market capitalisation 
The total value of all Tesco shares calculated as total number of 
shares multiplied by the closing share price at the year end. 

MTN 
Medium-term note. 

MREL 
Minimum requirements for own funds and eligible liabilities 
(European Banking Authority). 

Net promoter score (NPS) 
This is a loyalty measure based on a single question requiring a score 
between 0 and 10. The NPS is calculated by subtracting the percentage 
of
detractors (scoring 0-6) from the percentage of promoters (scoring 
9-10). This generates a figure between -100 and

100 which is the NPS. 

Return 
Profit before adjusting items and interest, after tax (applied at 
effective rate of tax). 

Return on capital employed (ROCE) 
Return divided by the average of opening and closing capital 
employed. 

RPI 
Retail price index. 

Total capital ratio 
This is calculated by dividing total regulatory capital by total risk‐
weighted assets. 

SONIA 
Sterling Overnight Index Average. 

Total shareholder return 
The notional annualised return from a share, measured as the 
percentage change in the share price, plus the dividends paid with 
the gross dividends, reinvested in Tesco shares. This is measured 
over both a one and five-year period. 

212

Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2023
212 

Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2023 

 
 
 
 
 
Five-year record  

Other information 

The statistics below reflect the latest published information. For financial years prior to 2023, these statistics represent the comparatives from 
the following years’ financial statements. During 2021, the Group disposed of its operations in Asia and agreed to dispose of its operations in 
Poland, which were treated as discontinued. The 2020 statistics have been restated to be consistent with 2021 to present Asia and Poland
as 
discontinued operations, with years prior to 2020 not restated. 

Refer to the Glossary for a full list of APMs and their definitions. 

2019 

2020(a)(b) 

2021 

2022 

2023 

Financial statistics (£m) 
Sales 
UK & ROI 
Central Europe 
Asia 
Tesco Bank 
Group sales(c) 
Revenue 
UK & ROI 
Central Europe 
Asia 
Tesco Bank 
Group revenue 
Adjusted operating profit/(loss)(c) 
UK & ROI 
Central Europe 
Asia 
Tesco Bank 
Group adjusted operating profit/(loss)(c) 
Adjusted operating margin 
Operating profit/(loss) 
UK & ROI 
Central Europe 
Asia 
Tesco Bank 
Group operating profit/(loss) 
Share of post-tax profits/(losses) of joint ventures and associates 
Net finance costs 
Profit/(loss) before tax 
Taxation 
Profit/(loss) for the year from continuing operations 
Discontinued operations 
Profit/(loss) for the year 
Attributable to: 
Owners of the parent 
Non-controlling interests 
Adjusted profit before tax(c) 
Other financial statistics 
Diluted earnings/(losses) per share – continuing operations 
Adjusted diluted earnings per share (adjusted for share consolidation)(e) 
Dividend per share(d) 
Cash generated from retail operating activities (£m) 
Retail free cash flow (£m)∆  
Return on capital employed (ROCE)(c) 
Total shareholder return(c) 
Net debt (£m)(c) 
Pension deficit, net of deferred tax – Group (£m) 
Total indebtedness (£m)(c) 
Enterprise value (£m)(c) 
Group retail statistics 
Number of stores(f) 
Total sales area (‘000 sq. ft.)(f) 
Average employees 
Average FTE employees 
UK & ROI retail statistics 
Number of stores(f) 
Total sales area (‘000 sq. ft.)(f) 
Average FTE employees 
Revenue (exc. fuel) (per FTE – £) 
Weekly revenue (exc. fuel) (per sq. ft. – £) 

44,883 
6,030 
4,873 
1,097 
56,883 

51,643 
6,298 
4,873 
1,097 
63,911 

1,868 
221 
319 
199 
2,607 
4.1% 

1,949 
279 
252 
169 
2,649 
32 
(1,064) 
1,617 
(347) 
1,270 
– 
1,270 

1,272 
(2) 
1,806 

13.04p 
14.01p 
5.77p 
3,637 
889 
7.9% 
10.2% 
13,204 
2,338 
15,542 
35,024 

6,993 
91,298 
464,505 
321,490 

3,961 
50,521 
223,542 
200,781 
18.65 

45,752 
3,968 
– 
1,068 
50,788 

52,898 
4,125 
– 
1,068 
58,091 

2,202 
176 
– 
193 
2,571 
4.4% 

1,923 
209 
– 
74 
2,206 
(8) 
(1,170) 
1,028 
(290) 
738 
235 
973 

971 
2 
1,869 

7.54p 
18.98p 
9.15p 
3,580 
1,493 
6.1% 
5.2% 
12,298 
2,573 
14,871 
34,676 

4,613 
63,971 
354,451 
243,031 

3,968 
50,401 
210,771 
217,070 
17.11 

48,848 
3,862 
– 
735 
53,445 

53,170 
3,982 
– 
735 
57,887 

1,839 
124 
– 
(175) 
1,788 
3.1% 

1,890 
127 
– 
(470) 
1,547 
26 
(937) 
636 
(104) 
532 
5,426 
5,958 

5,954 
4 
1,134 

5.58p 
11.58p 
9.15p 
321 
1,340 
5.4% 
2.6% 
11,955 
1,004 
12,959 
29,336 

4,673 
63,980 
367,321 
242,911 

4,008 
50,443 
214,470 
227,761 
18.63 

49,984 
3,862 
– 
922 
54,768 

56,404 
4,018 
– 
922 
61,344 

2,481 
168 
– 
176 
2,825 
4.6% 

2,191 
193 
– 
176 
2,560 
15 
(542) 
2,033 
(510) 
1,523 
(40) 
1,483 

1,481 
2 
2,197 

19.64p 
21.86p 
10.90p 
3,614 
2,277 
7.8% 
32.4% 
10,516 
242 
10,758 
32,403 

4,752 
64,034 
354,744 
231,223 

4,074 
50,588 
204,974 
243,855 
19.03 

52,369 
4,181 
– 
1,106 
57,656 

60,246 
4,410 
– 
1,106 
65,,762 

2,307 
180 
– 
143 
2,630 
4.0% 

1,249 
144 
– 
132 
1,525 
8 
(533) 
1,000 
(247) 
753 
(9) 
744 

745 
(1) 
2,076 

10.08p 
21.85p 
10.90p 
3,752 
2,133 
8.6% 
(10.5)% 
10,493 
300 
10,793 
28,562 

4,859 
63,835 
336,926 
222,306 

4,169 
50,735 
196,911 
265,953 
19.88 

∆   See APM reconciliations in Glossary section on pages 210 to 211.  
(a)  53 weeks.  
(b)  Following the disposal of Asia during 2021, the 2020 statistics have been restated to be consistent with 2021 to present Asia as discontinued operations and therefore no longer as a separate 

reportable segment. Years prior to 2020 have not been restated.  

(c)  See Glossary for definitions. 
(d)  Dividend per share relating to the interim and proposed final dividend.  
(e)  The share base used in Adjusted diluted earnings per share in 2020 and 2021 is adjusted to capture the full impact of the share consolidation which followed the sale of the Group’s businesses in 
if it took place at the start of the 2020/21 financial year. As such, Adjusted diluted earning per share (adjusted for share consolidation) is presented on a basis other than 

Thailand and Malaysia, as
in accordance with IAS 33.  
(f)  Including franchise stores. 

Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2023 

Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2023
213 

213

Other information 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Shareholder information 

Managing your shares and shareholder 
communication
The Company’s share register is maintained by our  
Registrar, Equiniti.

Shareholders can manage their holdings online or elect to receive 
shareholder documentation in electronic form by setting up a 
Shareview portfolio at www.shareview.co.uk. Some benefits of 
having a Shareview portfolio include:

 – receiving the latest shareholder communications electronically;
 – voting online for the resolutions at the AGM and any other 

shareholder meetings;

 – managing all your shareholdings in one place;
 – buying and selling shares instantly online with the share dealing 

service; and

 – easily updating your contact details.

For more information and to register for this service, please visit 
www.shareview.co.uk. Registration can be completed in just four 
easy steps and you will need your Shareholder Reference Number.

E-comms
We encourage our shareholders to accept all shareholder 
communications and documents electronically, in place of receiving 
traditional paper copies by post. This helps us to reduce our 
environmental impact and costs, which aligns with our strategic 
priorities. If you would like to sign up to receive all future shareholder 
communications electronically, please register with Shareview by 
visiting www.shareview.co.uk. Once you have signed up, you will 
receive an email to let you know when shareholder documents become 
available on our website, including our annual financial results, notices 
of shareholder meetings and other shareholder documents.

Tesco Share Account
The Tesco Share Account (TSA) is a free service available to 
Tesco shareholders that allows you to hold your Tesco shares 
electronically. Your shares are held in the name of Equiniti Corporate 
Nominees Limited and held on your behalf on a private register. 
Holding your shares electronically removes the need to hold paper 
share certificates, making dealing quicker and more secure. You will 
also receive preferential dealing rates through the TSA.

The TSA is a sponsored nominee service operated for Tesco by 
Equiniti Financial Services Limited, authorised and regulated by the 
FCA. When you join the TSA, you remain the beneficial owner of 
your shares and continue to have the right to receive shareholder 
communications, vote at general meetings and to receive any 
dividends paid on your shares.

For further information or to join the TSA, please contact Equiniti.

Annual General Meeting (AGM)
The 2023 AGM is scheduled to be held on Friday, 16 June 2023 at 
11.30am in the Heart building on our Welwyn Garden City campus. 
A copy of the Notice of Meeting can be found on our website at 
www.tescoplc.com/AGM2023.

Dividend
An interim dividend of 3.85 pence per Ordinary share was paid on 
25 November 2022. Shareholders will be asked to approve a final 
dividend of 7.05 pence per Ordinary share for the year ended  
25 February 2023 at this year’s AGM. If approved, this will be paid 
on 23 June 2023 to all shareholders on the Register of Members at 
the close of business on 12 May 2023.

As a responsible business, Tesco is committed to reducing its 
carbon footprint across all business activities. As previously 
announced, we will no longer be paying dividends by cheque. 
To continue to receive dividends, you will need to provide your 
bank or building society account details to Equiniti, so that 
dividend payments and any other money payable to you in 
connection with your shares can be made by direct payment. 

You may also choose to have your dividends reinvested in further 
Tesco shares through our DRIP (terms and conditions apply).

For more information or to change your dividend payment instructions 
contact Equiniti or register online at www.shareview.co.uk.

Share buyback programme
On 13 April 2022, Tesco PLC announced the continuation of 
the ongoing share buyback programme, committing to a further 
£750m in shares to be repurchased by no later than April 2023. 
This tranche completed in February 2023.

The Company intends to buy back a further £750m worth of 
shares by no later than April 2024. This will be carried out by 
the Company using the authority to purchase its own shares as 
approved by shareholders. 

The sole purpose of these share purchases is to reduce the 
Company’s share capital and therefore ordinary shares purchased 
under the buyback will be cancelled.

Share dealing service
Equiniti offers telephone, postal and internet services for dealing 
in Tesco PLC shares. Dealing fees vary between brokers and you 
are recommended to check that you are being charged the most 
competitive rate. You will need your Shareholder Reference 
Number as shown on your share certificate.

For further information please visit www.shareview.co.uk/dealing 
or call 0345 603 7037, lines open between 8.00am and 4.30pm, 
Monday to Friday (excluding UK public holidays).

Shareholder security
In recent years, Tesco PLC has become aware that its 
shareholders (and holders of other Tesco securities) have received 
unsolicited phone calls or correspondence concerning investment 
matters. These callers can be very persistent and extremely 
persuasive and often have professional websites and telephone 
numbers to support their activities. These callers will sometimes 
imply connection to Tesco and provide incorrect or misleading 
information. Shareholders are advised to be very wary of any 
unsolicited advice, offers to buy shares at a discount or offers of 
free company reports.

Always check that any firm contacting you about potential 
investment opportunities is authorised by the FCA. You can 
find out more about protecting yourself from investment scams 
by visiting the FCA’s website at www.fca.org.uk/consumers, or 
by calling the FCA’s consumer helpline on 0800 111 6768.

214

Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2023

Financial calendar 2023/24

25 February 2023 
Financial year end 2022/23

4 October 2023 
Interim results announcement

24 February 2024 
Financial year end 
2023/24

February 
2023

June 
2023

October 
2023

January 
2024

February 
2024

16 June 2023 
AGM and Q1 trading statement

23 June 2023 
Proposed payment date 
for final dividend

11 January 2024 
Q3 and Christmas trading 
statement

Please note that these dates are provisional and subject to change.

American Depositary Receipts (ADRs)
The Company has a sponsored Level 1 ADR programme for 
which J.P. Morgan Chase Bank N.A. acts as depositary. The ADRs 
are traded in the US, where one ADR represents three Ordinary 
shares. The ADR programme confers the right to receive 
dividends in US Dollars.

Share register analysis
As at 25 February 2023, the Company had 7,318,341,195 shares 
in issue (26 February 2022: 7,637,986,531) and 218,685 registered 
holders of Ordinary shares (27 February 2021: 227,285). 
Shareholdings are analysed below:

ADR details
Symbol 
CUSIP
Exchange 
Ratio 
Effective date 

TSCDY
881575401
OTC
1:3
1 April 1992

Range of shareholding
1 – 500 
501 – 1,000 
1,001 – 5,000 
Over 5,001 
Total 

Number of holdings
144,880
19,701
37,773
16,331
218,685

All enquiries relating to the ADR programme should be directed to:

Breakdown of holders with over 5,000 shares

Shareowner Services 
P.O. Box 64504 
St. Paul, MN 55164-0504

Email: StockTransfer@equiniti.com 
Telephone (US): +1 800 990 1135 
Telephone (outside US): +1 651 453 2128 
Website: www.adr.com

Major shareholders
Information provided to the Company by major shareholders 
pursuant to the FCA’s Disclosure Guidance and Transparency 
Rules (DTR) are published via a Regulatory Information Service 
and are available on the Company’s website. As at 25 February 
2023 and the date of this report, the Company had received 
notification of the following interests in voting rights pursuant 
to Chapter 5 of the DTR:

BlackRock, Inc. 
Schroders plc 
Silchester International Investors LLP
Fidelity International (FIL Limited)

% of voting rights(a)
6.64
4.99
4.98
3.04

(a) Percentages are shown as a percentage of the Company’s total voting rights as at the 

date the Company was notified of the change in holding.

Range of shareholding
5,001 – 10,000 
10,001 – 50,000 
50,001 – 100,000 
100,001 – 500,000 
500,001 – 1,000,000 
1,000,001 – 5,000,000 
5,000,001+ 
Total 

Number of holdings
8,734
6,210
351
444
163
243
186
16,331

Category of shareholders

Number of 
holdings

% of total 
registered 
holders

Number of 
 Ordinary  
shares

% of issued 
share capital

216,641

99.07% 

395,587,963

5.41%

2,044

0.93%

6,922,753,232

94.59%

Private 
Institutional 
and corporate 

Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2023

215

% of issued  
share capital
0.23%
0.20%
1.21%
98.36%
100%

% of issued  
share capital
0.84%
1.57%
0.33%
1.40%
1.55%
7.62%
85.05%
98.36%

Other informationShareholder information  continued

Useful contacts
Tesco PLC registered office:

Tesco House 
Shire Park 
Kestrel Way 
Welwyn Garden City 
AL7 1GA

Investor Relations
Investor Relations Department 
Tesco House 
Shire Park 
Kestrel Way 
Welwyn Garden City 
AL7 1GA

Telephone: +44 (0) 330 123 9928

Registrars
Equiniti Limited 
Aspect House 
Spencer Road 
Lancing 
West Sussex 
BN99 6DA

Email: customer@equiniti.com

Telephone:  
(UK) 0371 384 2977 
(Outside UK) +44 (0) 121 415 7053 
Calls are charged at national rates. 
Calls from a mobile device may incur network extras.

Website: www.equiniti.co.uk

Group Company Secretary
Robert Welch

Corporate brokers
Barclays Bank PLC 
Citigroup Global Markets Limited

Independent auditors
Deloitte LLP

General queries
Switchboard: +44 (0) 1992 632 222 
Website: www.tescoplc.com

216

Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2023

This report is printed on Arctic Volume paper and board. 

The paper is Forest Stewardship Council® (FSC®) certified  
from well managed forests and other controlled sources.

The paper is Carbon Balanced with World Land Trust, an 
international conservation charity, which offset carbon emissions 
through the purchase and preservation of high conservation 
value land. Through protecting standing forests, under threat of 
clearance, carbon is locked in that would otherwise be released. 
These protected forests are then able to continue absorbing 
carbon from the atmosphere, referred to as REDD (Reduced 
Emissions from Deforestation and forest Degradation). 

This is now recognised as one of the most cost-effective and 
swiftest ways to arrest the rise in atmospheric CO2 and global 
warming effects. Additional to the carbon benefits is the flora and 
fauna this land preserves, including a number of species identified 
at risk of extinction on the IUCN Red List of Threatened Species. 

Printed in the UK by Pureprint Group, a CarbonNeutral® Company 
with FSC® certification. 

Photographers:  
Mike Abrahams 
Parsons Media Limited

Designed and produced by Black Sun Global. 
www.blacksunplc.com

If you have finished with this Annual Report and no longer 
wish to retain it, please pass it on to other interested 
readers or dispose of it in your recycled paper waste.

T

e

s

c

o

P

L

C

A

n

n

u

a

l

R

e

p

o

r

t

a

n

d

F

i

n

a

n

c

i

a

l

S

t

a

t

e

m

e

n

t

s

2

0

2

3

Tesco PLC 
Tesco House 
Shire Park 
Kestrel Way 
Welwyn Garden City 
AL7 1GA

www.tescoplc.com

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
