Viability statement

Strategic Report

In accordance with Provision 31 of the 
2018 UK Corporate Governance Code, 
the Directors have assessed the viability of 
the Group by considering the activities and 
principal risks together with factors likely 
to affect the Group’s future development, 
performance, financial position, cash flows, 
liquidity position and borrowing facilities, 
as described in the Annual Report. 

The Directors’ assessment of viability has 
been made over a three-year period, which 
corresponds to the Group’s planning cycle. 
Additionally, the Directors believe this 
presents the readers of the Annual Report 
with a reasonable degree of confidence 
over the period assessed. 

The assessment considered the Group’s 
prospects related to revenue, operating 
profit and free cash flow. The Directors 
considered the maturity dates for the 
Group’s debt obligations and its access to 
public and private debt markets, including 
its committed credit facilities. The Directors 
also carried out a robust review and 
analysis of the principal risks facing the 
Group, including those risks that could 
materially and adversely affect the Group’s 
business model, future performance, 
solvency and liquidity. 

Stress testing was performed on a number 
of scenarios, including the potential impact 
of severe but plausible scenarios over 
the viability period for each potential 
combination of principal risks identified 
below. In total, four individual scenarios 
have been created incorporating a 

combination of principal risks, with 
a fifth collective scenario, which combines 
all the individual scenarios. Mitigating 
actions for such scenarios include reducing 
A&P spend, reducing capital spend, 
pausing M&A activity and cancelling 
shareholder dividends. 

Based on the assessment described 
above and considering the Group’s current 
financial position, debt maturity profile, 
stable cash generation, access to liquidity, 
geographic diversification and lack of 
concentration of supply, the Directors have 
a reasonable expectation that the Group 
is well positioned to manage principal risks 
and potential downside impacts of such 
risks materialising. As a result, the Directors 
expect that the Company will be able to 
continue in operation and meet its liabilities 
as they fall due over the assessment period. 

Scenario modelled

Key assumptions

Link to principal risks

Scenario 1: A climate event results in a major 
manufacturing site shutdown for 18 months, 
causing disruption to the supply chain 
increasing commodity, freight and labour 
costs and a Group-wide cyber event which 
would cause lost sales for two weeks. 

Scenario 2: No sales price increases or 
volume growth over the forecast period 
across all product categories to reflect slower 
economic growth and competitor activity. 

Scenario 3: Inability to access capital market, 
inflationary pressure, foreign currency 
volatility, interest and tax risks, and 
geopolitical risks. 

Scenario 4: A significant incident that leads 
to a product recall and reputational damage 
for a key brand resulting in nil sale of 
products from this brand for six months. 

 — Decrease in net revenue and gross profit 
as a result of a loss of product sales.

 — Increase in commodity, freight and labour 

costs of other manufacturing sites.

 — Supply chain resilience.
 — Trusted ingredients.
 — Environmental, social and governance.
 — Cyber-security.

 — No price increases and forecasted growth, 
with a corresponding impact on cost of 
goods sold due to lower volumes.

 — Growth model.
 — Geopolitical instability.
 — Macroeconomic uncertainties 

(emerging risk).

 — Failure to further issue commercial paper.
 — Double interest costs on floating rate 

 — Geopolitical instability.
 — Macroeconomic uncertainties 

debt bonds.

(emerging risk).

 — Depreciation of major local currencies 
where the Group generates its profits 
by 5% against pound sterling.

 — No revenue and operating profit generated 
from countries involved in armed conflict 
across the plan period.

 — 75% decrease in sales and operating profit 

for a Power Brand for six months.

 — Significant legal fine (5% of group turnover)
 — Write off all inventories relating to the 
product of the above Power Brand.

 — Additional investment in A&P to rebuild 

the brand.

 — Growth model.
 — Supply chain resilience.
 — Trusted ingredients.

Scenario 5: Combination of all the above 
scenarios together with mitigating actions 
that could reasonably be implemented.

 — Reduced A&P spend, reduced capital spend, 
and cancellation of shareholder dividends.

 — All the above.

Viability statement

Haleon  Annual Report and Form 20-F 2023

59

Statement of compliance

Section 172 statement
Details relevant to how the Directors have had regard to the matters set out in Section 172(1)(a) to (f) of the Companies Act 2006 can 
be found across the Report, including, but not limited to, the Chair’s statement and CEO review on pages 4 and 5, culture and people 
from page 18, and our approach to sustainability from page 22. The Section 172 statement is provided on page 69. 

Non-financial and sustainability information statement
Non-financial and sustainability information, including a description of policies, due diligence processes, outcomes and risks and 
opportunities can be found in the Annual Report as set out below. Internal verification and disclosure controls apply to all the 
information covered in these areas. Our Climate-related Financial Disclosures are contained in the TCFD disclosure on pages 24 to 31 
and, for item (h), also on pages 32, 188 and 189.

>>  Further information about our responsible business assurance activities can be found at www.haleon.com/our-impact/esg-reporting-hub

A description of the business model 
Our business model

Environmental matters
Our approach to sustainability
Task Force on Climate-related 
Financial Disclosures
Our key performance indicators
Our approach to risk
Environmental & Social Sustainability 
Committee Report
Note 1 General information: 
Impact of climate change
Note 12 Property, plant and 
equipment: Impact of climate change
Streamlined Energy and 
Carbon Reporting

8

22

24
32
53

77

123

133

188

Employee matters
Our key stakeholders
Our culture and people
Our key performance indicators
Our approach to risk
Section 172 statement
Workforce engagement
Directors’ Remuneration Report
Miscellaneous Reporting 
Requirements

Social matters
Our approach to sustainability
Environmental & Social Sustainability 
Committee Report

Human rights
Our culture and people

Anti-corruption and anti-bribery
Our culture and people
Audit & Risk Committee Report

Policy, due diligence and outcomes
Our approach to risk
Viability statement
Audit & Risk Committee Report

20

20
72

53
59
72

Non-financial key performance indicators
32
Our key performance indicators

10
18
32
53

69
70
80

187

22

77

Our key policies and positioning statements, including our Code of Conduct can be found on Haleon’s website:

Environment

www.haleon.com/our-impact/environment
www.haleon.com/who-we-are/Governance/codes-policies-and-standards
www.haleon.com/who-we-are/our-policy-positions
www.haleon.com/our-impact/esg-reporting-hub

Employees

www.haleon.com/our-impact/upholding-our-standards

Social matters and business conduct

Human rights and modern slavery

www.haleon.com/who-we-are/Governance/codes-policies-and-standards
www.haleon.com/who-we-are/our-policy-positions
www.haleon.com/our-impact/gender-pay-gap
www.haleon.com/our-impact/esg-reporting-hub

www.haleon.com/our-impact/upholding-our-standards
www.haleon.com/who-we-are/Governance/codes-policies-and-standards
www.haleon.com/who-we-are/our-policy-positions
www.haleon.com/our-impact/esg-reporting-hub

www.haleon.com/our-impact/upholding-our-standards
www.haleon.com/who-we-are/Governance/codes-policies-and-standards
www.haleon.com/our-impact/esg-reporting-hub
Our Modern Slavery Act Statement can be found at www.haleon.com under RESOURCES

Anti-corruption and anti-bribery

www.haleon.com/who-we-are/Governance/codes-policies-and-standards

The Strategic Report on pages 2 to 60 was approved by the Board on 15 March 2024.

Amanda Mellor  
Company Secretary

60

Haleon  Annual Report and Form 20-F 2023

Strategic Report

Corporate
Governance

Corporate Governance

Centrum
Centrum is a leading global multivitamin 
brand, with a range of specially crafted 
formulations backed by over 40 years 
of nutritional science. In 2023, the brand 
launched an award-winning campaign for 
Centrum Silver, leveraging the results of 
a study completed with COSMOS that 
showed the tablets can improve cognitive 
function and episodic memory for those 
aged 65+.

The image shown above is taken from the 
Centrum ‘You Did It’ campaign.

Contents

Our Board of Directors

Our Executive Team

Letter from the Chair

Governance structure

Board activities

  Section 172 statement

  Workforce engagement

  Board development, effectiveness and performance

Audit & Risk Committee Report

Environmental & Social Sustainability Committee Report

Nominations & Governance Committee Report

Directors’ Remuneration Report

Compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code

62

64

66

67

68

69

70

71

72

77

78

80

96

Haleon  Annual Report and Form 20-F 2023

61

Our Board of Directors

Board composition

Chair and Executive Directors

1

2

6

2

6
5

Chair 

Executive 
Directors 

Independent 
Non-Executive 
Directors 

Non-Executive 
Directors 

Gender

Men 
Women 

Ethnicity

White 

Mixed/Multiple 
ethnic groups 

9

2

Board and Committee 
membership key:

A  

E  

N  

Committee Chair

Audit & Risk

 Environmental & 
Social Sustainability 

 Nominations & 
Governance

R  

Remuneration

The detailed breakdown 
of gender and ethnic 
representation as 
required by the Listing 
Rules is shown on page 79.

Sir Dave Lewis
Chair

N
Appointed: 23 May 2022 

Skills and experience: Dave was 
Group Chief Executive of Tesco plc 
from 2014 until September 2020. 
Prior to joining Tesco, he spent 
28 years at Unilever plc, holding 
a variety of leadership roles in 
Europe, Asia and the Americas, 
including President Americas and 
Global President for Personal Care. 

Other significant appointments:
 — PepsiCo Inc. 

(Non-Executive Director)

 — World Wildlife Fund UK (Chair)

Brian McNamara
Chief Executive Officer 

Tobias Hestler
Chief Financial Officer

Appointed: 23 May 2022 

Appointed: 23 May 2022 

Skills and experience: Tobias 
joined GSK’s Consumer Health Joint 
Ventures as CFO in 2017. He has 
previously held a number of local 
and global finance leadership roles 
at Novartis in the US and Europe, 
culminating in the position of CFO 
at Sandoz, the generics division of 
Novartis AG. 

Other significant appointments:
 — No external appointments

Skills and experience: Brian joined 
GSK’s Consumer Healthcare 
business as Head of Europe and 
the Americas in 2015. He was 
previously at Novartis AG where 
he held senior leadership roles, 
including serving as OTC Division 
Head and as a member of the 
Novartis Executive Committee. 
He began his career at Procter 
& Gamble, where he gained 
extensive experience in product 
supply, brand marketing, and 
customer leadership. 

Other significant appointments:
 — The Consumer Goods Forum 

(Board Member)

 — Mondelēz International, Inc. 

(Non-Executive Director)

Independent Non-Executive Directors

Manvinder Singh (Vindi) Banga
Senior Independent Non-Executive 
Director (SID)

Tracy Clarke
Independent Non-Executive 
Director

A   N   R
Appointed: 18 July 2022 

A   E   N   R
Appointed: 18 July 2022 

Deirdre Mahlan
Independent Non-Executive 
Director

A   N   R
Appointed: 18 July 2022 

Skills and experience: Vindi spent 
33 years at Unilever plc, culminating 
in becoming President of the Global 
Foods, Home and Personal Care 
businesses and executive board 
member. He has subsequently held 
a range of non-executive 
directorships, including at GSK plc 
(as Senior Independent Director), 
Marks & Spencer plc (as Senior 
Independent Director), the 
Confederation of British Industry 
(CBI) and Thomson Reuters Corp. 

Other significant appointments:
 — Clayton Dubilier & Rice LLC 

(Operating Partner)

 — UK Government Investments 

Limited (Chairman) 

 — Marie Curie Trust (Chairman)

Skills and experience: Tracy held 
a range of senior executive 
positions during her 30-year 
tenure at Standard Chartered Bank, 
where her last role was Private 
Bank CEO and Regional CEO, 
Europe & Americas. Tracy’s prior 
non-executive roles include Chair 
of the Remuneration Committees 
of Sky plc and Eaga plc and 
Remuneration Committee 
member of Inmarsat plc. 

Other significant appointments:
 — TP ICAP Group plc (Non-
Executive Director and 
Remuneration Committee Chair)

 — Starling Bank Limited (Senior 
Independent Director and 
Remuneration Committee Chair)

Skills and experience: Deirdre is 
a qualified accountant and held 
a number of senior finance and 
general management roles during 
her 27-year career at Diageo, 
including President, Diageo North 
America and Chief Financial Officer 
of Diageo plc. Prior to Diageo, she 
held senior finance roles in Joseph 
Seagram and Sons, Inc. and PwC. 
Deirdre was a Non-Executive 
Director of Experian plc from 
2012 to 2022. 

Other significant appointments:
 — Duckhorn Portfolio, Inc. 
(Interim President, Chief 
Executive Officer and Chair)
 — Kimberly-Clark Corporation 
(Non-Executive Director) 

62

Haleon  Annual Report and Form 20-F 2023

Corporate Governance

 
Corporate Governance

Independent Non-Executive Directors

Company Secretary

Marie-Anne Aymerich
Independent Non-Executive 
Director

E
Appointed: 18 July 2022 

Dame Vivienne Cox
Independent Non-Executive 
Director

A   E   R
Appointed: 18 July 2022 

Skills and experience: Marie-Anne 
previously led the worldwide Oral 
Care category at Unilever plc where 
she developed a portfolio of new 
premium brands. Prior to that, 
Marie-Anne was Brand General 
Manager of LVMH Group’s Dior 
perfume and beauty business. 
Before joining LVMH, Marie-Anne 
was Managing Director for 
Unilever’s Home Care and 
Personal Care business in France. 

Other significant appointments:
 — Pierre Fabre Group 

(Non-Executive Director)

 — Academy of St Martin in the Fields 

(Trustee, member of 
Nomination Committee) 

Skills and experience: Vivienne 
worked for BP plc for 28 years, 
holding senior leadership roles 
including Executive Vice President 
and Chief Executive of BP’s gas, 
power and renewables business. 
Vivienne’s previous non-executive 
directorships include GSK plc, 
where she was Workforce 
Engagement Director, BG Group plc, 
Rio Tinto plc, Pearson plc and the 
UK Government’s Department for 
International Development. 

Other significant appointments:
 — Victrex plc (Chair)
 — Venterra Group plc 

(Non-Executive Director)

Asmita Dubey
Independent Non-Executive 
Director

Appointed: 18 July 2022 

Skills and experience: Asmita has 
over 25 years of experience 
working in consumer businesses 
and is currently Chief Digital & 
Marketing Officer of L’Oréal Group. 
She has extensive experience of 
working and building joint business 
partnerships in China and served on 
GSK’s Consumer Healthcare Digital 
Advisory Board for two years from 
March 2020 to March 2022. 

Other significant appointments:
 — L’Oréal (Chief Digital & 

Marketing Officer and member 
of Executive Committee)

Amanda Mellor
Company Secretary

Appointed: 23 May 2022 

Skills and experience: Amanda 
brings extensive experience in 
company secretarial, corporate 
governance, investor relations 
and investment banking. 

Other appointments:
 — Volution Group plc 

(Senior Independent Director)

 — GC100 (Executive 

Committee Member)

Non-Executive Directors (nominated by Pfizer Inc.)

Skills and experience (excluding Executive Directors)
This table shows the number of Directors with each relevant skill/experience.

9

7

7

Consumer 

Healthcare 

International

Supply chain

Technology

1

Digital/innovation

2

Regulatory

Finance

M&A/transformation

Sustainability/
responsible business

Employee engagement

2

Governance/investor

3

3

3

5

5

5

David Denton
Non-Executive Director

Bryan Supran
Non-Executive Director

Appointed: 1 March 2023 

Appointed: 18 July 2022 

Skills and experience: Dave is 
Chief Financial Officer and 
Executive Vice President for Pfizer 
Inc. providing strategic global 
financial leadership. He has over 
25 years of finance and operational 
expertise including more than 
20 years in the healthcare sector. 
Prior to joining Pfizer in 2022, he 
was CFO and Executive Vice 
President of Lowe’s Companies Inc. 
from 2018. Previously, he was 
executive vice president and CFO 
of CVS Health Corporation. 

Skills and experience: Bryan is 
Senior Vice President & Deputy 
General Counsel for Pfizer Inc. 
with responsibility for counselling 
Pfizer management and directors 
on strategic initiatives and business 
development transactions. During 
his tenure at Pfizer, he also has led 
Pfizer’s intellectual property and 
international legal teams and 
provided legal support for 
Pfizer’s R&D and manufacturing 
organisations. Previously, Bryan 
worked at Ropes & Gray LLP. 

Other significant appointments:
 — Pfizer Inc. (Chief Financial Officer 
and Executive Vice President)

Other significant appointments:
 — Pfizer Inc. (Senior Vice President 
and Deputy General Counsel)

>>  Further details can be found at www.haleon.com/who-we-are/leadership

Our Board of Directors

Haleon  Annual Report and Form 20-F 2023

63

Our Executive Team

Gender

In addition to Brian McNamara and Tobias Hestler, the Executive Team comprises:

Keith Choy
President, Asia Pacific 

Filippo Lanzi
President, EMEA & LatAm 

Mairéad Nayager
Chief Human Resources Officer 

Appointed: 16 December 2021 

Appointed: 16 December 2021 

Appointed: 1 March 2022 

Skills and experience: Keith has 
almost 30 years’ experience in the 
consumer-packaged goods and 
health industries and joined GSK’s 
Consumer Healthcare business in 
2019. He was previously President, 
International Markets for Pfizer 
Consumer Healthcare. Keith 
has also held roles at Wyeth 
Pharmaceutical and Gillette. 

Skills and experience: Filippo 
joined GSK in 2015 holding 
leadership roles in south and 
central eastern Europe prior to 
becoming APAC Regional Head. 
He then became Head of EMEA in 
2019, prior to leading LatAm, too. 
Before this, he worked for Novartis 
OTC as General Manager in Italy 
and Greece. Filippo also held 
positions at Johnson & Johnson 
and Nestlé S.A.

Skills and experience: Mairéad 
was Chief Human Resources Officer 
at Diageo plc for six and a half years 
until January 2022, having 
previously held a number of HR 
leadership roles across Diageo’s 
businesses in Europe and Africa 
during her 16-year tenure. Prior to 
joining Diageo, Mairéad spent three 
years at the Irish Business and 
Employers Confederation (IBEC). 

Mairéad will be leaving Haleon in 
May 2024.

Lisa Paley
President, North America 

Namrata Patel
Chief Supply Chain Officer 

Appointed: 16 December 2021 

Appointed: 6 November 2023 

Skills and experience: Prior to 
joining GSK’s Consumer Healthcare 
business in 2019, Lisa spent a 
decade at Pfizer Consumer 
Healthcare where she was most 
recently President, North America. 
She was previously Vice President 
of Sales at Johnson & Johnson 
and also held various roles at 
Pfizer Consumer Healthcare/
Warner-Lambert. 

Skills and experience: Namrata has 
extensive global experience in 
manufacturing and end-to-end 
supply chain management. She has 
held senior leadership positions at 
companies including The Coca-Cola 
Company, Gillette and Procter & 
Gamble and currently sits on the 
board of Oxford Biomedica plc 
as an Independent Non-Executive 
Director. 

Men 
Women 

6
4

Ethnicity

White 

Mixed/Multiple 
ethnic groups 

8

1

Not speciﬁed/
Prefer not to say  1

Bart Derde (Chief Supply 
Chain Officer), Amy 
Landucci (Chief Digital 
and Technology Officer), 
Jooyong Lee (Head of 
Strategy and Office of 
the CEO), and Teri Lyng 
(Head of Transformation 
and Sustainability) 
served as members of 
the Executive Team from 
16 December 2021 to 31 
December 2023. 

The detailed breakdown 
of gender and ethnic 
representation as 
required by the Listing 
Rules is shown on page 79.

64

Haleon  Annual Report and Form 20-F 2023

Corporate Governance

Corporate Governance

Ed Petter
Chief Corporate Affairs Officer 

Franck Riot
Chief R&D Officer 

Tamara Rogers
Chief Marketing Officer 

Appointed: 1 January 2024 

Appointed: 16 December 2021 

Appointed: 16 December 2021 

Skills and experience: Ed has 
spent the last seven years at BT 
Group plc as Group Corporate 
Affairs Officer and a member of 
the Executive Committee. He has 
previously held leadership roles 
at Lloyds Banking Group and 
McDonald’s after spending four 
years working in consultancy 
at McKinsey & Company and 
Blue Rubicon. 

Skills and experience: Franck has 
over 20 years’ experience leading 
R&D in consumer-led industries. 
Prior to joining GSK’s Consumer 
Healthcare business in 2019, he 
was Vice President of Research and 
Innovation for the Essential Dairy 
and Plant-Based Division, Danone 
S.A. Before this, he was Group R&D 
Director at Nomad Foods and 
previously held a variety of R&D 
leadership roles at Danone. 

Skills and experience: Tamara has 
30 years of experience in FMCG. 
Prior to joining GSK’s Consumer 
Healthcare business in 2019, 
Tamara spent nearly 25 years 
at Unilever plc, most recently 
as Executive Vice President, 
Personal Care, North America 
and prior to that, SVP Global 
Deodorants. Tamara is a board 
member of the Global Self-Care 
Federation. 

Bjarne Philip Tellmann
General Counsel 

Bjorn Timelin
Head of Strategy 

Appointed: 16 December 2021 

Appointed: 2 October 2023 

Skills and experience: Prior to 
joining GSK’s Consumer Healthcare 
business in 2020, Bjarne was 
General Counsel of Pearson plc, 
before which he held a range of legal 
leadership roles at The Coca-Cola 
Company in the US, Europe and 
Asia and at Kimberly-Clark 
Corporation. Bjarne began his 
career in private practice at Sullivan 
& Cromwell LLP and White and 
Case LLP.

Bjarne will be leaving Haleon in 
March 2024.

Skills and experience: Bjorn was 
Senior Partner at McKinsey & 
Company specialising in strategic 
and commercial topics for 
consumer-facing companies, 
with clients across the retail, 
consumer packaged goods, media, 
and luxury goods sectors. Prior to 
this he spent four years at Procter 
& Gamble’s beauty care division 
in the UK and Switzerland.

>>  Further details can be found at www.haleon.com/who-we-are/leadership

Our Executive Team

Haleon  Annual Report and Form 20-F 2023

65

Letter from the Chair

Seeing our regional operations first-hand 
provided insight into major markets and 
R&D initiatives. It also gave Directors a 
chance to meet employees across different 
locations. Employee engagement has 
continued to develop during the year and 
feedback on the Company’s activities is 
regularly discussed by the Board. Further 
detail on our workforce engagement and 
the Workforce Engagement Director’s 
statement is set out on page 70. 

Monitoring our culture, people and 
sustainability ambitions are key areas of 
oversight for the Board. Our discussions 
centred on the cultural transformation 
programme to create a purpose led, 
consumer centric, and performance 
focused culture, which is supported 
by focus on performance, simplification 
and productivity. 

Directors also considered and fulfilled 
duties in relation to Haleon’s governance, 
risk and controls during the year. They 
received training on directors’ duties and, 
in line with all employees, completed 
training on the Code of Conduct, including 
anti-bribery and corruption. Details on 
the Board’s activities for 2023 are 
provided on page 68. 

Embedding the Environmental & 
Social Sustainability Committee
Running a responsible business is one of 
our four strategic pillars, and underpins 
the way we operate. The Environmental 
& Social Sustainability Committee was 
established in March 2023 to provide 
oversight of this important area. The 
Committee had a thorough induction 
process covering Haleon’s responsible 
business strategy and the ESG regulatory 
landscape. The Committee then focused 
on progress against our key environmental 
and health inclusivity goals and 
sustainability strategy. Further information 
is provided on page 77. 

Board succession planning
The Board welcomed Dave Denton as a 
Non-Executive Director in March 2023. 
He replaced John Young as a representative 
director of Pfizer. Dave received a full 
induction following his appointment. 

Talent, capabilities and succession 
planning remains a key area of focus for 
the Board, Executive Team and senior 
management, and our commitment to 
having a diverse and inclusive pipeline of 
talent underpins our efforts to cultivate 
top talent capable of leading the Company 
for the future. Detail on the work of the 
Nominations & Governance Committee 
on this are provided on page 78. 

Board annual performance review 
The Board conducted an internal review 
of its effectiveness for 2023. After 
completing Haleon’s first full year as a 
standalone company, the opportunity 
to review our progress and identify 
any needed changes in approach, was 
particularly important. I was pleased 
with the Board’s engagement with this 
review and that the Directors were 
positive about what had been achieved 
to date, and objective as to the areas 
of focus going forward. You can read 
further details on page 71.

Annual General Meeting (AGM)
Haleon held its first AGM in April 2023. 
We were pleased with the level of 
international participation, and that the 
digital format enabled greater accessibility 
from across our global shareholder base. 

We will be continuing the digital focus for 
our 2024 AGM on 8 May 2024, which will 
be broadcast from our offices in London. 
Details on how to join the meeting will be 
provided in our Notice of Meeting. 

Sir Dave Lewis
Chair

As I shared in my Chair’s statement 
on page 4, this has been a year of 
encouraging progress for Haleon in its 
first full year since listing in July 2022. 

Following the significant work last 
year to enable Haleon to operate as 
a standalone Company, the Board’s 
role in 2023 has been to guide and 
support the management team 
delivering on the Company’s strategic 
and financial plans, and building 
Haleon’s capabilities to drive 
sustainable profitable growth.

Haleon has great potential for growth. 
We have made positive progress in 
2023 and I am pleased with the 
commitment and focus of the Board 
and all Haleon employees to drive 
the Company forward and continue 
to create sustainable value for 
our shareholders. 

Board focus 
The Board held several strategic discussions 
in 2023, including an offsite meeting with 
the Executive Team in October to review 
our long-term category and market 
ambitions, financial targets and investment 
plans. Deep dives provided insights across 
key strategic areas including the consumer 
healthcare landscape, our China and US 
businesses, supply chain, innovation, and 
cyber-security risks. These enhanced the 
Board’s understanding of Haleon’s key 
deliverables, risks and opportunities. 

During the year, the Board visited our Oral 
Health facility in Weybridge, UK and Pain 
Relief center in Richmond, Virginia, US. 
I also had the opportunity to visit Haleon 
operations in Brazil, India, and Mexico.

66

Haleon  Annual Report and Form 20-F 2023

Corporate Governance

Governance structure

Corporate Governance

The Board

The Board’s main role is 
to promote the long-term 
sustainable success of 
the Company, generating 
value for shareholders and 
contributing to wider society. 

It sets the Company’s 
purpose, values, strategy 
and long-term objectives. 
The Board is also responsible 
for the Group’s system of 
corporate governance, 
activities, risk management 
and financial performance.

Audit & Risk 
Committee 

>>  See page 72

The role of the Committee is to oversee the integrity of the financial 
reporting and audit process, and to oversee the maintenance of sound 
internal controls and risk management systems. The Committee 
monitors the effectiveness of internal and external audit and reviews 
concerns about financial fraud and whistleblowing. 

Environmental & 
Social Sustainability 
Committee

The role of the Committee is to provide oversight and effective 
governance over progress with the environmental and social 
sustainability agenda and the external governance and regulatory 
requirements relevant to these areas. 

>>  See page 77

Nominations & 
Governance 
Committee 

>>  See page 78

Remuneration 
Committee 

>>  See page 80

The role of the Committee is to lead the process for appointments to 
the Board and make recommendations to ensure plans are in place 
for orderly succession to both the Board and senior management 
positions, and oversee a diverse succession pipeline. The Committee 
also has a role to ensure that the Company is managed to high 
standards of corporate governance. 

The role of the Committee is to set the broad structure for the 
Company’s Remuneration Policy and to determine the remuneration 
of the Chair, the Executive Team and the Company Secretary. 
The Committee is also responsible for reviewing workforce 
remuneration and the alignment of incentives and rewards with 
the Company’s culture. 

The Chief Executive Officer (CEO) is responsible for:
 — Developing Haleon’s strategic direction for consideration 

by the Board.

 — Implementing the strategy and reporting on progress.
 — Day-to-day management of the Company, communicating 
expectations in relation to Company culture and ensuring 
responsible business conduct across the business. 

 — Providing effective leadership, co-ordination and 
performance management of the Executive Team.

The Executive Team is responsible for:
 — Supporting the CEO on the delivery of Haleon’s strategy.
 — Providing input into strategic and operational decisions 

aligned to business priorities, and supporting on the delivery 
of actions. 

 — Supporting the CEO in implementing decisions made by 

the Board.

>>  Matters reserved for the Board, Committees’ terms of reference, along with the Chair, CEO and SID’s role descriptions are available 

at www.haleon.com/who-we-are/Governance/board-and-board-committees

Board and Committee meetings and attendance during 2023

Board papers are circulated to all 
Directors in advance of the meeting 
allowing sufficient time for their 
consideration. If any Director is unable to 
attend a meeting, they can communicate 
their opinions and comments on the 
matters to be considered via the Chair of 
the Board or the relevant Committee Chair.

Following the conclusion of each scheduled 
Board meeting, without the Executive 
Directors present, the Chair holds a 
session with the Non-Executive Directors.

1  Apologies in advance of the meeting.
2  Stepped down from the Board on 28 February 2023.
3  Appointed to the Board on 1 March 2023. 

Director

Board

Audit & Risk 
Committee

Nominations 
& Governance 
Committee

Remuneration 
Committee

Environmental & 
Social Sustainability 
Committee

Chair and Executive Directors

Sir Dave Lewis

Brian McNamara

Tobias Hestler

6/6

6/6

6/6

Independent Non-Executive Directors

7/7

7/7

7/7

7/7

Vindi Banga

Marie-Anne Aymerich

Tracy Clarke

Dame Vivienne Cox

Asmita Dubey1

Deirdre Mahlan

Non-Executive Directors

Bryan Supran

John Young2

David Denton3

6/6

6/6

6/6

6/6

5/6

6/6

6/6

1/1

5/5

3/3

3/3

3/3

3/3

5/5

5/5

5/5

5/5

2/2

2/2

2/2

Governance structure

Haleon  Annual Report and Form 20-F 2023

67

Board activities

The Board reviewed and discussed a wide range of Company activities during the year. The table below gives insight into the matters 
reviewed by the Board, the nature of Board discussion, and the relevant factors considered within the context of Section 172(1)(a) to (f) 
of the Companies Act 2006 (‘Section 172’).

Key areas of Board discussion 

Item

Group strategy

A B C

Activity

 — Reviewed the strategic and operational performance of the business by brand, market categories 

and regions.

 —  Discussed the global economy, geopolitics, and impact on growth and performance.
 —  Considered the global consumer and competitive landscape and opportunities for innovation.
 —  Received a deep dive into the supply chain and discussed the quality supply chain (QSC) five-year strategy.
 —  Reviewed investment and divestment opportunities, and approved the divestments of Lamisil and ChapStick.

Financials and performance

A F

 — Reviewed and approved the 2024-26 corporate plan and 2024 financial plan.
 — Monitored Haleon’s financial performance and growth against the 2023 financial plan and external 

commitments.

 —  Discussed financial performance against the 2023-2025 plan, future outlook and analyst consensus.
 —  Considered the approach to capital allocation and returns, including allocating £500m of capital for 

share buybacks in 2024.

 —  Reviewed and approved the dividend policy, reviewed the approach to the 2022 dividend and approved 

the 2022 final dividend, the 2023 interim dividend and the proposed 2023 final dividend.

 —  Approved the quarterly, half-yearly and full-year results, the 2022 Annual Report and Accounts and 

Notice of 2023 AGM.

Risk management

 — Discussed the Company’s system of risk management and internal controls (alongside regular updates 

E

from the Audit & Risk Committee).

 —  Assessed the effectiveness of the Company’s risk and control processes. 
 —  Reviewed the Company’s principal risks and mitigation plans.

People, culture and values

 — Discussed the results from the employee engagement survey and 2024 focus areas including business 

A B

Governance

A E

process design and optimisation.

 —  Discussed Haleon’s productivity programme, and considered updates on progress and culture.
 —  Discussed and approved the 2023 Gender Pay Gap Report for publication.
 —  Reviewed proposals for the Weybridge Research & Development Innovation facility, and approved the 

building of an Innovation facility to support the Oral Health Category. 

 — Reviewed proposals for new office space in London and the benefit to UK-based employees.
 —  Considered Haleon’s cultural ambition to be purpose led, consumer centric and performance focused 

and ongoing progress.

 — Considered reports from the Chairs of each Board Committee on key areas of Committee 

discussion and focus.

 —  Discussed progress made against the action plans from the 2022 Board effectiveness review.
 —  Approved changes to various governance policies to simplify and better align with Haleon’s 

operating model. 

 —  Received and discussed regular updates on key governance and disclosure matters, including 

recent consultations on the UK Corporate Governance Code.

Shareholder and engagement

A E

F

 —  Discussed the external environment including global indicators and inflation trends.
 —  Considered updates from Investor Relations, including share price and valuation analysis, 

market engagement and ownership analysis, and the views of institutional investors. 

 —  Received and discussed updates on employee engagement by the Workforce Engagement Director.
 — Reviewed the preparations for the 2023 AGM and the enhanced digital focus.

Sustainability

C D E

 — Approved the Modern Slavery Statement.
 —  Approved the establishment of the Environmental & Social Sustainability Committee.
 —  Considered Haleon’s sustainability agenda and progress plan against each of our 

strategic market categories.

>>  See also our key stakeholders and culture and people sections on pages 10 and 18.

Relevant Section 172 factors

A

Long term

B   Employees

D   Community and environment

E   Business conduct

C   Business relationships

F   Members of the Company

68

Haleon  Annual Report and Form 20-F 2023

Corporate Governance

  
Corporate Governance

Section 172 statement

The Board considers that, during 2023, 
it has acted to promote the long-term 
success of the Company for the benefit 
of its members while having due regard 
to the factors set out in Section 172. 

Understanding the needs and expectations 
of the Company’s stakeholders is 
fundamental to Haleon’s purpose: to deliver 
better everyday health with humanity. 

Examples of how Section 172 duties and 
key stakeholders were considered by the 
Board when making key decisions during 
2023 are set out below. 

Divestment of Lamisil and ChapStick
The Board considered the following Section 172 factors: the long-term success of the Company, its relationship with suppliers, 
the need to act fairly between members, and maintaining high standards of business conduct. 

How the Board had regard to these factors:
 — Towards the end of 2022, the Board conducted a strategic portfolio review to identify potential divestment and investment 

opportunities that would support Haleon’s growth ambitions. 

 — The Board considered the brand portfolio segmentation and the optimum timing and priority of divestments to enhance 

organic growth and returns over the longer term. 

 — The Board received updates on the brand portfolio, competitive landscape and customer perspectives throughout 2023.
 — In assessing divestment options, the Board considered the financial impact, marketability, separation issues, speed of execution, 

and simplification of the supply chain. 

 — To enable strategic focus on the Power Brands and Local Growth brands, the Board agreed to divest the Lamisil and ChapStick 

brands.

 — The Board reviewed the offers received for the sale of Lamisil and ChapStick. In accepting each final offer, the Board considered 
the level of return, the financial impact of the divestment on Haleon, impact on employees, the business risks, and the timescale 
for delivery. The Board considered that these divestments would enable Haleon to focus on the key strategic areas for 
longer-term, sustainable growth.

Cultural transformation
The Board considered the following Section 172 factors: employees, business relationships, maintaining high standards of 
business conduct, and the long-term success of the Company. 

How the Board had regard to these factors:
 — The Company has been on a journey of cultural transformation to evolve Haleon’s culture as an independent consumer health business.
 — Employees have been engaged on initiatives to support Haleon in shaping its enterprise culture and to ultimately influence its 

performance and growth and drive behaviours.

 — The Board had a dedicated session on culture to review the feedback from the 2023 employee engagement survey and the 

progress being made towards Haleon’s ambition to be purpose led, consumer centric and performance focused and the key 
areas of focus for management in 2024. 

 — The Board discussed and considered the impact of the Haleon productivity programme as part of Haleon’s cultural evolution.
 — The Board regularly discussed feedback from workforce engagement activities during the year and considered the plan 

for workforce engagement for 2024.

 — The Board encouraged management to keep customers at the heart of any cultural change. This led to an expansion of the cultural 
descriptors to include ‘consumer centric’, recognising the need for a clear link between purpose, culture and brand in a consumer 
health business.

Communication with shareholders
During the year, Directors engaged with 
shareholders and investors through 
face-to-face and virtual meetings to 
discuss progress and performance 
against Haleon’s strategy. 

 — The CEO and CFO conducted fireside 
chats with analysts and investors, as 
well as in-person meetings at a number 
of investor roadshows. 

 — The Chair met with certain major 

institutional shareholders of the Group.

 — The Chair of the Remuneration 

Committee corresponded with major 
institutional shareholders in relation to 
2024 annual and long-term incentives. 

 — Delivered Haleon’s first AGM, with 

participation from retail shareholders.

 — Shareholders’ views were regularly 

discussed by the Board through reports 
from the CEO, CFO and updates from 
the Investor Relations team. 

Board conduct and standards
The Board places a high value in setting 
the right standards of conduct for the 
Company, and creating a culture which 
enables and encourages employees to 
do the right thing. Training on the Code 
of Conduct was completed by all Board 
members, which included anti-bribery 
and corruption.

Section 172 statement

Haleon  Annual Report and Form 20-F 2023

69

Board activities continued

Workforce engagement

Dame Vivienne Cox
Workforce Engagement Director

During the year, I have enjoyed the 
opportunity to engage with employees 
across different parts of the 
Company, which I have found 
insightful and valuable. 

The sessions have highlighted: 
the positive actions taking place to 
deliver health inclusivity and the 
opportunities to further educate and 
work closely with communities; the 
collaborative team mindset which is 
an enabler to innovation; the need 
to simplify processes and further 
invest in the business to accelerate 
competitive intelligence; and the 
clear support for Haleon’s purpose, 
strategy and culture. 

Looking ahead to 2024, I will be 
seeking to engage on a number 
of topics including brand and 
customers, remuneration, innovation 
and consumer focus, purpose and 
health inclusivity, and work processes 
as an enabler of engagement.

Workforce engagement
In line with Provision 5 of the UK Corporate 
Governance Code, the Board regularly 
assesses the appropriateness of the 
mechanism for workforce engagement. 
The Board believes that the mechanism 
of a designated Non-Executive Director 
remains the most effective method for 
Haleon to enable the employee voice 
to be heard, and for key insights to be 
brought into the Boardroom.

Employee insight
The Board values the opportunity to 
engage with employees. It is vital to 
understand the issues that are important 
to our employees across Haleon’s markets 
and regions, learn about their experience 
of working at Haleon and be aware of any 
challenges that need to be addressed. 
Alongside providing an insight into the 
Company’s culture, maintaining a pulse on 
employee engagement enables 
understanding of current and future drivers 
of attraction and retention at Haleon. 

Engagement plan
In preparing the workforce engagement 
plan for 2023, the key drivers of engagement 
originated from the 2022 employee 
engagement survey, which identified the 
need to better manage workload, streamline 
processes, improve communication channels 
and provide opportunities for career growth. 

70

Haleon  Annual Report and Form 20-F 2023

Corporate Governance

During 2023, I met with employees on five 
occasions. It was important to ensure these 
sessions included a cross-business group of 
culturally diverse employees from across 
our key markets and functions. Amongst 
other matters, the sessions explored: 

 — Health inclusivity, which was a 

session with members of various ERGs.

 — Innovation enablement, which was 
a session that took place during the 
Board’s visit to the US, and was joined 
by members of the US R&D team. 
 — Culture, performance and purpose, 
which was joined by Quality Supply 
Chain employees.

 — Work processes, which was conducted 

over two sessions, joined by APAC 
senior managers, and the second 
session joined by EMEA & LatAm 
senior managers.

These sessions offered valuable insight 
into drivers of employee engagement at 
Haleon. The discussions highlighted the 
progress made towards developing a 
caring culture grounded in safety and 
quality, and employee connections to 
Haleon’s purpose and vision. Key points 
raised included further promoting 
employee wellbeing, streamlining 
systems and processes for greater agility, 
continuing to foster local empowerment, 
and unifying culture through change. 

Continued engagement
In addition to my activities, direct 
engagement with employees remains 
extremely valuable, and the Board had 
the opportunity to meet with employees 
during its visits to the Oral Health facility 
in Weybridge, UK and the R&D site in 
Virginia, US. In addition, the Board receives 
regular verbal updates from management, 
which will continue to form a regular part 
of the Board’s agenda for 2024, alongside 
updates on employee survey results, and 
detailed summaries at the end of each 
financial year.

>>  See also the consideration of workforce pay 
and approach to engagement on page 92.

Corporate Governance

Board development, effectiveness and performance

Training, development and 
induction
A central piece of Haleon’s culture is a 
commitment to support the continuing 
development of all employees. Directors are 
very supportive of this and are committed 
to their own ongoing professional 
development. The training programmes 
available to the Board are under continual 
review and are updated in line with the 
most pressing developments in both 
Haleon’s governance structure and the 
broader commercial environment. 

During 2023, the Directors participated 
in internal training sessions including 
directors’ duties and disclosure 
obligations, the Code of Conduct and 
anti-bribery and corruption. The Board 
also received briefings on a range of 
strategically important matters to ensure 
they were informed of developments in 
these areas, and were provided with 
regular governance updates on topical 
issues including, changes to the UK 
Corporate Governance Code and other 
potential changes in governance and 
sustainability reporting. 

A structured induction programme was 
prepared for David Denton who joined 
the Board on 1 March 2023. This covered, 
amongst other matters, strategy, Group 
structure, directors’ duties, governance, 
key operations, finance, risk and internal 
audit, legal, ESG and HR.

Board effectiveness and evaluation
The Board undertakes an annual evaluation 
process to assess how it, its Committees 
and individual Directors are performing, 
and to highlight areas for improvement or 
evolution. The Board reviewed progress 
against each action from the 2022 Board 

and Committee action plans, and 
determined that progress had been 
made against all actions.

For 2023, the Board adopted a question 
and discussion-based evaluation process 
conducted by the Company Secretary. 
Other regular meeting attendees were 
also requested to provide feedback. 
Findings on the Committees were shared 
with each respective Committee Chair, 
whilst those on the Board as a whole 
were shared with the Nominations & 
Governance Committee, before discussion 
with the wider Board. Action plans for 
the Board and each Committee were 
agreed for 2024, and are detailed in 
the table below. 

Directors’ performance
Evaluation of each Director’s individual 
performance was carried out by the Chair. 
The reviews will be used as the basis for 
recommending the re-election of Directors 
by shareholders at the next AGM. The Chair 
had one-to-one discussions with each 
Director to discuss, amongst other things: 

 — Their performance and individual 

effectiveness. 

 — Their time commitment to Haleon, 
including the potential impact of 
outside interests. 

 — Their ongoing personal development. 
 — The Board’s composition, including 

Non-Executive Director succession plans. 

 — Current and future Committee 
membership and structure.

 — The effective functioning of the Board.

The Chair review process was led by the 
Senior Independent Non-Executive 
Director who sought feedback from the 
Non-Executive Directors separately, 

without the Chair present, and also took 
into account the views of the Executive 
Directors. The feedback was collated 
and shared with the Chair. 

Key findings and conclusion
Overall, Directors felt positive about the 
Board and how it functioned, noting the 
step-up in effectiveness during 2023 with 
the completion of the first full annual 
cycle of Board activities and disclosures 
since Haleon’s listing in 2022. The culture 
of the Board was considered to be positive 
with open, direct discussions, good 
engagement and interactions with the 
Executive Team. The Board was felt to 
have a strong mix of experience and 
relevant expertise to support the business. 
Directors noted that Board and Committee 
operations and governance worked well, 
with discussions supported by good 
quality papers and comprehensive 
agendas. Progress had been made in 
relation to strategy and this would 
continue to be an area of focus for 2024. 
Progress had also been made in relation 
to risk, with all key risks appropriately 
prioritised during the year. All Board 
Committees were felt to be well established 
and supported by experienced Chairs. 
The Environmental & Social Sustainability 
Committee had made a good start with 
its remit, developing its understanding 
of the sustainability agenda, data 
and commitments.

Each of the Directors is considered to be 
an effective member of the Board and all 
Directors as at the date of this Report will 
seek re-election at the AGM. 

An externally facilitated Board evaluation 
will be undertaken in 2024.

Action plan

Board

Audit & Risk 
Committee

Environmental & 
Social Sustainability 
Committee

Nominations & 
Governance 
Committee

Remuneration 
Committee

 — Focus on delivery of strategic objectives, driving performance and shareholder returns.
 — Continue focus on cultural evolution and interactions with our talent and key business areas.
 — Enhance oversight of risk management and internal controls to reflect changes to the UK Corporate Governance Code. 

 — Continue oversight and focus on key areas of the Committee’s remit.
 — Continue focus on risk management with further deep dives on key areas, including IT and cyber-security.
 — Review compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code on internal controls and continue focus on SOX.

 — Review delivery of Haleon’s first Responsible Business Report.
 — Continue focus on Haleon’s preparedness for current and future external sustainability disclosures, including the 

Corporate Sustainability Reporting Directive.

 — Continue oversight of the delivery of sustainability KPIs and targets.

 — Continue focus on succession planning for the Board and the Executive Team.
 — Enhance oversight of subsidiary governance.
 — Support development, talent management and succession planning of senior management.

 — Continue oversight and focus on key areas of the Committee’s remit.
 — Review executive remuneration structures and targets to ensure balance with Company-wide offering and wider 

workforce decisions.

 — Focus on effectiveness and transparency of disclosures and reporting.

Board development, effectiveness and performance

Haleon  Annual Report and Form 20-F 2023

71

Audit & Risk Committee Report

Deirdre Mahlan
Chair

Letter from the Chair
During the year, the Committee has 
focused on its core objectives in 
overseeing the integrity of the Group’s 
financial reporting process, the 
effectiveness of the external audit 
and the robustness of the Company’s 
control environment to manage risks. 

The Committee has closely monitored 
the Group’s successful first year of 
compliance with Section 404 of the 
US Sarbanes-Oxley Act (SOX), as 
well as the effectiveness of the audit 
process as we transitioned to our 
new external auditor, KPMG LLP. 
The Committee has also had a series 
of deep dives into the Group’s 
cyber-security controls and technology 
infrastructure, product user safety and 
trusted ingredients. Further information 
on this and our other activities are set 
out later in this report. 

Changes in regulatory reporting, 
including the recent updates to the 
UK Corporate Governance Code and 
the impact to the Group, will be an 
additional area of focus for the 
Committee in 2024.

Key duties and responsibilities
The Committee’s responsibilities include 
monitoring and reviewing:

 — The integrity of financial reporting 

of the Company’s Financial Statements 
including reviewing significant 
judgements and the adequacy 
of related disclosures. 

 — The external and internal audit process 
and performance of the Internal Audit 
function and the external auditor.
 — The effectiveness of the Company’s 

system of internal control.

 — The process for the management 
of related-party transactions. 

 — The Group’s risk management system, 

and the identification and management 
of risks. 

 — The Company’s process for monitoring 
compliance with legal and regulatory 
requirements and ethical codes 
of practice.

Membership and meetings
The Committee comprises solely 
Independent Non-Executive Directors. 

Details are set out on pages 62 and 63, 
together with details of their attendance 
for the year on page 67. 

The Chair, CEO, CFO, General Counsel, 
Group Financial Controller, Head of Audit, 
Risk and Assurance, and the lead audit 
partner from KPMG LLP regularly attend 
meetings, with other attendees invited 
as appropriate. The Committee also met 
without management present and met 
privately with the audit partner and with 
the Head of Audit, Risk and Assurance. 

The Board has confirmed that it is satisfied: 

 — That the Committee members 

collectively possess an appropriate 
breadth of recent and relevant financial 
expertise including competence in 
accounting and/or audit and experience 
in the consumer healthcare industry.
 — That Deirdre Mahlan possesses the 

relevant attributes to be the designated 
Audit Committee Financial Expert in 
accordance with US federal securities 
laws and regulations. 

Looking ahead
The Committee will continue to 
focus on its key areas of responsibility, 
including the Group’s financial reporting 
and disclosures, internal control over 
financial reporting, the effectiveness of 
KPMG LLP as external auditor and the 
approach to the 2024 external audit.

In addition, the Committee will consider 
the impact of the recent changes to the 
UK Corporate Governance Code which 
take effect in 2025 and the further 
development of the Group’s enterprise 
risk management framework and 
compliance programmes. Controls 
surrounding the IT environment will 
remain a particular area of focus for the 
Committee as the Group continues to 
embed changes in the IT landscape post 
separation and make improvements in IT 
controls. The Committee will continue to 
review key IT initiatives and related risks 
and progress in the maturity of the control 
environment at each Committee meeting.

72

Haleon  Annual Report and Form 20-F 2023

Corporate Governance

Corporate Governance

Committee activities

External reporting

 — Discussed and recommended to the Board for approval, the quarterly trading statements, interim and full-year financial statements, 

and the 2023 Annual Report. 

 — Reviewed the Group’s policy on the use of non-IFRS measures and adjusting items including disclosure and presentation, as well as the 

introduction of organic operating profit growth as a new non-IFRS measure. 

 — Reviewed and challenged the going concern assumptions for 2023 and the principles underpinning the longer-term viability statement.
 — Reviewed and challenged the treatment of key accounting matters and judgements including the estimation of the recoverable amount 

of indefinite life brands. 

 — Considered tax and treasury matters, and compliance with statutory reporting obligations.
 — Assessed whether the Annual Report, as a whole, was fair, balanced, and understandable.

Internal and external audit

 — Approved the statutory audit engagement letter for KPMG LLP in respect of Haleon plc and its subsidiaries for the period ended 

31 December 2023. 

 — Held periodic meetings with the external auditor, without management present.
 — Reviewed and agreed policies and processes designed to safeguard independence of the external auditor, including the approval of the 

2024 Non-Audit Services Policy.

 — Assessed the effectiveness of the external auditor.
 — Approved the 2024 Internal Audit plan.
 — Received and discussed regular updates on the 2023 Internal Audit Plan from the Head of Audit Risk and Assurance, and met him regularly 

without management present. 

Internal controls

 — Received and discussed regular updates on internal controls, including the results of testing, and discussed instances where the 

effectiveness of internal controls was considered to be insufficient or required remediation. 

 — Considered the assessment to determine the Company’s status as an FPI.
 — Reviewed the Group’s first SOX evaluation and certification of internal controls over financial reporting for the year ended 31 December 2023. 

Related-party transactions

 — Reviewed related parties for IFRS purposes as part of the year-end process.

Risk management

 — On behalf of the Board, reviewed the processes by which the Group’s principal risks are identified and managed and received periodic 

reports of the status of principal risks; reported any issues arising from these reports to the Board. 

 — Undertook detailed reviews of key risk areas and processes including digital and technical infrastructure, and cyber-security.
 — Reviewed tax and treasury policies and considered consistency with the risk appetite of the Company.
 — Considered the Group’s insurance policy and insurance programmes.
 — Reviewed the effectiveness of the risk management and internal control systems.

Compliance

 — Received and discussed regular updates from the General Counsel on legal issues.
 — Monitored fraud reporting, the confidential hotline and whistleblowing arrangements, and discussed trends with management.
 — Reviewed and discussed reports from the Compliance function, including updates on Haleon’s Speak Up, concerns management and internal 

investigations framework. 

 — Considered the new ethics and compliance model.

Audit & Risk Committee Report

Haleon  Annual Report and Form 20-F 2023

73

Audit & Risk Committee Report continued

Significant reporting matters in relation to the Financial Statements considered by the Committee during 2023

Accounting area

Committee’s conclusion and response

Recoverable 
amount of indefinite 
life brands

As at 31 December 2023, the Group had approximately £18,073m of intangible assets that are indefinite life brands. 
The Group tests at least annually whether indefinite life brands have suffered any impairment. Impairment testing 
is inherently judgemental and requires management to make multiple estimates, including those related to the future 
revenue growth of each brand, terminal growth rates, profit margins, and discount rates. The Committee reviewed 
information on the impairment tests performed, focusing on the critical assumptions as well as any changes from 
the prior year. 

In 2023, the Group recognised non-cash net impairment charges totalling £184 million, principally related to the 
ChapStick brand, as it was determined the carrying value was less than the estimated recoverable amount. The Committee 
noted the decrease in the recoverable amount of the ChapStick brand was mainly driven by the Group’s strategic 
decision to sell the brand below its carrying value. For those brands with limited levels of headroom, the Committee 
also reviewed and challenged sensitivity analyses provided by management to understand the impact of changes 
in key assumptions. The Committee was satisfied with the assumptions utilised by management and also considered 
and reviewed the Group’s relevant impairment disclosures. Refer to Note 14 of the Consolidated Financial Statements 
on page 136 for further detail. 

Financial and narrative reporting
During the year, the Committee reviewed 
and recommended approval of the 
interim and full-year financial statements, 
and associated releases. In conducting 
its review, the Committee assessed 
key judgement areas, going concern 
and viability statements, and 
impairment reviews. 

The Committee evaluated whether the 
Annual Report, taken as a whole, was 
fair, balanced and understandable and 
contained the necessary information 
for shareholders to assess the Group’s 
performance, business model and strategy. 
To support this assessment, management 
established processes to ensure 
consistency of disclosures, address 
financial reporting risks and co-ordinate 
Company-wide input. In fulfilling its role, 
the Committee recommended to the Board 
for approval, a near-final version of the 
Annual Report at its February 2024 
meeting following the Committee’s 
assessment that it was fair, balanced, 
and understandable.

Throughout the year, the Committee 
reviewed key disclosures and reporting 
requirements to ensure clear communication 
of material information to shareholders. 
This included assessing assumptions 
underlying impairment testing, calculating 
gain/loss on disposal of intangible brand 
assets, the going concern and viability 
assessments and climate-related 
financial reporting. 

The Committee received updates on the 
control environment, financial reporting 
integrity, the Annual Report verification 
process, including management’s checklist 
confirming compliance with the relevant 
regulatory requirements, and external 
audit outcomes. The key audit matters 
reviewed by the external auditor and 
the related outcomes are set out in the 
external auditor’s report on pages 99-115. 

The Committee monitors engagements 
with external stakeholders relevant to 
its areas of oversight, including the UK’s 
Financial Reporting Council (FRC) and the 
US Securities and Exchange Commission.

The FRC carried out a review of Haleon’s 
Annual Report for the year ended  
31 December 2022. No significant 
questions or queries were raised, and 
the Group took into consideration their 
recommendations when preparing this 
Annual Report. The Committee notes that 
the FRC’s review does not provide assurance 
that the Annual Report is correct in all 
material respects as the FRC’s role is not to 
verify information provided, but to consider 
compliance with reporting requirements. 

During the year the Committee also 
reviewed correspondence from the FRC’s 
Audit Quality Review (AQR) team, who 
reviewed Deloitte’s audit of the Group’s 
2022 Financial Statements as part of its 
annual inspection of audit firms. The 
Committee received and reviewed the final 
report from the AQR team which identified 
no key findings or other findings, and 
noted several areas of good practice.

Internal audit 
The Internal Audit function provides 
independent, objective assurance to 
the Board, the Committee and senior 
management on the adequacy and 
effectiveness of Haleon’s risk management, 
governance, and internal control processes. 
The appointment of the Head of Audit, 
Risk and Assurance is a matter reserved 
to the Committee. The Head of Audit, Risk 
and Assurance holds regular discussions 
with the Committee Chair and provides 

regular reports to the Committee on the 
function’s activities. The effectiveness of 
the Internal Audit function, including its 
quality, experience and expertise relative 
to the size of the business, was continually 
monitored through reports received by the 
Committee during the period. These reports 
provided key internal audit observations 
and described proposed improvement 
measures and related time frames given 
to management. 

The Committee approved the annual work 
plan which includes risk-based reviews 
of financial, operational, strategic and 
governance risks, reviews of emerging risks 
and business change activity, together with 
assurance over risk management activities. 
The 2024 Internal Audit plan will be 
regularly reviewed and updated as 
required to reflect evolving assurance 
requirements and priorities.

74

Haleon  Annual Report and Form 20-F 2023

Corporate Governance

Corporate Governance

 — Internal controls, discussing 

opportunities to further simplify and 
evolve the framework in line with our 
strategy and operating model. 
 — The crisis and business continuity 

management procedures.

 — Haleon’s concerns management and 
data analysis measuring traction 
and progress.

 — Risk deep dives over principal risks, 
including trusted ingredients, cyber-
security (and IT infrastructure), and 
other enterprise risk areas such as 
treasury, tax and trade compliance.

Based on the Committee’s activities 
performed throughout the year, and 
its annual effectiveness review, the 
Committee considered the Group’s system 
of internal control and risk management 
under the provisions of the UK Corporate 
Governance Code for the year ended  
31 December 2023 and up to the date of 
approval of the Annual Report are effective.

Internal control and 
risk management
The Board is responsible for establishing 
procedures to manage risk and oversee 
the Group’s internal control framework 
including setting risk appetite in line with 
the Group’s strategic objectives, and 
ensuring appropriate oversight through 
various mechanisms, including strategy 
meetings, management reports and 
reviews of selected risk areas. 

In 2023, a top-down enterprise risk 
assessment was conducted to review and 
prioritise the Group’s principal risks, assess 
the magnitude of risk exposure, and 
highlight any emerging risks. In parallel, a 
bottom-up risk identification was performed 
across business units, markets, sites and 
functions. The Committee reviewed the 
findings, agreed on the principal risks and 
concluded that management’s approach 
to risk and risk appetite was satisfactory. 

On behalf of the Board, the Committee 
is responsible for reviewing and assessing 
the effectiveness of the Group’s risk 
management and internal control systems. 

A fundamental part of the work carried out 
included the review of the Group’s principal 
risks and its financial and operational 
controls and procedures. The Committee 
discussed information on risk mitigation 
plans, internal control maturity and areas 
for improvement. 

The Group’s approach to risk management 
and internal controls has further evolved 
and will continue to be refined throughout 
2024. The risk management framework 
is designed to actively manage, rather 
than eliminate, the significant risks 
and uncertainties the Group may face. 
Consequently, the Group’s internal control 
system can only provide reasonable, but 
not absolute, assurance over its 
principal risks.

>>  See also our approach to risk section 

from page 53. 

The Committee reviewed and endorsed 
a range of policies and programmes, 
including: 

 — The Company’s Code of Conduct (Code) 
and its core value of seeking to always 
do the right thing, applicable to the 
Board, Executive Team, employees 
and third-party temporary workers. 
The Code supports and encourages 
good judgement while maintaining 
a culture of risk accountability. 
 — The mandatory anti-bribery and 

corruption (ABAC) training.

 — The annual confirmation process from 
business unit and function general 
managers attesting their governance 
responsibility and the effectiveness 
of the internal control framework, 
including issue response through 
corrective and preventative actions. 

US Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (SOX) 
The Group is required to comply with the 
provisions of SOX, specifically Sections 
302 and 404, as it relates to an FPI listed 
on a US exchange. During 2023, the 
Group completed a successful first year 
of compliance with Section 404 of SOX. 

The Group’s internal control over financial 
reporting was deemed to be designed 
and operating effectively as at 
31 December 2023. This is a significant 
achievement for the Group and the 
Committee was satisfied with the progress 
in implementing the requirements under 
Section 404 of SOX with respect to 
internal controls over financial reporting.

The Committee will continue to monitor 
the progress of the Group’s internal 
control optimisation efforts, remediation 
of internal control deficiencies, and 
internal controls related to technology 
systems and associated infrastructure.

>>  See also our management’s report on 

internal control over financial reporting 
on page 192.

Audit & Risk Committee Report

Haleon  Annual Report and Form 20-F 2023

75

Audit & Risk Committee Report continued

Cyber-security and 
technology infrastructure
Following the Committee’s review 
of Haleon’s enterprise systems and 
technology infrastructure environment 
in December 2022, certain risk areas were 
identified. During the year, the Committee 
received progress updates on the 
mitigation and remediation plans for these 
risks and was pleased that the remediation 
commitments due for completion in 2023 
were successfully achieved. 

The Committee also received deep dives 
into a number of cyber-security risks 
during the year. The Haleon Information 
Security team commissioned an external 
partner, PwC, to conduct an assessment 
of Haleon as a standalone company 
in the first quarter of 2023 leveraging 
the industry standard framework, 
National Institute of Standards and 
Technology (NIST) Cybersecurity 
Framework. This assessment provided 
an objective baseline across all assets. 

The findings were discussed with 
the Committee along with a prioritised 
plan which continues to grow cyber-
security maturity for the Company. 
The Committee received and discussed 
a deep dive into some of the risk areas 
and will continue to monitor the 
progress in this area. 

The Committee assessed the effectiveness 
of the external audit process including the 
quality of the audit team and involvement 
by the lead audit partner, the adequacy 
of audit planning, the timely and robust 
execution of the audit, the quality of 
communications to the Committee, and 
auditor independence and objectivity. 
The Committee concluded that the 2023 
external audit was effective, and that the 
external auditor continued to perform 
effectively. Following the Committee’s 
recommendation, the Board recommends 
to shareholders the reappointment of 
KPMG LLP as the external auditor for 2024. 

The total fees paid to KPMG LLP for the 
year ended 31 December 2023 were 
£17.1m, of which £1.2m related to non-
audit work. Details of the fees paid to the 
external auditor are in Note 6 to the 
Consolidated Financial Statements on 
page 127.

Non-audit services
The Committee has adopted a policy 
designed to safeguard the independence 
and objectivity of the external auditor. 
This policy, which complies with the FRC’s 
2019 Revised Ethical Standard and SOX, 
sets out a framework for determining 
whether it is appropriate to retain the 
external auditor to provide non-audit 
services and outlines the process for 
pre-approving non-audit fees. 

The policy includes a list of permitted 
non-audit services in line with the relevant 
regulations. Any service not on this list 
is prohibited.

External audit
Following an audit tender carried out in 
2022, KPMG LLP was appointed as auditor 
of the Group and engaged in respect of 
the statutory audit of Haleon plc and its 
subsidiaries for the 2023 financial year. 
Nicholas Frost was appointed the lead 
audit partner for the period ended 
31 December 2023. 

During the period, the Committee 
reviewed and discussed the plans for the 
external audit, the proposed audit fees, 
and terms of engagement. It reviewed the 
external audit process and quality and 
experience of the audit partner engaged 
in the audit and also considered the extent 
and nature of the challenge demonstrated 
by the external auditor in their work and 
interactions with management. 

The Committee regularly receives reports 
from the external auditor on the progress 
of its audit activities. The Committee 
reviews the contents of these reports, 
the level of professional judgement and 
challenge of management assumptions 
demonstrated by the external auditor 
and, where appropriate, requests that 
management respond to that challenge 
and tracks management response to 
ensure a satisfactory outcome to the 
challenges raised. 

In considering the independence of 
KPMG LLP, the Committee received 
a statement of independence from the 
external auditor, a report describing 
the arrangements to identify, report 
and manage any conflicts of interest, and 
reviewed the extent of non-audit services 
provided to the Group. The Committee 
confirmed its satisfaction with the 
effectiveness and independence of KPMG 
LLP with respect to their engagements in 
their respective jurisdictions.

The Committee has pre-approved the 
use of the external auditor for non-audit 
services where:

 — They are included in the policy’s list 
of permitted non-audit services; and 

 — They are approved by the Group 

Financial Controller, or their designate 
in certain defined circumstances, when 
not exceeding £100,000; or 

 — They are approved by the CFO and the 
Chair of the Audit & Risk Committee 
when they exceed £100,000.

The total fee for non-audit services 
provided by the external auditor is 
reported to the Audit & Risk Committee 
on a quarterly basis. Management’s 
approval based on monetary limits is 
not a delegation of authority for approval 
by the Audit & Risk Committee, but rather 
a confirmation of adherence to the policy 
for permissible non-audit services. 
The Committee reviews the nature and 
level of non-audit services undertaken 
by the external auditor during the year 
to satisfy itself that there is no impact 
on its independence. 

During the period ended 31 December 2023, 
the external auditor undertook non-audit 
work in relation to other assurance 
services, corporate finance and other 
services and was paid a total of £1.2m.

The Committee considers for the year 
ended 31 December 2023, that the 
Company has complied with the 
Competition and Markets Authority’s 
Statutory Audit Services for Large 
Companies Market Investigation 
(Mandatory Use of Competitive Tender 
Processes and Audit Committee 
Responsibilities) Order 2014 and the 
FRC’s Audit Committees and the 
External Audit: Minimum Standard. 

76

Haleon  Annual Report and Form 20-F 2023

Corporate Governance

Environmental & Social Sustainability 
Committee Report

Corporate Governance

Marie-Anne Aymerich
Chair

Letter from the Chair
The Committee was established in 
March 2023 and has since started 
to lay down some good foundations. 
We held an extensive education 
session covering Haleon’s responsible 
business strategy, its goals and the 
external ESG landscape. In addition, 
the Committee held two formal 
meetings during the rest of the year. 

During those meetings we spent 
significant time considering 
Haleon’s sustainability disclosures, 
the vast regulatory and reporting 
requirements in this area, and 
received comprehensive deep dives 
on areas within the Committee’s 
remit including packaging and 
health inclusivity. 

The Committee has covered much 
ground since March, but there is more 
to do in 2024 to support the delivery 
of Haleon’s sustainability ambitions 
and disclosure obligations. 

Key duties and responsibilities
The Committee’s responsibilities for 
environmental and social sustainability 
(ESS) include monitoring and reviewing:

 — Haleon’s progress against its ESS agenda 
and associated external governance 
and regulatory requirements. 

 — Emerging ESS issues that could impact 
the Group’s operations, ESS initiatives, 
or reputation.

 — Haleon’s ESS engagement with 
relevant external stakeholders, 
NGOs and other interested parties. 

 — The ESS disclosures within the 

Annual Report and external ESS 
reporting, including the Climate 
Action Transition Plan. 

Membership and meetings
The Committee comprises solely 
Independent Non-Executive Directors. 

Details are set out on pages 62 and 63, 
together with details of attendance for 
the year on page 67. The Chair, CEO,  
Head of Transformation and Sustainability, 
VP Sustainability, and the Sustainability 
Programme Director regularly attended 
meetings in 2023. Other attendees were 
invited to meetings as appropriate.

Committee induction
Following the establishment of the 
Committee, an induction session was 
held with input from external experts.  
The session covered Haleon’s responsible 
business strategy, environmental and 
social sustainability, the external 

environment and mandatory reporting, 
regulations and disclosures relevant to the 
Committee’s remit. This helped to shape 
the Committee’s agenda for the rest of 
2023, with particular focus on Haleon’s 
health inclusivity strategy, sustainable 
packaging, and external reporting.

Key metrics and future reporting
As part of the deep dive sessions, the 
Committee reviewed the scope and ambition 
of the Company’s health inclusivity and 
packaging targets. The Committee 
reviewed the threshold level of impact 
required for the Company to measure 
achievement against Haleon’s social 
impact goal, and considered how to 
balance the breadth of reach of the 
initiatives versus the depth of impact. 
The Committee also approved an update 
to Haleon’s baseline year for our Scope 3 
carbon emissions and virgin petroleum-
based plastic reduction targets.

In addition to Haleon’s current ESS 
ambitions, the Committee considered 
Haleon’s future external ESG disclosure 
requirements, including how to most 
effectively and efficiently balance 
reporting requirements from different 
jurisdictions as a global business.

Looking ahead
The Committee will continue to focus 
on oversight in relation to packaging, 
carbon net zero, health inclusivity and 
progress against the Company’s 
sustainability ambitions.

Committee activities

Responsible business strategy

 — Reviewed Haleon’s half-year performance against the responsible business scorecard measures.

Key metrics

 — Received and discussed a deep dive on the progress of Haleon’s health inclusivity strategy 

and social impact goals as well as sustainable packaging. 

 — Reviewed and approved the updates to Haleon’s baseline year from 2020 to 2022 for our 

Scope 3 carbon emissions and virgin petroleum-based plastic reduction targets.

External reporting

 — Considered external reporting in relation to TCFD and CSRD reporting, Haleon’s Responsible 

Business Report and human rights. 

Stakeholder engagement

 — Discussed regular updates on stakeholder engagement.

>>  See also our approach to sustainability from page 22.

Environmental & Social Sustainability Committee Report

Haleon  Annual Report and Form 20-F 2023

77

Nominations & Governance 
Committee Report

Sir Dave Lewis
Chair

Letter from the Chair 
This year the Committee focused on 
succession planning for the Executive 
Team, given there has been a number 
of changes. The Committee also had 
sessions on talent and succession 
within the wider organisation and 
received insight into the broader 
talent agenda for senior management. 

Discussions during the year also 
focused on progress against the 
Board’s Diversity & Inclusion Policy, 
diversity at the top two management 
levels of the Group and progress 
against our responsible 
business ambitions. 

In addition, we continued to regularly 
consider the composition of the 
Board and discussed Non-Executive 
Director succession. 

The Committee will continue to focus 
on its key areas of responsibility with 
a particular emphasis on developing 
a strong and diverse talent pipeline 
at the Board and senior 
management level. 

Committee activities

Succession planning

Key duties and responsibilities
The Committee’s responsibilities include:

 — Leading the process for appointments 

to the Board.

 — Ensuring plans are in place for orderly 

succession to both the Board and senior 
leadership positions.

 — Overseeing the development of 

a diverse pipeline for succession at 
Board and senior management level.

 — Reviewing and recommending the 
Board Diversity & Inclusion Policy. 
 — Monitoring and, where appropriate, 

recommending changes to the 
Company’s corporate governance 
framework.

Membership and meetings
Excluding the Chair, who was considered 
independent on appointment, the 
Committee comprises solely Independent 
Non-Executive Directors. 

Details are set out on pages 62 and 63, 
together with details of attendance for 
the year on page 67. The CEO and the  
Chief Human Resources Officer regularly 
attended meetings, with other attendees 
invited as appropriate. 

Sucession planning
The Committee continued to build on its 
existing processes to strengthen its focus 
on succession planning. During 2023, 
it assessed the composition of the Board 
in terms of the balance of Executive 
and Non-Executive roles, and its skills, 
experience, diversity, capacity and tenure. 

The Committee also discussed the 
Company’s leadership requirements 
including assessing the Executive Team’s 
capabilities and development plans 
against the current and future succession 
needs. In addition, it reviewed the people 
strategy and talent agenda more broadly 
to help in developing a pipeline of 
potential future leaders. 

With the exception of David Denton 
who was appointed on 1 March 2023, the 
Directors were all newly appointed in July 
2022 and the Committee considers that 
the Board’s membership and composition 
remains appropriate.

Composition, time commitment 
and independence
Further to the disclosure on page 71, 
the Committee assessed the composition 
and effectiveness of the Board and its 
Committees. This included reviewing the 

 — Considered Non-Executive Director’s tenure and succession planning arrangements for the 

Board including the CEO and CFO.

 — Reviewed the composition of the Executive Team and discussed key experiences, strengths, 

development areas, performance and succession coverage. 

 —  Reviewed and discussed the Board skills and experience matrix for Non-Executive Directors. 

Board composition and diversity

 —  Reviewed the composition of the Board and its Committees, including diversity metrics. 
 —  Discussed progress against objectives and approved the updated Board Diversity 

& Inclusion Policy.

Evaluation and annual assessment 
of performance

 —  Assessed the independence of the Non-Executive Directors.
 —  Recommended to the Board each Director stand for re-election by shareholders at the 

Governance

Company’s 2023 AGM. 

 —  Reviewed and made recommendations to the Board in respect of each Director’s actual, 

potential or perceived conflicts of interest.

 —  Reviewed the independence and time commitments of the Non-Executive Directors.

 —  Considered the creation of a Conduct and Standards Group and reviewed its Terms of Reference.
 —  Discussed the feedback from the 2023 Board and Committee effectiveness review and the 

action plans.

 —  Recommended the membership of the Environmental & Social Sustainability Committee.
 —  Considered the Director induction plan for David Denton.

78

Haleon  Annual Report and Form 20-F 2023

Corporate Governance

Corporate Governance

balance of skills, experience, and diversity 
represented. It also assessed each 
Non-Executive Director’s time commitment 
and reported the outcomes of this activity 
to the Board. The assessment considered 
internal responsibilities and the number 
and nature of the Directors’ external 
commitments. All Non-Executive Directors 
demonstrated they have sufficient time 
to devote to their present role. 

Board diversity, equity and inclusion
The Board and its Committees have a 
diverse mix of gender, socio-economic 
and ethnic backgrounds, knowledge, 
personal attributes, skills and experience. 
While all Director appointments are based 
on merit, each candidate is assessed 
against objective criteria, with the prime 
objective to maintain and enhance the 
Board’s overall effectiveness.

The Senior Independent Director (SID) 
reviewed the time commitment of the 
Chair as part of his annual review of the 
Chair’s performance. In line with Provision 
11 of the UK Corporate Governance Code, 
over half of our Board members are 
Independent Non-Executive Directors. 
Bryan Supran and David Denton are not 
considered independent as they are 
nominees of Pfizer. 

The Committee monitors progress against 
the Board and its Committees’ diversity 
objectives which are set out in the Board 
Diversity & Inclusion Policy (the Policy), as 
part of its Board and Committee succession 
planning and, in addition to the skills and 
experience matrix, has regular regard to 
external guidance on improving diversity. 
As a result of this, the Board updated the 
Policy during 2023, to reflect evolving best 
practice and regulation. 

A copy of the Policy can be found on our 
website, as outlined below. 

As at 15 March 2024, the Company met 
the recommendations of the FTSE Women 
Leaders Review on gender diversity, and 
the Parker Review objective on board 
ethnic minority representation. The Board 
met and exceeded the FCA Listing Rules 
requirements in respect of female 
representation and ethnic diversity, as set 
out in the table below. While no women 
currently serve as Chair, SID, CEO or CFO 
as required by the Listing Rules, three 
out of the four Board Committee Chairs, 
as well as the Workforce Engagement 
Director, are appointments currently 
held by women. As part of our succession 
planning and as appointments to the 
Board are considered, we will be mindful 
of the Listing Rules requirements.

Gender representation as at 31 December 2023

Men

Women

Not specified/prefer not to say

Number of
Board members

Percentage
of the Board

Number of senior
positions on the Board
(Chair, SID, CEO
and CFO)

Number in
executive
management1

Percentage
of executive
management

6

5

—

55%

45%

—

4

0

—

8

7

—

53%

47%

—

Ethnicity representation as at 31 December 2023

White British or other White (including 
minority-white groups)

Mixed/Multiple Ethnic Groups

Asian/Asian British

Black/African/Caribbean/Black British

Other ethnic group, including Arab

Not specified/prefer not to say

Number of
Board members

Percentage
of the Board

Number of senior
positions on the Board
(Chair, SID, CEO
and CFO)

Number in
executive
management1

Percentage
of executive
management

9

—

2

—

—

—

82%

—

18%

—

—

—

3

—

1

—

—

—

12

—

2

—

—

12

80%

—

17%

—

—

3%

>>  Information on the gender balance of the Executive Team and their direct reports is available on page 20. 
>>  See our Board Diversity & Inclusion Policy at www.haleon.com/who-we-are/Governance/board-and-board-committees

1  Executive management is defined as members of the Haleon Executive Team (including the CEO and CFO). 
2  Representing one individual based in a country in which it is illegal to collect diversity data.

Nominations & Governance Committee Report

Haleon  Annual Report and Form 20-F 2023

79

Directors’ Remuneration Report

Tracy Clarke
Chair

Letter from the Chair
I am delighted to present the Directors’ 
Remuneration Report for Haleon plc 
for the year ended 31 December 2023. 

Our first Directors’ Remuneration 
Policy received strong shareholder 
support and was approved by 98.2% 
of shareholders at the 2023 AGM. 
The first Directors’ Remuneration 
Report received 98.7% support 
from our shareholders. Both the 
Remuneration Policy and its 
implementation in 2023 were 
designed to reward performance 
that delivers, at a minimum, Haleon’s 
investment case and drive growth, 
and it was therefore pleasing that 
shareholders have endorsed this 
approach. The Committee remains 
confident that the remuneration 
structure in place supports a 
management team that is committed 
to delivering consistently strong 
performance, while creating a 
sustainable, values and purpose-led 
Company. I would like to thank the 
shareholders that engaged with me 
and provided helpful feedback as 
the Committee designed, refined and 
finalised the remuneration structure.

Tracy Clarke 
Chair of the Remuneration Committee 
15 March 2024

Rewarding 2023 performance
2023 was a year of strong financial 
performance against a set of stretching 
targets. Organic revenue growth was 
achieved at 8.0% and adjusted operating 
profit growth was achieved at 10.4%. 
However, as these targets were set in a 
high inflation environment, when reviewing 
these outcomes the Committee carefully 
considered the impact of inflation 
experienced in several markets in the 
context of wider business performance 
in 2023. On this basis, the Committee 
considered it appropriate to apply 
discretion to the 2023 annual incentive plan 
(AIP) outcome which resulted in a reduction 
of c.10 ppts compared to the formulaic 
result. The overall outcome under the 2023 
AIP was therefore 75.2% of the maximum 
opportunity for the CEO and 77.7% of 
maximum opportunity for the CFO. 
The Haleon PSP Refill awards granted 
in March 2023 vested in March 2024, by 
reference to the performance period ended 
on 31 December 2023. These awards vested 
at 81% of maximum, based on performance 
against the Cumulative free cash flow and 
net debt/adjusted EBITDA targets. The full 
details of the 2023 remuneration paid to 
Directors and the basis for its determination 
are set out on pages 84-88.

2024 remuneration structure
There have been no changes to the 
Directors’ Remuneration Policy approved 
by shareholders at the 2023 AGM. 

For 2024, the AIP performance measures 
remain (subject to aligning names and 
definitions of measures to the Company’s 
financial KPIs) Organic revenue growth 
(60% weighting), Organic operating profit 
growth (20% weighting) and individual 
business objectives (IBOs) (20% weighting). 
Following review and due consideration, 
the Committee concluded that the balance 
of measures remains in line with the 
investment case for Haleon, in particular 
the weighting towards organic revenue 
growth, and so no changes were made 
to the AIP structure for 2024.

The 2023 PSP performance measures 
included cumulative free cash flow (50%), 
net debt/adjusted EBITDA (50%) and ESG 
qualifier thresholds on carbon reduction, 
recycle-ready packaging and gender 

diversity in leadership roles. As the 
business is getting closer to reaching its 
initial deleveraging target (below 3.0x 
net debt/adjusted EBITDA), to ensure 
that the performance measures continue 
to support the most critical strategic 
objectives, for the 2024-2026 performance 
cycle the net debt/adjusted EBITDA 
measure (50% weighting) will be replaced 
with a combination of two alternative 
measures, adjusted diluted earnings per 
share growth (EPS) (30% weighting) and 
organic operating margin improvement 
(operating margin) (20% weighting).

EPS will drive a focus on bottom-line 
performance, whilst operating margin will 
enhance the focus on profitable growth, 
both of which are critical to driving 
long-term shareholder value. The addition 
of EPS and operating margin improvement 
will rebalance the incentive structure 
towards a focus on profitability, highlighting 
the importance of achieving margin 
improvement alongside top-line growth. 
Despite this change in the 2024-2026 
metrics, our strategy remains consistent. 

The 50% weighting on cumulative free 
cash flow will remain for 2024 as it 
continues to be a strategic priority to 
drive financial discipline. The generation 
of stable cash flow is a critical part of 
how value is created for our shareholders, 
including our ability to deliver returns. 

In addition, as the external commitment 
on recycle-ready packaging runs to 2025, 
this threshold will be replaced by a 
metric assessing the reduction in virgin 
petroleum-based packaging as part of 
the ESG qualifier for the 2024-2026 cycle. 
This metric is aligned with Haleon’s 
external commitment to reduce use of 
virgin petroleum-based plastic, with the 
threshold taking into account the change 
in the baseline from 2020 to 2022, as set 
out on page 22.

In combination across the 2024 AIP and 
PSP, the financial measures have been 
chosen to align our Executive Directors’ 
remuneration with our strategy to deliver 
sustainable above-market growth and 
attractive returns, while running a 
responsible business, which is integral 
to all that we do.

80

Haleon  Annual Report and Form 20-F 2023

Corporate Governance

Corporate Governance

>>  Further information about the measures and 
targets linked to incentive awards is provided 
on pages 85-89.

Having considered all relevant factors, 
including workforce remuneration 
arrangements, inflation rates and market 
practice, the Committee approved a 4.5% 
salary increase for the Executive Directors 
and a 4.5% fee increase for the Chair, the 
first pay increase awarded to the Executive 
Directors and the Chair since the demerger 

in July 2022. This is in line with the average 
4.5% increase awarded to UK employees. 
The base fees for Non-Executive Directors 
will also increase by 4.5%. 

Shareholder engagement
In December 2023, I wrote to our largest 
shareholders regarding the changes we 
are making to the 2024 PSP performance 
measures and other aspects of the 
implementation of our Directors’ 
Remuneration Policy in 2024. 

I am very grateful for the support and 
valuable comments that we have received. 
The Committee will continue to ensure that 
the performance measures support our 
strategy, including the delivery of 
attractive returns.

I remain available for any shareholders 
who wish to discuss our policy, or any of 
the content set out in this report, ahead 
of the 2024 AGM.

Key duties and responsibilities
The Remuneration Committee’s principal 
responsibilities are:

 — Making recommendations to the Board 
on remuneration principles and policy 
as applied to Executive Directors.
 — Setting, reviewing and approving 

individual remuneration arrangements 
for the Chair of the Board, Executive 
Directors, senior leadership and the 
Company Secretary, and such other 
executives as required.

 — Designing remuneration policies and 

practices that support the Company’s 
strategy and promote its long-term 
sustainable success. 

 — Ensuring that performance conditions 

are transparent, stretching and 
rigorously applied.

 — Enabling the use of discretion over 

outcomes and recovery and withholding 
of awards where the Committee deems 
this to be appropriate.

 — Making recommendations to the Board 
concerning the introduction of new 
share incentive plans which require 
Board or shareholder approval.

 — Reviewing employee remuneration and 
key related policies, and the alignment 
of incentives and rewards, with the 
Company’s culture and taking these 
into account when determining the 
policy for executive remuneration.

Membership and meetings
The Committee comprises solely 
Independent Non-Executive Directors. 

Details are set out on page 62 and 63, 
together with details of attendance for 
the year on page 67. The Chair, CEO, 
Chief Human Resources Officer, Global 
Head of Reward and a representative from 
the independent remuneration adviser 
(PwC) attend meetings on a regular basis. 
Other attendees are invited to meetings 
as appropriate. The Committee also meets 
without management present. No Directors 
or executives are present when their own 
remuneration is discussed and they are 
not involved in determining their 
own remuneration.

Committee activities

Executive remuneration 
and incentive plans

 — Approving the 2023 AIP and PSP targets and the 2022 AIP outcome.
 — Considering updates on the 2023 AIP.
 — Approving the 2024 AIP and PSP measures and targets.
 — Approving 2023 and 2024 remuneration arrangements for the members of the Haleon Executive Team, 

including the Executive Directors, and the Company Secretary.

 — Noting regular market updates on executive remuneration, investors’ views and governance.

Stakeholder engagement

 — Considering shareholder feedback on the 2022 Directors’ Remuneration Report and the outcomes 

Governance

of the 2023 AGM.

 — Considering and approving the 2023 shareholder engagement timeline and materials.
 — Discussing the workforce remuneration arrangements.

 — Approving the final 2022 and 2023 Directors’ Remuneration Reports.
 — Noting updates on the operation of share plans.
 — Approving amendments to the malus and clawback policy.
 — Approving the 2023 schedule of business and noting risk management procedures for the Committee.
 — Approving appointment of the independent Committee advisers.
 — Considering and approving relevant documents, policies and delegated authorities to allow the 

Committee to effectively discharge its responsibilities.

>>  Details of the Committee effectiveness review are set out on page 71.

Directors’ Remuneration Report

Haleon  Annual Report and Form 20-F 2023

81

Directors’ Remuneration Report continued

Remuneration at a glance

The current Directors’ Remuneration Policy (Policy) was approved at the 2023 AGM and is expected to apply until the 2026 AGM. 
The Committee is comfortable that the current Policy operated as intended during 2023 and that the overall 2023 remuneration paid 
to Directors as set out below and within the Annual Report on Remuneration, was appropriate. 

>>  The complete Policy is available on the Company’s website: www.haleon.com/who-we-are/Governance/codes-policies-and-standards

Summary of the application of the Directors’ Remuneration Policy in 2023 and 2024

Element

Base Salary

Benefits

2023 2024 2025 2026 2027 2028 Application for 2023

Application for 2024

2023 base salaries:

2024 base salaries:

 — CEO: £1,250,000 
 — CFO: £700,000

 — CEO: £1,306,250 (+4.5%)
 — CFO: £731,500 (+4.5%)

Benefits operate in line 
with the Policy

Benefits will operate in line 
with the Policy

Pension arrangements

Employer contributions:

No change

Annual Incentive Plan 
(AIP)

Performance Share Plan 
(PSP)

Share ownership 
requirements

 — CEO: 7% of salary
 — CFO: 7% of salary

Deferral period 

Maximum AIP opportunities:

No change to AIP opportunities

 — CEO: 200% of salary
 — CFO: 200% of salary

2023 performance measures:

 — 60% Organic 

revenue growth1

 — 20% Adjusted 

operating profit

 — 20% IBOs

50% of any AIP earned 
is deferred for three years

2024 performance measures 
(no change):

 — 60% Organic revenue growth
 — 20% Organic operating 

profit growth

 — 20% IBOs

50% of any AIP earned 
is deferred for three years

Vesting period 

Holding period 

2023 PSP award levels:

No change to PSP award levels

 — CEO: 450% of salary
 — CFO: 350% of salary

2024 performance measures:

 — 50% Cumulative free 

2023 performance measures:

cash flow

 — 30% Adjusted diluted 

EPS growth

 — 20% Organic operating 
margin improvement

 — ESG qualifier

No change

 — 50% Cumulative free 

cash flow

 — 50% Net debt/adjusted 

EBITDA

 — ESG qualifier

Share ownership 
requirements:

 — CEO: 450% of salary
 — CFO: 350% of salary

1  Organic revenue growth was referred to as ‘organic sales growth’ in the 2022 Directors’ Remuneration Report. This measure has not changed, however, the name has been aligned with 

the strategic KPI for ease of reference.

Malus and clawback
The Committee may apply malus and clawback at any time prior to the second anniversary of the date the cash element of an annual 
bonus is paid, or a share award vests. The Committee may only invoke these malus and clawback provisions in accordance with the Haleon 
malus and clawback policy from time to time, in circumstances such as a material misstatement of results; a failure of risk management 
resulting in material financial loss; an error or material misstatement which results in an overpayment (such as in the assessment of 
performance); a corporate failure of the Company; employee misconduct; or material reputational damage to the Company.

In addition, on 1 December 2023, the Company adopted a mandatory clawback policy that complies with the SEC requirements 
introduced during the year.

82

Haleon  Annual Report and Form 20-F 2023

Corporate Governance

Corporate Governance

What performance means for Executive Directors’ pay in 2023
At Haleon, remuneration packages are designed to ensure strong alignment between pay and performance. 2023 saw the Company 
perform strongly against its financial and strategic objectives which has been appropriately reflected in the incentive outcomes, as set 
out in the Annual Report on Remuneration from page 84.

2023 AIP outcome
Following a year of strong performance, the formulaic AIP 
outcomes were 85.1% of maximum (CEO) and 87.6% of maximum 
(CFO). However, in line with the Committee’s discretion, the 
outcome was reduced by c.10 ppts to reflect higher than 
expected inflation experienced in several markets.

2023 PSP Refill awards
The PSP Refill awards vested at 81% of maximum, in line with 
performance against the cumulative free cash flow and net debt/
adjusted EBITDA targets, combined with considerable progress 
on responsible business objectives.

CEO

CFO

75.2%

77.7%

CEO

CFO

81%

81%

2023 remuneration scenarios and actual remuneration received
The charts below show the potential levels of remuneration which could be received by the Executive Directors under different 
performance scenarios based on the levels of regular AIP and PSP awards granted in the year, as well as actual remuneration received 
in respect of 2023 including vesting of the PSP Refill awards.

CEO

CFO

Minimum

100%

£1,509,000

Minimum

100%

£794,000

Target

24%

20%

56%

£6,274,000

Target

26%

23%

51%

£3,025,000

Maximum

16%

26%

58%

£9,634,000

Maximum

17%

30%

53%

£4,644,000

Actual 2023

26%

33%

41%

£5,763,000

Actual 2023

39%

53%

8%

£2,046,000

Fixed pay

AIP

PSP

Link between incentive measures and strategy
There is a strong link between Haleon’s performance measures and the Company’s strategy. A combination of financial and non-financial 
measures has been chosen to ensure that executive remuneration is aligned with the key performance indicators (KPIs) used by the 
business to monitor performance against our strategic priorities. The table below sets out the incentive measures and weightings 
used in 2023:

Strategic KPI (as shown on  
pages 32-33 of this report)

AIP measures

PSP measures

Organic revenue growth

Organic revenue growth (60% weighting)

Adjusted operating profit

Adjusted operating profit (20% weighting)

Net debt to adjusted EBITDA

Free cash flow

Carbon reduction

Recycle-ready packaging

Gender diversity

Net debt/adjusted EBITDA (50% weighting)

Cumulative free cash flow (50% weighting)

Carbon reduction (ESG qualifier)

Recycle-ready packaging (ESG qualifier)

Gender diversity (ESG qualifier)

Further details of the performance measures for the 2023 AIP and PSP awards, and how they are aligned with Company strategy and 
the creation of shareholder value, are set out on pages 85-88 of this Directors’ Remuneration Report. 2024 AIP and PSP performance 
measures aligned with the 2024 strategic KPIs are set out on pages 87 and 89 of this Directors’ Remuneration Report.

Directors’ Remuneration Report

Haleon  Annual Report and Form 20-F 2023

83

Directors’ Remuneration Report continued

Annual Report on Remuneration

Planned implementation for 2024
Content within a box indicates that all the information in the panel is planned for implementation in 2024.

‘Single figure’ of remuneration – Executive Directors (audited)
The following table shows a single total figure of remuneration for each Executive Director in respect of qualifying services for the 
2023 and 2022 financial years.

£000

Salary

Benefits

Pension

Total fixed remuneration

AIP1

PSP2

Total variable remuneration

Total remuneration6

Brian McNamara
2023

1,250

171

88

1,509

1,880

2,374

4,254

5,763

Brian McNamara

20223,4

719

4745

87

1,280

1,014

—

1,014

2,294

Tobias Hestler
2023

Tobias Hestler
20223

700

45

49

794

1,088

164

1,252

2,046

410

35

36

481

518

—

518

999

1  The value of the 2023 AIP includes both the cash (50% of the AIP) and deferred portion (50% of the AIP). The deferred part of the bonus is subject to malus and clawback in 

accordance with the malus and clawback policies, but no further performance conditions.

2  2023 PSP vesting shows the PSP Refill awards which vested in March 2024. The value of awards has been calculated based on the average share and ADS price over the last three 
months of 2023 (£3.2887/$8.2421) and includes the accumulated dividends delivered in the form of shares. The actual value of vesting PSP Refill awards, based on the share price 
on the vesting date could not be calculated prior to the publication of this Report and therefore will be shown in the 2024 Report. Due to the share price appreciation over the vesting 
period, the estimated value per share of the 2023 PSP Refill awards is higher than the value per share at grant by $50,156 (£40,448) for Brian McNamara and by £2,900 for Tobias 
Hestler. The value of the 2023 PSP Refill award for Brian McNamara has been converted to GBP using the average 2023 exchange rate of 1.24. There were no Haleon PSP awards 
vesting in 2022.

3  2022 remuneration is shown for the period between Directors’ appointment (23 May 2022) and the end of the financial year (31 December 2022).
4  Pre-demerger remuneration for Brian McNamara was set in US Dollars and has been converted to GBP in the table above, using the average 2022 exchange rate of 1.24.
5  The value of 2022 benefits for Brian McNamara has been restated to show the actual cost of tax equalisation arrangements provided in line with the GSK plc policy, as set out in the 

2022 Directors’ Remuneration Report. The total reduction in this value was £55,780. 

6  Each remuneration element is rounded to the nearest £1,000, and totals reflect the sum of these rounded values. 

Salary (audited)
Executive Directors received no salary increases in 2023.

Executive Director

Brian McNamara

Tobias Hestler

Annual base salary
as of 1 January 2023

£1,250,000

£700,000

Annual base salary
as of 1 April 2023

£1,250,000

£700,000

2024 salaries
The Committee carefully considered whether any increases should be awarded to Executive Directors’ salaries in 2024. Factors that 
have been taken into account when considering Directors’ pay included investors’ expectations, external environment, Company 
performance, planned salary increases for the wider employee population, personal performance of the executives and competitive 
market positioning of the total remuneration packages against the main peer groups. In 2023 these peer groups included constituents 
of the FTSE 30 (excluding financial services) and a bespoke group of large international FMCG companies1. The Committee noted that 
Executive Directors’ salaries had not been reviewed since the demerger. Based on the considerations set out above, the Committee 
approved a 2024 salary increase of 4.5% for the Executive Directors, in line with the average increase which will be awarded to the 
wider UK workforce.

Executive Director

Brian McNamara

Tobias Hestler

Annual base salary
from 1 April 2024

£1,306,250

£731,500

% increase

4.5

4.5

1  In 2023 this group included Diageo, AstraZeneca, GSK, British American Tobacco, Vodafone Group, Imperial Brands, Danone S.A., Heineken N.V., Burberry Group, Associated British 

Foods, L’Oréal S.A., Pernod Ricard SA, Sanofi and Siemens Healthineers AG.

Benefits (audited)
2023 benefits for Executive Directors included private healthcare (including spouse or partner and eligible dependent children), life 
assurance/death in service benefit, membership of a Group Income Protection plan (including self-insured, where appropriate, in line 
with standard policy), personal tax and financial planning, car travel, reimbursement of expenses properly incurred in the ordinary 
course of business, which are deemed to be taxable benefits, and (for the CEO only) home security services. Executive Directors are 
eligible to participate in the HM Revenue and Customs (HMRC) approved Haleon Share Save Plan and Share Reward Plan. Details of 
Executive Directors’ rights under the Share Save Plan are set out in the ‘Outstanding share options’ table on page 95.

84

Haleon  Annual Report and Form 20-F 2023

Corporate Governance

Corporate Governance

2024 benefits
Benefits for 2024 remain in line with the Policy. 

Pension
Both Executive Directors receive pension contributions at the rate of 7% of annual base salary which includes contributions to the 
pension plan as well as cash allowances. Executive Directors do not participate in defined benefit pension plans.

Executive Director

Brian McNamara

Tobias Hestler

Pension plan
contributions

£0

£5,333

Pension
allowance

£87,500

£43,667

Total 2023 pension
 contributions

£87,500

£49,000

2024 Pension
Pension for 2024 remains in line with the Policy. Approach to pension arrangements for Executive Directors is in line with the 
broader workforce.

2023 Annual Incentive Plan (AIP) awards (audited)
The 2023 AIP awards were based on performance for the year ended 31 December 2023. 80% of the bonus opportunity is determined 
by financial performance and 20% is based upon the achievement of IBOs. 

The figures below represent the total 2023 AIP awards to be paid, including the portion payable in cash in 2024, and the portion 
deferred into shares for a further three years to be released in 2027, subject to continued employment and malus and clawback 
provisions. In line with the Policy, deferral provisions apply to 50% of the 2023 AIP value.

Performance measures

Weighting

Threshold
(25% of max)

Target
(50% of max)

Maximum
 (100% of max)

Actual

Outcome
(% of max)

Brian
McNamara

Tobias
Hestler

2023 AIP targets

2023 AIP outcome

AIP outcome 
(% of max per element)

Organic revenue growth

60%

3.3%

5.3%

7.3%

6.8%

88.5%

53.1%

53.1%

Adjusted operating profit

20%

3.4%

7.4%

11.4%

9.2%

73.0%

14.6%

14.6%

IBOs – Brian McNamara

IBOs – Tobias Hestler

AIP award (% of maximum)

AIP award (value)

20%

Details of performance 
are set out on page 86. 

   The colour bars represent the actual outcome.

7.5%

—

75.2%

—

10.0%

77.7%

£1,880,000 £1,087,800

2023 was a year of strong financial performance. The 2023 AIP was subject to a set of ambitious targets which were defined at the 
beginning of the year, in line with our stretching business plan. The outcomes were at the upper end of the improved guidance 
provided by the Company at Half Year. Organic revenue growth was achieved at 8.0%, and adjusted operating profit growth was 
achieved at 10.4% (this compares to the reported organic operating profit growth of 10.8% for 2023; from 2024, the AIP measure 
will be aligned with the organic operating profit growth). 

Given that targets were set in a high inflation environment, the Committee considered whether the incentive outcome fairly reflects 
the underlying business performance. This analysis included determining the level of impact of higher-than-expected inflation 
experienced in several markets on the outcome of the 2023 AIP. 

Having discussed this impact, the Committee considered it appropriate to apply discretion to the 2023 AIP outcome which resulted 
in a reduction to the organic sales growth outcome from 8.0% to 6.8% and the adjusted operating profit from 10.4% to 9.2% to reflect 
the high inflationary impact. This has reduced the outcome of the 2023 AIP for the Executive Directors by c. 10 percentage points, 
from 85.1% of maximum for the CEO and 87.6% of maximum for the CFO to 75.2% of maximum for the CEO and 77.7% of maximum 
for the CFO respectively.

Directors’ Remuneration Report

Haleon  Annual Report and Form 20-F 2023

85

Directors’ Remuneration Report continued

Annual Report on Remuneration continued

Achievement of 2023 Individual Business Objectives (IBOs) (audited)
20% of the Executive Directors’ 2023 AIP is linked to the achievement of IBOs which were focused on key strategic objectives. 
In addition to the objectives outlined in the bonus, there is an expectation that the Executive Directors will each demonstrate the 
required high leadership standards and behaviours of the Company.

At the end of the year, the Committee considered the performance of each Executive Director against pre-set objectives. At its meeting 
in February 2024, it concluded that 2023 had seen progress in the achievement of our strategic objectives, as described in the Strategic 
Report. This has been reflected in the assessment of the Executive Directors’ 2023 IBOs, showing their contribution to the execution of 
Group strategy during 2023. IBOs are calibrated with a high degree of stretch in them such that outcomes above target are only achieved 
for exceptional performance over the performance period.

The table below summarises performance against the key 2023 IBOs for the current Executive Directors:

Brian McNamara

Objective

Description of performance

Portfolio Review
Carry out a category 
portfolio review and 
commence implementation 

Culture
Develop the blueprint for 
Haleon cultural 
development and deliver 
the streamlined organisation 
objective

Growth strategy
Define growth strategy for 
key markets to deliver 
accelerated growth

 – Review of category brand portfolio to align with Haleon’s strategic priorities.

 – Divested Lamisil successfully with agreement to divest Chapstick.

 – Evaluation of other M&A opportunities.

 – Culture plans devised and implementation started with further stages to be completed in 2024.

 – Changes implemented amongst others, include cascade of leadership standards through the organisation, 
update of talent review processes, installation of employee health and wellbeing working groups, review 
of the compensation and benefits policies.

 – Long term strategy further developed for key markets to accelerate our growth momentum.

 – A number of strategic initiatives have been deployed, with further implementation steps to be completed 

in 2024. 

Recognising Mr McNamara’s performance against his IBOs during 2023, the Committee judged that 7.5% of a maximum of 20% attributable 
to IBOs was appropriate to reflect the progress made against the stretching objectives set.

Tobias Hestler

Objective

Description of performance

Productivity 
Build a 3-year 
productivity plan

Review of strategy 
in key markets

Portfolio Review
Carry out a category 
portfolio review and 
commence implementation

 – Productivity programme successfully set-up and in execution, in line with the Board-approved 3-year plan. 

 – Savings goal fully embedded into operational plans across all business units.

 – 2023 project milestones and targets have been delivered in line with expectations.

 – Review completed and aligned with the Board.

 – Kicked-off execution delivering a detailed project plan, and engagement strategy.

 – Review of category brand portfolio to align with Haleon’s strategic priorities.

 – Divested Lamisil successfully with binding agreement to divest Chapstick through a combination of cash and 

passive minority structure allowing Haleon to participate in further value creation of the brand. 

 – Evaluation of other M&A opportunities.

Recognising Mr Hestler’s performance against his IBOs during 2023, the Committee judged that 10% of a maximum of 20% attributable to IBOs 
was appropriate to reflect the progress made against the stretching objectives set.

86

Haleon  Annual Report and Form 20-F 2023

Corporate Governance

Corporate Governance

Deferral policy for the 2023 AIP
In line with the Policy, 50% of the 2023 AIP awards (to be paid in March 2024) have been deferred for three years into conditional 
awards over Haleon shares, subject to continued employment and malus and clawback provisions.

Deferred Annual Bonus Plan (DABP) awards in respect of the 2022 AIP made in 2023 (audited)
The following table sets out details of mandatory deferral into the DABP of the 2022 AIP awards made on 23 March 2023:

Executive Director

Type of award

Nature of award

Number of shares subject to award

Grant price1

Face value at grant

Brian McNamara

Tobias Hestler

DABP

DABP

Conditional shares

Conditional shares

127,512

70,995

£3.23

£3.23

£411,865

£229,314

1  Grant price is calculated as the average closing share price over the three business days immediately preceding the grant date.

2024 AIP awards
In line with the Policy, for 2024 the target and maximum AIP opportunities for our Executive Directors will be:

Executive Director

Brian McNamara

Tobias Hestler

Target opportunity 
(% of salary)

Maximum opportunity 
(% of salary)

100%

100%

200%

200%

Performance will be based on Group financial performance targets aligned to the Group’s KPIs, as well as IBOs. The measures and 
percentage weightings will remain unchanged from 2023, with names and definitions updated to align with the strategic KPIs:

 — Organic revenue growth (60%);
 — Organic operating profit growth (20%); and
 — Individual Business Objectives (20%).

2024 AIP targets are considered commercially sensitive and will be disclosed in the 2024 Annual Report. 

In line with the Policy, 50% of all 2024 AIP awards will be deferred for three years into conditional awards over Haleon shares, subject 
to continued employment, malus and clawback provisions.

Performance Share Plan Refill awards vesting (audited)
As set out in our 2022 Report, ‘Refill’ share awards were granted to the Executive Directors (as well as other former GSK employees) in 
respect of the lapsed portion of GSK share awards that were time pro-rated at demerger. PSP Refill awards were granted on 23 March 
2023 and vested on 1 March 2024. The performance measures for the PSP Refill awards were aligned with the measures for the annual 
2022 PSP awards, being cumulative free cash flow (50%) and net debt/adjusted EBITDA (50%). The targets were aligned with those 
used for the 2022 award and were calibrated to reflect the shorter performance period. 

Performance measures

Weighting

Minimum
(25% vesting)1

Maximum
(100% vesting)1

Actual 
outcome

Level 
of vesting

Target ranges

Outcome

Cumulative free cash flow 
(Measured on a cumulative basis 
over the performance period  
FY 22-23)

Net debt/adjusted EBITDA 
(Measured as a ratio at year end 2023)

Overall vesting level (% of maximum)

   The colour bars represent the actual outcome.

50%

£2,905m

£3,543m

3,443m

88%

50%

3.4x

2.8x

3.0x

74%

81%

1  Straight-line interpolation is applied for performance between minimum and maximum.

Directors’ Remuneration Report

Haleon  Annual Report and Form 20-F 2023

87

