Mondi Group Integrated report and financial statements 2023

103

Board evaluation process

Year 1 (2022)
External assessment
– Independent external evaluation 
firm selected and appointed.

– Scope refined and agreed between 

the Chair and evaluation firm.
– Questionnaires issued and one-

to-one interviews undertaken by 
the evaluator with each director 
and the Company Secretary.
– One-to-one calls between 
the Chair and each director 
to discuss the results.

– Results and actions discussed by 
the Nominations Committee and 
action plan agreed by the Board.

Years 2 and 3 (2023 and 2024)
Internal assessments
– Outcome from previous evaluation 
and progress against each action 
reviewed.

– External evaluation firm used for 
the external evaluation appointed 
to facilitate internal assessments, 
providing continuity.

– Questionnaires issued to 

directors, Company Secretary 
and other regular Board 
attendees.

– One-to-one calls between Chair 
and directors to discuss results.
– Results and actions discussed by 
the Nominations Committee and 
action plan agreed by the Board.

In line with best practice, in 2022 we conducted an external Board evaluation. The process was facilitated by Lintstock, an independent 
governance advisory firm. Below are the key actions reported last year, and details of the progress we have made against those actions:

Action agreed from 2022 evaluation
To expand the Board's regular reviews of the business units 
to include greater detail concerning consumer trends and their 
impact on Mondi's customers.

To expand the scope of the Board's review of the development 
of major competitors and their strategies.
To increase the Board's visibility and understanding of key 
regulatory developments, particularly in relation to sustainability.

To maintain the strong focus on diversity and inclusion, with the 
Board to review steps taken to operationalise the tools that have 
been developed across the business to support improvements 
in this regard.
To continue to give in-depth consideration to executive director 
succession. 

Progress achieved
Each of the business unit reviews undertaken by the Board in 
2023 has included discussion of key consumer trends, including 
eCommerce and sustainability, the impact of these trends on 
demand and market dynamics, and the resulting actions being 
taken in response, including the impact on the types of products 
being produced. 

Relevant deep dives have been introduced into the rolling agenda. 

Regular regulatory updates from a sustainability perspective are 
provided at meetings of the Sustainable Development Committee, 
which all Board members usually attend. Updates during 2023 
have included a detailed overview of the Packaging & Packaging 
Waste Regulation. An update on Mondi’s approach to public 
affairs and the developing EU regulatory landscape in particular 
was also provided to the Board in December 2023. 
A review of diversity and inclusion initiatives, and developments 
and trends in a range of diversity statistics, was undertaken in 
June 2023 and remains high on the Board's agenda. More details 
can be found on pages 107-109. 
Detailed discussions were undertaken during the year to consider 
potential internal successors for the Group CEO and CFO, their 
development needs, and actions that can be taken to provide 
further progression and development opportunities. Succession 
plans for other key roles were also reviewed. 

Mondi Group Integrated report and financial statements 2023

104

Corporate governance report
Composition, succession and evaluation continued

2023 Board evaluation process
In 2023, the Board took the decision to undertake a questionnaire-based evaluation 
facilitated by Lintstock. Given Lintstock carried out Mondi's external evaluation in 2022, 
it was agreed that the follow-up support and insight Lintstock could offer would be 
valuable. Lintstock has no other connection to Mondi beyond the provision of board 
evaluation services. Anonymity was ensured throughout the process to allow for the 
provision of candid and open feedback by participants. The evaluation process was led 
by Philip Yea in conjunction with the Nominations Committee and is set out below. 
The review of the Chair was led by Dominique Reiniche as Senior Independent Director. 

Engagement

Decision to engage Lintstock to conduct the evaluation

Questionnaires completed

Questionnaires relating to the Board, committees and individual performance 
completed by directors, the Company Secretary and other regular attendees 
at Board and committee meetings

Report issued

Detailed report from Lintstock setting out the questionnaire findings issued and 
reviewed with the Chair

One-to-one calls with directors

One-to-one calls undertaken by the Chair with each director to discuss findings 
and individual performance and findings related to individual committees reviewed 
and considered by committee chairs

Report considered

Report considered at a meeting of the Nominations Committee

Action plan recommended

Action plan recommended by the Nominations Committee and agreed by the Board

As a result of the process, the Board 
concluded that it continues to operate 
in an effective manner, benefitting from 
positive dynamics, strong engagement 
and relationships with senior 
management and a boardroom culture 
that allows for open and constructive 
challenge. Each director continues to 
contribute effectively to the Board.

There was consensus around the 
priorities for the forthcoming year, and 
the key actions agreed by the Board 
as a result of the evaluation include 
the following:

– to arrange for the Board to hear 
directly from major customers, 
to supplement the insight already 
provided to the Board in respect 
of customer requirements through 
presentations from management;

– to further develop and enhance the 
Nominations Committee’s approach 
to succession planning, particularly 
in respect of the executive directors, 
with support from the newly appointed 
Chief People Officer; and 

– to continue to identify opportunities 

for interaction between the Board and 
senior management on a less formal 
basis, with the aim of supporting 
succession planning discussions and 
giving Board members deeper insight 
into the organisation from both an 
operational and cultural perspective. 

The Board considers that it continues 
to benefit from the annual review 
process, the results of which help 
guide the future focus of meeting 
agendas and behaviours.

Mondi Group Integrated report and financial statements 2023

105

Corporate governance report
Nominations Committee

Philip Yea
Chair of the Nominations Committee

While the committee remains confident that the 
Board has the broad range of knowledge and 
perspectives it needs, it is constantly assessing ways 
in which to further strengthen its composition to 
ensure it has the capability to fulfil its responsibilities.

Committee member since
April 2020

Composition and attendance1
Members throughout the year

Philip Yea, Chair

Svein Richard Brandtzaeg
Sue Clark2
Anke Groth3
Saki Macozoma

April 2021

April 2021

April 2023

May 2022

Dominique Reiniche

October 2015

Dame Angela Strank

Stephen Young

April 2021

May 2018

Meeting attendance

4/4

4/4

3/4

3/3

4/4

4/4

4/4

4/4

1 The maximum number of meetings held during the year that each director could attend 

is shown next to the number attended.

2 Sue Clark was unable to attend one meeting during the year due to an unavoidable 

commitment.

3 Anke Groth joined the committee on 1 April 2023. Anke attended all meetings following 

her appointment.

Other regular attendees

– Group CEO

Dear Shareholder
I am pleased to present this report, 
which provides an overview of the areas 
of focus for the committee during 
the year, and those for the year ahead, 
as well as its key activities and the 
framework within which it operates.

Composition
To ensure the committee has access 
to as wide a range of knowledge 
and experience as possible, each 
non-executive director is a member. In 
line with this practice, Anke Groth joined 
the committee upon her appointment 
to the Board in April 2023. 
Areas of focus
The key focus of the committee is 
to ensure that the composition of the Board 
and its committees is appropriate and 
relevant to the Group and that the Board 
continues to be in the best position to 
deliver the Group’s strategy, and to ensure 
that the business operates in line with 
Mondi’s purpose, culture and values. 
This includes overseeing Board diversity 
and succession matters.

In April 2023, following a recruitment 
process conducted through an external 
search agency, and in line with our 
commitment to strengthen the level of 
relevant financial experience on the Audit 
Committee, Anke Groth joined the Board 
as an independent non-executive director. 
Anke was appointed to the Audit Committee 
at the same time, and I am pleased to 
confirm that Anke has brought valuable 
insight and experience to discussions. 

In preparation for Dominique Reiniche 
completing her nine-year term on the 
Board during 2024, the committee has 
now turned its attention to succession 
planning for Dominique and how the 
Board and committee memberships 
may need to evolve as a result. This 
will continue to be a priority for the 
committee in 2024. There is particular 
focus on Dominique's role as both 
Senior Independent Director and 
Chair of the Sustainable Development 
Committee and the skills and experience 
required to fulfil these roles. While the 
committee remains confident that 
the Board has the broad range of 
knowledge and perspectives it needs, 
it is constantly assessing ways in which 
to further strengthen its composition 
to ensure it has the capability to fulfil 
its responsibilities.

Mondi Group Integrated report and financial statements 2023

106

Corporate governance report
Nominations Committee continued

Alongside this, the committee continued 
to consider succession planning in relation 
to the Group CEO and CFO specifically, 
as well as those in key management and 
operational roles. While the committee 
routinely reviews succession plans in this 
regard, it is particularly focused on actions 
required in the short and medium term 
to develop and prepare potential internal 
candidates for some of these critical roles. 
While external candidates will always 
be considered where appropriate, there 
is a clear desire to identify opportunities 
for Mondi employees to progress, and 
to provide the support and encouragement 
they need to succeed within the 
organisation. Development actions discussed 
by the committee included mentoring and 
coaching, rotation into other roles within 
the Group and external training. 

The Group's commitment to increasing 
levels of diversity across the organisation 
was a key factor in these succession 
planning discussions, with the committee 
paying particular attention to where there 
might be opportunities to create a more 
diverse pipeline up to some of the key 
roles discussed. While it is clear that there 
is still a long way to go in this respect, and 
that the MAP2030 target of 30% women 
across the organisation by 2030 remains 
challenging, it was encouraging to see the 
significant work being undertaken in this 
regard through the presentations given to 
the Sustainable Development Committee. 
More information can be found on pages 
107-109. These insights will continue to 
feed into the committee's succession 
planning discussions in 2024.

A more detailed overview of the key 
matters considered by the committee 
during the year can be found below. 

Committee effectiveness
The committee’s performance and 
effectiveness were reviewed as part 
of the Board evaluation undertaken 
during the year, more details of which 
can be found on page 104. I am pleased 
to confirm that the committee is seen to 
be operating effectively and fulfilling the 
duties delegated to it by the Board.

Philip Yea
Chair, Nominations Committee

Nominations Committee activity
Set out below are some of the key matters addressed by the committee.
Board and committee composition
– Following the conclusion of a 

Succession planning
– Considered the Board’s succession 

recruitment process facilitated by an 
external search agency, recommended 
to the Board the appointment of 
Anke Groth as an independent 
non-executive director. 

– Considered and recommended to 

the Board the proposed appointment 
of a new Chief People Officer and 
their appointment as a member of 
the Executive Committee with effect 
from April 2024.

– Reviewed the continued independence 

of each non-executive director, 
including consideration of their term 
in office and any potential conflicts 
of interest, concluding that each 
non-executive director remained 
independent. 

– Reviewed the time commitment 
required of each non-executive 
director, concluding that all 
non-executive directors continued 
to devote appropriate time to fulfil 
their duties to Mondi.

plans, in relation to existing directors, 
the requirements of the Board and 
committees in the longer term and 
the skills and experience required 
to support the Group’s future 
growth strategy. 

– Reviewed the succession plans in 

place for members of the Executive 
Committee and other key positions, 
both in the short and long term. 

– Discussed the new Listing Rule 

requirement for boards to disclose 
whether they have met the target of 
having a woman in the role of CEO, 
CFO, Chair or Senior Independent 
Director, with the committee 
considering the actions required to 
achieve this and the views of Mondi’s 
major shareholders. This resulted in 
a recommendation to the Board that 
Dominique Reiniche be appointed 
as Senior Independent Director with 
effect from the conclusion of the 
2023 AGM.

Board evaluation
– Monitored progress against the agreed 

action plan from the prior year’s 
evaluation process (see page 103 for 
more information).

– Considered and agreed the process 
for the 2023 internal evaluation of 
the Board, committees and individual 
directors, to be facilitated by Lintstock 
(see page 104 for more information).

Corporate governance and 
other matters
– Considered, and recommended to the 
Board, the re-election of the directors 
at the AGM.

– Reviewed the committee’s terms 

of reference, performance and work 
programme for 2024.

– Considered, and agreed to, the 
committee’s report for inclusion 
in the Group’s Integrated report 
and financial statements.

Mondi Group Integrated report and financial statements 2023

107

Board appointments
Mondi has a rigorous and transparent process in place for the recruitment and 
appointment of directors, led by the committee. This process was followed in relation 
to the appointment of Anke Groth as an independent non-executive director in 2023 
and is set out below.

Key requirements agreed and candidate specification drawn up

taking into account succession planning requirements, gender, ethnic and other 
forms of diversity and the key skills and experience required to strengthen 
Board and committee capabilities and to ensure they have the competencies 
necessary to manage the impacts of the business

External independent search agent engaged 

to assist with the selection process

Search conducted and longlist of potential 
candidates provided for consideration

which should include male and female candidates from a variety of backgrounds

Shortlist chosen from longlist

for interview by the Chair and at least one other appropriate director

Shortlist reduced to an agreed number of candidates

for interview by other executive and non-executive directors

Nominations Committee considers the preferred candidates

including ability to commit time to the role, confirmation that each individual 
would be deemed independent on appointment and the likely views of key 
stakeholders, including major shareholders and regulatory bodies and in relation 
to financial, sustainability, strategy and risk management experience. 
A recommendation is made to the Board

Board considers the recommendation

and whether to proceed with the appointment

Russell Reynolds Associates, an external 
search agency and signatory to the 
Voluntary Code of Conduct for Executive 
Search Firms, was engaged to assist 
with the recruitment of an additional 
independent non-executive director, 
following the retirement of Tanya Fratto 
in May 2022. This led to the 
appointment of Anke Groth with 
effect from 1 April 2023. 

Russell Reynolds Associates does not 
provide any services to the Mondi Group 
other than Board-level recruitment. 

On appointment, each non-executive 
director receives a letter of appointment 
setting out, among other things, their 
term of appointment, the expected 
time commitment for their duties to 
Mondi and details of any committee 
memberships. Non-executive directors 
are initially appointed for a three-year 
term, subject to annual re-election by 
shareholders, after which a review is 
undertaken to consider renewal of the 
term for a further three years. 

Diversity and inclusion
Mondi has a well-established 
commitment to encouraging and 
promoting diversity and inclusion (D&I). 
This is reflected in our behaviour and 
in our culture and values. 

As a global organisation operating in more 
than 30 countries, D&I is integral to how 
we do business. We are committed to 
creating an inclusive working environment 
that is fair and non-discriminatory, from 
recruitment and people development 
to reward and our approach to 
talent management. 

The Group’s D&I Policy, which was 
approved by the Board, and updated 
in January 2024, is intended to help 
us meet these goals and support the 
development of a diverse workforce. 
It sets out guidelines for matters such 
as recruitment, the use of search firms, 
succession and annual reviews. You can 
read the full policy on our website. 

The policy can be found on 
Mondi’s website
www.mondigroup.com/en/sustainability/
governance-of-sustainability

Mondi Group Integrated report and financial statements 2023

108

Corporate governance report
Nominations Committee continued

Diversity and inclusion continued
Key elements of the policy include:

At Board and committee level:
– The Board supports the 

recommendations and targets outlined 
in the FTSE Women Leaders Review, 
and is committed to ensuring gender 
diversity on the Board and its 
committees, and among the Executive 
Committee and its direct reports.

– The Board supports the Parker Review 
principles in relation to ethnic diversity 
on boards and among senior 
management.

– For Board appointments, we will, where 
possible, engage executive search firms 
signed up to the Voluntary Code of 
Conduct for Executive Search Firms. 

– Search firms will be asked to include 

a sufficient number of qualified female 
candidates and candidates from a variety 
of ethnic backgrounds. 

– At least annually, the Nominations 

Committee will review succession plans 
for the Board, Executive Committee 
and other senior managers in light 
of Group D&I levels, skills, experience 
and diversity requirements. 

– Mondi commits to the UN ‘Women 

Empowerment Principles’.

At employee level:
– Recruitment activities are aligned with 

our D&I Policy and applicable legislation 
in jurisdictions in which we operate, 
including to promote diversity of all types 
and to ensure fair and non-discriminatory 
working practices.

– We aim to ensure that a pipeline 

of diverse candidates is considered 
during succession planning.

– We aim to ensure that the nationalities 

of candidates at long and shortlist stages 
are appropriately representative of our 
international footprint, subject to the 
availability of suitable candidates. 

– We aim to ensure fair and equal training 

and development opportunities.

– We set targets where meaningful 
and report on them as appropriate.

While appointments at all levels will 
continue to be made based on skill and 
ability, it is clear that all forms of diversity 
are key to ensuring that we have the right 
mix of backgrounds, knowledge and 
experience to meet our future business 
needs and to manage the impacts of 
our business. D&I is therefore central 
to our succession planning discussions 
and is critical to the long-term sustainable 
success of our business. Additional 
information on the specific process 
followed for Board-level appointments 
can be found on page 107.

In 2023, we reported to the FTSE Women 
Leaders Review that as at 31 October 2023, 
we had 17% female representation on our 
Executive Committee and 30% in the 
direct reports to the Executive Committee, 
giving a combined total of 27%. As at 
31 December 2023, our combined total 
had marginally increased to 28%. While the 
percentage of women on the Executive 
Committee and in its direct reports has 
increased compared to 2022 (2022: 25%), 
indicating we are moving in the right 
direction, we are not where we would 
like to be. We have a diverse pool of 
high-calibre employees who have been 
identified as having the potential to be 
appointed to Executive Committee roles 
in the future and every effort is being 
made to prepare these employees for 
progression within Mondi. This is a key 
focus during the committee's succession 
planning discussions. The percentage of 
women on the Executive Committee will 
increase from 17% to 29% when our new 
Chief People Officer joins in April 2024. 

As at 31 December 2023, Mondi was in 
compliance with the diversity targets set 
out in Listing Rule 9.8.6(R)(9). There were 
four female directors, representing 40% 
of the composition of the Board, and 
one director from an ethnic minority 
background. Dominique Reiniche was 
appointed as Senior Independent Director 
in May 2023, satisfying the requirement 
for one of the senior positions on the 
Board to be held by a woman. Mondi 
remained in compliance with the relevant 
targets at the date of this report. 

More detailed information relating to the 
gender and ethnic diversity of Mondi’s 
Board and executive management can be 
found in the tables on page 109. The data 
is provided in the form specified under 
Listing Rule 9.8.6(R)(10) and was collected 
directly from the individuals concerned. 
In line with the Listing Rule definition, 
'executive management' in this case 
consists of Mondi's Executive Committee 
members and the Company Secretary. 

During 2023, we also reported to the 
Parker Review that Mondi was in 
compliance with the existing target of 
having at least one ethnic minority director 
on the Board. Mondi is fully supportive of 
the objectives of the Parker Review and 
the ambition to improve the diversity of 
businesses. However, as a new initiative for 
2023, the Parker Review has also requested 
companies to set, and in due course report 
progress against, an internal target in 
relation to the ethnic diversity of our senior 
management population. The Board has 
carefully considered this new initiative 
and, for a number of practical reasons, 
will not be reporting a target, but instead 
will continue to promote the recruitment 
and development of a diverse workforce 
through programmes suited to the 
locations where we operate. 

Mondi is a global organisation, with only 
around 50 of our 22,000 people based 
in the UK. The definition of 'ethnic minority' 
used in the UK, and by the Parker Review, 
is not appropriate for every country 
in which we operate, with different 
countries applying different definitions. 
The availability of reliable census data in 
relation to ethnicity (as defined in the UK 
and by the Parker Review) also varies 
significantly by country, with limited or no 
reliable data available in some of our largest 
jurisdictions. This means that setting 
a realistic target reflecting the ethnic 
make-up of the populations from which we 
draw our employees is not practical. Legal 
restrictions around the collection of data 
relating to the ethnicity of our employees 
also exist in a number of the more 
significant countries in which we operate. 

Mondi Group Integrated report and financial statements 2023

109

Instead, we continue to focus on promoting 
all forms of diversity, including ethnicity, 
and inclusiveness in order to build a diverse 
pipeline up to senior management and 
Board level. There are a number of ongoing 
initiatives in this respect, many of which are 
implemented at a local level to allow them 
to be tailored to specific circumstances 
and country requirements. Notably, in 
South Africa, we have taken active steps 
to meet the requirements of Broad-Based 
Black Economic Empowerment (BBBEE), 
including establishing transformation 
committees in our South African operations 
to allow our employees to discuss equity 
and training-related issues and ideas.  

Our current BBBEE certificate can be 
found on our website
www.mondigroup.com/investors/
corporate-governance/regulatory-
reports

More broadly, a governance framework 
around D&I has been established in order 
to focus our efforts. The Group D&I 
function, forming part of the Group HR 
function, supports the D&I agenda across 
Mondi's operations, while a D&I Steering 
Committee provides policy oversight 
and facilitates the necessary stakeholder 
engagement to ensure D&I is firmly 
embedded across the organisation. 
Mondi’s approach to D&I is focused on 
community development, as well as creating 
cultures that are welcoming and foster 
belonging. In line with this, initiatives 
have been started, such as the Curious 
Community, a group consisting of more 
than 350 members from 27 countries 
who span all levels of seniority. It provides 
a safe space for employees to connect, 
learn and find inspiration and ideas to 
implement at a local level. Key activities 
in 2023 included monthly virtual events 
with speakers, discussions relating to 
a broad range of topics and listening 
and reflection exercises. 

We offer a broad range of leadership 
development programmes and initiatives, 
and we have made D&I a part of all 
of them. Through training, coaching, 
mentoring and reverse mentoring 
programmes, we support our female 
talent in their development and growth 
throughout their careers. 

In support of our commitment to D&I, a D&I 
target is included in the Mondi Action Plan 
2030 (MAP2030), and we have committed 
to providing purposeful employment for all, 
in a diverse and inclusive workplace. 
Progress is measured by the Purposeful 
Workplace Index and Inclusiveness Index 
scores in our global Employee Survey 
(each to reach 90% by 2030) and by the 
overall percentage of women that we 
employ across Mondi (to reach a minimum 
of 30% women globally by 2030, against 
a 2020 baseline of 21%). In many of the 
countries in which we operate, a cultural 

shift is required, with education and 
a change of mindset needed, as well 
as changes to underlying recruitment 
processes, to remove the barriers that 
discourage women from entering our 
workforce. We therefore acknowledge that 
meeting the target of 30% women will be 
challenging. The Board and the organisation 
as a whole are committed, however, 
to making the changes required. Read 
more about our MAP2030 commitments 
and our progress in this regard on page 49.

While it is recognised that there are many 
challenges and there is more work to do, 
management and the Board are fully 
committed to our diversity journey and 
we believe that our ambitious goals will 
be achieved by working across the 
business and engaging our stakeholders 
on our 2030 commitments, sharing good 
practice, and collaborating both internally 
and externally.

Gender identity/sex of members of the Board and executive management 
as at 31 December 20231

Board 
members

Percentage 
of the Board

6

4

—

 60% 

 40% 

 —% 

Senior 
Board 
positions 
(CEO, CFO, 
SID and Chair)

Executive 
management

Percentage 
of executive 
management

3

1

—

5

2

—

 71% 

 29% 

 —% 

Men

Women

Not specified/prefer not to say

Ethnic background of members of the Board and executive management 
as at 31 December 20231

White British or other White 
(including minority White 
groups)
Mixed/multiple ethnic groups

Asian/Asian British

Black/African/Caribbean/
Black British

Other ethnic group, inc. Arab

Not specified/prefer not to say

Board 
members
9

Percentage 
of the Board
 90% 

Senior Board 
positions 
(CEO, CFO, 
SID and Chair)
4

 Executive 
management
7

Percentage 
of executive 
management
 100% 

—

—

1

—

—

 —% 

 —% 

 10% 

 —% 

 —% 

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

 —% 

 —% 

 —% 

 —% 

 —% 

1 In line with the Listing Rule definition, 'executive management' consists of Mondi's Executive Committee members and 

the Company Secretary. 

 
Mondi Group Integrated report and financial statements 2023

110

Corporate governance report
Audit Committee

Dear Shareholder
I am pleased to present this report, 
which provides an overview of the areas 
of focus for the committee during the 
year, as well as its key activities and the 
framework within which it operates.

Composition
In April 2023, Anke Groth was appointed 
as a member of the committee. Anke 
has significant financial and commercial 
experience, making her well placed to 
provide valuable knowledge and insight 
to the committee.

The Board remains comfortable that 
the committee members have the 
appropriate knowledge, skills and 
experience to fulfil the duties delegated 
to the committee. Each member 
has appropriate knowledge and 
understanding of financial matters 
and commercial expertise gained from 
industries with similar manufacturing, 
engineering and technology-focused 
international operations, to give the 
committee as a whole competence 
relevant to the sector in which the 
Group operates.

We continue to keep the composition 
of the committee under review to ensure 
that, in the long term, it continues to have 
the breadth of knowledge it requires. 

Areas of focus
The committee’s primary responsibilities 
are to oversee the Group’s corporate 
financial reporting, including the 
relationship with the external auditor, 
to assist the Board with any judgements 
required and to monitor the effectiveness 
of the Group's risk management 
processes. These remained the key focus 
areas of the committee during the year.

Stephen Young
Chair of the Audit Committee

The committee continued to monitor the approach to 
risk management, and the identification, assessment 
and mitigation of the Group's principal risks. It was 
particularly focused on the appetite level for each risk, 
the actual risk exposure in each case and whether any 
actions were required to close any gaps.

Composition and attendance1
Members throughout the year
Stephen Young, Chair2
Svein Richard Brandtzaeg

Committee member since
May 2018

April 2021

Sue Clark
Anke Groth3
Saki Macozoma

April 2021

April 2023

May 2022

Meeting attendance

5/5

5/5

5/5

4/4

5/5

1 The maximum number of meetings held during the year that each director could attend 

is shown next to the number attended. 

2 Stephen Young satisfies the requirement for the committee to have a member with 

recent and relevant financial experience given his previous role as Group Finance Director 
at Meggitt plc and the other commercial accounting and finance roles he has held during 
his career. Stephen is a member of the Chartered Institute of Management Accountants.

3 Anke Groth joined the committee on 1 April 2023. Anke attended all meetings following 

her appointment.

Other regular attendees
– Group CEO
– Group CFO
– Chair and non-executive directors who are not members 

of the committee
– Group Controller
– Group Head of Internal Audit
– Representatives from PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP 

as external auditor

Mondi Group Integrated report and financial statements 2023

111

Alongside this, the committee continued to 
monitor the approach to risk management, 
and the identification, assessment and 
mitigation of the Group's principal risks. 
It particularly focused on the appetite level 
for each risk, the actual risk exposure in 
each case and whether any actions were 
required to close any gaps that might exist. 
After detailed discussion in this regard, 
the committee was comfortable that there 
are robust processes in place to identify, 
measure and manage the Group's risk 
exposure. More information relating to 
Mondi's risk management framework can 
be found on pages 69-70.

A more detailed overview of the key 
matters considered by the committee 
during the year can be found on page 112.

This report also aims to provide the 
disclosures required by the new Minimum 
Standard for Audit Committees introduced 
by the Financial Reporting Council during 
2023, and to demonstrate how we have 
complied with the Minimum Standard. 

Committee effectiveness
The committee’s performance and 
effectiveness were reviewed as part of the 
Board evaluation undertaken during the 
year, more details of which can be found 
on page 104. I am pleased to confirm that 
the committee is seen to be operating 
effectively and fulfilling the duties 
delegated to it by the Board.

Stephen Young
Chair, Audit Committee

Areas of focus continued
In particular, the committee continued 
to monitor the accounting implications 
of the Board’s decision in 2022 to divest 
the Group’s Russian assets and the 
continuation and conclusion of the sales 
process in 2023. 

In the prior year, after consideration of the 
detailed accounting rules, and with input 
from management and Mondi’s external 
auditor, PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP 
(PwC), it was concluded in June 2022 
that Mondi retained control of the 
Russian businesses, resulting in continued 
consolidation of the businesses, and that 
they should be classified as held for sale 
and, as a separate major geography, also 
presented as discontinued operations. 
The committee remained comfortable 
that these conclusions were appropriate 
until completion of the sale of the 
Russian assets, with the sale of the three 
packaging converting operations completed 
in June 2023 and the Syktyvkar mill 
in October 2023. The committee also 
concluded, prior to completion of the 
sale of the Syktyvkar mill, that in light of 
developments relating to the sale process 
at the time, the assets of the Syktyvkar mill 
in the six months to 30 June 2023 should 
be impaired. A more detailed explanation 
of the accounting treatment applied can 
be found on pages 206-209. 

The committee was required to consider 
a number of other critical accounting 
judgements during the year, including in 
respect of the acquisition of the Duino mill 
(Italy) in January 2023, and the continued 
impact of hyperinflation in Türkiye. A more 
detailed explanation of the significant 
issues considered by the committee in 
respect of the financial statements can 
be found on pages 113-115.

The continued evolution of the Group's 
Internal Audit function following the 
appointment of a new Group Head of 
Internal Audit towards the end of 2022 was 
also high on the committee's agenda during 
the year. While the committee has always 
been satisfied with the effectiveness of the 
Internal Audit function, the appointment 
represented an opportunity to further 
develop the function to ensure it remains 
fit for purpose and is in the best position 
possible to support the management of 
the Group's risks and the achievement 
of our strategy in the long term. 
Developments have included the 
appointment of relevant specialists to 
the Internal Audit team, strengthening 
the team's ability to respond to new and 
evolving risks facing the Group, and 
a refresh of the approach to reporting 
to the committee, giving the committee 
further comfort that the Internal Audit 
function is focusing on key areas of risk 
and responding appropriately to any issues 
identified. More information relating to 
Mondi's approach to internal audit can 
be found on page 118.

Cyber security remained a notable focus 
for the committee during the year, given 
the increasing number and sophistication 
of the methods being employed by cyber 
attackers. The committee continued to 
receive half-yearly updates from the 
Chief Information Officer covering matters 
including measures taken in response to 
the evolving risk landscape, the findings 
of internal and external audits of Mondi's 
IT infrastructure and the ongoing 
strengthening and development of Mondi's 
cyber defences. The Group continues 
to undertake significant work in this regard 
and the committee was pleased to 
hear that external testing of Mondi’s 
infrastructure, which is undertaken regularly, 
indicated that the measures we have in 
place remain effective and robust in this 
developing landscape. More information 
on Mondi’s approach to cyber security 
can be found on page 79.

Mondi Group Integrated report and financial statements 2023

112

Corporate governance report
Audit Committee continued

Audit Committee activity
Set out below are some of the key matters addressed by this committee.

Financial reporting
– Reviewed the integrity of all financial 
announcements with input provided 
by the Group CFO, the Group 
Controlling team and PwC as 
appropriate.

– Reviewed the Mondi Group 

Integrated report and financial 
statements for tone and consistency, 
agreed the application of critical 
accounting policies and key 
judgements, and considered whether 
the report as a whole was fair, 
balanced and understandable 
(see page 116 for more information).

– Reviewed and discussed PwC’s 

reports to the committee.

– Considered in detail the accounting 
implications of the decision to divest 
the Group’s Russian operations, 
Mondi's withdrawal from the 
agreement to sell the Syktyvkar mill 
to Augment Investments Limited and 
the ultimate disposal of the mill 
to Sezar Invest LLC (see pages 
206-209 for more information).

– Considered the accounting 

implications of the acquisition of the 
Duino mill (Italy) (see page 202 for 
more information) and the impact of 
hyperinflation in Türkiye (see page 172 
for more information). 

– Reviewed and agreed the accounting 
policies to be applied for the year 
ending 31 December 2023.

– Reviewed new accounting 

pronouncements and any impact 
for the Group’s financial reporting.

– Reviewed the going concern basis 
of accounting and the longer-term 
viability statement (see pages 80-81 
for more information).

External audit matters
– Recommended to the Board that the 
appointment of PwC for the 2023 
audit be put to shareholders at the 
Annual General Meeting.

– Reviewed the independence, 

objectivity and effectiveness of PwC 
(see page 117 for more information).

– Reviewed and approved the external 
audit plan, taking account of the 
scope, materiality and audit risks 
and agreeing the audit fees.

– Reviewed and agreed the 

engagement and representation 
letters.

– Considered the implications of 

Simon Morley's forthcoming rotation 
as lead audit partner and agreed 
the appointment of his replacement 
for the 2024 audit (see page 117 
for more information).

– Held two meetings with PwC without 
management present; the committee 
Chair also engaged regularly with 
the lead audit partner.

Risk management and 
internal controls
– Undertook a detailed review of the 
Group’s risk management policy 
and plan, risk appetite levels and 
principal risks. This resulted in the 
recommendation of changes to 
the Board, including the removal 
of pandemic risk as a standalone risk 
(given its incorporation into our wider 
employee and contractor health 
and safety risk), and the derating of 
a number of principal risks. Emerging 
risks were also considered, with 
a particular focus on the execution 
of major capital expenditure projects 
given Mondi’s extensive capital 
expenditure programme. Further 
information can be found on page 71. 

– Undertook a more in-depth review 
of a number of the most significant 
Group risks, with presentations 
from relevant members of senior 
management considering the level 
of risk and the monitoring and 
mitigation measures in place.

– Received half-yearly presentations 
on IT risk management and cyber 
security, focusing in particular on 
key measures taken to continuously 
strengthen Mondi’s protection 
against IT risk and cyber attacks 
and internal and external testing 
undertaken to assess the robustness 
of the IT infrastructure. 

Internal audit matters
– Reviewed and agreed the internal 
audit plan, confirming the focus on 
key risk areas and adequate cover 
of all material operations.

– Received reports from the Group 

Head of Internal Audit (see page 118 
for more information).

– Undertook a review of the 

effectiveness of the Internal Audit 
function (see page 118 for more 
information).

– Reviewed summaries of messages 

from SpeakOut, providing insight into 
the culture of the Group and issues 
of particular concern to stakeholders.

– Held two meetings with the Group 
Head of Internal Audit without 
management present.

Governance and other
– Monitored the continued 

implementation of those elements 
of the Group’s Code of Business 
Ethics reserved for review by 
the committee.

– Undertook the annual review of 

Mondi's Business Integrity Policy, 
which, among other things, outlines 
Mondi's zero tolerance approach to 
bribery and corruption. 

– Reviewed the compliance risks faced 
by the Group, including in relation 
to competition compliance.

– Considered the implications of 

proposed governance and audit 
reform in the UK, particularly in 
respect of internal controls.

– Reviewed the committee’s terms 
of reference, performance and 
work programme.

Mondi Group Integrated report and financial statements 2023

113

Internal control
The Group’s internal control and risk management framework, embedded in all key operations, is designed to address all the significant 
strategic, financial, operational and compliance risks that could undermine our ability to achieve our business objectives in the future and 
is managed within risk tolerance levels defined by the Board. In accordance with the provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code, 
the Group has in place an internal control environment to protect the business from principal risks which have been identified. 

Management is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal controls over financial reporting and we have responsibility 
for ensuring the effectiveness of these controls. Full details of Mondi’s internal control and risk management framework can be found 
in the Strategic report on pages 69-70.

The committee has reviewed the risk management process and the Group’s system of internal controls. The committee considers that 
the system of internal controls operated effectively throughout the financial year and up to the date on which the financial statements 
were signed. 

Significant issues related to the financial statements
The committee has considered each of the following items based on discussions with, and submissions by, management and satisfied 
itself as to the accounting treatment and presentation thereof. These significant items were discussed with the external auditor 
during the planning stage and on completion of the audit.

The key considerations in relation to the 2023 financial statements were:

Matter considered
Special items are those financial items which the Group considers 
should be separately disclosed on the face of the income 
statement to assist in understanding the underlying financial 
performance achieved by the Group as special items affect 
year-on-year comparability. The classification of an item as special 
is based on materiality in the context of the current year’s financial 
performance and generally must exceed €10 million. Subsequent 
adjustments to items previously reported as special items 
continue to be reflected as special items in future periods even 
if they do not exceed the quantitative reporting threshold.

The net special item expense (before tax) for the year was €27 
million (2022: income of €242 million), consisting of a closure of 
a paper machine and streamlining of the capacity of the finishing 
lines at the Neusiedler operations in Austria. Details of the special 
items are included in note 3 of the financial statements.

On 12 January 2023, the Group completed the acquisition of the 
Duino mill near Trieste (Italy) from the Burgo Group for total net 
cash paid of €37 million. The purchase price allocation resulted 
in a gain on bargain purchase of €2 million as the fair value of net 
assets acquired was in excess of the consideration paid. The gain 
on bargain purchase is attributable to the need for investment, 
which corresponds with the Group’s investment plans to convert 
the paper machine and the limited reusability of certain assets 
after the conversion and the future costs associated with the mill 
while the conversion is pending.

Details of the fair value of assets acquired and liabilities assumed 
as a result of the business combination are included in note 25 
of the financial statements.

Action
The committee has:

– critically reviewed the item presented by management as being 

special to ensure that the item is in line with the Group’s 
accounting policy;

– considered both the quantification and presentation of the 

special item;

– reviewed the adequacy of the description of the special item 

in the financial statements and the Strategic report; and

– considered whether any significant transactions that were not 

classified as special were appropriately classified in the financial 
statements and appropriately described in the Strategic report.

The committee has:

– considered reports from management in relation to the acquisition;

– evaluated the management reports of the purchase price 

allocation; and

– satisfied itself that the fair value of assets acquired and liabilities 

assumed in the business combination are appropriate and 
considered according to the Group’s accounting policy. 

Mondi Group Integrated report and financial statements 2023

114

Corporate governance report
Audit Committee continued

Matter considered
In addition to property, plant and equipment of €4,619 million, 
intangible assets of €68 million and goodwill of €765 million 
are included as assets in the statement of financial position.

As set out in the accounting policies, the goodwill is tested for 
impairment annually and property, plant and equipment and 
intangible assets whenever there is any indication that those 
assets are impaired.

Details of goodwill impairment tests and impairments of property, 
plant and equipment are included in notes 10 and 12 of the 
financial statements.

The Group has applied IAS 29, 'Financial Reporting in 
Hyperinflationary Economies', for its subsidiaries in Türkiye 
and Lebanon (2022: Türkiye).

IAS 29 requires judgement to determine when to apply 
hyperinflationary accounting and which general price index 
to select and other approximations to be made in order 
to restate the financial statements of subsidiaries operating 
in a hyperinflationary economy. 

For the year ended 31 December 2023, the adjustments from 
hyperinflationary accounting have resulted in an accumulated 
increase in total assets of €115 million, an increase in Group 
revenue of €116 million, a decrease in underlying EBITDA 
of €16 million and a net monetary gain of €2 million.
Significant estimation is required in determining the assumptions 
to be applied for the valuation of the Group’s forestry assets 
and retirement benefit obligations. Such assumptions are based, 
as far as possible, on observable market data and, in the case 
of the retirement benefit obligations, on the input and advice 
of actuaries.

Details are included in the financial statements (forestry assets 
in note 14 and retirement benefits in note 24).

Action
The committee has:

– considered a report from management describing potential 
impairment indicators for tangible and intangible assets and 
the outcomes of related impairment tests where performed;

– considered a report from management on the outcomes 

of the annual goodwill impairment test;

– reviewed the underlying assumptions applied and compared 
them with the Group’s three-year 2024-2026 plan (budget 
period) and the current macroeconomic environment; 

– considered the sensitivities underlying the primary assumptions 

to determine the consequences that reasonably possible 
changes in such assumptions may have on the recoverable 
amount of the underlying assets; and

– satisfied itself that no impairments related to goodwill or 

intangible assets were required and impairments of property, 
plant and equipment were justified.

The committee has:

– considered reports from management; and

– satisfied itself that the judgements and adjustments applied 
are appropriate and considered according to the Group’s 
accounting policy.

The committee has:

– considered reports from management;

– reviewed the assumptions applied in the valuation of the 

forestry assets and retirement benefits;

– considered the basis on which these assumptions were 

determined, and evaluated the assumptions by comparing 
them with prior years and considering market developments 
during 2023; and

– satisfied itself that the assumptions, and the changes to 
those assumptions when compared with the year ended 
31 December 2022, were appropriate.

Mondi Group Integrated report and financial statements 2023

115

Matter considered
The Group has operations in a number of countries, each with 
a different tax system.

The Group is regularly subject to routine tax audits and provisions 
are made based on the tax laws in the relevant country and the 
expected outcomes of any negotiations or settlements.

The Group’s recognition of deferred tax assets, relating to future 
utilisation of accumulated tax losses, is dependent on the future 
profitability and performance of the underlying businesses.

Understanding of the Group’s risks and implications related 
to climate change is continuously being enhanced. While the 
Group’s assessments still reflect that these may not be severe 
in the short term, it is believed that climate change risks are likely 
to have a medium- and long-term impact on business.

The financial statement disclosures consider the impact of climate 
change, notably in the estimates used to calculate the fair value 
of our forestry assets. The Group continues to assess accounting 
policies, judgements and estimates to consider the impact 
of climate change.

Action
The committee has: 

– received regular reports from management about new 
legislative developments that may impact the Group’s 
tax positions;

– considered reports from management outlining the Group’s 
most significant tax exposures, including ongoing tax audits 
and litigation, and has reviewed the related tax provisions 
recognised by management, satisfying itself these are 
appropriate and the risk of new unexpected exposures 
arising is low; and

– considered a report from management outlining the key 

assumptions relating to the recognition of deferred tax assets 
and satisfied itself that the assumptions made are reasonable 
and consistent from year to year.

The committee has:

– participated in overseeing the Group’s approach to 

sustainability;

– received regular reports from management about climate 

change and related legislative developments that may impact 
the Group’s disclosure;

– reviewed the Integrated report (including the TCFD section) 
and the financial statements for consistency with respect 
to climate change risks;

– reviewed the assumptions applied in the valuation of the 

forestry assets;

– considered accounting policies, judgements and estimates 
on the basis of expected climate change impacts; and

– satisfied itself that the assumptions, and the changes 
to those assumptions when compared with the year 
ended 31 December 2022, were appropriate.

Mondi Group Integrated report and financial statements 2023

116

Corporate governance report
Audit Committee continued

Fair, balanced and 
understandable
In line with the committee’s responsibility 
for ensuring there are robust financial 
reporting procedures and internal controls 
in place, and the UK Corporate Governance 
Code requirement for the committee to 
advise the Board in relation to the annual 
report and accounts, in particular whether, 
taken as a whole, it is fair, balanced and 
understandable, the committee undertook 
an assessment of the Integrated report 
and financial statements 2023. This 
incorporated the work undertaken by 
the committee throughout the year to 
monitor financial reporting. The process 
and outcome are set out opposite.

Oversight through the year

– Review of applicable accounting policies and pronouncements and their application.

– Review of regular financial results and announcements.

– Reports from the Group CFO, the Group controlling team and PwC.

– Reports from the Group Head of Internal Audit.

Review included

– Provision of an outline plan including content and structure, design concepts and timetable.

– Consideration of regulatory and governance requirements for reporting.

– Review of detailed reports from the Group CFO, the Group controlling team and PwC 

providing the opportunity for debate and challenge.

– Summaries of areas where management judgements or significant accounting estimates 

had been made. 

– Consideration of going concern and longer-term viability.

– Separate meetings with PwC without management present.

Review confirmed

– Well documented planning and procedures for the preparation of the report.

– Collaborative approach between all parties required to contribute to the report.

– Basis of preparation consistent with financial reporting throughout the year.

– All significant issues had been considered.

– Messaging was consistent, particularly the narrative reflecting the financials.

Conclusion

– After completion of the detailed review, the committee was satisfied that:

– taken as a whole, the Group’s Integrated report and financial statements 2023, were fair, 

balanced and understandable;

– the report accurately reflected the information shareholders would require in order 
to assess the Group’s position and performance, business model and strategy; and

– the use of alternative performance measures contained in the report assists in presenting 

a fair review of the Group’s business.

– The committee reported its findings to the Board, and recommended its conclusions to the 

Board for approval.

Recommendation

Mondi Group Integrated report and financial statements 2023

117

External audit
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP (PwC) was 
first appointed as auditor by shareholders 
at the Annual General Meeting in May 2017, 
replacing Deloitte LLP following a tender 
process. The 2023 audit was PwC’s seventh 
for Mondi and Simon Morley’s fourth as lead 
audit partner. Given Simon was previously 
a Key Partner Involved in the Engagement 
since 2017, his maximum tenure was 
a combined seven years. The 2023 audit 
was therefore his last for Mondi. 
Andrew Hammond will replace Simon as 
the lead audit partner for the 2024 audit. 

We are required to undertake a 
mandatory audit tender process after 
10 years and the decision on precisely 
when to undertake such a process will 
be taken by the committee. Following 
an assessment of the independence, 
objectivity and effectiveness of the 
external auditor, details of which can 
be found below, the committee has 
concluded that it remains satisfied 
with the effectiveness and quality 
of the audit work. 

The committee also remains satisfied with 
PwC’s capabilities and the relationship 
with Mondi. In light of this, it is not 
currently anticipated that a tender 
process will be conducted before such 
a process is required, in respect of the 
31 December 2027 year-end. 

The committee confirms its compliance for 
the financial year ended 31 December 2023 
with the provisions of The Statutory Audit 
Services for Large Companies Market 
Investigation (Mandatory Use of 
Competitive Tender Processes and Audit 
Committee Responsibilities) Order 2014.

External audit independence, objectivity and effectiveness
A formal framework for the assessment of the effectiveness of the external audit process and quality of the audit has been 
adopted by the committee, covering all aspects of the audit service provided by PwC. While part of the assessment is managed 
annually, it is treated as an ongoing review throughout the cycle. 

Evaluation focus
– Robustness of audit process.
– Audit quality, including quality 

controls.

– Audit partners and team, including 
skills, character and knowledge.

– Independence and objectivity.
– Formal reporting.

Key inputs
Audit Committee
– Continually monitored audit 

performance throughout the year.
– Reviewed and agreed the audit plan.
– Reviewed the quality of reporting to 
the committee, the level of challenge 
and professional scepticism and the 
understanding demonstrated by PwC 
of the business of the Group.
– Reviewed the quality of the audit 

team, technical skills and experience 
and the allocation of resources 
during the audit.

– Considered the interaction with 
management and the level of 
challenge.

– Regular meetings held between 
the Chair of the committee and 
the audit engagement partner.

– Reviewed feedback from committee 
members including views on how 
PwC has supported the work of 
the committee and communicated 
with the committee.

– Considered the effectiveness of 

Mondi’s policies and procedures for 
maintaining auditor independence.

– Met with PwC twice during 
the year without executive 
management present.

Management
– Feedback from engagement with the 
Group CFO, Group Controlling team 
and Group Head of Internal Audit.
– Feedback from questionnaires issued 
at corporate and business unit levels 
to those personnel involved with 
the audit.

PwC
– Provided the committee with 

confirmation that it operates in 
accordance with the ethical standards 
required of audit firms.

– Confirmed the policies and 

procedures it has in place to maintain 
its independence.

Regulators
– The UK Financial Reporting Council’s 

(FRC) 2022/23 report on Audit 
Quality Inspections included a review 
of audits carried out by PwC. 

Key outputs
– The quality of the audit partners 
and team was confirmed, with 
no material issues raised in the 
feedback received.

– The audit had been well planned 

and delivered, with work completed 
on schedule and management 
comfortable that any key findings 
had been raised appropriately, as 
well as active engagement on 
misstatements and appropriate 
judgements on materiality.

– PwC demonstrated a good 

understanding of the Group and its 
internal control systems, and had 
identified and focused on the areas 
of greatest financial reporting risk. 

– PwC’s reporting to the committee 
was clear, open and thorough, 
including explanations of the 
rationale for particular conclusions 
as appropriate. 

– It was confirmed that, through 

the review of management papers 
and analyses and the discussion 
of key matters with management 
and the auditor, there had been 
an appropriate level of challenge 
during the course of the audit, 
with the external auditor and the 
Audit Committee challenging 
management’s judgements and 
assertions on matters including 
critical accounting judgements 
and key sources of estimation 
uncertainty; impairment of property, 
plant and equipment and goodwill; 
and assumptions underlying the 
going concern basis of accounting 
in preparing the financial statements 
and the viability statement.

Conclusion
The committee, having considered 
all relevant matters, has concluded that 
it is satisfied that auditor independence, 
objectivity and effectiveness have 
been maintained. 

Mondi Group Integrated report and financial statements 2023

118

The effectiveness of the Group's Internal 
Audit function is kept under close 
review by the committee, with a formal 
review undertaken annually. The last 
comprehensive, external review of the 
Internal Audit function was carried out in 
2020 by Independent Audit (a consultancy 
firm specialising in board evaluations 
and effectiveness reviews). The overall 
conclusions in respect of the effectiveness 
of the Internal Audit function, its leadership 
and its relationship with the Audit 
Committee were positive, and all 
recommendations have been addressed. 
Towards the end of 2022, upon retirement 
of the previous Group Head of Internal 
Audit, a new Group Head of Internal 
Audit was appointed. This change was 
complemented by the recruitment of a 
number of specialists into the department 
and the development of a four-year 
roadmap for the Internal Audit function. 

An internal review was undertaken in 2023. 
The committee has concluded following 
the review that the Internal Audit function 
remains effective in carrying out its remit. 

Corporate governance report
Audit Committee continued

The Audit Committee has primary 
responsibility for monitoring and reviewing 
the scope and effectiveness of the Group’s 
Internal Audit function. The Group Head 
of Internal Audit has direct access and 
responsibility to the committee, as well 
as regular access to Mondi’s executive 
management. 

An Internal Audit Charter, approved by 
the committee, is in place. The charter 
sets out the purpose, remit and authority 
of the Internal Audit function. Each year, 
the committee considers and approves 
the internal audit plan, which is designed 
to focus on the Group’s key risks to 
ensure that they are managed effectively 
within the context of our business 
objectives and that appropriate internal 
controls are in place. 

The committee ensures that all material 
operations and relevant business 
processes are covered and that there 
is an appropriate degree of financial 
and geographical coverage. Every Mondi 
operation is visited at least once every five 
years, with all major plants audited annually. 

Reports are given at each committee 
meeting, providing an update on activities, 
resourcing levels, progress against plan, 
results from audits carried out and 
management’s response to address 
any areas highlighted for improvement. 
The committee will consider deviations 
from plan as the need arises during the 
year, usually in response to a material 
acquisition or change in the Group’s risk 
profile, highlighted through audit reports 
and through matters raised via the 
anonymous whistleblowing and grievance 
platform, SpeakOut.

Non-audit services
A policy is in place that governs the 
provision of non-audit services provided 
by PwC to Mondi, setting out those services 
that are permissible and the process to be 
followed to obtain approval for such services. 
All such services must be approved – there 
are no pre-approvals in place. Authority is 
delegated by the committee to the Chair 
of the committee to approve such services. 
The policy, which is regularly reviewed, 
was last updated in 2020 to reflect the 
changes introduced by the Revised Ethical 
Standard 2019. 

For all non-audit services, the business 
must submit a formal request setting out 
the objectives, scope of work, likely fee 
level and the rationale for requiring the 
work to be carried out by the Group’s 
external auditor.

The committee monitors compliance 
with the policy and the monetary cap 
on non-audit fees, receiving reports at 
each meeting detailing all approved 
non-audit services. 

Total fees for non-audit services amounted 
to €0.6 million, representing 9.8% of the 
audit fee, with the vast majority of the 
non-audit fees incurred relating to the 
half-year review and other audit-related 
assurance services.

Internal audit
Mondi’s Internal Audit function forms 
an integral part of Mondi’s governance 
and risk management and internal control 
frameworks. The primary purpose of the 
Internal Audit function is to help the 
Board and executive management to protect 
the assets, reputation and sustainability of 
the organisation and to manage and mitigate 
its risks effectively. This includes assessing 
whether all significant risks are identified 
and appropriately reported by management 
to the Board and executive management, 
and whether they are adequately controlled. 

Mondi Group Integrated report and financial statements 2023

119

Corporate governance report
Sustainable Development Committee

Dear Shareholder
I am pleased to present this report, 
which provides an overview of the areas 
of focus for the committee during the 
year, as well as its key activities and the 
framework within which it operates. 

While the Board as a whole has 
responsibility for overseeing Mondi’s 
approach to sustainability, the committee, 
on behalf of the Board, oversees 
and monitors Mondi’s sustainable 
development policies and practices 
and progress against our sustainability 
commitments and targets. It provides 
guidance in relation to sustainability 
matters, including climate change-related 
issues and reviewing and approving 
updates to the Group’s framework 
of sustainability policies and strategies, 
ensuring they are aligned with global 
best practice. 

Our sustainability policies include: Safety 
and Occupational Health; Labour and 
Human Rights; Sustainable Forestry; 
Energy and Climate Change; 
Environment; Supply Chain and 
Responsible Procurement; Product 
Stewardship; and Communities.

A summary report from the directors 
on the Group’s sustainability practices 
is set out on pages 42-68.
Areas of focus
The safety of all our employees 
and contractors is a priority for the 
committee. Safety performance 
continues to be a focus at every meeting 
to ensure our high standards are 
maintained. We were deeply saddened 
by the fatality of a contractor at our 
Ružomberok mill (Slovakia) in November. 
Unfortunately we also experienced four 
life-altering injuries at our operations 
during the year. Full investigations were 
undertaken and the committee was kept 
informed throughout. We understand 
the significant impact that such incidents 
have on families, friends and colleagues 
and we look to take any lessons we can 
to minimise the risk of a reoccurrence. 
It was highly important that we spent 
time understanding these events and 
the underlying causes and actions to 
be taken in response. Further details 
of the actions being undertaken can 
be found on page 50.

Dominique Reiniche
Chair of the Sustainable Development Committee

The committee critically reviewed the progress 
against our target of making 100% of our packaging 
and paper solutions reusable, recyclable or 
compostable. The complexity in navigating the 
transition to a circular economy was considered, 
with a focus on the efforts that are being made 
to ensure that a sustainable alternative is in place.

Composition and attendance1
Members throughout the year

Dominique Reiniche, Chair

Committee member since
May 2017

Svein Richard Brandtzaeg

April 2021

Andrew King
Dame Angela Strank2
Stephen Young

May 2020

April 2021

May 2018

Meeting attendance

7/7

7/7

7/7

6/7

7/7

1 The maximum number of scheduled meetings held during the year that each director 

could attend is shown next to the number attended. 

2 Dame Angela Strank was unable to attend one meeting of the committee during the year 

due to an unavoidable commitment.

Other regular attendees

– Group CFO
– Chair and non-executive directors who are not members 

of the committee

– Group Technical & Sustainability Director
– Group Head of Sustainable Development
– Group Head of Safety & Health

Mondi Group Integrated report and financial statements 2023

120

Corporate governance report
Sustainable Development Committee continued

The committee critically reviewed the 
progress against our target of making 100% 
of our packaging and paper solutions 
reusable, recyclable or compostable. 
The complexity in navigating the transition 
to a circular economy was considered, with 
a focus on the efforts that are being made 
to ensure that a sustainable alternative is 
in place, in particular to accelerate progress 
in the flexible packaging business. More 
information can be found on pages 45-47.

A more detailed overview of the matters 
considered by the committee during 
the year can be found opposite.
Committee effectiveness
The committee’s performance and 
effectiveness were reviewed as part 
of the Board evaluation undertaken during 
the year, more details of which can be 
found on page 104. I am pleased to 
confirm that the committee is seen to 
be operating effectively and fulfilling 
the duties delegated to it by the Board.

Dominique Reiniche
Chair, Sustainable 
Development Committee

Areas of focus continued
We continue to work hard to proactively 
embed our safety culture across the Group. 
During the year, priority safety focus areas 
were reviewed. These included safety 
support for annual maintenance shuts and 
major capex projects, safety campaigns 
and focused site visits. The Social 
Psychology of Risk was reconfirmed as a 
safety focus area, with the aim of focusing 
on the psychological and cultural elements 
that can pose a risk to safety, the 
promotion of engagement across our sites 
and increasing general personal awareness. 
The safety of our people will remain at the 
top of our agenda in 2024. 

The committee also spent time reviewing 
the double materiality assessment 
undertaken in preparation for the 
implementation of reporting requirements 
under the European Union's Corporate 
Sustainability Reporting Directive (CSRD). 
The committee reviewed both the outcome 
of the materiality assessment, which was 
focused on the impact our business has 
on the environment in which we operate 
and the issues of greatest importance 
to our stakeholders, and on the financial 
materiality, which considered the potential 
impact of key sustainability issues on 
Mondi's business. The resulting double 
materiality outcome was reviewed and 
10 material topics were identified which are 
aligned with our Mondi Action Plan 2030 
(MAP2030) action areas. Further details 
can be found on pages 42-43.  

In January 2023, relevant MAP2030 targets 
were updated to exclude Russian 
operations. Progress made against the 
MAP2030 commitments and targets 
continued to be an area of focus for the 
committee, and particular attention was 
paid to upcoming investment projects 
and their contribution to a reduction in 
greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions. While 
this will be a journey for Mondi, and 
we acknowledge the extent of the work 
required to achieve Net-Zero, the 
committee was pleased to see the actions 
being taken and progress made during 
2023. More information can be found 
on pages 51-64.

Alongside this, the committee reviewed 
sustainability risks and opportunities. 
Climate change mitigation remained 
a priority and climate change risks and 
opportunities were considered in detail. 
Further information, including Mondi’s 
disclosures in line with the 
recommendations of the Task Force 
on Climate-Related Financial Disclosures, 
can be found on pages 55-64. Mondi 
is determined to minimise the impact 
of its business on climate change through 
robust governance combined with a 
rigorous approach to reducing GHG 
emissions across the value chain.  

In 2022, the committee took over 
responsibility for the people-related targets 
from the Nominations Committee, and 
discussions in this respect formed a key 
part of the committee's agenda in 2023. 
The committee reviewed the employee 
statistics and the progress in respect 
of diversity and inclusion targets, with 
increasing the representation of females 
in our workforce remaining a focus area. 
The committee acknowledged that local 
factors play a role and impact the 
performance against our targets in this 
respect. The Board, the committee and 
the organisation as a whole remain 
committed to making the changes 
required. Further information on our 
diversity and inclusion initiatives can 
be found on pages 49 and 107-109. 

The committee was pleased to see the 
results of the 2023 Employee Survey, with 
one of the highlights being that 80% of 
respondents find meaning and purpose 
in their job. The committee also discussed 
potential areas for improvement, such as 
promoting psychological safety to speak 
up. Sue Clark, in her role as non-executive 
director responsible for understanding 
the views of employees, also provided an 
overview of engagement undertaken during 
the year and further insight into views of 
a cross-section of our employees. More 
information can be found on pages 92-93. 

Mondi Group Integrated report and financial statements 2023

121

Sustainable Development Committee activity
Set out below are some of the key matters addressed by this committee.

Safety performance and 
serious incidents
– Received detailed reports on the fatality 
at the Ružomberok mill (Slovakia) and 
the life-altering injuries, and follow-up 
reports on the outcomes of the 
investigations into these incidents.

– Received regular reports on safety 

performance at Group and business 
unit level, including individual mill 
performance, classification of incidents 
and peer comparisons, giving the 
committee insight into the safety 
culture and specific sites that required 
further focus. Annual maintenance 
shuts remained a key focus. 

– Received an update on the Social 

Psychology of Risk, with a continued 
focus on bringing the unconscious to 
the conscious, and the ways in which 
culture can be influenced to promote 
safe behaviour in the workplace. 

– Considered and agreed the safety 
milestones and leading and lagging 
indicators for the next reporting period.

Product stewardship
– Received an update on the Group’s 
approach to product stewardship 
practices in the context of the MAP2030 
Circular Driven Solutions commitments, 
focusing on the tools to assess the impact 
of Mondi’s products and the partnerships 
designed to support the achievement 
of Mondi’s commitments. The committee 
spent time understanding the challenges 
that we face, along with our customers, 
to transition to a circular economy.
– Reviewed the developing regulatory 

landscape from a sustainability 
perspective, focusing on those areas 
of regulations likely to have the greatest 
impact on Mondi and its stakeholders.

People development and diversity
– Received an update on the Group’s 

approach to people management and 
diversity in the context of the MAP2030 
Created by Empowered People 
commitments.

– Reviewed the performance against 

MAP2030 KPIs and diversity statistics 
and initiatives for the Group, discussing, 
in particular, actions to make progress 
against the target of employing 30% 
women by 2030.

– Considered the results of the 2023 

Employee Survey, looking at the areas 
that received positive scores, those that 
needed improvement and the resulting 
actions being taken both on a global 
and local level.

Environmental performance and 
climate change
– Reviewed climate-related risks and 

opportunities and the potential impacts 
on the business in line with the TCFD 
recommendations (see pages 55-64 
for more information).

– Reviewed performance against each 

of the environmental key performance 
indicators and commitments, including 
progress in reducing GHG emissions 
in line with science-based targets., 

– Reviewed the Group’s performance 
and progress to meet the MAP2030 
milestones and key contributing factors.

– Discussed and agreed the sustainability 

KPIs for inclusion in the 2024 cash 
bonus (See page 68 for more details).

Nature and responsible wood 
sourcing
– Received an update on forestry-related 

sustainability topics, focusing in 
particular on the MAP2030 forestry 
and nature-related commitments and 
targets and progress to date.

– Reviewed focus areas and actions being 
taken to promote resilient forests in 
Europe and South Africa.

Responsible procurement
– Reviewed the development of Mondi’s 
Responsible Procurement process, 
including the progress on rolling out a 
supplier screening process designed to 
identify and manage high-risk suppliers. 

– Received an overview of supplier 
engagement activities, particularly 
focused on the work being undertaken 
to increase awareness around GHG 
emissions and reduction plans and 
the data Mondi requires in this respect 
to support progress on our Scope 3 
GHG target.

Stakeholder relationships
– Reviewed the Group’s relationships 

and engagement with key stakeholders, 
including governments and 
non-governmental organisations, 

focusing on the partnerships that 
will be required to support Mondi in 
achieving MAP2030 and the primary 
areas for engagement.

– Review of the Socio-Economic 

Assessment Toolbox (SEAT) process 
and proposals to transition to 
Stakeholder Engagement Conversations, 
allowing, among other things, greater 
focus on site-specific topics. The 
approach has been successfully piloted 
at the Ružomberok mill (Slovakia).

– Reviewed Mondi’s ESG ratings in order 
to understand which ratings are most 
important to our stakeholders, how we 
perform and where there is potential 
for improvement.

Sustainable development 
governance and risks
– Reviewed the material sustainability 

issues, risks and opportunities and the 
double materiality assessment undertaken.

– Reviewed the annual Sustainable 

Development report, and approved 
the report for publication. 

– Reviewed and approved the Group’s 

Human Trafficking and Modern Slavery 
Statement, giving consideration to 
the actions being taken to minimise 
such risks in our organisation and 
supply chain.

– Received an update on the MAP2030 
human rights commitment, which 
confirmed that no human rights adverse 
impacts or severe risks had been 
reported by the operations through 
the risk identification process. Areas 
for improvement were reviewed and 
action plans presented. 

– Reviewed Group sustainable 

development policies and approved 
amendments to reflect best practice 
and align with Mondi’s MAP2030 
approach.

– Approved updates to relevant 

MAP2030 targets to exclude the 
Russian operations.

– Reviewed the committee’s terms of 
reference and performance resulting 
in minor changes to align the terms 
with existing practice.

– Considered and agreed the committee’s 

annual work programme. 

 
Mondi Group Integrated report and financial statements 2023

122

Remuneration report
Statement from the Chair of the 
Remuneration Committee

Dear Shareholder
I am pleased to present this report 
on directors' remuneration as Chair 
of the Remuneration Committee 
(the committee). 
Compliance statement
This report has been prepared on 
behalf of, and has been approved by, 
the Board. It complies with the Large 
and Medium-sized Companies and 
Groups (Accounts and Reports) 
Regulations 2008 (as amended in 2018) 
(the Regulations), the UK Corporate 
Governance Code and the UK Listing 
Rules, and takes into account the 
Directors' Remuneration Reporting 
Guidance and the relevant policies 
of shareholder representative bodies.

In accordance with the UK Companies 
Act, shareholders will be asked to vote 
on the following resolution at the 2024 
Annual General Meeting (AGM):

– an advisory vote on the Directors' 
remuneration report excluding the 
Directors' Remuneration Policy (DRP), 
which provides details of the 
remuneration earned by directors 
for performance in the year ended 
31 December 2023, and how the DRP 
will be implemented for 2024.

The committee continues to focus 
on performance driven reward that 
aligns the remuneration of our executives 
to the interests of our shareholders. 
We are confident that the DRP and 
our approach to its implementation will 
continue to support Mondi’s success, 
incentivising the management team 
to deliver long-term sustainable 
shareholder value.

Dame Angela Strank
Chair of the Remuneration Committee

The remuneration strategy is intended to be simple, 
fair and transparent, leading to reward outcomes that 
are reflective of wider business performance.

Composition and attendance
Members throughout the year

Dame Angela Strank, Chair

Committee member since
April 2021

Sue Clark

April 2021

Dominique Reiniche

October 2015

Philip Yea

April 2020

Meeting attendance1

4/4

4/4

4/4

4/4

1 The maximum number of scheduled meetings held during the year that each director 

could attend is shown next to the number attended. 

Other regular attendees
– Non-executive directors who are not members of the committee
– Group CEO
– Group HR Director
– Group Head of Reward
– Head of Executive Reward
– External remuneration consultant

Mondi Group Integrated report and financial statements 2023

123

Performance in 2023 
Context of remuneration
Mondi’s performance in 2023 reflected 
the uncertain global economic environment 
and its impact on the markets in which 
we operate. Against this backdrop, 
we delivered a resilient performance.

Underlying EBITDA was €1,201 million. 
Cash generation remained strong at €1,312 
million, and ahead of last year. We continue 
to make good progress in delivering on our 
growth projects.

Sustainability is at the heart of the strategy 
and embedded into Mondi’s actions and 
decisions. Clear and measurable progress 
continued to be made over the course 
of 2023 against the ambitious targets of 
the Mondi Action Plan 2030 (MAP2030). 
The strategic importance of our sustainability 
agenda is reflected in the remuneration 
structure and is a key component of 
the Group's annual bonus, embedding 
sustainability goals into the organisation. 

Safety is our highest priority. We continue 
to build on our Social Psychology of Risk 
approach to safety, culture and behaviours, 
in addition to our traditional assessment of 
safety performance using Total Recordable 
Case Rate (TRCR). Although we are 
among the leading performers in safety 
in our industry, we tragically experienced 
a fatality towards the end of 2023 at our 
Ružomberok mill (Slovakia). We ensure 
that every incident is fully investigated, that 
learnings are shared, and procedures 
and practices revised, if appropriate, 
to avoid the same or a similar situation 
happening in the future. 

The Board has recommended a total 
ordinary dividend for the year of 70.00 euro 
cents per share in line with 2022. 
This reflects the Board’s confidence 
in the future of the business.

Further details on performance in 2023 
are set out on pages 2-3.

Remuneration outcomes 
aligned to performance
Annual bonus 
For the 2023 annual bonus, performance 
was assessed against financial (60%), safety 
(10%), greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions 
(5%), waste to landfill (WtL) (5%) and 
personal (20%) targets.

Annual bonuses of 29% and 30% of 
maximum have been awarded in respect of 
performance in 2023 for Andrew King and 
Mike Powell respectively. The outturn, as a 
percentage of the maximum opportunity, is 
a fair reflection of the performance against 
the components of the bonus scorecard.

– The majority of the bonus is assessed 
against financial measures. Threshold 
levels of financial performance were not 
achieved (underlying EBITDA of €1,201 
million and ROCE of 12.8%), resulting in 
0% of the financial elements being 
received.

– The Group's annual bonus is linked 
to sustainability objectives, including 
the binary targets of reduction in GHG 
emissions and elimination of waste to 
landfill, each accounting for 5% of the 
total bonus opportunity. While the waste 
to landfill target was achieved, the 
GHG emissions target was not, due to 
loss of production as a consequence of 
market conditions, and this element of 
the bonus was forfeited. As a result, the 
bonus outturn for GHG and waste to 
landfill was 5% out of a maximum of 10%. 
Details are given on pages 140-141. We 
continue to make good progress 
towards achieving our MAP2030 
commitments.

– The sustainability scorecard includes 

safety targets. Lead and lag indicators 
are used to monitor and improve safety 
performance, with the intention to 
mitigate risks proactively. The lead and 
lag indicator each account for 5% of the 
total bonus opportunity. The lag indicator 
assesses the Total Recordable Case 
Rate (TRCR). The TRCR outcome of 
0.64 reflected fewer safety incidents 
than the target of 0.65. The Executive 
Committee individually and collectively 
achieved all of the lead indicators, aimed 
at reinforcing safety as our highest 
priority, and our Social Psychology of 
Risk approach. A formulaic assessment 
of the safety performance against the 
lead and lag indicators would have 
resulted in 10% of the maximum bonus 
being delivered.

– However, there was a fatality in 2023. This 

was independently reviewed by the 
Sustainable Development Committee and 
the Remuneration Committee. 
After careful deliberation of the specific 
circumstances, the Remuneration 
Committee determined that a downward 
adjustment of three percentage points of 
the lag indicator metric should be applied. 
This resulted in 60% of the lag indicator 
metric being forfeited. As a result, the 
safety component of the scorecard 
contributed 7% to the bonus outturn.

– The personal element of the bonus 

(20% of maximum) reflected specific 
operational and strategic objectives. 
Excellent progress was made against 
these objectives, set in the context 
of the challenges of 2023. As a result 
of this strong delivery, Andrew King and 
Mike Powell were awarded 17% and 18% 
respectively. 

Further details are set out on pages 140 to 143.

The committee considered the 
appropriateness of the overall bonus outturn, 
in the context of the financial and operational 
performance against targets. In challenging 
markets, the business delivered strong cash 
flow, and management made excellent 
progress against their strategic objectives. 
While other key metrics of financial 
performance were below expectations, our 
progress on long-term investment projects 
will ensure that Mondi is well positioned for 
a sustainable future. The committee considers 
that annual bonus outturns for Andrew and 
Mike of 29% and 30% of maximum respectively 
are a fair reflection of the performance 
of the business and their individual 
performance against personal objectives.

In accordance with the DRP, half of these 
annual bonus awards will be delivered in 
deferred shares which vest after three years.

LTIP
The performance period for the 2021 
Long-Term Incentive Plan (LTIP) ended 
on 31 December 2023. Half of the award 
was based on average ROCE performance 
and half on relative TSR performance over 
the three-year performance period. 

The ROCE performance range, originally 
determined by the committee in 2021, was 
set at 12% to 18%. The average ROCE for 
the three-year performance period was 
17.8%, which resulted in performance 
between threshold and stretch targets. 
This resulted in vesting of 97.5% of this 
element, which contributed to 48.75% 
of the total LTIP outcome.

Mondi Group Integrated report and financial statements 2023

124

Remuneration report
Statement from the Chair of the 
Remuneration Committee continued

Pension
Andrew King, Mike Powell and the majority 
of Mondi plc's workforce receive a pension 
allowance of 8% of base salary.

Variable pay
There are no proposed changes to the 
structure or quantum of the annual bonus 
and LTIP awards. For 2024, Andrew King 
will be eligible for a maximum bonus 
of 185% of base salary and an LTIP award 
of 230% of base salary. Mike Powell will 
be eligible for a maximum bonus of 170% 
of base salary and an LTIP award of 210% 
of base salary. Actual award levels for both 
the annual bonus and LTIP remain below 
the policy maxima.

Annual bonus
The majority of the annual bonus is 
assessed against financial measures. 
ROCE and underlying EBITDA are key 
performance indicators.

Given the strategic importance of 
sustainability, 20% of the total bonus 
opportunity is assessed against 
sustainability measures (pages 42-68 
of this report for further detail on our 
MAP2030 framework). Half of the 
sustainability metrics are assessed against 
safety performance. The scorecard also 
includes reduction in GHG emissions 
and elimination of waste to landfill, each 
with a weighting of 5% of maximum 
bonus opportunity. These are assessed 
against robust, quantifiable targets. These 
scorecard metrics address the key focus 
areas of MAP2030. In Mondi, we have 
chosen to include the sustainability metrics 
in the Group annual bonus plan rather than 
the LTIP, as the annual bonus plan extends 
deeper into the organisation. 

The sustainability metrics are at the heart 
of Mondi’s strategy. Together with ROCE 
and underlying EBITDA, this provides a 
well-rounded assessment of performance. 
Details of the performance measures 
and weightings are on page 129. 

LTIP 
For the 2024 LTIP grant, performance 
will be assessed against ROCE, relative 
TSR and cumulative EPS. Details of the 
performance measures, weightings 
and targets are on pages 129-130.

In 2023, we completed the sale of all 
our Russian assets following the Board's 
decision to exit Russia. The committee took 
account of this in setting the targets for the 
2024 LTIP awards, noting that the Russian 
operations had typically contributed 
approximately an additional 300 basis 
points towards ROCE. The committee 
determined that the threshold ROCE 
performance level should be maintained 
at 12% and the stretch performance level 
should be set at 16%. This adjustment 
of 200 basis points to the stretch target 
does not fully reflect the lost contribution 
from the Russian assets and the 
committee therefore considers this target 
to be stretching.

The EPS targets have been set on a 
cumulative basis in the context of the 
long-term financial plan and reflect the 
basic underlying EPS, post-share 
consolidation. The targets are considered 
to be stretching against the backdrop of a 
challenging global economic environment.

We will continue to review the opportunity, 
performance measures, weightings 
and targets of our variable pay plans 
periodically, within the parameters of the 
prevailing approved DRP. We appreciate 
feedback from investors and have carefully 
considered their comments at the 
Remuneration Committee, as we 
determined the 2024 performance targets.

Further details on the implementation of 
the DRP for the 2024 financial year are 
provided on page 129-130.

The Group’s TSR over the period was 2.17%, 
which was at median performance among 
the comparator group. This performance 
resulted in 25% vesting for this element, 
which contributed to 12.50% of the total 
LTIP outcome. 
As a result, 61.25% of the overall LTIP 
award will vest in March 2024. For our 
executive directors, their vested shares 
will be subject to a two-year post-vesting 
holding period until 2026. Further details 
are set out on page 144.
Summary
The committee considers that the annual 
bonus, taking into account the application 
of downward discretion in respect of the 
safety element, and LTIP outcomes, are 
a fair reflection of the wider business 
performance for the 2023 financial year and 
over the longer term. These outcomes are 
aligned to the shareholder experience. 

Further information about the levels of 
executive remuneration earned in 2023, 
including details of performance against 
the relevant targets for both bonus 
and LTIP, is given on pages 139-145.
Remuneration in 2024
Base salary
At Mondi, the philosophy is to pay our 
executive directors a total remuneration 
package that attracts and retains the best 
people, with salaries intended to be fair 
and well positioned to the external market 
and the wider workforce. 

Acknowledging the need for appropriate 
restraint for executive directors, Andrew King 
and Mike Powell’s base salaries were 
increased by 2.5% to £1,100,338 and £701,613 
respectively, effective from 1 January 2024. 
These were in line with, or below the 
increases applied to the wider UK workforce 
(typically 2.5% to 5%). As part of determining 
the salary increases for our executive 
directors, the committee was updated 
and received a report on the pay and pay 
practices for both senior management 
and the wider workforce across all 
of Mondi's key markets.

The committee considers that the salaries 
for the executive directors are appropriate 
for a global organisation of Mondi’s size 
and complexity.

Mondi Group Integrated report and financial statements 2023

125

Executive director pay and the 
wider workforce 
Every year, the committee is presented 
with an analysis of pay practices and 
incentives across the Group. This review 
extends across the global workforce in 
all geographies and business units, and 
includes details of the discretionary 
pay increases being applied to senior 
management and the wider workforce. 
The majority of Mondi employees’ pay is 
negotiated under local collective bargaining 
agreements, details of which are shared 
with the committee. This workforce salary 
review ensures the committee understands 
the wider workforce pay and practices. 
This discussion precedes the consideration 
of the discretionary pay increases for the 
executive directors. The committee is well 
positioned when determining executive 
director pay, to take into account reward 
for the wider workforce and all other 
relevant information. 

The key difference in the remuneration 
of executive directors and employees 
in general is the proportion of the 
remuneration package that is performance 
related and 'at-risk'. The variable pay, 
delivered under the short- and long-term 
incentive plans is higher for executive 
directors. The remuneration is also realised 
over an extended time horizon.

The Board has designated a non-executive 
director, Sue Clark, responsible for 
engaging with employees and reporting 
back to the Board on the relevant insights 
and discussions. During these discussions 
a variety of subjects were discussed, not 
limited to remuneration-related topics. 
The views of employees, shared with the 
Board, contribute to the wider discussions 
of the committee. We will continue to 
engage with employees, both formally and 
informally, to bring their views to the Board 
and the Remuneration Committee.

For further details on wider employee 
engagement, see pages 92-93. 

Special dividend and share 
consolidation
Over the course of 2023, we completed 
the sale of all our Russian assets following 
the Board's decision to exit Russia. 
Following approval by shareholders, the net 
proceeds from the sale were distributed to 
shareholders on 13 February 2024 by way 
of a special dividend of €1.60 per share, 
with an associated share consolidation 
taking effect on 29 January 2024. Further 
information can be found on page 216.

It was agreed by the committee that 
participants in the Bonus Share Plan (BSP) 
and LTIP would not receive the special 
dividend on unvested share awards, and 
that the share consolidation would not 
apply to their unvested awards/options. 
This meant that there were no adjustments 
to the number of shares these participants 
may acquire under their current awards/
options, keeping the overall value of their 
awards/options at a broadly similar level. 

Shareholder engagement
In 2023, our Board continued to engage 
with a cross-section of shareholders on 
developments and external expectations 
relating to executive pay. Early in the year, 
we consulted with shareholders and proxy 
agencies in relation to our revised DRP 
and its implementation. This engagement 
continued throughout the year. Feedback 
from investors is welcome and has been 
carefully considered by the Remuneration 
Committee in determining the structure 
and operation of our remuneration policy.

Conclusion
I should like to thank you for the 
constructive feedback and strong support 
you gave at last year's AGM for our DRP 
and implementation of the policy. I very 
much hope that you will continue to give 
your support to the remuneration resolution 
proposed at the 2024 AGM.

Finally, I should like to thank my fellow 
committee members for their support 
throughout the year.

Dame Angela Strank
Chair, Remuneration Committee

Mondi Group Integrated report and financial statements 2023

126

Remuneration report
Remuneration at a glance

Summary of our executive directors' remuneration policy and implementation for 2024
Implementation of DRP in 2024

Fixed pay

Base salary, pension
and benefits

Annual bonus

Short-term variable
remuneration

Salary
Group CEO:
£1,100,338 (2.5% increase); 

Group CFO:
£701,613 (2.5% increase);

(in line with, or below the increases 
applied to the wider UK workforce; 
typically 2.5% to 5%).

Pension
8% of salary, aligned to the majority 
of Mondi plc's workforce.

Benefits
Executive directors will continue to receive 
benefits in line with policy, which include 
car allowance, medical insurance, death 
and disability insurance, and employment 
taxation advice.

– To incentivise and reward the achievement of stretching annual performance targets.
– Maximum opportunity unchanged from prior year at 185% of base salary (Group CEO) and 170% of base salary (Group CFO).
– Performance measures for 2024 will be underlying EBITDA (35%), ROCE (25%), safety (10%), reduction in greenhouse gas 

emissions (5%), elimination of waste to landfill (5%) and personal objectives (20%).

Long-Term Incentive Plan

Long-term variable 
remuneration

– To incentivise and reward the delivery of the Group’s long-term strategic objectives, and provide alignment with shareholders. 
– Maximum opportunity unchanged from prior year at 230% of base salary (Group CEO) and 210% of base salary (Group CFO).
– Performance measures for 2024 will be ROCE (50%), relative TSR (25%) and cumulative EPS (25%).

Share ownership policy

– To align the interests of executive directors with those of shareholders.
– Minimum Shareholding Requirement (MSR) of 300% of base salary for the Group CEO and 250% of base salary for the 

Group CFO.

– A post-employment shareholding requirement applies – equal to the full in-employment shareholding requirement 

(or actual shareholding, if lower) for a period of two years.

Key decisions concerning directors' remuneration

Conclusion of DRP, following 
shareholder consultation
Further to the consultation with our key 
shareholders and proxy agencies, our 
revised DRP was taken to shareholders 
and strongly supported at the 2023 AGM.

Impact of the fatality on 2023 annual 
bonus outcomes
As a consequence of the fatality that 
occurred during the year, the committee 
determined that a downward adjustment 
of three percentage points to the annual 
bonus outcome for the executive directors 
and the wider Group Executive Committee 
was appropriate.

Vesting of 2021 LTIP award 
As part of determining the vesting 
outcomes, the committee considered the 
formulaic outturns in the context of Mondi's 
wider business performance. 

Review of executive director salaries
Andrew King and Mike Powell's base 
salaries increased by 2.5% on 1 January 
2024. These increases were in line with, 
or below the increases applied to the wider 
UK workforce (typically 2.5% to 5%).

2024 LTIP targets
The committee considered the impact 
of the sale of the Russian operations on 
the ROCE target range, and the impact 
of the share consolidation on EPS targets 
(page 130).

Return of net proceeds from disposal 
of Russian assets
It was agreed by the committee that 
participants in the BSP and LTIP would 
not receive the special dividend on 
unvested awards, and that the share 
consolidation would not apply to their 
unvested awards/options.

Determination of remuneration for 
new Executive Committee roles
The remuneration structure and quantum 
were determined and approved for the 
CEO Uncoated Fine Paper, following an 
internal promotion, and the new Chief 
People Officer, joining Mondi in April 2024. 

Review of non-executive director fees
No increases are being applied to 
non-executive directors, in respect 
of base fees, committee Chair fees, 
the attendance fee outside country 
of residence (per meeting) or any 
other supplemental fees.

Mondi Group Integrated report and financial statements 2023

148

Remuneration report
Annual report on remuneration continued

Share awards granted to executive directors (audited)
The following tables set out the share awards granted as nil-cost options to the executive directors. All share awards are determined by 
the three-day average share price commencing the day Mondi announces its results, unless stated otherwise. The vested and exercised 
shares in the table below are pre-consolidation effective 29 January 2024 (page 36).

Awards under BSP and LTIP

Andrew King

Awards 
held at 
beginning 
of year

Type of award

Awards 
granted 
during year

Shares 
lapsed

Awards 
exercised 
during year

Dividend 
equivalents

Share price 
at the date 
of exercise Date of award

Awards 
held as at 
31 December 
2023

Release date

Status

BSP
BSP
BSP
BSP

LTIP1
LTIP2
LTIP3
LTIP4

11,220   
18,970   
  64,849   
—   

—   
— 
— 
63,779 

—   
—  
—  
—  

11,220   
—   
—   
—   

1,099 

—   
—   
—   

Mar 2020
£14.17
— 
Mar 2021
—  Mar 2022
—  Mar 2023

0

Mar 2023
18,970 Mar 2024
Mar 2025
64,849
Mar 2026
63,779

  140,758   
  128,675   
  170,389   
—   

—    70,379    70,379   
—   
—   
—   
—   
—   
—   
—   
—   
175,110   

6,870 

—   
—   
—   

£14.17 May 2020
— 
Mar 2021
—  Mar 2022
—  Mar 2023

0

Mar 2023
128,675 Mar 2024
Mar 2025
170,389
Mar 2026
175,110

Vested and 
exercised
Unvested
Unvested
Unvested

Vested and 
exercised
Unvested
Unvested
Unvested

Mike Powell

Type of award

Awards 
held at 
beginning 
of year

Awards 
granted 
during year

Shares 
lapsed

Awards 
exercised 
during year

Dividend 
equivalents

Share price 
at the date 
of exercise Date of award

Awards 
held as at 
31 December 
2023

Release date

Status

Buy-out LTIP5
BSP
BSP
BSP
LTIP2
LTIP3
LTIP4

  39,427   
2,038   
  37,607   
—   
74,916   
99,201   
—   

—    19,713   
—   
—   
—   
—   
—   
37,761   
—   
—   
—   
—   
—   
101,947   

19,714   
—   
—   
—   
—   
—   
—   

1,343 

—   
—   
—   
—   
—   
—   

Dec 2020
£14.17
— 
Mar 2021
—  Mar 2022
—  Mar 2023
— 
Mar 2021
—  Mar 2022
—  Mar 2023

1 The performance conditions applying to the 2020 LTIP are set out on page 146 of the 2022 Integrated report.
2 The performance conditions applying to the 2021 LTIP are set out on page 144.
3 The performance conditions applying to the 2022 LTIP are set out on page 147 of the 2022 Integrated report.
4 The performance conditions applying to the 2023 LTIP are set out on pages 144-145.
5 Details of the buyout awards granted to Mike Powell are set out on page 142 of the 2020 Integrated report.

0

Mar 2023
2,038 Mar 2024
Mar 2025
37,607
37,761
Mar 2026
74,916 Mar 2024
Mar 2025
99,201
Mar 2026
101,947

Vested and 
exercised
Unvested
Unvested
Unvested
Unvested
Unvested
Unvested

All-employee share plans (audited)
The Group currently operates one HM Revenue & Customs approved all-employee share plan in the UK (the SIP).

Share Incentive Plan (SIP)
Employees resident in the UK are eligible to participate in the SIP. Contributions of up to £150 per month, are taken from participants’ 
gross salary and used to purchase ordinary shares in Mondi plc each month (partnership shares). Participants receive one matching 
Mondi plc ordinary share free of charge for each share purchased (matching shares). The shares are placed in trust and the matching 
shares are forfeited if participants resign from the Group’s employment within three years. If the shares remain in the trust for at least 
five years, they can be removed free of UK income tax and National Insurance contributions. 

Andrew King1
Mike Powell1

6,634   
346   

133   
133   

133   
133   

Shares held at 
beginning of year 

Partnership shares 
acquired during 
the year

Matching shares 
awarded during 
the year

Shares released 
during year

Total shares held as 
at 31 December 2023
6,900 
612 

—   
—   

1 Since 1 January 2024 up to the date of this report Andrew King acquired 21 partnership shares and was awarded 21 matching shares and Mike Powell acquired 21 partnership 

shares and was awarded 21 matching shares.

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Mondi Group Integrated report and financial statements 2023

149

Statement of voting at Annual General Meeting
The Annual General Meeting was held on 4 May 2023. All resolutions were passed. The voting result in respect of the DRP and the 
remuneration report is given below. Overall in excess of 75% of the total Group shares were voted.

Resolution
To approve the DRP

Votes for
324,176,751

%
 87.71 

Votes against
45,432,126

%
 12.29 

Votes total
369,608,877

% of ISC voted
 76.12% 

Votes withheld
896,082

To approve the remuneration report 
(other than the DRP)

330,156,268

 90.17 

36,010,448

 9.83 

366,166,716

 75.41% 

4,338,243

Remuneration Committee governance
The Remuneration Committee
The Remuneration Committee is a formal committee of the Board (composition of the Remuneration Committee on page 122). Its remit 
is set out in terms of reference adopted by the Board. A copy of the terms of reference is available on the Group’s website at 
www.mondigroup.com. The committee’s performance against these terms of reference is reviewed on an annual basis and the 
committee is satisfied that it has acted in accordance with its terms of reference during the year.

The primary purposes of the committee, as set out in its terms of reference, are:

– to determine and agree with the Board, the Group’s remuneration policy and the framework of executive and senior management 

remuneration;

– to determine individual remuneration packages within that framework for the executive directors and certain other senior management;

– to determine the remuneration of the Board Chair;

– to determine the targets for any performance-related pay schemes in which the executive directors and senior management of the 

Group participate;

– to oversee the operation of the Group’s share schemes; and.

– to agree the policy on shareholding requirements for executive directors, including post-employment requirements.

No director or other attendee takes part in any discussion regarding his or her personal remuneration.

The committee is authorised to seek information from any director and employee of the Group and to obtain external advice. 
The committee is solely responsible for the appointment of external remuneration advisers and for the approval of their fees and 
other terms. 

Deloitte was appointed by the Remuneration Committee as its independent remuneration consultant with effect from 29 September 2020, 
following a competitive tender process. Total fees paid to Deloitte for providing remuneration advice to the committee were determined 
based on time and materials and amounted to £87,225 for the year ended 31 December 2023 (£161,100 for 2022, which included advice 
for the new DRP). Deloitte also provided other tax and payroll services to the Mondi Group during the year. All advice to the Remuneration 
Committee, received from Deloitte, was objective and independent. Deloitte is a founder member of the Remuneration Consultants 
Group and, as such, voluntarily operates under the Code of Conduct in relation to executive remuneration consulting in the UK.

The committee reviews the appointment of its advisers annually and is satisfied that the advice it receives is objective and independent.

Sums paid to third parties in respect of a director’s services
No consideration was paid or became receivable by third parties for making available the services of any person as a director 
of Mondi plc (‘the Company’), or while a director of the Company, as a director of any of the Company’s subsidiary undertakings, 
or as a director of any other undertaking of which he/she was (while a director of the Company) a director by virtue of the Company’s 
nomination, or otherwise in connection with the management of the Company or any undertaking during the year to 31 December 2023.

Dame Angela Strank
Chair, Remuneration Committee

Mondi Group Integrated report and financial statements 2023

150

Other statutory information

For the purposes of the Companies Act 2006, the disclosures below, including those incorporated by reference, together with 
the Corporate governance report set out on pages 82-121, form the Directors’ report. 

In addition, disclosures relating to the following items, which also form part of the Directors’ report, have been included in the 
Strategic report which starts on the inside front cover of this Integrated report and finishes on page 81:

– Dividends, page 36

– Research and development activities, pages 13, 21, 28, 45-47 

– Financial risk management objectives and policies, pages 36-37

– Greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions and energy consumption, 

– Principal risks, pages 69-79

– Likely future developments in the business, pages 12-13

page 52

– Employees, pages 48-50

Information required to be disclosed under UK Listing Rule 9.8.4 R
The UK Listing Authority Listing Rules require the disclosure of certain specified information in the annual financial report of Mondi plc. 

The information required under rule 9.8.4 (1) in relation to interest capitalised and related tax relief can be found on page 178. 
The information required under rules 9.8.4 (12) and (13) in relation to dividend waivers can be found on page 194. This information 
is incorporated by reference into this Directors’ report. 

Besides the above, the information required to be disclosed under rule 9.8.4 R is not applicable to Mondi plc, and therefore no disclosures 
have been made in this regard. 

Employee and stakeholder engagement
Information relating to engagement with employees and other stakeholders, including customers and suppliers, can be found in the 
Strategic report on pages 38-41 and in the Corporate governance report on pages 92-95.

Share capital
Full details of Mondi’s share capital can be found in note 22 to the financial statements.

Substantial interests
As at 31 December 2023, Mondi plc had received notifications from the following parties in the voting rights of Mondi plc. The number 
of voting rights and percentage interests shown are as disclosed at the date on which the holding was notified.

Shareholder

Public Investment Corporation Limited

BlackRock Inc

Allan Gray Proprietary Limited

Coronation Fund Managers

Ninety One UK Ltd

AXA S.A.

Standard Life Investments Limited

Old Mutual plc

Sanlam Investment Management Proprietary Limited

Number of voting rights

48,760,707

32,794,248

29,173,827

28,872,418

23,972,407

17,210,471

16,476,021

11,978,984

10,936,128

%1

10.04

6.74

6.01

5.95

4.94

4.69

4.49

3.26

3.00

1  Percentage provided was correct at the date of notification. No further notifications have been received under DTR Rule 5 as at the date of this report, except as detailed below.

The following changes in interests have been notified between 1 January 2024 and the date of this report.

Date

5 January 2024

8 January 2024

10 January 2024

15 January 2024

18 January 2024

19 January 2024

31 January 2024

Shareholder

BlackRock Inc

BlackRock Inc

BlackRock Inc

BlackRock Inc

Coronation Fund Managers

BlackRock Inc

Public Investment Corporation Soc Limited

12 February 2024

Coronation Fund Managers

Number of voting rights

34,157,102

34,135,128

34,144,438

34,340,777

24,224,004

34,388,089

53,650,993

22,587,325

%

7.02

7.01

7.02

7.06

4.99

7.06

12.15

5.12

Mondi Group Integrated report and financial statements 2023

151

Additional information for shareholders
The information for shareholders required pursuant to the Companies Act 2006 can be found on pages 242-243 of this report. 

Political donations
No political donations were made during 2023, and it is Mondi’s policy not to make such donations.

Auditor
Each of the directors of Mondi plc at the date when this report was approved confirms that:

– so far as each of the directors is aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the Group’s auditor is unaware; and

– each director has taken all the steps that he or she ought to have taken as a director in order to make himself or herself aware 

of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Group’s auditor is aware of that information.

PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP (PwC) has indicated its willingness to continue as auditor of Mondi plc. The Board has decided that 
a resolution to reappoint PwC will be proposed at the Annual General Meeting scheduled to be held on 3 May 2024. 

The reappointment of PwC has the support of the Audit Committee, which will be responsible for determining its audit fee on behalf 
of the directors (see page 112 for more information). 

Note 4 to the financial statements sets out the auditor’s fees, both for audit and non-audit work.
Events occurring after 31 December 2023
Aside from the final ordinary dividend proposed for 2023 (see note 9), there have been the following material reportable events since 
31 December 2023: 

On 5 February 2024, the Group announced the completion of the acquisition of Hinton Pulp mill in Alberta (Canada) from West Fraser 
Timber Co. Ltd (West Fraser) for a total consideration of USD 5 million. The mill has the capacity to produce around 250,000 tonnes 
of pulp per annum and will provide the Group with access to local, high-quality fibre from a well-established wood basket as part of a 
long-term partnership with West Fraser. The Group intends to invest in the mill to improve productivity and sustainability performance 
and, subject to pre-engineering and permitting, expand the facility primarily with a new kraft paper machine which will integrate its paper 
bag operations in the Americas and support future growth.

On 13 February 2024, the Group returned the net proceeds from the sale of the Group's Russian assets to shareholders by way of 
a special dividend of €1.60 per existing ordinary share. In addition, in order to maintain the comparability, so far as possible, of Mondi plc’s 
share price before and after the special dividend, the special dividend was accompanied by a share consolidation, which took effect on 
29 January 2024, resulting in shareholders receiving 10 new ordinary shares for every 11 existing ordinary shares. See notes 9 and 22 for 
further details.

Annual General Meeting
The Annual General Meeting will be held at 10:30 (UK time) on Friday 3 May 2024 at Mercedes-Benz World, Brooklands Drive, 
Weybridge KT13 0SL, UK. The notice convening the meeting, which is sent separately to shareholders, provides further details including 
the business to be considered and explanatory notes for each resolution. The notice is available on the Mondi Group website at: 
www.mondigroup.com. 

This Directors’ report was approved by the Board on 21 February 2024 and is signed on its behalf. 

Jenny Hampshire 
Company Secretary 
Mondi plc 
Ground Floor, Building 5 
The Heights 
Brooklands 
Weybridge 
Surrey 
KT13 0NY 
Registered No. 6209386

21 February 2024 

Mondi Group Integrated report and financial statements 2023

152

Financial statements introduction

Financial statements

Directors’ responsibility statement

Independent auditors' report to the 
members of Mondi plc
Financial statements

Consolidated income statement

Consolidated statement 
of comprehensive income
Consolidated statement
of financial position
Consolidated statement 
of changes in equity
Consolidated statement 
of cash flows
Notes to the consolidated financial 
statements:

Note 1 Basis of preparation 

Note 2 Operating segments
Notes 3–7 Notes to the 
consolidated income statement
Notes 8–9 Per share measures
Notes 10–19 Notes to the 
consolidated statement of 
financial position
Notes 20–23 Capital management

Note 24 Retirement benefits
Notes 25–27 Notes to the 
consolidated statement of cash flows
Note 28 Russian operations 
(discontinued operations)

Notes 29–34 Other disclosures

Note 35 Accounting policies

Mondi plc parent company balance sheet
Mondi plc parent company
statement of changes in equity
Notes to the Mondi plc parent 
company financial statements
Production statistics and exchange rates

Group financial record

Alternative Performance Measures

Additional information for shareholders

Shareholder information

153

154

166

167

168

169

170

171

172

177

182

184

192

197

202

206

209

217

225

226

227
235

236

238

242

244

Our strong through-cycle cash 
generation and robust balance 
sheet provides strategic 
flexibility.
Mike Powell
Group CFO

Mondi Group Integrated report and financial statements 2023

153

Directors’ responsibility statement

The directors are responsible for preparing the Integrated report and financial statements 2023 in accordance with applicable law 
and regulation. 

Company law requires the directors to prepare financial statements for each financial year. Under that law the directors have prepared 
the Group financial statements in accordance with UK-adopted international accounting standards and the Mondi plc parent company 
financial statements in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice (United Kingdom Accounting 
Standards, comprising FRS 101 “Reduced Disclosure Framework”, and applicable law). In preparing the Group financial statements, the 
directors have also elected to comply with International Financial Reporting Standards issued by the International Accounting Standards 
Board (IFRSs issued by IASB).

Under company law, the directors must not approve the financial statements unless they are satisfied that they give a true and fair view 
of the state of affairs of the Group and parent company and of the profit or loss of the Group for that period. In preparing the financial 
statements, the directors are required to:

– select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently; 

– state whether applicable UK-adopted international accounting standards and IFRSs issued by IASB have been followed for the Group 
financial statements and United Kingdom Accounting Standards, comprising FRS 101, have been followed for the parent company 
financial statements, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the financial statements; 

– make judgements and accounting estimates that are reasonable and prudent; and 

– prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Group and parent company 

will continue in business. 

The directors are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Group and parent company and hence for taking reasonable steps 
for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.

The directors are also responsible for keeping adequate accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain the Group’s and 
parent company’s transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Group and parent company 
and enable them to ensure that the financial statements and the Remuneration report comply with the Companies Act 2006.

The directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the Group’s website. Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the 
preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.

Directors' confirmations
The directors consider that the Integrated report and financial statements 2023, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable 
and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Group’s and parent company’s position and performance, business 
model and strategy.

Each of the directors, whose names and functions are listed in the Governance section of the Integrated report confirm that, to the best 
of their knowledge:

– the Group financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with UK-adopted international accounting standards 

and IFRSs issued by IASB, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit of the Group; 

– the parent company financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Accounting Standards, 
comprising FRS 101, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities and financial position of the Mondi plc parent company; and 

– the Strategic report includes a fair review of the development and performance of the business and the position of the Group 

and parent company, together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties that they face.

The Directors’ responsibility statement was approved by the Board on 21 February 2024 and is signed on its behalf by:

Andrew King 
Director  

Mike Powell
Director

 
 
Mondi Group Integrated report and financial statements 2023

154

Independent auditors’ report to the members of Mondi plc

Report on the audit of the financial statements
Opinion
In our opinion:

– Mondi plc’s group financial statements and parent company financial statements (the “financial statements”) give a true and fair view 
of the state of the group’s and of the parent company’s affairs as at 31 December 2023 and of the group’s loss and the group’s cash 
flows for the year then ended;

– the group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with UK-adopted international accounting standards 

as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006;

– the parent company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting 

Practice (United Kingdom Accounting Standards, including FRS 101 “Reduced Disclosure Framework”, and applicable law); and

– the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006.

We have audited the financial statements, included within the Integrated report and financial statements 2023 (the “Integrated Report”), 
which comprise: the consolidated statement of financial position and the Mondi plc parent company balance sheet as at 31 December 
2023; the consolidated income statement, the consolidated statement of comprehensive income, the consolidated statement of cash 
flows and the consolidated and Mondi plc parent company statements of changes in equity for the year then ended; and the notes 
to the financial statements, which include a description of the significant accounting policies.

Our opinion is consistent with our reporting to the Audit Committee.

Basis for opinion
We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing (UK) (“ISAs (UK)”) and applicable law. Our responsibilities 
under ISAs (UK) are further described in the Auditors’ responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements section of our report. 
We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion.

Independence
We remained independent of the group in accordance with the ethical requirements that are relevant to our audit of the financial 
statements in the UK, which includes the FRC’s Ethical Standard, as applicable to listed public interest entities, and we have fulfilled our 
other ethical responsibilities in accordance with these requirements.

To the best of our knowledge and belief, we declare that non-audit services prohibited by the FRC’s Ethical Standard were not provided.

Other than those disclosed in note 4, we have provided no non-audit services to the parent company or its controlled undertakings 
in the period under audit.

