NNaattWWeesstt  GGrroouupp
2023 Annual Report and Accounts

STRATEGIC 
REPORT

FFIINNAANNCCIIAALL  
RREEVVIIEEWW

GOVERNANCE

RISK AND CAPITAL 
MANAGEMENT

FINANCIAL 
STATEMENTS

ADDITIONAL 
INFORMATION

8811

81

Segment performance continued

CCeennttrraall  iitteemmss  &&  ootthheerr

IInnccoommee  ssttaatteemmeenntt  --  ccoonnttiinnuuiinngg  ooppeerraattiioonnss
Total income
Operating expenses (1)
   of which: Other operating expenses
   of which: Ulster Bank RoI direct expenses
Impairment (losses)/releases
Operating profit/(loss)
   of which: Ulster Bank RoI

2023

£m

410
(392)
(387)
(275)
(5)
13
(473)

2022

£m

41
(728)
(645)
(433)
12
(675)
(723)

Variance

£m

369
336
258
158
(17)
688
250

%

900.0%
(46.2%)
(40.0%)
(36.5%)
(141.7%)
nm
(34.6%)

 Total income was £369 million higher than 2022 primarily reflecting notable items 

including foreign exchange recycling gains of £484 million, lower losses on 
redemption of own debt, business growth fund gains and lower losses on liquidity 
asset bond sales, partially offset by lower gains on interest and foreign exchange risk 
management derivatives not in accounting hedge relationships and losses associated 
with property lease terminations.

 Other operating expenses were £258 million, or 40.0%, lower than 2022 principally 

reflecting the reduction in cost due to our withdrawal of operations from the Republic 
of Ireland.

 Net loans to customers increased by £6.2 billion, to £25.8 billion, over the year 

mainly due to reverse repo activity in Treasury.

 Customer deposits decreased by £5.1 billion 2023 primarily reflecting our withdrawal 
of our operations from the Republic of Ireland. Ulster Bank RoI customer deposit 
balances were £0.2 billion as at Q4 2023.

CCaappiittaall  aanndd  bbaallaannccee  sshheeeett
Net loans to customers (amortised cost) (2)
Customer deposits
RWAs

2023

£bn

25.8 
12.3 
2.8 

2022

£bn

19.6 
17.4 
7.0 

Variance

£bn

6.2
(5.1)
(4.2)

%

31.6%
(29.3%)
(60.0%)

(1)

(2)

Includes withdrawal-related direct program costs of £91 million for the year ended 31 December 2023 (31 December 
2022 – £195 million). 
Excludes £0.3 billion of loans to customers held at fair value through profit or loss (31 December 2022 – £0.5 billion).

STRATEGIC REPORTFINANCIAL REVIEWGOVERNANCERISK AND CAPITAL MANAGEMENTFINANCIAL STATEMENTSADDITIONAL INFORMATIONNatWest Group 2023 Annual Report and Accounts 
NNaattWWeesstt  GGrroouupp
2023 Annual Report and Accounts

STRATEGIC 
REPORT

FFIINNAANNCCIIAALL  
RREEVVIIEEWW

GOVERNANCE

RISK AND CAPITAL 
MANAGEMENT

FINANCIAL 
STATEMENTS

ADDITIONAL 
INFORMATION

8822

82

Summary financial statements

SSuummmmaarryy  ccoonnssoolliiddaatteedd  iinnccoommee  ssttaatteemmeenntt  

For the year ended 31 December 2023

SSuummmmaarryy  ccoonnssoolliiddaatteedd  bbaallaannccee  sshheeeett

As at 31 December 2023

Net interest income
Non-interest income 
Total income
Operating expenses
Profit before impairment losses
Impairment losses
Operating profit before tax
Tax charge
Profit from continuing operations
(Loss)/profit from discontinued operations, net of tax
Profit for the year

AAttttrriibbuuttaabbllee  ttoo::
Ordinary shareholders
Preference shareholders
Paid-in equity holders
Non-controlling interests

2023

£m 
11,049
3,703
14,752
(7,996)
6,756
(578)
6,178
(1,434)
4,744
(112)
4,632

4,394
-
242
(4)
4,632

2022

£m 
9,842
3,314
13,156
(7,687)
5,469
(337)
5,132
(1,275)
3,857
(262)
3,595

3,340
-
249
6
3,595

2021

£m 
7,535
2,894
10,429
(7,758)
2,671
1,173
3,844
(996)
2,848
464
3,312

2,950
19
299
44
3,312

Cash and balances at central banks
Trading assets
Derivatives
Settlement balances
Loans to banks and customers - amortised cost
Other financial assets
Other and intangible assets
Assets of disposal groups 
Total assets

Deposits
Trading liabilities
Settlement balances, derivatives, other financial
   liabilities and subordinated liabilities
Other liabilities
Owners' equity
Notes in circulation
Non-controlling interests
Total liabilities and equity

2023

£m

104,262
45,551
78,904
7,231
388,347
51,102
16,374
902
692,673

2022

£m

144,832
45,577
99,545
2,572
373,479
30,895
16,292
6,861
720,053

2021

£m

177,757
59,158
106,139
2,141
366,672
46,145
14,965
9,015
781,992

453,567
53,636

470,759
52,808

506,089
64,598

139,843
5,202
37,157
3,237
31
692,673

151,426
5,346
36,488
3,218
8
720,053

160,658
5,797
41,796
3,047
7
781,992

NatWest Group’s financial statements are prepared in accordance with UK adopted International Accounting Standards (IAS), and International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) as 
issued by the International Accounting Standards Board (IASB).

STRATEGIC REPORTFINANCIAL REVIEWGOVERNANCERISK AND CAPITAL MANAGEMENTFINANCIAL STATEMENTSADDITIONAL INFORMATIONNatWest Group 2023 Annual Report and Accounts 
 
 
83

Serving our

customers

every day

Governance

84

88

89

105

110

115

122

127

138

141

162

165

169

Our Board

Chairman’s introduction

Governance at a glance

Report of the Group Nominations and Governance Committee

Report of the Group Audit Committee

Report of the Group Board Risk Committee

Report of the Group Sustainable Banking Committee

Directors’ remuneration report

Summary of Policy for executive directors

Annual remuneration report

Compliance report

Report of the directors

Statement of directors’ responsibilities

STRATEGIC REPORTFINANCIAL REVIEWGOVERNANCERISK AND CAPITAL MANAGEMENTFINANCIAL STATEMENTSADDITIONAL INFORMATIONNatWest Group 2023 Annual Report and AccountsCorporate governance

Our Board

84

Howard Davies
Chairman

Paul Thwaite
Group Chief Executive 
Officer

Katie Murray
Group Chief Financial 
Officer

Date of appointment:
14 July 2015 (Board), 1 September 2015 (Chairman)

Committee memberships:

N

Date of appointment:
25 July 2023

Committee memberships:
N/A

Date of appointment:
1 January 2019

Committee memberships:
N/A

Contribution to the Board:
Howard brings substantial financial services knowledge and 
experience to the Board, together with a deep understanding of 
global economic, environmental and social issues. With extensive 
board level experience, Howard draws on his prior regulatory and 
supervisory expertise to contribute both strategic and practical 
insights to Board discussions and debate. Howard is also a highly 
adept Chairman with valuable leadership and stakeholder 
management skills.

Relevant experience:
Howard has held several regulatory roles during his career 
including Chairman of the UK Financial Services Authority and 
Deputy Governor of the Bank of England. Howard was Director of 
the London School of Economics and Political Science and is also 
Professor of Practice at the Paris Institute of Political Studies 
(Sciences Po).

Howard has also previously served as a non-executive director of 
Morgan Stanley and Prudential plc, as Chairman of Phoenix plc 
and as Chair of the UK Airports Commission.

Current external appointments:
 – Chairman of Inigo Limited
 – Member of the Regulatory and Compliance Advisory Board of 

Millennium Management LLC

 – Chair of the International Advisory Council of the China Securities 

Regulatory Commission

 – Member of the International Advisory Council of the National 
Administration of Financial Regulation (formerly the China 
Banking and Insurance Regulatory Commission)

Contribution to the Board:
An experienced leader of NatWest Group’s Commercial & 
Institutional segment and Payments business, Paul was appointed 
NatWest Group CEO for an initial 12-month period in July 2023 and 
then permanently with effect from 16 February 2024. He brings a 
customer focus to the Board, as well as expertise in balance sheet 
management, transformation and risk and controls.

Contribution to the Board:
Katie is a Chartered Accountant with over 30 years’ experience 
in finance and accounting gained through several roles across the 
financial services industry. Katie’s deep knowledge and experience 
in specialist areas including capital management, investor relations 
and financial planning mean she is well placed to provide valuable 
input and expertise during Board discussions.

Paul was central to the formulation and execution of NatWest 
Group’s strategy reviews in both 2014 and 2019, giving him a 
strong, enterprise-wide view. He has led the development and 
delivery of industry-leading initiatives on climate and support for 
SMEs, including the coordination of NatWest Group’s business 
support during the COVID pandemic.

In addition, Paul has played an active role in NatWest Group’s 
diversity, equality and inclusion agenda, sponsoring and progressing 
a number of targeted programmes including NatWest Group’s 
Junior Management Team and Multicultural Network.

Relevant experience:
Paul has a track record of success in senior global roles within 
Wholesale, Corporate, International, Risk and Retail Banking, 
based across the UK, Europe and US. Most recently he was Chief 
Executive Officer of NatWest Group’s Commercial & Institutional 
segment between July 2022 and July 2023, having previously led 
NatWest Group’s Commercial Banking division as CEO since 
November 2019. As part of his most recent role, Paul also 
led NatWest Group’s Payments business.

Current external appointments:
 – Non-executive director of Pollinate Networks Limited 

Relevant experience:
Katie joined NatWest Group as Director of Finance in 2015 and was 
appointed as Deputy Chief Financial Officer in March 2017. She 
was appointed as Group Chief Financial Officer in January 2019.

Katie was previously the Group Finance Director for Old Mutual 
Emerging Markets, based in Johannesburg (2011-2015), having 
held various roles across Old Mutual from 2002. Prior to this Katie 
worked at KPMG for 13 years. She is a member of the Institute of 
Chartered Accountants of Scotland.

Current external appointments:
 – Non-executive director of Phoenix Group Holdings plc

Board Committees

A Group Audit Committee (GAC)

N

Group Nominations & Governance Committee (N&G)

Re Group Performance & Remuneration Committee (RemCo)

Ri Group Board Risk Committee (BRC)

S Group Sustainable Banking Committee (SBC)

Underline denotes Committee Chair

STRATEGIC REPORTFINANCIAL REVIEWGOVERNANCERISK AND CAPITAL MANAGEMENTFINANCIAL STATEMENTSADDITIONAL INFORMATIONNatWest Group 2023 Annual Report and AccountsCorporate governance continued

85

Mark Seligman
Senior Independent 
Director

Frank Dangeard
Independent  
non-executive director

Roisin Donnelly
Independent  
non-executive director

Date of appointment:
1 April 2017 (Board), 1 January 2018  
(Senior Independent Director)

Committee memberships:

A

N

Re

Contribution to the Board:
Mark, a former senior investment banker, brings comprehensive 
financial services knowledge and substantial FTSE 100 board 
experience to the Board. A former boardroom adviser, Mark 
contributes significant banking and corporate transformation 
expertise in particular, alongside a range of customer and 
wider stakeholder engagement skills.

Relevant experience:
Mark has held various senior roles at Credit Suisse/BZW during his 
executive career, including Deputy Chairman, CSFB Europe and 
Chairman, UK Investment Banking, CSFB.

Mark has served as a non-executive director on company boards 
across a range of industry sectors, including BG Group plc, as 
Senior Independent Director of Kingfisher plc, and as Deputy 
Chairman of G4S plc. He has significant experience of chairing 
committees and as a Senior Independent Director.

Current external appointments:
 – Non-executive director of Smiths Group plc
 – Non-executive director and trustee of The Brooklands Museum

Date of appointment:
16 May 2016

Committee memberships:

Re

Date of appointment:
1 October 2022

Committee memberships:

S

Contribution to the Board:
Frank is a former investment banker and technology company 
CEO with substantial global board expertise. This broad background 
enables Frank to make a valuable contribution to Board discussions, 
particularly in relation to technology, digital and innovation matters. 
Frank’s experience also encompasses key areas including customer 
experience, stakeholder engagement, ESG and risk. In April 2018, 
Frank assumed the role of Chairman of NatWest Markets Plc, 
which enables him to bring a unique perspective to Board debate.

Relevant experience:
During his executive career, Frank held various roles at Thomson 
S.A., including Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, and was 
Deputy Chief Executive Officer of France Telecom. Prior to that 
he was Chairman of SG Warburg France and Managing Director 
of SG Warburg.

Frank has also held a number of non-executive roles at Crédit 
Agricole CIB, EDF, Home Credit, Orange, Sonaecom SGPS and 
Arqiva Group Limited. He was also Deputy Chairman and 
acting Chairman of Telenor ASA, an international media 
communications group.

Current external appointments:
 – Chairman of Gen Digital Inc.
 – Non-executive director of IHS Holding Limited
 – Chairman of the Advisory Board of STJ Advisors

Contribution to the Board:
Roisin brings extensive customer, marketing and branding 
experience to the Board, gained during her long executive  
career at Procter & Gamble. She has a strong background in 
digital transformation and data and significant knowledge and 
experience of developing ESG strategies at board level. Roisin 
also brings practical board and committee experience to the role, 
having served on a number of listed company boards.

In April 2023, Roisin was appointed as NatWest Group’s Consumer 
Duty Board Champion. She is also the Chair of the NatWest Group 
Colleague Advisory Panel, which provides a valuable link to 
colleague and customer issues.

Relevant experience:
Roisin spent over 30 years leading marketing and brand building 
at Procter & Gamble in different UK and international roles. Most 
recently Roisin served as Chief Marketing Officer for Procter & 
Gamble Northern Europe (2014-2016) and prior to that served 
as Chief Marketing Officer for Procter & Gamble UK and Ireland 
(2002-2014).

Roisin’s previous non-executive directorships include HomeServe 
plc, Just Eat plc, Holland and Barrett Limited, and Bourne 
Leisure Limited.

Roisin is an Honorary Fellow of the Marketing Society.

Current external appointments:
 – Non-executive director of Premier Foods plc
 – Non-executive director of The Sage Group plc
 – Member of the Digital Advisory Board, Coca-Cola Europacific 

Partners plc

 – Non-executive Advisor, Internet Advertising Bureau

STRATEGIC REPORTFINANCIAL REVIEWGOVERNANCERISK AND CAPITAL MANAGEMENTFINANCIAL STATEMENTSADDITIONAL INFORMATIONNatWest Group 2023 Annual Report and AccountsCorporate governance continued

86

Patrick Flynn
Independent  
non-executive director

Rick Haythornthwaite
Independent non-executive 
director and Chair Designate

Yasmin Jetha
Independent  
non-executive director

Date of appointment:
1 June 2018

Committee memberships:

A

N

Ri

Date of appointment:
8 January 2024

Committee memberships:

N

Date of appointment:
1 April 2020

Committee memberships:

S

Contribution to the Board:
Patrick contributes significant retail and commercial banking 
experience to the Board, together with a background in complex 
organisational restructuring and technology transformation. 
This experience enables Patrick to provide insightful contributions 
to Board discussions on complex matters, alongside his significant 
financial knowledge and expertise.

Relevant experience:
Patrick was the Chief Financial Officer and a member of the 
Executive Board of ING Group for over eight years to May 2017. 
Prior to that, he worked for HSBC for 20 years. Patrick is a 
Fellow of Chartered Accountants Ireland.

Current external appointments:
 – Non-executive director and Senior Independent Director of 

Aviva plc

Contribution to the Board:
Rick is a highly experienced Chair who combines a successful 
commercial career with a deep knowledge of financial services 
markets and technology, as well as a strong track record of delivery 
at significant customer-facing organisations. Rick’s Chair experience 
extends across industry sectors, including Embedded Finance, 
a fintech company; QiO Technologies Limited, the industrial AI 
company that Rick co-founded; and Xynteo, a Norway-based 
sustainability consultancy.

Relevant experience:
Rick served as Chair of Mastercard Inc. during its transformation 
from a credit card company to a global technology company and 
an increase in its market value from $5 billion to over $350 billion. 
He also chaired Arc International Holdings, Centrica plc and 
Network Rail Limited, and was a partner at Star Capital. Rick’s 
past non-executive directorships include Globant S.A., Cookson plc, 
Lafarge S.A., Land Securities plc and ICI plc. Rick also led the 
Haythornthwaite Review of UK Armed Forces Incentivisation.

Rick has been responsible for several high-profile business 
transformations and rescues, including Invensys, then one 
of the world’s leading industrial controls companies, as CEO.

Current external appointments:
 – Chair of Ocado Group plc
 – Chairman of AA Limited
 – Chairman of Embedded Finance Limited(1)
 – Senior advisory partner at Moelis & Co

(1)  advisory role

Prior to becoming NatWest Group Chair, Rick will step down as 
Chairman of AA Limited (remaining as a non-executive director) 
and as advisory Chairman of Embedded Finance Limited.

Contribution to the Board:
Yasmin brings a wealth of retail banking and customer experience 
to the Board, as well as valuable technology and innovation insights, 
and a strong background in general management. Yasmin adds 
strength and depth to the Board in these important areas, 
supporting challenge and debate and effective decision-making.

On 1 April 2020 Yasmin re-joined the Board of NatWest Group plc, 
having first been appointed in June 2017. Yasmin stepped down 
in April 2018 in order to serve solely as a director of our key 
ring-fenced entities, and, like the majority of our directors, she 
continues to serve on these boards in addition to the Board of 
NatWest Group plc.

Relevant experience:
During her executive career, Yasmin held Chief Information Officer 
roles at Bupa and the Financial Times, where she later became 
the Chief Operating Officer. Prior to that Yasmin held a number 
of senior roles at Abbey National PLC, in a career spanning nearly 
20 years, where latterly she served as an executive director on 
the board.

Yasmin has also held a number of non-commercial roles 
including Vice Chair of the Board of Governors at the University 
of Bedfordshire (2008 to 2011) and Vice Chair of the National 
Committee of the Aga Khan Foundation (UK) Ltd, a non-
denominational charity that works with communities in Africa, 
Asia and the Middle East.

Current external appointments:
 – Non-executive director of Guardian Media Group plc
 – Non-executive director of Nation Media Group Limited

STRATEGIC REPORTFINANCIAL REVIEWGOVERNANCERISK AND CAPITAL MANAGEMENTFINANCIAL STATEMENTSADDITIONAL INFORMATIONNatWest Group 2023 Annual Report and AccountsCorporate governance continued

87

Stuart Lewis
Independent  
non-executive director

Lena Wilson CBE
Independent  
non-executive director

Jan Cargill
Chief Governance Officer 
and Company Secretary

Date of appointment:
1 April 2023

Committee memberships:

A

N

Ri

Date of appointment:
1 January 2018

Committee memberships:

N Re

Ri

S

Contribution to the Board:
Stuart brings extensive risk management, financial services and 
regulatory experience to the Board gained during his executive 
career, predominantly at Deutsche Bank. He also brings practical 
board-level experience, having served on a number of boards and 
committees in both executive and non-executive capacities. Stuart’s 
strengths in risk and financial services complement and enhance the 
overall knowledge and experience of the Board, particularly in support 
of growth opportunities and continued organisational transformation.

Relevant experience:
Stuart served 10 years on the Management Board of Deutsche 
Bank as Chief Risk Officer, retiring in May 2022. He joined Deutsche 
Bank in 1996, where he held a variety of senior roles, including 
Deputy Chief Risk Officer, Global Chief Credit Officer and Chief 
Credit Officer for Asia Pacific. He was previously Head of European 
Credit Risk Management at Credit Suisse Financial Products.

Stuart served as a non-executive director of the London Stock 
Exchange Group plc (2013-2016) and in 2013 was elected to the 
Global Association of Risk Professionals Board of Trustees. He was 
also a Member of the Foundation Board of the International Financial 
Risk Institute (2010-2022) and served as Chair (2016-2018).

Current external appointments:
 – Member of the Board of Trustees of the Global Association of 

Risk Professionals

 – Member of the Advisory Committee of the International 

Association of Credit Portfolio Managers

 – Visiting Professor in Practice in the Finance Department, 

London School of Economics

Contribution to the Board:
Lena contributes significant knowledge and experience to the Board 
drawn from a broad executive and non-executive career. She has 
extensive transformation and development skills, with experience in 
enterprise, internationalisation, stakeholder management, ESG and 
general management.

As a former Chair of the NatWest Group Colleague Advisory Panel, 
Lena provides valuable insights into customer and people issues 
in particular.

Relevant experience:
Lena has a portfolio of Chair roles in the listed, private equity 
and professional services sectors. She has been a FTSE 100 
non-executive director for over 10 years and previously served 
on the boards of Scottish Power Renewables Limited and Intertek 
Group plc. Lena was Chief Executive of Scottish Enterprise 
(2009-2017) and prior to that was Senior Investment Advisor  
to The World Bank in Washington DC.

Lena was a member of Scotland’s Financial Services Advisory 
Board and Chair of Scotland’s Energy Jobs Taskforce. In June 2015 
she received a CBE for services to economic development in Scotland.

Current external appointments:
 – Chair of Picton Property Income Limited
 – Visiting Professor, University of Strathclyde Business School
 – Member of the European Advisory Board of Workday Inc.

Date of appointment:
5 August 2019

Contribution to the Board:
Jan works closely with the Chairman to ensure effective and 
efficient functioning of the Board and appropriate alignment and 
information flows between the Board and its Committees. She is 
responsible for advising the Board and individual directors on all 
governance matters, and also facilitates Board induction and 
directors’ professional development.

Relevant experience:
Jan is a chartered company secretary with over 20 years’ 
corporate governance experience. She was appointed Chief 
Governance Officer and Company Secretary in 2019, and prior 
to that held various roles in the legal and secretariat functions, 
including Head of Board and Shareholder Services.

Jan has a law degree and is a Fellow of the Chartered Banker 
Institute. She is also an Associate of The Chartered Governance 
Institute and has an INSEAD Certificate in Corporate Governance.

Former directors:
Mike Rogers stood down as a director 
on 25 April 2023.

Alison Rose stood down as a director  
on 25 July 2023.

Morten Friis stood down as a director  
on 31 July 2023. 

STRATEGIC REPORTFINANCIAL REVIEWGOVERNANCERISK AND CAPITAL MANAGEMENTFINANCIAL STATEMENTSADDITIONAL INFORMATIONNatWest Group 2023 Annual Report and AccountsCorporate governance continued

Chairman’s 
introduction

Letter from Howard Davies,

Chairman of the Board

89

91

92

95

Governance at a Glance

UK Corporate Governance Code

Our governance framework

Principal areas of Board focus

88

I am also delighted that Geeta Gopalan will join the Board 
as an independent non-executive director on 1 July 2024.

Given the significant changes in the leadership of NatWest 
Group, across 2023 and into the first part of 2024, the 
Board agreed that the 2023 annual evaluation of Board 
and committee effectiveness will be deferred until 2024 and 
undertaken by an external facilitator.

The Board maintained its close oversight of the business of 
NatWest Group through the year. Regular reports included 
spotlights on cost of living challenges and how the bank has 
been supporting colleagues and customers. Data on the 
impact of changes in the macro-economic environment on 
customer behaviour was considered regularly. The Board 
also oversaw the preparation for and implementation of the 
Consumer Duty requirements, which became effective on 
31 July 2023.

The Board held a two-day strategy session in June 2023 
which was focused on the impact of technological advances 
on the financial services sector.

Following the announcement that the UK Government will 
explore a potential retail share sale in 2024 as part of its 
plans to reduce its shareholding in NatWest Group plc, 
a Board Oversight Committee was established. This 
Committee is responsible for considering all matters and 
taking any necessary decisions in connection with a retail 
share offering.

Details of the Board’s principal areas of focus and operations 
during 2023 are set out on pages 95 and 97 respectively.

I would like to thank my fellow Board members for their 
contribution, commitment and dedication during 2023 
and also throughout my time as Chairman. I will hand 
over my chairing responsibilities to Rick Haythornthwaite 
on 15 April 2024.

Howard Davies
Chairman of the Board

15 February 2024

Dear Shareholder,

Welcome to the 2023 Corporate governance report.

It has been a challenging year for the Board with a 
number of changes to directors and committee structure 
and composition.

The most significant change was the departure of Alison 
Rose as Group CEO in July 2023. The Board, supported by 
the Group Nominations and Governance Committee, had 
considered Group CEO succession plans in February 2023. 
We were therefore ready to move quickly when she left. 
Paul Thwaite was appointed as Group CEO in July 2023 
for an initial period of 12 months. We are grateful to Paul 
for stepping up at short notice, and to Katie Murray for 
her continued support as Group CFO. Following a robust 
recruitment process the Board appointed Paul as Group 
CEO on a permanent basis with effect from 16 February 
2024. Further information on this process is available on 
page 109.

Other changes to Board membership during the year were 
Mike Rogers and Morten Friis stepping down as directors on 
25 April and 31 July 2023 respectively. I would like to record 
our thanks to Mike and Morten for their significant 
contributions to the Board during their tenures.

Stuart Lewis was appointed as a director on 1 April 2023, 
succeeding Morten Friis as the Chair of the Group Board 
Risk Committee on 1 August 2023.

In September we announced the appointment of Rick 
Haythornthwaite as the next Chair of NatWest Group. You 
can read more about the process undertaken by the Group 
Nominations and Governance Committee to recruit Rick on 
page 108. The Board’s role in the process is also described 
in our section 172 statement on page 24.

I also want to take the opportunity to thank Graham Beale 
who stepped down from the NWH Sub Group Boards, and 
his role as NWH Sub Group Senior Independent Director, on 
31 August 2023. We welcomed Mark Rennison to the NWH 
Sub Group Boards on 1 September 2023 and Ian Cormack 
is now the NWH Sub Group Senior Independent Director.

During the year the Technology and Innovation Committee 
was retired, and the remit of the Group Sustainable Banking 
Committee (SBC) was expanded to include technology, data 
and innovation matters. Yasmin Jetha became Chair of 
SBC, succeeding Mike Rogers.

STRATEGIC REPORTFINANCIAL REVIEWGOVERNANCERISK AND CAPITAL MANAGEMENTFINANCIAL STATEMENTSADDITIONAL INFORMATIONNatWest Group 2023 Annual Report and AccountsCorporate governance continued

Governance at a glance

Key activities in 2023

Chair appointment
We announced the appointment of Rick 
Haythornthwaite to succeed Howard Davies 
as Chair, following a rigorous search process.

Consumer Duty
Roisin Donnelly became our Consumer Duty Board 
Champion, and the Board reviewed Consumer Duty 
implementation across the bank.

Read more on page 108.

Read more on page 24.

Change in Group CEO
When Alison Rose agreed by mutual consent with the 
Board to step down as Group CEO, we implemented 
agreed contingency plans to appoint Paul Thwaite as 
Group CEO for an initial period of 12 months.

Risk management
The Group Board Risk Committee reviewed, and 
the Board approved, NatWest Group’s Enterprise-
Wide Risk Management Framework (EWRMF) and 
the annual refresh of risk appetite.

Read more on page 104.

Read more on page 117.

Streamlining Board committees
The remit of the Group Sustainable Banking 
Committee was expanded to include technology, 
data and innovation matters, and the Technology 
and Innovation Committee was retired as a 
standalone Board committee.

Read more on page 122.

Board diversity
We maintained our focus on Board diversity, with 
reference to our Boardroom inclusion policy, as 
a number of changes were made to Board and 
committee composition.

Read more on page 107.

Board Oversight Committees
We set up two Board Oversight Committees (BOCs) 
to support Board review and oversight of key areas 
of focus for the bank – the Customer Exit BOC and 
the Retail Share Offering BOC.

Supporting directors’ professional development
We provided dedicated induction programmes for 
new directors and supported existing directors’ 
transitions into new committee roles, alongside 
a bespoke training programme for all directors.

Read more on page 92.

Read more on page 98.

89

Board changes during 2023
1 April

Stuart Lewis joined the Board as an independent 
non-executive director and joined GAC and BRC. 
Roisin Donnelly joined SBC.

25 April

Mike Rogers stepped down as a non-executive 
director and SBC Chair.

26 April

Yasmin Jetha succeeded Mike Rogers as SBC Chair.

25 July

Alison Rose agreed by mutual consent with the Board 
to step down as Group CEO and Paul Thwaite was 
appointed as Group CEO for an initial period of 
12 months.

31 July

Morten Friis stepped down as a non-executive 
director and BRC Chair.

1 August

Stuart Lewis succeeded Morten Friis as BRC Chair 
and joined N&G.

Board changes during 2024
8 January

Rick Haythornthwaite joined as an independent 
non-executive director and Chair Designate.

16 February

Paul Thwaite becomes permanent Group CEO

15 April

Rick Haythornthwaite will succeed Howard Davies as 
Chair of NatWest Group plc, and Howard will step 
down from the Board.

1 July 

Geeta Gopalan will join the Board as an independent 
non-executive director.

STRATEGIC REPORTFINANCIAL REVIEWGOVERNANCERISK AND CAPITAL MANAGEMENTFINANCIAL STATEMENTSADDITIONAL INFORMATIONNatWest Group 2023 Annual Report and AccountsCorporate governance continued

Board composition dashboard as at 31 December 2023(1)

Sex

Ethnicity

Age range

Tenure

Independence

90

60%

40%

Male

Female

1

9

White

Minority ethnic

Board skills and experience
The Board is structured to ensure that the directors 
provide an appropriate combination of skills, experience 
and knowledge as well as independence.

The bar chart opposite is an extract from our Board 
skills matrix, which is reviewed by the Group Nominations 
and Governance Committee and approved by the 
Board annually.

The matrix reflects directors’ self-assessment of the skills 
and experience they bring to Board discussions, in line 
with pre-determined criteria aligned to current and 
future strategic priorities.

2

5

3

45-55

56-65

66-75

Broad Financial Services 

Risk Management

Transformation

i

e
c
n
e
r
e
p
x
e

d
n
a

s

l
l
i

k
S

Government / Regulatory / Public Sector

ESG (incl. climate and nature-related issues)

Customer Experience

Financial Markets / Investment Banking

Digital and Innovation

Retail / Commercial / Private Banking

Technology (infrastructure, cyber)

Prior CEO experience

CFO / Accountant

Chairman and  
non-executive directors

2

2

4

0-3 years

3-6 years

6-9 years

Full Board average tenure: 4.2 years

1

2

7

Chairman

Executive directors

Independent non-executive directors

Boardroom inclusion policy
Our boardroom inclusion policy aims to promote 
diversity and inclusion in our Board and Board 
Committee composition, and in the nominations 
and appointments process.

Our disclosures under UK Listing Rule 9.8.6(9) and 
(10) (Board and executive management diversity) 
can be found on page 107.

(1)  As at 31 December 2023 there were 10 directors on the Board.

0

1

2

3

4

5

6

7

8

9

10

STRATEGIC REPORTFINANCIAL REVIEWGOVERNANCERISK AND CAPITAL MANAGEMENTFINANCIAL STATEMENTSADDITIONAL INFORMATIONNatWest Group 2023 Annual Report and Accounts 
 
Corporate governance continued

UK Corporate Governance Code 2018

All directors are committed to observing high standards 
of corporate governance, integrity and professionalism. 
Throughout 2023, NatWest Group plc applied the Principles 
and complied with the Provisions of the 2018 UK Corporate 
Governance Code (the Code) with the following exceptions, 
as described in full in our Statement of compliance 
on page 162:

Provision 17 – that the Group Nominations and 
Governance Committee should ensure plans are in  
place for orderly succession to both the Board and senior 
management positions, and oversee the development 
of a diverse pipeline for succession. The Board considers 
these are matters that should be reserved for the Board.

Provision 21 – that an annual evaluation of the 
performance of the Board and its committees should be 
undertaken. The Board agreed to defer the 2023 evaluation 
until 2024 for the reasons set out on page 104. The Board 
confirms there will be an evaluation in 2024, which will be 
externally facilitated.

Provision 33 – that the Group Performance and 
Remuneration Committee should have delegated 
responsibility for setting remuneration for the Chairman 
and executive directors. The Board considers these are 
matters that should be reserved for the Board.

In addition, the Board has delegated two particular aspects 
of the Code’s provisions to Board committees, with regular 
updates provided to the Board as appropriate:

 – The Group Audit Committee has delegated 
responsibility for reviewing and monitoring 
NatWest Group’s whistleblowing process.

 – The Group Sustainable Banking Committee has 

delegated responsibility for reviewing key workforce 
policies and practices (not related to pay) to ensure 
they are consistent with NatWest Group’s values 
and support long-term sustainable success.

Board leadership and company purpose
 – Our strategic framework (page 9)
 – How We Create Value (pages 10 to 12)
 – Principal areas of Board focus (page 95)
 – Board oversight of our strategic framework (page 99)
 – How the Board oversees and monitors culture (page 100)
 – How the Board engaged with stakeholders, including our 

multi-channel colleague listening approach (pages 101 to 102)

Composition, succession and evaluation
 – Directors’ biographies and committee memberships  

(pages 84 to 87)

 – Board and Board committee composition (page 104) and 

changes in 2023 and 2024 (page 89)

 – Board skills matrix (page 90)
 – Board composition dashboard as at 31 December 2023  
(sex, ethnicity, age, tenure, independence) (page 90)

Division of responsibilities
 – Our governance framework (role and responsibilities of the 

Board and Board committees) (page 92)

 – Division of responsibilities (page 93)
 – Subsidiary governance and ring-fencing (page 94)
 – Board and committee membership and attendance (page 97)
 – External appointments and time commitment (page 103)

 – Our Boardroom inclusion policy (page 106)
 – Board and executive succession planning (page 104)
 – Deferral of the 2023 Board and committee evaluation (page 104)
 – Group Nominations and Governance Committee report  

(page 105)

 – UK Listing Rules Board and executive management diversity 

disclosures (page 107)

 – Chair search process (page 108)

91

The Listing Rules require companies to make a statement 
of how they have applied the Principles, in a manner that 
would enable shareholders to evaluate how the Principles 
have been applied. The table below includes signposts to 
key content in this report which describes how we have 
applied the Principles and complied with the Provisions 
of the Code during 2023, organised under the Code’s 
five main section headings.

Audit, risk and internal controls
Information on how the company has applied the Principles and 
complied with the Provisions set out in this section of the Code 
can be found throughout the Annual Report and Accounts. 
The following sections are of particular relevance:

 – Group Audit Committee report (page 110)
 – Viability statement (page 66)
 – Compliance report (page 162)
 – Group Board Risk Committee report (page 115)

The Board regularly assesses the company’s emerging and 
principal risks in a variety of ways including through review 
of the risk management report and dedicated training.

Details of the company’s principal risks, procedures in place to 
identify Top and Emerging Threats, and how these are managed 
or mitigated, can be found on pages 60 to 65 (Risk overview) 
and pages 170 to 282 (Risk and Capital Management).

Remuneration
 – Directors’ remuneration report (page 127) (Group Performance and Remuneration Committee activity and decisions during 2023; 

remuneration policy for executive directors; wider workforce remuneration)

STRATEGIC REPORTFINANCIAL REVIEWGOVERNANCERISK AND CAPITAL MANAGEMENTFINANCIAL STATEMENTSADDITIONAL INFORMATIONNatWest Group 2023 Annual Report and Accounts92

Corporate governance continued

Our governance framework

NatWest Group plc Board

 – Is collectively responsible for promoting the long-term success of the company, 
driving shareholder value and Natwest Group’s contribution to wider society.
 – Establishes NatWest Group’s strategy and leads the development of its culture.
 – Provides leadership of the company within a framework of prudent and effective 

 – Sets the strategic aims of the company and its subsidiaries, ensures that the 
necessary resources are in place for NatWest Group to meet its objectives.
 – Is responsible for the allocation and raising of capital, and reviews business and 

financial performance.

controls which enables risk to be assessed and managed.

 – Ensures that the company’s obligations to its shareholders and other key stakeholders 

are understood and met.

To assist in providing effective oversight and leadership, the Board has established the following principal committees:

Group Audit Committee 
(GAC)

Group Board Risk Committee 
(BRC)

Group Nominations and 
Governance Committee 
(N&G)

Group Performance and 
Remuneration Committee 
(RemCo)

Group Sustainable Banking 
Committee (SBC)

 – Assists the Board in discharging 
its responsibilities in relation 
to the disclosure of NatWest 
Group’s financial affairs.
 – Reviews accounting and 
financial reporting and 
regulatory compliance and 
NatWest Group’s system 
of internal controls.

 – Monitors the processes for 

internal audit, risk 
management, external audit 
and whistleblowing.

 – Provides oversight and advice 
to the Board in relation to 
current and potential future 
risk exposures of NatWest 
Group, future risk strategy, 
risk appetite and tolerance.
 – Promotes a risk awareness 

culture within NatWest Group.

 – Assists the Board in the formal 
selection and appointment 
of directors.

 – Reviews the structure, size 

and composition of the Board, 
and approves appointments 
to the boards of NatWest 
Group’s principal and material 
regulated subsidiaries.

 – Monitors NatWest Group’s 
governance arrangements. 

 – Responsible for the overview 

 – Supports the Board in 

of NatWest Group 
remuneration policy and the 
directors’ remuneration policy, 
ensuring that arrangements 
are designed to promote 
the long-term success of 
NatWest Group.

overseeing, supporting and 
challenging actions taken by 
management to run NatWest 
Group as a sustainable 
business, capable of 
generating long-term  
value for its stakeholders.
 – Oversees how technology, 

data and innovation are used 
to support the customer and 
be a relationship bank for a 
digital world.

Committee report on page 110.

Committee report on page 115.

Committee report on page 105.

Committee report on page 127.

Committee report on page 122.

The Group Executive Committee 
(ExCo) supports the Group CEO 
in discharging his responsibilities 
in managing NatWest Group’s 
business day to day.

For further information on individual 
roles and responsibilities, see page 93.

Governance framework changes during 2023
From 1 May, SBC’s remit expanded to include technology, data and 
innovation matters and the Technology and Innovation Committee was retired. 
On 27 July a Customer Exit Board Oversight Committee (BOC) was set up to 
oversee and advise the Board in relation to the work and findings of reviews 
related to customer exits. On 11 December a Retail Share Offering BOC was 
set up regarding the proposed share offering to retail investors by UKGI.

Further information
 – The terms of reference of the Board and its principal committees are 
available at natwestgroup.com and are reviewed at least annually.
 – The Board terms of reference include a formal schedule of matters 

specifically reserved for the Board’s decision.

 – Internal reviews confirmed the Board and its principal committees had 
fulfilled their remits as set out in their terms of reference during 2023.

STRATEGIC REPORTFINANCIAL REVIEWGOVERNANCERISK AND CAPITAL MANAGEMENTFINANCIAL STATEMENTSADDITIONAL INFORMATIONNatWest Group 2023 Annual Report and AccountsCorporate governance continued

Division of responsibilities

As at the date of publication of this report, the Board has 11 directors comprising the Chairman, two executive directors and nine independent non-executive directors, one of whom is the 
Senior Independent Director. Director biographies and details of the Board committees of which they are members can be found on pages 84 to 87.

Non-executive director independence 
The Board considers that the current Chairman, Howard Davies, and Chair Designate, Rick Haythornthwiate were both independent on appointment and that all other current non-executive 
directors are independent for the purposes of the Code. 

93

Chairman and Group CEO 
The role of Chairman is distinct and separate from 
that of the Group CEO and there is a clear division of 
responsibilities, with the Chairman leading the Board and 
the Group CEO managing the business day to day.

Senior Independent Director
Throughout 2023, Mark Seligman, as Senior Independent 
Director, acted as a sounding board for the Chairman, and 
as an intermediary for other directors when necessary. He 
was also available to shareholders to discuss any concerns 
they may have had, as appropriate. 

Mr Seligman, on behalf of the Board, also led the process to 
identify and appoint a successor to Howard Davies as Chair 
of NatWest Group.

Read more about the Chair search process on page 108.

Non-executive directors
Along with the Chairman and executive directors, the 
non-executive directors are responsible for ensuring the 
Board fulfils its responsibilities under its terms of reference.

The non-executive directors combine broad business and 
commercial experience with independent and objective 
judgment. They provide constructive challenge, strategic 
guidance, and specialist advice to the executive directors 
and the executive management team and hold 
management to account.

The balance between non-executive and executive 
directors enables the Board to provide clear and effective 
leadership across NatWest Group’s business activities and 
ensures no one individual or small group of individuals 
dominates the Board’s decision-making.

The Chairman and non-executive directors meet at least 
once every year without the executive directors present.

Details of the key responsibilities of the Chairman, Group CEO, Senior Independent Director and non-executive directors are available at 
natwestgroup.com.

Executive management 
The executive management team supports the Group CEO 
in managing NatWest Group’s businesses.

Members of the executive management team, including 
the Group CEO, discharge their individual accountabilities 
to review, challenge and debate relevant items and support 
the Group CEO in forming recommendations to the Board.

Matters include strategy, financials, capital, risk, customers, 
colleagues(1) and operational issues affecting NatWest Group 
as well as monitoring the implementation of cultural change 
and executive succession planning.

Biographies of the executive management team can be 
found at natwestgroup.com.

(1)  References to ‘colleagues’ in this report mean all permanent employees and, in 

some instances, members of the wider workforce e.g. temporary employees and 
agency workers.

Chief Governance Officer and 
Company Secretary 
The Chief Governance Officer and Company Secretary 
works closely with the Chairman to ensure effective and 
efficient functioning of the Board and appropriate alignment 
and information flows between the Board and its Committees. 

The Chief Governance Officer and Company Secretary is 
responsible for advising the Board and individual directors 
on all governance matters, and also facilitates Board 
induction and directors’ professional development. 

STRATEGIC REPORTFINANCIAL REVIEWGOVERNANCERISK AND CAPITAL MANAGEMENTFINANCIAL STATEMENTSADDITIONAL INFORMATIONNatWest Group 2023 Annual Report and AccountsCorporate governance continued

Subsidiary governance and ring-fencing

94

NatWest Group plc is a listed company with equity listed 
on the London and New York stock exchanges. NatWest 
Holdings Limited (NWH Ltd) is the holding company for our 
ring-fenced operations, which include our Retail and Private 
Banking businesses and certain aspects of our Commercial 
& Institutional business. A common board structure is 
operated such that the directors of NWH Ltd are also 
directors of The Royal Bank of Scotland plc (RBS plc) 
and National Westminster Bank Plc (NWB Plc). Known 
collectively as the NWH Sub Group, the boards of 
these three entities meet concurrently.

An integral part of NatWest Group’s governance 
arrangements is the appointment of three double 
independent non-executive directors (DINEDs) to the 
Boards, and Board committees, of the NWH Sub Group. 
They are Francesca Barnes, Ian Cormack and Mark 
Rennison. On 31 August 2023, Graham Beale stood down 
as NWH Sub Group Senior Independent Director (SID) and 
a DINED. On 1 September 2023 Ian Cormack assumed the 
SID role and Mark Rennison joined the NWH Sub Group 
Boards as a DINED.

Abridged biographies for the DINEDs are presented 
opposite with more detailed biographies available at 
natwestgroup.com (NWH Ltd section). The DINEDs 
are independent in two respects: (i) independent of 
management as non-executives; and (ii) independent of 
the rest of NatWest Group by virtue of their NWH Sub 
Group-only directorships. They attend NatWest Group 
plc Board and relevant Board committee meetings as 
observers. Our DINEDs play a critical role in NatWest 
Group’s ring-fencing governance structure, and are 
responsible for exercising appropriate oversight of the 
independence and effectiveness of the NWH Sub Group’s 
governance arrangements, including the ability of each 
Board to take decisions independently.

The governance arrangements for the Boards and 
Board committees of NatWest Group plc and the NWH Sub 
Group have been designed to enable NatWest Group plc 
to exercise appropriate oversight and to ensure that, as far 
as is reasonably practicable, the NWH Sub Group is able to 
take decisions independently of the wider Group. The Group 
Nominations and Governance Committee (N&G) monitors 
the governance arrangements of NatWest Group plc and 
its subsidiaries and approves appointments to the Boards of 
principal and material regulated subsidiaries, as described in 
the N&G report on page 105.

Ian Cormack
NWH Sub Group

Francesca Barnes
NWH Sub Group

Mark Rennison
NWH Sub Group

Senior Independent Director and double 
independent non-executive director

Double independent  
non-executive director

Date of appointment
1 May 2018

Date of appointment
1 May 2018

Double independent  
non-executive director

Date of appointment
1 September 2023

Ian’s extensive financial services career 
provides him with significant experience 
in commercial and investment banking, 
with particular focus on customer and 
risk management. This knowledge 
combined with Ian’s understanding of 
financial infrastructures, strategy and 
transformation provides invaluable 
input into Board discussions.

Ian spent 30 years with Citibank/
Citigroup where he held a number of 
senior positions, including UK Country 
Head (CCO), head of European training 
and co-head of the Global Financial 
Institutions Business.

Ian was also chief executive of 
AIG’s insurance, financial services 
and asset management business in 
Europe between 2000 and 2002 and 
served on the board of Luxembourg-
based bond clearing house CEDEL. 
Ian has previously held non-executive 
positions with Just Group plc, Phoenix 
Group Holdings plc, Hastings Group 
Holdings plc, Bloomsbury Publishing 
plc and Broadstone Acquisition 
Corporation Inc.

Francesca brings a wealth of banking 
and private equity experience to the 
Board gained through an extensive 
executive career. Francesca’s 
experience provides considerable 
knowledge in important areas such 
as customer experience, risk and 
stakeholder management.

Francesca started at Chase Manhattan 
Bank and went on to hold a number 
of senior roles within UBS Investment 
Bank including Global Head of Private 
Equity; Head of Strategy and 
Development; Global Loan Portfolio 
Manager and Chair of the UBSIB 
Development Board.

Francesca is currently the Senior 
Independent Director of HarbourVest 
Global Private Equity Limited, a 
non-executive director of Capvis 
Private Equity and previously served on 
the Board of Coutts & Co (2012-2021), 
a NatWest Group subsidiary. 

Mark has extensive retail banking and 
financial services expertise, alongside 
substantial experience at board and 
committee level. With 12 years’ 
experience on the Board of Nationwide 
as CFO, Mark brings a blend of 
technical knowledge and a deep 
understanding of the financial 
services sector.

Mark is a chartered accountant 
with over 30 years’ experience in 
financial services. He began his career 
at Price Waterhouse (now PwC), where 
he spent twelve years as a partner 
specialising in financial services. 
He was CFO of Nationwide Building 
Society from 2007 to 2019. From 2020 
to 2023 Mark was an independent 
non-executive director of TSB and 
Audit Committee Chair.

Mark is currently a non-executive 
director of Royal London and 
Homes England.

STRATEGIC REPORTFINANCIAL REVIEWGOVERNANCERISK AND CAPITAL MANAGEMENTFINANCIAL STATEMENTSADDITIONAL INFORMATIONNatWest Group 2023 Annual Report and AccountsCorporate governance continued

Principal areas of Board focus in 2023

95

Regular reports
Group CEO reports

Group CFO reports

Board committee and NatWest 
Markets plc Chair reports

Business reviews

Risk management reports

Board business insights pack

Financial crime reports

Legal and regulatory updates

Colleague advisory panel reports

Consumer Duty updates

Key approvals
February: 2022 Annual Report and 
Accounts; ESG disclosure report; 
Climate-related disclosures report 
(including the initial iteration of the 
Climate Transition Plan) and 
associated documents; 2023 
budget; Internal and external 
capital distributions

March: Recalibration of key risk 
appetite limits

April: Q1 financial results and 
ILAAP submission

June: ICAAP results; 
2022 Modern Slavery & 
Human Trafficking Statement

July: H1 financial results and 
internal and external capital 
distributions; CEO appointment

September: Resolvability 
self-assessment; 
Chair appointment

October: Q3 financial results

December: EWRMF annual 
review and risk appetite refresh

February
 – Received the FCA’s firm evaluation letter and discussed the response
 – Considered Board succession plans

April
 – Directors attended a virtual shareholder event and the Annual 

General Meeting

 – Deep dive sessions held with members of management on Digital X 

and Commercial & Institutional businesses

 – Received a detailed update on personalisation of customer life cycles
 – Appointed our Consumer Duty Board Champion

June
 – Considered the progress of standing up the Commercial & Institutional 

business one year on

 – Reviewed the April Our View (colleague opinion survey) results
 – Strategy session focused on the competitive landscape  

and the impact new technologies might have on banking 
and customer behaviour in the future, including digital currencies

 – Discussed top and emerging threats with management

September
 – Discussed sustainable transitions, NatWest Group’s strategy 

and opportunities available to the bank in this area

 – A session was held for potential successors to ExCo to  

meet the Board

 – Assessed the Group’s capabilities and preparations 

to support resolution

December
 – Considered the draft 2024 budget, including progress made against 
climate ambitions and the macro-economic impact on customer 
behaviour and deposits

 – Considered the culture measurement report
 – Approved the Board skills matrix

March
 – Reviewed management’s strategy for NatWest Digital X  

(previously the Services function)

 – Approved the Year 2 Operational Resilience Self Assessment
 – Received an update on the cost of living and how the bank was supporting 

customers and colleagues and considered the impact on customer behaviour, 
particularly in relation to deposit levels

 – Received an update on customer complaints
 – Considered the external market conditions and potential impacts for NatWest 

Group in light of liquidity challenges experienced by peers

May
 – At an ad hoc meeting the Board approved participation in the directed buy-back 

of shares from HM Treasury

July
 – Reviewed the latest culture measurement report and One Bank Transformation 

H1 review

 – Considered the impact of potential future M&A activity on the capital 

distribution strategy

 – Received the PRA’s Periodic Summary Meeting letter and discussed the response
 – Discussed with management the nature and biodiversity strategy ambitions

October
 – Received a progress update on the implementation of the new Digital X strategy
 – Post-implementation review of recent acquisitions and consideration of 

future opportunities

 – Considered an update on the Retail Bank’s short-term borrowing strategy 

including the approach to embedded finance
 – Considered the September Our View results
 – Reviewed the 2024 Annual Scenario for use in the Budget, Economic and 

Stress Tests

Independent reviews
Following the events of the summer of 2023 in relation to customer exit decision-making and the change in Group CEO, the Board dedicated much time in the second 
half of the year to considering the immediate and longer-term impacts. This included reviewing the three reports prepared by the independent party, Travers Smith LLP, 
as well as considering the impact the events had on the wider workforce. 

STRATEGIC REPORTFINANCIAL REVIEWGOVERNANCERISK AND CAPITAL MANAGEMENTFINANCIAL STATEMENTSADDITIONAL INFORMATIONNatWest Group 2023 Annual Report and AccountsCorporate governance continued

Board spotlights 

Rick Haythornthwaite’s induction

Full details of the process to appoint Rick as NatWest Group Chair successor can be 
found in the Group Nominations and Governance report on page 108.

After we announced Rick’s appointment in September 2023, the Group Chief 
Governance Officer and Company Secretary worked closely with him to devise 
a comprehensive induction programme.

The programme was tailored to Rick’s requirements. It included specific areas 
of focus Rick had identified during the recruitment process, and it was flexible in 
order to respond to areas of focus which emerged as the programme progressed. 
This included supporting preparations ahead of Rick’s regulatory interview for the 
Chair role with the PRA and FCA.

Rick’s induction programme prioritised early engagement with key internal and 
external stakeholders, including current Chairman, Howard Davies, the Group 
CEO, Group CFO, non-executive directors, members of the executive 
management team, our auditors and legal advisers.

As well as providing opportunities for Rick to meet and get to know his NatWest 
colleagues and key external contacts, the induction programme was designed to 
ensure a comprehensive overview of NatWest Group’s structure and business 
operations, its strategic priorities and current challenges.

During the Chair search process Rick had acknowledged that, whilst he 
possessed strong financial services experience (for example, through his time as 
Mastercard Chair), he would benefit from some additional upskilling on banking. 
Arrangements were made for this to be addressed at an early stage during Rick’s 
induction, with a focus on the broader picture relevant to a universal bank and 
recognising Rick’s existing background in key areas including payments, 
technology and innovation.

After Rick joined the Board in January 2024, attention turned towards planning for 
an orderly handover of the Chair role. In preparation for taking on the role and 
responsibilities of Chair, Rick joined the Group Nominations and Governance 
Committee as a member, and will join other Board committee meetings as 
an attendee. 

96

Enhancing directors’ skills and knowledge
Directors’ training and development is co-ordinated by the Chief Governance 
Officer and Company Secretary. Directors have access to a wide range of 
briefing and training sessions and other professional development opportunities.

Internal training relevant to the business of NatWest Group is also provided 
and during 2023 the Board undertook a comprehensive programme of training 
sessions on a variety of topics. Some of these were determined at the start 
of the year and others arranged in response to events or Board discussions. 
Training was delivered by both members of management and external parties.

Topics covered included financial crime; recovery and resolution planning; digital 
assets; nature and biodiversity (delivered by the World Wide Fund for Nature); 
legal privilege; Consumer Duty (delivered by Oxera); capital management 
and deposits. The training sessions enabled the directors to deepen their 
understanding of these topics and informed their decision-making.

The Board also held a focus session to assess top and emerging threats. 
Discussions covered the current and potential geo-political landscape, macro-
economic and regulatory trends and the impact of emerging technologies on 
the risk environment.

A number of directors also accepted an invitation to the full Board to join meetings 
of the Group Sustainable Banking Committee which covered areas of broader 
interest, including artifical intelligence.

Directors undertake the training they consider necessary to assist them in 
carrying out their duties and responsibilities.

The non-executive directors discuss their training and professional development 
with the Chairman at least annually.

STRATEGIC REPORTFINANCIAL REVIEWGOVERNANCERISK AND CAPITAL MANAGEMENTFINANCIAL STATEMENTSADDITIONAL INFORMATIONNatWest Group 2023 Annual Report and Accounts97

Corporate governance continued

How the Board operated

Board and committee meetings
There were eight scheduled Board meetings during 2023. 
As well as scheduled meetings, additional ad hoc meetings 
of the Board and some of its committees were held 
throughout the year to receive updates and deal with 
time-critical matters. There were 11 additional Board 
meetings held in 2023 compared to three additional 
meetings held in 2022.

There was also one strategy session with executive 
management in 2023.

When directors are unable to attend meetings convened at 
short notice, owing to existing commitments, they receive 
the papers and have the opportunity to provide their 
feedback in advance.

In accordance with the Code, the Chairman and the 
non-executive directors met at least once without executive 
directors present.

At each scheduled Board meeting the directors received 
reports from the Chairman, Board committee Chairs, Group 
CEO, Group CFO, Group Chief Risk Officer (Group CRO) 
and other members of the executive management team, as 
appropriate. Business reviews from the CEOs of our Retail 
Banking, Wealth and Commercial & Institutional businesses 
included updates on progress against strategy and 
spotlights on current topics including the cost of living, 
personalisation of services, business strategies and 
deposit plans.

In addition to our business CEOs, a number of other senior 
executives attended Board meetings throughout the year to 
present reports to the Board. This provided the Board with 
an opportunity to engage directly with management on 
key issues and supported succession planning.

The Board also welcomed external presenters and advisers 
to Board meetings, who provided useful insights and 
perspectives. The Board and Group Executive Committee 

(ExCo) operating rhythm continues to support a proactive 
and transparent agenda planning and paper preparation 
process. This process includes the following elements:

 – A pre-Board meeting with the Chairman, Group CEO, 

Group CFO and Chief Governance Officer and Company 
Secretary to ensure the Board and executive 
management are aligned on Board agendas.

 – A post-Board meeting with the Chairman, Group CEO 
and Chief Governance Officer and Company Secretary 
to discuss what went well or could be improved after 
each meeting.

 – A look ahead paper at each ExCo and Board meeting 

setting out key items that will be discussed at the 
next meeting.

An overview of the Board’s principal areas of focus during 
2023, is set out on page 95.

Board and committee membership and meeting attendance in 2023

Director

Howard Davies (1)

Alison Rose (2) (8)

Paul Thwaite (2) (9)
Katie Murray (2)
Frank Dangeard (3)
Stuart Lewis (4) (12)
Roisin Donnelly (3) (5) 
Patrick Flynn (3)
Mike Rogers (6)
Yasmin Jetha (3) (7)
Morten Friis (10)
Mark Seligman 
Lena Wilson (11)

Board

Group Audit Committee 
(GAC)

Group Board Risk 
Committee (BRC)

Group Nominations and 
Governance Committee 
(N&G)

Group Performance and 
Remuneration 
Committee (RemCo)

Group Sustainable 
Banking Committee 
(SBC)

Technology and 
Innovation Committee 
(TIC)

Scheduled

Ad hoc

Scheduled

Ad hoc

Scheduled

Ad hoc

Scheduled

Ad hoc

Scheduled

Ad hoc

Scheduled

Ad hoc

Scheduled

Ad hoc

8/8

4/4

4/4
8/8
8/8
6/6
7/8
8/8
2/2
8/8
5/5
8/8
8/8

8/8

–

6/6
6/6
10/11
10/10
10/11
9/11
1/1
10/11
5/5
11/11
11/11

–

–

–
–
–
4/4
–
5/5
–
–
3/3
5/5
–

–

–

–
–
–
–
–
–
–
–
–
–
–

–

–

–
–
–
6/6
–
8/8
–
–
5/5
–
7/8

–

–

–
–
–
–
–
–
–
–
–
–
–

4/4

–

–
–
–
2/2
–
4/4
–
–
2/2
4/4
4/4

3/3

–

–
–
–
4/4
–
6/7
–
–
3/3
7/7
7/7

–

–

–
–
5/5
–
–
–
2/2
–
–
5/5
5/5

–

–

–
–
7/8
–
–
–
1/1
–
–
8/8
8/8

–

–

–
–
–
–
5/5
–
1/1
5/5
–
–
3/5

–

–

–
–
–
–
–
–
–
–
–
–
–

–

–

–
–
1/1
–
–
1/1
–
1/1
–
–
–

–

–

–
–
–
–
–
–
–
–
–
–
–

(1)  Howard Davies was not invited to attend meetings related to recruitment 

(5)  Ms Donnelly was unable to attend a scheduled meeting of the Board owing 

(10) Mr Friis stepped down from the Board and the role of BRC Chair with effect 

of the next NatWest Group Chair.

to a prior commitment.

from 31 July.

(2)  Executive directors were not eligible to attend meetings to discuss their 

(6)  Mr Rogers stepped down from the Board and the role of SBC Chair 

(11) Ms WIilson was unable to attend one scheduled meeting of the SBC owing to a 

own remuneration or the change in Group CEO.

with effect from 25 April.

(3)  On occasion directors were unable to attend ad hoc meetings which were 

convened at short notice owing to existing commitments.

(4)  Mr Lewis joined the Board with effect from 1 April, becoming a member 

of both GAC and BRC on that date also.

(7)  Ms Jetha assumed the role of SBC Chair with effect from 26 April.
(8)  Ms Rose stepped down from the role of Group CEO with effect from 25 July.
(9)  Mr Thwaite joined the Board and assumed the role of Group CEO with effect 

from 25 July.

prior commitment and one meeting of each of the SBC and BRC owing to illness.

(12) Mr Lewis assumed the role of BRC Chair from 1 August, at which point he 

became a member of N&G.

STRATEGIC REPORTFINANCIAL REVIEWGOVERNANCERISK AND CAPITAL MANAGEMENTFINANCIAL STATEMENTSADDITIONAL INFORMATIONNatWest Group 2023 Annual Report and Accounts98

Corporate governance continued

Information
All directors receive accurate, timely 
and clear information on all relevant 
matters and have access to the 
advice and services of the Chief 
Governance Officer and Company 
Secretary. In addition, all directors 
are able, if necessary, to obtain 
independent professional advice 
at the company’s expense.

Our Board and committee paper 
template includes a separate section 
for an assessment of the relevant 
stakeholder impacts for the directors 
to consider. This aligns with the 
directors’ duties under section 172(1) 
of the Companies Act 2006 and 
further details of how the directors 
have complied with their section 
172(1) duties can be found on pages 
24 to 25 of the Strategic report.

Conflicts of interest
The directors’ conflicts of interest policy sets out procedures to 
ensure that the Board’s management of conflicts of interest and 
its powers for authorising certain conflicts are operating effectively.

Each director is required to notify the Board of any actual or 
potential situational or transactional conflict of interest and 
to update the Board with any changes to the facts and 
circumstances surrounding such conflicts.

Situational conflicts can be authorised by the Board in 
accordance with the Companies Act 2006 and the company’s 
Articles of Association.

The Board considers each request for authorisation on a 
case-by-case basis and has the power to impose conditions or 
limitations on any authorisation granted as part of the process. 
Appointments authorised in 2023 are detailed on page 103.

Details of all directors’ conflicts of interest are recorded in a 
register which is maintained by the Chief Governance Officer 
and Company Secretary and reviewed annually by the Board. 

Induction
Each new director receives a formal induction on joining the Board, which is co-ordinated by the Chief Governance 
Officer and Company Secretary and tailored to suit the requirements of the individual concerned.

This includes visits to NatWest Group’s major businesses and functions, and meetings with directors and senior 
management. Meetings with external auditors, counsel and stakeholders are also arranged as appropriate. All new 
non-executive directors receive a copy of the NatWest Group non-executive director handbook. The handbook 
operates as a consolidated governance support manual for directors of NatWest Group plc and the NWH Sub 
Group, providing both new and current directors with a single source of information relevant to their role. It covers 
a range of topics including NatWest Group’s corporate structure; the Board and Board committee operating model; 
Board policies and processes; and a range of technical guidance on relevant matters including directors’ duties, 
conflicts of interest, and the UK Senior Managers and Certification Regime. The handbook contains links to a wider 
library of reference materials via our online resources portal.

Further information about Rick Haythornthwaite’s induction can be found on page 96.

Further information about Stuart Lewis’s induction as BRC Chair can be found on page 116.

STRATEGIC REPORTFINANCIAL REVIEWGOVERNANCERISK AND CAPITAL MANAGEMENTFINANCIAL STATEMENTSADDITIONAL INFORMATIONNatWest Group 2023 Annual Report and AccountsCorporate governance continued

Board oversight of our strategic framework

Throughout 2023 NatWest Group continued to focus on serving 
customers every day.

NatWest Group’s ambition to serve customers well every day continued to be 
underpinned by our values. Our values are central to how we work together to 
deliver our strategy.

99

The effective use of data and technology is recognised as being an important means to 
achieve this and to ensure the bank is simple to deal with. Data and metrics on customer 
behaviour played a key role in informing the Board’s discussions throughout the year 
including in relation to the bank’s deposit strategy. In June the Board held a two day 
strategy session focused on the evolving competitive landscape, with a particular focus 
on digitisation, machine learning and artificial intelligence and the impact the emergence 
of these technologies could have on the financial services sector. The directors discussed 
future challenges and opportunities with members of management and external stakeholders. 
Consideration was given to potential new entrants to the financial services sector and the 
possible regulatory response to significant changes driven by technological enhancements.

Our focus on serving customers has been complemented by the FCA’s Consumer Duty 
requirements, which became effective in 2023. The Board received regular updates 
throughout the year on this important strategic programme.

The ways in which we best serve customers, and so deliver sustainable value for shareholders, 
continued to be a focus for management throughout the year and updates were provided to 
the Group Sustainable Banking Committee and the Board as the approach evolved.

Further information on our strategic framework can be found in the Strategic report on page 9.

The Board received regular updates on how these values are embedding within 
the organisation through Our View colleague opinion survey results and culture 
measurement reports. Colleague sentiment towards the values was also observed 
via Colleague Advisory Panel meetings, which are chaired by Roisin Donnelly who 
reports on each meeting to the Board.

Further information on the Board’s oversight of culture and our values can be found 
on page 100.

STRATEGIC REPORTFINANCIAL REVIEWGOVERNANCERISK AND CAPITAL MANAGEMENTFINANCIAL STATEMENTSADDITIONAL INFORMATIONNatWest Group 2023 Annual Report and AccountsCorporate governance continued

Culture

The Board assesses and monitors NatWest Group’s culture 
in several ways, as described below.

NatWest Group Culture Measurement Framework

The NatWest Group framework for measuring culture:

100

NatWest Group plc – Board responsibilities in relation to culture

 – Leads the development of NatWest Group’s culture, values and standards
 – Assesses and monitors culture
 – Reviews and approves NatWest Group’s values

Board reporting on culture

Key areas of focus and outcomes

 – Provides insight into the bank’s culture, helping senior leaders and the Board assess 

NatWest Group’s progress in reshaping its culture and delivering on its purpose.
 – Brings together guidance and best practice from regulators, public bodies and 

thought leaders.

 – Uses internal and external sources – sentiment, KPIs, quantitative and qualitative insight 

from Risk, Audit, Conduct, People, Customer, suppliers, climate and external public scrutiny.

An assessment of over 100 quantitative and qualitative measures from across NatWest 
Group and external sources:

What did the 
Board receive?

Colleague 
Advisory 
Panel reports

Our View 
colleague 
survey results

Feedback on discussions from Colleague Advisory Panel (CAP) meetings 
held in May and November. Topics included executive remuneration and 
the wider workforce, environmental, social and governance topics, 
Consumer Duty and human rights.

Insights from the colleague opinion surveys conducted in April and 
September. Colleagues responded to questions across the whole colleague 
experience including wellbeing, building capability and leadership. The key 
areas identified for focus related to leadership and ensuring consistency 
across NatWest Group.

 – Public scrutiny measures.
 – Customer data.
 – Colleague listening.
 – Colleague engagement.
 – Risk culture.
 – Audit & Behavioural Risk.
 – Ethics, behaviour and Speak Up.
 – Supplier Charter and environmental footprint.

Culture 
measurement 
reports

Board culture measurement reports were considered in July and December. 
See opposite for further information on the framework, including the 
measures used and considered by the Board and how it monitored and 
assessed culture, including embedding, during 2023.

One Bank 
Culture updates

In October, SBC considered an update on progress of the One Bank 
Culture Plan, noting our One Bank Culture Journey to date and plans to 
grow leadership capability, scale and build confidence in experimentation and 
sharpen our focus through the transformation of performance management. 

Evaluating 
ethics in 
NatWest Group 

SBC considered how business ethics is monitored and reported through the 
NatWest Group Culture Measurement Framework.

Board business 
insights packs

Metrics to demonstrate how NatWest Group is delivering for colleagues 
(including building capability, diversity and inclusion, and learning).

Succession 
planning

During discussions of management’s succession planning and talent strategy, 
directors considered how colleagues’ development is supported and a culture 
of learning promoted across the organisation. Later in the year, the Board 
had an opportunity to discuss these development opportunities with potential 
executive successors who shared their thoughts on how the learnings gained 
were being embedded within their teams.

 – The Culture Measurement Framework helps the Board execute their duty as outlined 
in Principle B, Principle E and Provision 2 of the UK Corporate Governance Code: “The 
Board should assess and monitor culture. Where it is not satisfied that policy, practices 
or behaviour throughout the business are aligned with the company’s purpose, values 
and strategy, it should seek assurance that management has taken corrective action”.
 – Progress on NatWest Group’s culture journey is reported six-monthly to ExCo, SBC and 

the Board as well as separate reports for each legal entity (which are reviewed with each 
legal entity board).

Outcomes and insights from the assessment, monitoring and embedding of culture

In July:
 – Directors noted positive trends since 

January, with material improvements in 
the lead indicators of up to c.3% recorded.

In December:
 – Positive trends continued in the second 
half of the year, with resilient Our View 
scores in respect of culture.

 – Consideration was given to how the 
change in Group CEO would impact 
future results.

 – The impact of the events surrounding the 
change in Group CEO on colleague and 
customer sentiment were noted.

 – Improvements in diversity, equity and 

 – Progress was noted in respect of the 

inclusion metrics were welcomed, along 
with the improved NPS in Retail Banking. 

implementation of Consumer Duty, and 
the ongoing work to embed the principles 
across the bank.

Further information on the SBC’s focus on people, culture and learning during 2023 
can be found on page 124.

STRATEGIC REPORTFINANCIAL REVIEWGOVERNANCERISK AND CAPITAL MANAGEMENTFINANCIAL STATEMENTSADDITIONAL INFORMATIONNatWest Group 2023 Annual Report and AccountsCorporate governance continued

How the Board engaged with stakeholders

The Board reviews and confirms its key stakeholder groups for the purposes of section 172 annually.

In February 2023, the Board agreed its annual objectives and confirmed its key stakeholder 
groups would remain investors, customers, colleagues, regulators, communities and suppliers. 
The Board’s agenda and engagement plans were structured to enhance the Board’s 
understanding of stakeholders’ views and interests. This in turn has informed Board 
discussions and decision-making. The Chairman also provided regular updates to the 

Board on meetings with regulators, investors, financial institutions, advisers, and government 
representatives. Our section 172 statement on pages 24 to 25 describes how stakeholder 
interests were considered in Board discussions and decision-making, including principal 
decisions. In addition to those examples, the Board engaged with stakeholder views and 
interests in a variety of other ways, both directly and indirectly as described below.

101

Communities
As part of its annual training 
programme, the Board engaged 
World Wide Fund for Nature to 
provide a dedicated session on 
nature and biodiversity.

Consideration was given to 
the regulatory landscape and the 
financial risks associated with the 
loss of nature and biodiversity.

Directors also discussed 
the initiatives and frameworks 
which financial institutions use 
to incorporate nature and 
biodiversity, the use of 
science based targets and 
the competitive landscape.

Suppliers
As well as receiving regular 
updates from management 
on key supplier and partnership 
relationships, the Board also met 
with representatives of suppliers 
during the year.

During these discussions 
directors were able to build 
their knowledge of suppliers’ 
experiences with NatWest Group 
and how both sides could work 
together to support each other’s 
sustainability efforts.

Investors
There was a high level of 
engagement with institutional 
investors throughout the year. 
This included in relation to 
key decisions such as the 
appointment of Rick 
Haythornthwaite as our next 
Chair, and following the change 
in Group CEO. Directors had 
the opportunity to engage with 
private shareholders at two 
virtual shareholder events and 
the Annual General Meeting. 
Regular updates were provided 
to the Board on investor activity 
and share price performance.

The Chair of the Group 
Performance and Remuneration 
Committee and senior members 
of management met with 
institutional shareholders, UK 
Government Investments, proxy 
advisers and the UK regulators 
in late 2023 and early 2024 
to discuss our approach to 
remuneration for the year and 
updated the Board on those 
discussions. Further details of 
remuneration engagement 
can be found in the Directors’ 
remuneration report on page 127.

Customers
The Board received regular 
updates from the Group CEO 
and business CEOs on customer 
engagement activity and 
sentiment, including Competition 
and Markets Authority (CMA) 
survey results and Net Promoter 
Scores (NPS). There was a 
particular focus on the impacts of 
the cost of living challenges and 
how the bank could best support 
retail and commercial customers 
in this respect. The Board 
considered metrics and trend 
data on customer behaviour, 
particularly in relation to deposits, 
throughout the year via 
management reports.

In April 2023, Board members 
had the opportunity to meet with 
a selection of Scotland-based 
Commercial & Institutional 
customers. Discussions focused 
on how the bank can support 
customers in achieving their 
sustainability targets, the current 
macro-economic environment 
and the opportunities and 
challenges this was presenting.

Regulators
Representatives of both the 
FCA and PRA attended Board 
meetings to present their firm 
evaluation letter and outcome 
of the Periodic Summary 
Meeting respectively.

The Board reviewed and 
approved key regulatory 
submissions, such as the Internal 
Liquidity Assessment Process 
(ILAAP) and Internal Capital 
Adequacy Assessment 
Process (ICAAP).

Non-executive directors engaged 
regularly with regulators through 
continuous assessment and 
proactive engagement meetings. 
Regulatory interviews were 
attended by directors undertaking 
new Senior Management 
Functions, including Stuart Lewis 
and Rick Haythornthwaite.

There was also significant 
bilateral engagement with the 
PRA and FCA in relation to the 
change in Group CEO and new 
Chair appointment.

STRATEGIC REPORTFINANCIAL REVIEWGOVERNANCERISK AND CAPITAL MANAGEMENTFINANCIAL STATEMENTSADDITIONAL INFORMATIONNatWest Group 2023 Annual Report and AccountsCorporate governance continued

How the Board engaged with colleagues

The Board continued to engage with colleagues through our multi-channel colleague 
listening approach, as described below.

Our multi-channel colleague listening approach

A number of listening and reporting tools help in promoting the colleague voice in the boardroom. This multi-channel 
approach aims to provide representation from across the bank and guards against the risks of relying on a single 
source to gather views.

Colleague surveys  
and behavioural audits
The Board and Group 
Sustainable Banking 
Committee receive the results 
of the Our View colleague 
surveys which provide insight 
at all levels and aspects of 
colleague experience.

Another valuable Board-level 
source is Behavioural Audit 
reports from Internal Audit 
covering sub-culture findings. 

Colleague 
Advisory Panel
Provides a means by which 
the ‘colleague voice’ can be 
strengthened and promoted 
within the Boardroom.

Board members engage 
directly with colleagues on 
strategic topics. A key outputs 
report supports discussion 
at the next scheduled 
Board meeting.

Board & 
Colleague 
Engagement 
activities

Management reporting and activities
Board-level reporting from the Group CEO and the executive 
management team includes insights on colleague engagement, 
wellbeing and development.

Board talent sessions 
and other direct 
engagement
At Board talent sessions, 
directors meet with potential 
executive-level successors 
and explore strategic issues 
with them.

Other examples of direct 
engagement include Board 
committee visits to Risk and 
Audit teams and internal 
guest presenters at Board 
and committee meetings.

Board and committee 
paper templates
Colleagues is one of a number 
of stakeholder groups included 
within our governance 
paper templates.

Our reporting guidance 
encourages paper authors 
and sponsors to consider 
colleague views or impact 
when presenting reports to 
our Board and its committees.

102

Our Colleague Advisory Panel 
With regards to Provision 5 of the Code, we have adopted 
a formal workforce advisory panel as our chosen method 
of engagement with the workforce.

NatWest Group’s Colleague Advisory Panel (CAP) was 
set up in 2018 to help promote the colleague voice in 
the boardroom.

Through the CAP, colleagues can engage directly with 
the Board on topics which are important to them, thereby 
strengthening the voice of colleagues in the Boardroom. 
In the context of the CAP, ‘colleagues’ means all permanent 
employees and members of the wider workforce e.g. 
temporary employees and agency workers. The CAP is 
made up of 28 colleagues who are self-nominated and are 
representative of the bank’s population e.g., business area, 
level, location, working pattern and employee-led networks.

In April 2023 Roisin Donnelly succeeded Mike Rogers as 
CAP Chair when Mike Rogers stepped down as a director.

The CAP met with representatives from the Board twice in 
2023, in May and November. Panel members and directors 
shared views on executive remuneration and the wider 
workforce, environmental, social and governance topics, 
Consumer Duty and human rights. The CAP Chair reported 
to the Board on those discussions in June and December 
and followed up with Panel members post-Board, ensuring 
a continuous feedback loop.

The CAP continues to be highly regarded by those who 
attend and has proven to be an effective way of establishing 
two-way dialogue between colleagues and Board members.

The effectiveness of Board stakeholder engagement 
mechanisms is considered periodically as part of the Board 
evaluation process.

Further information on NatWest Group’s approach to investing 
in and rewarding its workforce can be found on pages 36 to 37 
of the Strategic report.

Further information on how CAP members and directors 
engaged on remuneration matters can be found in the 
Directors’ remuneration report on page 127.

STRATEGIC REPORTFINANCIAL REVIEWGOVERNANCERISK AND CAPITAL MANAGEMENTFINANCIAL STATEMENTSADDITIONAL INFORMATIONNatWest Group 2023 Annual Report and Accounts103

Corporate governance continued

External appointments and 
time commitment

Non-executive directors are expected to allocate sufficient time to the company to 
discharge their responsibilities effectively, and will devote such time as is necessary to 
fulfil their role.

The Code emphasises the importance of ensuring directors have sufficient time to meet 
their board responsibilities.

Prior to appointment, significant commitments require to be disclosed with an 
indication of the time involved. After appointment, external appointments require 
prior Board approval, with the reasons for permitting significant appointments 
explained in the Annual Report and Accounts. Board papers relating to proposed 
additional external appointments of directors include details of the individual’s full 
portfolio for review and consideration. They also include a reminder of applicable 
Code and Capital Requirements Directive provisions, and relevant proxy adviser 
and investor guidance.

During 2023 the Board approved the appointment of Alison Rose as Co-Chair of the 
UK Government’s Energy Efficiency Taskforce (February), as a director of Sustainable 
Markets Limited (March) and as a member of the Prime Minister’s Business Council 
for 2023 (July). Ms Rose stepped down from all external appointments linked to her 
NatWest role after she stepped down as Group CEO.

There were no other approvals regarding external appointments for existing directors 
during 2023.

Rick Haythornthwaite’s external roles and overall time commitment were carefully 
considered by the Board before his appointment was approved. Further information 
on the Chair search process can be found on page 108. 

STRATEGIC REPORTFINANCIAL REVIEWGOVERNANCERISK AND CAPITAL MANAGEMENTFINANCIAL STATEMENTSADDITIONAL INFORMATIONNatWest Group 2023 Annual Report and Accounts104

Corporate governance continued

Composition, succession and evaluation

Composition

The Board is structured to ensure that the directors provide 
NatWest Group plc with the appropriate combination of skills, 
experience, knowledge and diversity, as well as independence.

In December 2023 the Group Nominations and Governance 
Committee (N&G) reviewed, and the Board approved, an 
updated version of our Board skills matrix, a summary 
view of which is set out on page 90. The Board skills 
matrix reflects directors’ self-assessment of the skills 
and experience they bring to Board discussions, in line 
with pre-determined criteria aligned to current and future 
strategic priorities. The Board skills matrix is used to support 
Board succession planning, as described in more detail in 
the N&G report on page 105.

Board committees also comprise directors with a variety 
of skills and experience so that no undue reliance is placed 
on any one individual and several changes were made 
to Board Committee composition in 2023. Full details of 
changes effected during 2023 and scheduled for 2024 
are set out on page 89.

The Board operates a Boardroom inclusion policy which 
reflects NatWest Group’s values, its inclusion guidelines 
and relevant legal or voluntary code requirements. Our 
Boardroom inclusion policy aims to promote diversity 
and inclusion in the composition of the Boards and Board 
committees of NatWest Group plc, NWH Ltd, NWB Plc and 
RBS plc and in the nominations and appointments process. 
A copy of the policy is available at natwestgroup.com and 
details of our progress against its objectives are set out in 
our UK Listing Rules disclosures on page 107 and in more 
detail in the N&G report on page 105.

Succession

As set out in its terms of reference the Board is responsible 
for ensuring adequate succession planning for the Board 
and senior management, so as to maintain an appropriate 
balance of skills and experience within NatWest Group 
and on the Board.

Board succession planning
Board succession planning has been an important area of 
focus in 2023. N&G supports the Board on Board succession 
planning, including making recommendations to the Board 
on Board appointments and Board committee membership.

Further information on the search process leading to the 
appointment of Geeta Gopalan as a non-executive director and 
Mark Rennison as a NWH Ltd director and DINED can be found 
on page 105. 

Further information on the appointment of Rick 
Haythornthwaite as Chair of NatWest Group plc is set out on 
page 108. 

In March 2023 (following review and recommendation by 
N&G), the Board approved succession plans for the roles of 
Senior Independent Director and Board committee Chairs, 
covering orderly transition plans for the short and medium 
term, and contingency arrangements which could be 
implemented in case of an emergency. These succession 
plans are reviewed by N&G and approved by the Board 
at least once a year.

Further information on the role of N&G and its activities during 
2023 in relation to succession planning can be found in the N&G 
report on page 105. 

Executive succession planning
In February 2023 the Board, supported by N&G, had 
conducted a scheduled review of contingency CEO 
succession arrangements. These were subsequently 
invoked in July 2023 following the departure of Alison Rose.

In June 2023 the Board received an update on executive 
talent and succession planning which enabled directors to 
monitor the internal talent pipeline and provide feedback. 
This update included analysis of the diversity of the talent 
pool, with a view towards continuing to improve diversity 
over the longer term. Directors noted the focus on building 
bench strength and succession planning in the top levels 
of management, and that good progress had been achieved 
in building specialist skills within the CEO-1 and CEO-2 
population via external hires and developing internal talent.

In September 2023 the Board held a talent engagement 
session with potential ExCo successors. This session helped 
our non-executive directors gain insights into the breadth 
of the talent pool, getting to know the individuals through 
a focused discussion of key strategic topics.

Election and re-election of directors
In accordance with the provisions of the Code, all directors 
will stand for election or re-election by shareholders at the 
company’s AGM, with the exception of Howard Davies who 
will step down on 15 April 2024. In accordance with the UK 
Listing Rules, the election or re-election of independent 
directors also requires approval by a majority of 
independent shareholders.

Evaluation

In accordance with the Code, an evaluation of the 
performance of the Board, its committees, the Chairman 
and individual directors usually takes place annually. 
The evaluation is externally facilitated every three 
years, with internal evaluations in the intervening years.

2022 evaluation update
An internal evaluation was conducted in 2022 by the Chief 
Governance Officer and Company Secretary, following the 
externally facilitated evaluation led by Independent Board 
Evaluation in 2021.

In December 2023 the Board reviewed the progress 
achieved against the actions agreed following the 2022 
evaluation of the effectiveness of the Board and its 
committees. It was agreed that all actions had been 
successfully completed, with improvements including 
a refreshed format for the strategy session, enhanced 
focus of Board meetings and increased opportunities 
for engagement with the executive talent pipeline.

Deferral of 2023 evaluation
In September 2023, N&G agreed that it would be 
appropriate to defer the internal evaluation of Board 
and committee effectiveness due in Q4 2023 until 2024, 
given the July 2023 change in Group CEO and upcoming 
Chair succession. The Board confirmed its support for this 
approach. The next Board and committee evaluation will be 
conducted in 2024 by an external facilitator, in accordance 
with the Code requirement for an externally facilitated 
process every three years. 

Year-end reviews of the Chairman and non-executive 
directors’ performance were undertaken in Q4 2023,  
in line with our normal evaluation timetable.

STRATEGIC REPORTFINANCIAL REVIEWGOVERNANCERISK AND CAPITAL MANAGEMENTFINANCIAL STATEMENTSADDITIONAL INFORMATIONNatWest Group 2023 Annual Report and AccountsCorporate governance continued

Report of the Group 
Nominations and 
Governance Committee

Letter from Howard Davies,

Chairman of the Group Nominations and 
Governance Committee

Governance 
framework

Review of 
Board & 
committee 
compositions

Principal 
areas of 
focus

Recruitment  
of Chair &  
NEDs

Subsidiary 
governance

Succession 
planning

Diversity & 
inclusion

105

Dear Shareholder,

As Chairman of the Board and Chairman of the Group 
Nominations and Governance Committee, I am pleased to 
present the report on the committee’s activity during 2023.

Roles and responsibilities
The committee is responsible for reviewing the structure, 
size and composition of the Board, and membership and 
chairmanship of Board committees and recommends 
appointments to the Board. In addition, the committee 
monitors NatWest Group’s governance arrangements to 
ensure that best corporate governance standards and 
practices are upheld and considers developments relating 
to banking reform and analogous issues affecting NatWest 
Group. The committee makes recommendations to the 
Board in respect of any consequential amendments to 
NatWest Group’s operating model.

More detail on the remit of the committee can be found 
in its terms of reference which are reviewed annually 
and approved by the Board and are available at 
natwestgroup.com.

Membership and meetings
 – Throughout the majority of 2023, the 

committee comprised the Chairman of the 
Board and four independent non-executive 
directors. Members’ details and their skills 
and experience are set out on pages 84 to 87.
 – Stuart Lewis joined the committee on 1 August 
2023 after Morten Friis stood down from the 
Board on 31 July 2023.

 – Graham Beale observed meetings of the 

committee in his capacity as Senior Independent 
Director of NWH Ltd and member of the NWH 
Ltd Nominations Committee until he stood 
down from the board of NWH Ltd on 
31 August 2023. Ian Cormack has observed 
meetings as Senior Independent Director of 
NWH Ltd since then.

 – The committee holds a minimum of four 

meetings per year and meets on an ad hoc 
basis as required. In 2023, there were four 
scheduled meetings and seven ad hoc meetings. 
Individual attendance by directors at these 
meetings is shown in the table on page 97.

Composition
The committee supports the Chairman in keeping the 
composition of the Board and its committees under regular 
review. The committee reviews and recommends to the 
Board a skills matrix which is used to map the skills and 
experience of individual directors and ensure that the 
Board’s collective skill-set remains appropriately balanced 
and aligned to current and future strategic priorities. 
The matrix is also used to identify any gaps and 
opportunities to enhance the collective balance of 
skills through additional recruitment to the Board.

Recruitment
The committee was responsible for overseeing a 
significant amount of board recruitment activity 
throughout 2023 including a Chair succession 
process, full details of which are set out on page 
108. In accordance with Code Provision 17, the 
Chairman recused himself from this process 
and the Senior Independent Director chaired 
meetings of the committee dealing with 
this appointment.

Throughout 2023 and into 2024 the committee 
also led a CEO search process on behalf of the 
Board, full details of which are set out on page 
109. From 8 January 2024, the Chair Designate 
chaired meetings of the committee dealing with 
this appointment.

Following the committee’s review of the skills 
matrix and noting the tenure of a number 
of non-executive directors, the committee 
supported implementation of the Board’s 
succession plans by overseeing the search for 
a new independent non-executive director to the 
Board and a new DINED to the board of NWH 
Ltd during 2023, as further described below.

Non-executive director search processes
A subset of the committee’s membership selected Korn 
Ferry to support comprehensive searches with diversity 
and inclusion considerations at the forefront of the search 
criteria. The committee held several discussions on potential 

STRATEGIC REPORTFINANCIAL REVIEWGOVERNANCERISK AND CAPITAL MANAGEMENTFINANCIAL STATEMENTSADDITIONAL INFORMATIONNatWest Group 2023 Annual Report and AccountsCorporate governance continued

candidates, assessing the credentials of each candidate 
against the qualities and capabilities set out in the role 
specifications agreed by the committee. Following a rigorous 
process, the committee recommended Geeta Gopalan to 
the Board for appointment as a non-executive director and 
Mark Rennison to the board of NWH Ltd for appointment 
as a DINED.

Succession planning
At the start of 2023, the committee led a routine review 
of contingency as well as longer term succession plans for 
board positions including SID, CEO & committee chairs and 
updated succession plans were approved by the committee 
in February 2023.

The committee also conducted a number of term reviews 
in 2023. In accordance with the board appointment policy, 
non-executive directors are appointed for an initial three-
year term, subject to annual re-election at the AGM. 
Following assessment by the committee, they may then 
be appointed for a further three-year term. Non-executive 
directors may continue to serve beyond six years, subject 
to a maximum tenure of nine years. The tenures of current 
Board directors is set out on page 90. The committee 
reviewed the contribution of three serving Board members 
under the board appointment policy during 2023 and 
approved their continued tenure, subject to annual 
re-election at the AGM.

Subsidiary governance
The committee has also continued to oversee work 
aimed at further enhancing NatWest Group’s subsidiary 
governance framework. A number of NatWest Group’s 
material regulated subsidiaries made appointments to their 
boards during 2023, which the committee has approved in 
accordance with its Terms of Reference. Korn Ferry, MWM 
Consulting and Green Park have all been engaged during 
the year to support NatWest Group’s subsidiary board 
search activity. The firms are members of the retained 
executive search panel of suppliers (managed by NatWest 
Executive Search). Korn Ferry also provides leadership 
advisory and senior executive search and assessment 
services to the People & Transformation function within 
NatWest Group.

In June 2023, the committee approved the appointment 
of Grant Thornton UK LLP to undertake an independent 
review of the effectiveness of the boards of NWM, RBSI 
and Coutts & Co with a view to deepening insights into 
the operation of the legal entity boards and to identify 
any actions which could be taken to strengthen subsidiary 

106

governance and the legal entity framework. The committee 
has considered the key themes and findings in the report 
prepared by Grant Thornton UK LLP and during 2024 
will track actions arising from the independent reviews.

Governance Framework
The committee also continued to monitor NatWest Group’s 
governance arrangements with reference to best practices 
in corporate governance (having regard to relevant legislation, 
guidelines, industry practice and developments affecting 
NatWest Group in the markets where it operates).

During 2023 the committee considered a number of external 
policy developments and the impacts on NatWest Group’s 
corporate governance framework, including Consumer Duty 
and the appointment of a Consumer Duty champion from 
the Board and the new Listing Rules disclosure requirements 
on Board and executive management diversity.

Boardroom inclusion policy
As noted on page 104, the Board operates a Boardroom 
inclusion policy which reflects NatWest Group’s values, its 
inclusion principles and relevant legal or voluntary code 
requirements. The policy currently applies to the most 
senior NatWest Group Boards: NatWest Group plc, NWH 
Ltd, NWB Plc and RBS plc. A copy of the Boardroom 
inclusion policy is available at natwestgroup.com.

Objectives and targets
The Boardroom inclusion policy’s objectives ensure that the 
Board, and any committee to which it delegates nomination 
responsibilities, follows an inclusive process when making 
nomination decisions. That includes ensuring that the 
nomination process is based on the principles of fairness, 
respect and inclusion, that all nominations and appointments 
are made on the basis of individual competence, skills and 
expertise measured against identified objective criteria and 
that searches for Board candidates are conducted with due 
regard to the benefits of diversity and inclusion.

The policy reflects NatWest Group’s aspiration to meet the 
targets set out in the UK Listing Rules along with the 
recommendations of the FTSE Women Leaders Review and 
the Parker Review.

Further information on our ethnicity targets is available on 
page 39.

Compliance and reporting
As at 31 December 2023, NatWest Group’s chosen 
reference date, the targets set out in UK Listing Rule 
9.8.6(9)(a) (Board and executive management diversity) 
were met. Disclosures under UK Listing Rule 9.8.6(9) and 
(10) can be found on page 107.

The policy also acknowledges NatWest Group’s ambition to 
have gender balance in its global top three levels (CEO-3 
and above) by 2030, and progress against this ambition is 
set out on pages 38 to 39 of the Strategic report (Diversity, 
Equity and Inclusion).

Page 162 confirms NatWest Group’s approach to Provision 
17 of the Code which sees oversight of succession plans 
for senior management positions and the development of 
a diverse pipeline for succession reserved as a matter for 
the full Board.

Pages 38 to 39 contain more information on how NatWest 
Group is creating a diverse, equitable and inclusive workplace, 
including (in relation to Provision 23 of the Code) the gender 
balance of senior management and their direct reports.

As at 31 December 2023, the company met the FTSE 
Women Leaders Review voluntary target of 40% women’s 
representation on boards by the end of 2025, with 40% of 
the Board being women.

With a woman as CFO, the company met the FTSE 
Women Leaders Review recommendation that companies 
should have at least one woman in the Chair or Senior 
Independent Director roles on the board and/or one woman 
in the Chief Executive Officer or Finance Director role by 
the end of 2025.

The company met the recommendation of the Parker 
Review with at least one member of the Board being from 
an ethnic minority background and it intends to continue to 
meet that recommendation.

I would like to thank the committee members for their 
continued commitment during 2023.

Howard Davies
Chairman of the Group Nominations and 
Governance Committee

15 February 2024

STRATEGIC REPORTFINANCIAL REVIEWGOVERNANCERISK AND CAPITAL MANAGEMENTFINANCIAL STATEMENTSADDITIONAL INFORMATIONNatWest Group 2023 Annual Report and AccountsCorporate governance continued

Board and executive management diversity disclosures 

107

Numeric data – UK Listing Rule 9.8.6(10)

Sex

Men
Women
Other categories
Not specified/prefer not to say

Ethnicity

White British or other White  
(including minority-white groups)
Mixed/Multiple ethnic groups
Asian/Asian British
Black/African/Caribbean/Black British
Other ethnic group including Arab
Not specified/prefer not to say

Number of Board 
directors

Percentage of the 
Board

Number of senior 
positions on the 
Board (CEO, CFO, 
SID and Chair)

Number in 
executive 
management

Percentage of 
executive 
management

6
4
0
0

60
40
0
0

3
1
0
0

11
4
0
0

73
27
0
0

Number of Board 
directors

Percentage of the 
Board

Number of senior 
positions on the 
Board (CEO, CFO, 
SID and Chair)

Number in 
executive 
management

Percentage of 
executive 
management

9
0
1
0
0
0

90
0
10
0
0
0

4
0
0
0
0
0

9
0
1
0
0
5

60
0
7
0
0
33

(1)  All data as at 31 December 2023 (the reference date).
(2)  Data was collected via self-reporting methods. For Board directors this was via an email data collection exercise (with options aligned to the categories specified in the Listing 
Rules) and for members of the executive management team it was collected via the HR system WorkDay, which colleagues can choose to update at any point with details 
such as their sex and ethnicity.

(3)  The Group CEO and Group CFO are members of both the Board and executive management and so are counted in both groups in the above table.
(4)  Changes since the reference date: Rick Haythornthwaite joined the Board as an independent non-executive director on 8 January 2024. This appointment means women’s 

representation on the Board became 36% and representation of ethnic minorities became 9%. On 15 April 2024, when Howard Davies will step down as a director and will be 
succeeded as Chair by Rick Haythornthwaite, women’s representation will be 40% and representation of ethnic minorities will be 10%.

Compliance – UK Listing Rule 9.8.6(9)

Listing Rules 
requirement

At least 40% of Board 
directors are women

At least one senior 
Board position held by 
a woman(1)

At least one Board 
director from a minority 
ethnic background

Outcome NatWest Group plc 

position as at 
31 December 2023

Target met 40% of Board 

directors are women 

Target met The position of CFO 

is held by a woman

Target met One Board director 

is from a minority 
ethnic background

(1)  Senior Board position is CEO, CFO, Chairman or Senior Independent Director.

STRATEGIC REPORTFINANCIAL REVIEWGOVERNANCERISK AND CAPITAL MANAGEMENTFINANCIAL STATEMENTSADDITIONAL INFORMATIONNatWest Group 2023 Annual Report and AccountsCorporate governance continued

Appointing a new Chair of NatWest Group

A rigorous search process led to the appointment of Rick Haythornthwaite as Chair Designate to succeed Howard Davies  
on 15 April 2024. Rick joined the Board as an independent non-executive director on 8 January 2024. 

108

April 2023

July 2023

 – At the 25 April AGM, it was 
announced a search would 
commence for the successor to 
Howard Davies as Chair.
 – A draft role specification was 
agreed by the committee and 
shared during the search firm 
tender process.

May 2023

 – Following a competitive 

tender process, 
Spencer Stuart(1) were 
appointed to support 
the search process, 
which was led by the 
NWG and NWH Ltd 
Senior Independent 
Directors (the SIDs). 

 – The committee considered a 

diverse initial longlist of 
candidates and, after detailed 
discussion, agreed a longlist of 
prioritised candidates.

 – This was refined to a shortlist 
agreed by the committee 
following initial contact with 
the prioritised candidates to 
assess interest in the role. 

June 2023

 – The committee agreed a 
final role specification to 
support NatWest Group’s 
strategic priorities, 
incorporating feedback from 
the Board, which set out the 
skills, experience and 
personal qualities sought by 
the Board. 

Rick is a strong match to the role specification:
 – He is an experienced Chair with a long track record  

of leading boards, developing strategy and forging good  
relationships with CEOs.

 – He demonstrates high levels of experience in governance  

and running boards as well as building businesses.

 – He is well-known in the market and is well-equipped to  

handle the political environment with experience of dealing  
with government stakeholders.

 – He has strong financial services experience, and relevant 
background in key areas including payments, technology  
and innovation.

Ensuring a rigorous 
process
 – Between formal meetings, the SIDs 
kept directors informed of progress 
with regular updates and 
discussion at each stage of the 
search process.

 – The NWG SID engaged with 

regulators and key investors during 
the latter stages of the process, 
offering an opportunity to discuss 
any questions they had.

 – Rick’s other external roles and 
overall time commitment were 
carefully considered by the Board 
before his appointment was 
approved. In December the Board 
reaffirmed its assessment that Rick 
be considered independent on 
appointment as a non-executive 
director.

 – Rick has confirmed he will have 
sufficient time to devote to the 
NatWest Group Chair role, 
ensuring applicable limits on the 
number of directorships held are 
observed. 

 – Read about Rick’s induction 
programme on page 97.

August 2023

 – The role was advertised 
externally in accordance 
with PRA ring-fencing rules.

 – Candidates were 

interviewed by a subset of 
the Board alongside the 
NWH Ltd Senior 
Independent Director.

 – Candidates were measured 
on alignment with the role 
specification.

 – After reviewing feedback, 

the committee 
recommended to the Board 
that Rick be progressed as 
the preferred candidate.
 – All Board directors met with 
Rick before the full Board 
considered his appointment, 
with universally positive 
feedback provided.

September 2023

 – Following Board approval, 

it was announced on 
6 September 2023 that 
Rick had been selected as 
successor to Howard 
Davies as Chair of NatWest 
Group plc, subject to 
regulatory approval 
(received in December 
2023).

(1)  Spencer Stuart also provide leadership advisory and senior executive search and assessment services to the People & Transformation function within NatWest Group.

STRATEGIC REPORTFINANCIAL REVIEWGOVERNANCERISK AND CAPITAL MANAGEMENTFINANCIAL STATEMENTSADDITIONAL INFORMATIONNatWest Group 2023 Annual Report and AccountsCorporate governance continued

Appointing a new Chief Executive Officer of NatWest Group

A rigorous search process led to the appointment of Paul Thwaite as permanent CEO with effect from 16 February 2024. Paul was identified 
as the outstanding candidate who possessed a compelling balance of experience, leadership and vision to take NatWest Group forward. 

109

February 2023

 – Following a routine review of 
succession plans, the Board 
approved the committee’s 
recommendation for Paul 
Thwaite to be contingency 
CEO successor in the event of 
the absence of the then CEO.

25 July 2023

 – Paul Thwaite was 

appointed CEO of NatWest 
Group for an initial period 
of 12 months.

September 2023

 – The committee 

discussed the timing 
and process of the 
CEO search.

 – Discussions with the 

Chair Designate were 
held ahead of his 
appointment to the 
Board.

 – The process for 
selection and 
appointment of an 
external executive 
search firm was 
considered.

Paul’s skills and experience represent an outstanding 
match to the agreed CEO success profile
 – He has an unrivalled understanding of the business, its customers, and 

the opportunities for growth. This knowledge is combined with a genuine 
ambition for the future and the skills to navigate the changing landscape 
of the banking industry.

 – The Board has had the opportunity to work closely with Paul over the last 

seven months during which time he has demonstrated impressive 
leadership and a strong commitment to operational excellence.
 – Paul’s strong customer focus and ability to drive performance and 

transformation made him the outstanding candidate and the right person 
to lead NatWest.

(1)  Heidrick & Struggles did not provide any other services to the NatWest Group during 2023.

December 2023

 – A detailed CEO role 
specification was 
prepared.

 – The Committee 
agreed on four 
executive search firms 
who were then invited 
to tender.

January 2024

 – Following a competitive tender process, Heidrick & 
Struggles(1) was selected to support the search. 
 – A detailed CEO success profile and competency 

framework was agreed by the committee and used by 
Heidrick & Struggles to complete extensive mapping of 
potential external candidates.

 – The committee reviewed a longlist of candidates and 
identified a number of external candidates who would 
be approached.

 – Internal and external candidates were then rigorously 
assessed by Heidrick & Struggles to analyse suitability 
and alignment to the agreed success profile. 

February 2024

 – CEO development 

plans were produced 
for prioritised internal 
and external 
candidates to support 
the committee and 
Board’s decision-
making.

 – The committee and the 
Board reviewed and 
discussed the 
candidate assessment 
and benchmarking 
data produced by 
Heidrick & Struggles.

 – After careful 

consideration of the 
data and measurement 
against the agreed 
success criteria, the 
committee 
recommended that 
Paul be appointed as 
permanent NatWest 
Group CEO.

Ensuring a rigorous 
process
 – Since the announcement of his 

appointment in September 2023, 
the Chair Designate spent 
considerable time getting to know 
Board, ExCo and the wider 
business as well as meeting with 
key shareholders.  These 
interactions helped the Chair 
Designate form a view as to the 
key priority areas for a successful 
CEO candidate.

 – The committee’s subsequent  

discussion and agreement on a 
CEO success profile ensured a 
stretching set of success factors 
against which internal and 
external candidates’ credentials 
could be assessed.

 – As part of the search process the 
committee considered over 40 
external candidate profiles with 
the search narrowing to a diverse 
shortlist of 10 candidates who 
represented a credible match to 
the success profile.

 – Heidrick & Struggles used a 

comprehensive methodology in 
their assessment of the prioritised 
candidates which included an 
in-depth leadership capability 
interview alongside a series of 
psychometric assessments. This 
approach ensured a deep and 
consistent data set to support the 
committee and Board’s decision-
making.

 – Between formal meetings, the 

Chair Designate kept committee 
members and other Board 
directors informed on the search 
progress through regular updates.

STRATEGIC REPORTFINANCIAL REVIEWGOVERNANCERISK AND CAPITAL MANAGEMENTFINANCIAL STATEMENTSADDITIONAL INFORMATIONNatWest Group 2023 Annual Report and AccountsCorporate governance continued

Report of the Group  
Audit Committee

Letter from Patrick Flynn,

Chair of the Group Audit Committee

External 
audit

Internal  
audit

Principal 
areas of 
focus

Systems of 
internal 
control

Financial and 
non-financial 
reporting

Accounting 
judgements and 
estimates

Further information on each key area of focus can be 
found on pages 111 to 114.

110

Dear Shareholder,

I am pleased to share with you details of how the Group 
Audit Committee (the committee or GAC) discharged 
its responsibilities and its key areas of activity in 2023.

I would like to thank my fellow committee members for 
their contributions, in particular Morten Friis, who stood 
down from the committee following the July 2023 meeting. 
The committee also appreciated the views of Graham Beale 
(until July 2023), Ian Cormack and Mark Rennison, who 
are non-executive directors, members of NatWest Holdings 
(NWH) Audit Committee, and attend GAC meetings in an 
observational capacity.

The committee’s primary purpose is to oversee and 
challenge management’s approach to the preparation of 
financial results and relevant financial and non-financial 
disclosures. This includes considering existing and new 
accounting policies, scrutinising standards of internal 
control and their efficacy and reviewing the disclosures 
each quarter prior to release.

More detail of the remit of the committee can be found in 
its terms of reference which are reviewed annually and are 
available at natwestgroup.com.

Meeting and visits
Five scheduled meetings of the committee were held in 
2023, four of which took place immediately prior to the 
release of the financial results each quarter. During the 
year, all members attended the meetings, the majority of 
which were held in person. The committee reported to the 
Board after each scheduled meeting, escalating matters for 
the Board’s attention as required.

In conjunction with the Group and NWH Board Risk 
Committee (BRC) and the NWH Audit Committee, the 
GAC undertook its annual programme of visits to control 
functions. Constructive and insightful discussions were held 
with members of management from the Risk, Internal Audit 
and Finance teams.

Whistleblowing
In my role as whistleblowers’ champion for NatWest Group, 
I receive regular updates on the efficacy of the whistleblowing 
framework, themes in reports made by colleagues via the 
systems, and monitoring the outcomes of the most pertinent 
cases. The committee is responsible for oversight of the 
independence, autonomy and effectiveness of NatWest 
Group’s whistleblowing policies and procedures as detailed 
in the tables which follow. The operation of the framework 
was assessed as strong by the Protect charity.

Membership
 – GAC comprises three independent non-

executive directors. Members’ details and their 
skills and experience are set out on pages 84 
to 87.

 – Members are selected with a view to the 

expertise and experience of the committee as 
a whole and with regard to the key issues and 
challenges facing NatWest Group.

 – The Board is satisfied that all GAC members 
have recent and relevant financial experience 
and are independent as defined in the SEC 
rules under the US Securities Exchange Act of 
1934 (the ‘Exchange Act’) and related 
guidance.

 – The Board has further determined that Patrick 

Flynn and Mark Seligman are ‘financial 
experts’ for the purposes of compliance with 
the Exchange Act Rules and the requirements 
of the New York Stock Exchange, and that 
they have competence in accounting and/or 
auditing as required under the Disclosure 
Guidance and Transparency Rules.

 – Stuart Lewis is chair of the Group Board Risk 
Committee of which I am also a member.
 – This common membership helps to ensure 

effective governance across the committees.

Internal and external audit oversight
The committee continued to monitor the performance 
of the external auditor and the Internal Audit function in 
2023. Formal assessments were undertaken at the end 
of the year via an internal process and the committee 
reviewed summaries of the feedback provided by relevant 
stakeholders. An External Quality Assurance review of the 
Internal Audit function was also completed in early 2023. 
Further information can be found in the Internal Audit table 
on page 113.

Patrick Flynn
Chair of the Group Audit Committee

15 February 2024.

STRATEGIC REPORTFINANCIAL REVIEWGOVERNANCERISK AND CAPITAL MANAGEMENTFINANCIAL STATEMENTSADDITIONAL INFORMATIONNatWest Group 2023 Annual Report and AccountsCorporate governance continued

111

Principal areas of Group Audit Committee focus in 2023
Systems of internal control
Systems of internal control relating to financial management, reporting and accounting issues are a key area of focus for the committee. In 2023 it received reports throughout the year on the 
topic and evaluated the effectiveness of NatWest Group’s internal control systems, including any significant failings or weaknesses.

Theme

Principal areas of focus

Outcomes

Sarbanes-Oxley 
Act of 2002

To consider NatWest Group’s compliance with the 
requirements of section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley 
Act of 2002.

The committee received interim updates on the status of the bank’s internal controls over financial reporting throughout 
2023 enabling it to monitor progress and support management’s conclusion at the year end. The committee continued to 
receive updates from management on control deficiencies that arose during the year, including those around IT General 
Control and IFRS 9 that remain open at the year end. The committee continued to monitor the plans and transition to more 
automated preventative key controls. The committee additionally received regular updates from EY on their assessment of 
SOX compliance, and the status and rating of control matters. The committee also reviewed the process undertaken to 
support the Group CEO and Group CFO in providing the certifications required under sections 302, 404 and 906 of the 
Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.

Regulatory and 
financial returns

To review the controls and procedures established 
by management of NatWest Group for compliance 
with regulatory and financial reporting requirements.

As part of management’s ongoing work to strengthen the financial reporting control environment in 2023, the committee 
received updates on the progress achieved to implement the findings of the industry-wide skilled person’s review of 
regulatory returns. This work completed during 2023.

Control 
Environment 
Certification

Early event 
escalation

Whistleblowing

To consider the control environment ratings of the 
businesses, functions and material subsidiaries and 
management’s actions to ensure that the control 
environment is maintained or strengthened.

The committee received bi-annual reports on the Control Environment Certification, which were supplemented by the 
views of the second and third lines of defence. The committee was pleased to note that the overall Control Environment 
strengthened during 2023 with agreement across all lines of defence that NatWest Group had achieved an improved rating 
by the end of 2023. The committee emphasised the importance of timely issue remediation and monitored this during 2023.

To monitor control incidents captured by the internal 
event escalation process.

The committee received bi-annual updates on the volumes and nature of the most significant control incidents escalated via 
the internal early event escalation process and any common themes. All Board directors were alerted to the most significant 
events throughout the year. A reduced volume of Major events was noted in 2023.

To monitor the effectiveness of the bank’s 
whistleblowing policies and procedures. The 
committee Chair is also the whistleblowers’ 
champion for NatWest Group.

The GAC monitored the effectiveness of the bank’s whistleblowing process and received updates on the volume of 
whistleblowing reports and any common themes. The GAC Chair acts as NatWest Group’s whistleblowers’ champion, in line 
with PRA and FCA regulations, and meets regularly with the whistleblowing team. There is appropriate escalation of matters 
to the Board and dissemination of information to the principal subsidiaries to ensure a coordinated approach across the 
NatWest Group.

Legal and 
regulatory reports

To note material legal investigations (current and 
emerging) and any impacts on financial reporting; 
and to monitor the bank’s relationship with relevant 
regulatory bodies including the FCA and PRA.

The committee received quarterly reports detailing new and existing major investigations and litigation cases. The committee 
considered the adequacy of provision levels and of the disclosures on potential legal issues. It satisfied in both respects. The 
committee also received updates on ongoing regulatory investigations, current and future areas of regulatory focus and the 
nature of the relationships with the primary regulators.

Other standards 
of control

In addition, the committee receives regular 
updates on matters pertinent to NatWest 
Group’s standards of internal control.

The committee received an update on the bank’s tax position and discussed matters including tax provisioning levels, 
significant provided and unprovided tax risks and deferred tax assets. For deferred tax, this considered sustainable 
profitability, the period of assessment, and changes against previous estimates.

The GAC reviewed the disclosure on internal control matters in conjunction with the related guidance from the 
Financial Reporting Council.

The committee received updates in respect of key changes proposed, but subsequently largely withdrawn, as part of 
proposed amendments to the UK Corporate Governance Code. During 2024 the GAC will continue to oversee and 
challenge management on plans to implement changes announced by the Financial Reporting Council which will 
impact future disclosures on internal controls from 2026.

STRATEGIC REPORTFINANCIAL REVIEWGOVERNANCERISK AND CAPITAL MANAGEMENTFINANCIAL STATEMENTSADDITIONAL INFORMATIONNatWest Group 2023 Annual Report and Accounts112

Corporate governance continued

Financial and non-financial reporting
The GAC considered a number of accounting judgements and reporting issues in the preparation of NatWest Group’s financial results throughout 2023. The committee reviewed the quarterly, 
interim and full year results announcements, the annual reporting suite of documents and other principal financial and non-financial releases for recommendation to the Board for approval. 
This included the Climate-related Disclosures Report and the ESG Disclosures Report.

Theme

Principal areas of focus

Outcomes

Expected credit 
losses

To review and challenge management’s judgements 
in relation to credit impairments and the underlying 
assumptions, methodologies and models applied, 
and any post-model adjustments (PMAs) required. 
To also consider the impact of macro-economic 
risks on the credit environment.

The GAC focused on the key assumptions, methodologies and post-model adjustments applied to provisions under IFRS 9. 
Economic uncertainty persisted in 2023 as a result of high inflation and cost of living, and the impact of higher interest rates. 
In the absence of a significant increase in the level of defaults, the committee discussed role of models and PMAs in the 
determination of quantum of loan loss provisions. Inclusion of adjustments to reflect economic uncertainty, including 
elevated interest rates and inflation levels, were discussed with management.
Industry benchmarking data remained helpful to the committee and informed its considerations. The committee challenged 
whether it would be possible to include the impairment impact of inflation as part of the IFRS 9 models. The committee noted 
that further data and a causal link were required and that post model adjustments would be retained. The committee will 
continue to scrutinise the application of post-model adjustments in 2024. The committee concluded that models are a core 
element of IFRS 9 but cannot capture all eventualities, in particular issues which have not occurred in the recent past. GAC 
believed judgement continues to play an important role in setting these provisions and PMAs are the key tool to enable this. 

Valuation 
methodologies

Provisions and 
disclosures

Viability statement 
and the going 
concern basis of 
accounting

Fair, balanced & 
understandable

To consider valuation methodologies, assumptions 
and judgements made by management.

The GAC considered valuation methodologies and assumptions for financial instruments carried at fair value and scrutinised 
judgements made by management on a quarterly basis throughout 2023.

To consider the level of provisions for regulatory, 
litigation and conduct issues throughout the year.

To review NatWest Group’s going concern and 
viability statements.

To oversee the review process which supports 
the committee and Board in concluding that the 
disclosures in the Annual Report and Accounts 
and other elements of the year-end reporting suite 
of documents, taken as a whole, are fair, balanced 
and understandable and provide the information 
necessary for shareholders to assess the company’s 
position and performance, business model 
and strategy.

The committee reviewed the levels of provisions during the year for regulatory, litigation and conduct matters, and 
was satisfied these were appropriate. The committee challenged management on the robustness of two specific redress 
programmes, which required increased provisions, and received assurance from management that no further increases 
were anticipated.

The GAC considered evidence of NatWest Group’s capital, liquidity and funding position and considered the process 
to support the assessment of principal risks. The GAC reviewed the company’s prospects in light of its current position, 
the identified principal, and emerging risks (including climate risk) and the ongoing macro-economic developments such 
as supply chain challenges and rising inflation. FRC guidance was considered as part of the preparation of the viability 
statement for NatWest Group. The committee recommended both the going concern assessment and viability statement 
to the Board. (Refer to the Strategic report and Report of the directors for further information.)

The committee oversaw the review process for the year-end disclosures which included: central coordination and oversight 
of the Annual Report and Accounts and other disclosures led by the Finance function; review of the documents by the 
Executive Disclosure Committee prior to consideration by the GAC; and a management certification process of the year-end 
reporting suite. The committee considered whether the annual, interim and quarterly disclosures met the UK Corporate 
Governance Code requirements to be ‘fair, balanced and understandable’. It concluded each time that the releases satisfied 
the necessary criteria. The external auditor also considered the fair, balanced and understandable statement as part of the 
year-end processes and supported NatWest Group’s position.

STRATEGIC REPORTFINANCIAL REVIEWGOVERNANCERISK AND CAPITAL MANAGEMENTFINANCIAL STATEMENTSADDITIONAL INFORMATIONNatWest Group 2023 Annual Report and Accounts113

Corporate governance continued

Theme

Principal areas of focus

Outcomes

Climate-related 
Disclosures 
Report and ESG 
Disclosures 
Report

To review the principal non-financial disclosures 
made by NatWest Group and to ensure appropriate 
controls are in place to support the preparation of 
the information. These disclosures include the annual 
Climate-related Disclosures Report and the ESG 
Disclosures Report.

The committee focused on the continued development of the climate and ESG reporting control environment which supports 
non-financial disclosures. The GAC discussed and provided feedback on both the Climate-related disclosures report, which 
incorporated climate transition plan information, and the ESG Disclosures Report for 2023. A significant area of discussion on 
the Climate transition plan related to NatWest Group’s dependency on external factors and whether they continued to support 
achievement of NatWest Group’s climate ambitions. GAC noted the developing nature of Climate measurement standards, 
particularly in relation to the estimation of Scope 3 financed emissions, which has an inherent potential for double counting across 
entities in the same value chain. GAC noted that emissions estimates and other climate metrics should be read acknowledging these 
are in initial stages of development and subject to change as standards emerge and underlying data sources become more complete 
and developed.  GAC recognised that climate measurement standards are not at the same level of maturity as accounting standards. 
Also, enhancements to availability of data and control frameworks will be required to align with IFRS financial statements. Currently, 
industry wide, the attestation provided by an auditor is to a weaker level than applies to IFRS financial statements.

Internal Audit
The GAC is responsible for overseeing the Internal Audit function, monitoring its effectiveness and independence.

Theme

Principal areas of focus

Outcomes

Quarterly opinions To consider periodic opinion reports prepared by 
Internal Audit on the overall effectiveness of the 
governance, risk management and internal control 
framework, current issues and the adequacy of 
remediation activity.

The committee received quarterly opinion reports from Internal Audit, setting out the Function’s view of the overall 
effectiveness of NatWest Group’s governance, risk management and internal control framework, current issues and the 
adequacy of remediation activity. Internal Audit also outlined material and emerging concerns identified through their audit 
work. Internal Audit reported a continued steady strengthening of the bank’s control environment over the course of the 
year. The committee considered the Function’s opinion of the strength of the control environment.

Annual plan and 
budget

To approve Internal Audit’s annual plan and budget 
prior to the start of each year as well as any 
significant changes required during the year.

The committee considered and approved Internal Audit’s 2023 plan and budget at the end of 2022. The committee 
supported the planned focus of work on the most high-risk areas for the bank. The 2023 budget was consistent with the 
prior year, reflecting the delivery of efficiencies in the function. In December 2023, the committee approved Internal Audit’s 
2024 plan and budget. 

Internal Audit 
Charter and 
independence

Performance 
evaluation

To approve the Internal Audit Charter each year and 
review the independence of the Chief Audit Executive 
(CAE) and function as a whole.

To monitor and review, at least annually, the 
effectiveness of Internal Audit.

Visit

To undertake an annual deep dive session with 
members of the Internal Audit leadership team.

The GAC reviewed and approved the Internal Audit Charter which was consistent with prior years. The committee noted 
the Independence Statement and confirmed the independence of Internal Audit in December 2023.

In 2023 the CAE continued to report to the GAC Chair with a secondary reporting line for administrative purposes to the 
Group CEO. This is consistent with prior practice and industry guidance.
The GAC assessed the annual performance (including risk performance) of the function and CAE. The 2023 evaluation 
of the Internal Audit function was carried out internally. Stakeholders across the bank, including the GAC members, 
attendees and the external auditors, were invited to provide feedback, identifying areas of particular strength and those 
for enhancement. The overall findings were positive, and the Internal Audit function was found to be operating effectively 
with some opportunities to improve reporting, bench strength at more junior levels, and in respect of digital capabilities.
An external audit quality assessment was performed in early 2023 by Deloitte which looked at 2022 performance. This 
found that the Function was a high-performing, progressive function that compared favourably to leading peers with 
improvements identified including the replacement of the existing audit management system and enhancement of 
digital capabilities.
Progress on recommendations made from each evaluation will be overseen by the GAC in 2024.

Together with the BRC, the GAC participated in a successful deep dive session with Internal Audit’s management team. 
A variety of issues impacting the function were discussed, including succession planning and bench-strength; talent 
and mobility; functional priorities; and the impacts of increased automation and use of technology in audits.

STRATEGIC REPORTFINANCIAL REVIEWGOVERNANCERISK AND CAPITAL MANAGEMENTFINANCIAL STATEMENTSADDITIONAL INFORMATIONNatWest Group 2023 Annual Report and Accounts114

Corporate governance continued

External Audit
The GAC has responsibility for monitoring the independence and objectivity of the external auditor and the effectiveness of the audit process, and for reviewing NatWest Group’s financial 
relationship with the external auditor and fixing its remuneration. Ernst & Young LLP (EY) has been NatWest Group’s external auditor since 2016. In October 2022, the committee 
recommended that PwC be appointed as NatWest Group’s auditor from 2026. The GAC complied with the requirements of the FRC’s Audit Committees and the External Audit: 
Minimum Standard and the Statutory Audit Services for Large Companies Market Investigation Order 2014 for the year ended 31 December 2023.

Theme

Principal areas of focus

Outcomes

External audit 
reports

Audit plan and 
fees

To review reports prepared by the external 
auditor in relation to NatWest Group’s 
financial results and control environment.

The committee received quarterly reports on the review-related work and conclusions of the external auditor. The reports included 
EY’s view of the judgements made by management, compliance with international financial reporting standards, and the external 
auditor’s observations and assessment of effectiveness of internal controls over financial reporting.

To consider the scope and planning of the 
external auditor in relation to the audit of 
NatWest Group. It is also authorised by the 
shareholders to fix the remuneration of the 
external auditor.

The GAC reviewed EY’s 2023 plan. It welcomed the external auditor’s focus on the innovation in the techniques applied as part of 
the audit and the commitment to provide an earlier interim view of control deficiencies by December 2023.
In line with the authority granted to the committee by shareholders at the 2023 Annual General Meeting (AGM) to fix the 
remuneration of the external auditor, the GAC approved the audit fees for the year including the fee for the 2023 interim results. 
The committee received confirmation from the external auditor that the fees were appropriate to enable delivery of the required 
procedures to a high quality. 

Annual evaluation To review and monitor the external 

auditor’s independence and objectivity 
and the effectiveness of the audit process, 
taking into consideration all relevant 
professional and regulatory requirements.

Audit partner

To oversee the lead audit partner and 
resolution of any points of disagreement 
with management.

The evaluation of the external auditor’s performance in 2023 was undertaken to assess the independence and objectivity of the 
external auditor and the effectiveness of the audit process. The GAC members, attendees, finance directors of businesses and 
functions, and key members of the Finance team were consulted as part of the evaluation.
Stakeholders were invited to assess the external auditor’s independence, engagement, provision of robust challenge, bench strength 
and reporting. The evaluation concluded that the external auditor was operating effectively and with objectivity. Key strengths 
included bench strength and knowledge of the senior team, and the provision of robust challenge to management. Improvement 
areas included junior staff capabilities, the timeliness of reporting of issues, and greater consideration of the commercial implications 
of recommendations made.

Micha Missakian has been EY’s lead audit partner since February 2021. He attended all meetings of the committee in 2023 and met 
in private session with the committee members during the year. This provided the external auditor an opportunity to raise any points 
of disagreement with management. No such points were raised by the external auditor in 2023. It is expected that the lead partner 
rotation will occur during 2024. GAC has overseen the appointment of his successor, Javier Faiz, who was selected based on industry 
experience (including audit transition), audit quality and enhancement, partner stability and availability.

Additional reports 
prepared by the 
external auditor

To review reports prepared by 
the external auditor in relation to  
NatWest Group.

During 2023 the committee considered the results of the external auditor’s assurance procedures on compliance with 
the FCA’s Client Asset Rules for NatWest Group’s regulated legal entities for the year ended 31 December 2022. EY also 
presented the findings of their audit of the Climate-related Disclosures Report and ESG Disclosures Report to the GAC.

Non-audit 
services

To review and approve, at least annually, 
NatWest Group’s policy in relation to the 
engagement of the external auditors to 
perform audit and non-audit services 
(the policy).

All audit and non-audit services are approved by, or on behalf of, the committee to safeguard the external auditor’s 
independence and objectivity. The GAC reviewed and approved NatWest Group’s non-audit services policy in 2023. Under 
the policy, all audit-related services and permitted non-audit service engagements are approved by the GAC with updates 
presented to each scheduled meeting.

Where the fee for a non-audit service engagement is expected to exceed £100,000, a competitive tender process must be 
held; where the fee is anticipated to be £250,000 or more, approval of all GAC members is required. For fees under £250,000, 
work can be approved on an interim basis by the GAC Chair, subject to subsequent ratification by the next scheduled GAC 
meeting. The policy permits the external auditor to undertake engagements which are required by law or regulation, or which 
relate to the provision of comfort letters in respect of debt issuance by the NatWest Group, provided prior approvals are in 
place in accordance with the policy. The policy also allows NatWest Group to receive services from EY which result from a 
customer’s banking relationship, provided prior approvals are in place in accordance with the policy. All such approvals are 
subsequently reported to the GAC. Further details of the non-audit services policy can be found at natwestgroup.com.

During 2023, the committee did not approve any significant non-audit engagements (where the fees exceeded £100,000) 
to be undertaken by the external auditor. The audit to non-audit fee ratio for 2023 was 16%. Information on fees paid in 
respect of audit and non-audit services carried out by the external auditor can be found in Note 6 to the consolidated financial 
statements. In January 2024, the GAC approved a significant non-audit engagement where the fees exceeded £250,000 in 
connection with a potential retail share offering. 

STRATEGIC REPORTFINANCIAL REVIEWGOVERNANCERISK AND CAPITAL MANAGEMENTFINANCIAL STATEMENTSADDITIONAL INFORMATIONNatWest Group 2023 Annual Report and AccountsCorporate governance continued

Report of the Group  
Board Risk Committee

Letter from Stuart Lewis,

Chair of the Group Board Risk Committee

Operational 
risk

Financial  
crime

Risk  
management 
strategy

Embedding of 
EWRMF and  
RCSAs

Model  
risk

Principal 
areas of 
focus

Data 
management 

Conduct and 
regulatory  
compliance
(including  
Consumer Duty)

Credit  
risk

Capital, 
liquidity and 
funding

Reputational 
risk

115

Dear Shareholder,

I am pleased to present my first report as Chair of the 
Board Risk Committee (the committee or BRC), having 
succeeded Morten Friis who stepped down as BRC Chair 
after the July 2023 meeting. I would particularly like to thank 
Morten for his skill and dedication in steering the committee 
through the recent periods of volatility in the geopolitical 
and external environment and for his counsel during the 
handover process. I became a member of the committee in 
April 2023, ensuring a smooth handover in our responsibilities.

This report describes how the BRC has fulfilled its role in 
overseeing and advising the Board in relation to current 
and potential future risk exposures and risk profile; and in 
overseeing the effectiveness of risk management frameworks 
and internal controls required to manage risk. In carrying 
out this important role, the committee helps to ensure that 
NatWest Group supports its customers through the prudent 
management of risk. More detail on the remit of the 
committee can also be found in its terms of reference which 
are reviewed annually and are available at natwestgroup.com.

Principal areas of focus in 2023
During 2023, BRC ensured its time was prioritised to focus 
on NatWest Group’s principal and emerging risks. Financial 
crime has remained a key area of focus and the committee 
was pleased to see it return to appetite. The external 
environment has influenced the focus of the committee this 
year, particularly its impact on NatWest Group’s risk profile 
in relation to capital, stress testing, liquidity and funding, and 
credit risk.

Other areas of focus have included oversight of the 
execution of the Risk Management Strategy; model risk 
remediation; oversight of implementation of the enterprise-
wide risk management framework (EWRMF) improvements, 
particularly the Risk and Control Self-Assessment (RCSA); 
conduct and regulatory compliance (including the 
implementation of Consumer Duty requirements); and 
oversight of a wide range of operational risk matters. 
In addition, the committee received regular updates on 
data management and BCBS239. Reputational risk was 
an emerging area of attention given the internal and 
external focus on customer exits, branch closures, 
and deposit rate pass-through.

It is expected that these will continue to be areas of focus in 
2024 as NatWest Group drives towards return to appetite 
in relevant areas; implements changes to meet regulatory 

Membership
BRC comprises three independent non-executive 
directors. The details of the members and their skills 
and experience are set out on pages 84 to 87.

Patrick Flynn is Chair of the Group Audit 
Committee of which I am also a member. 
Lena Wilson is Chair of the Group Performance 
and Remuneration Committee (RemCo). This 
common membership helps to ensure effective 
governance across the committees.

Regular attendees at BRC meetings include: 
the Group Chairman, Group CEO, Group CFO, 
Group CRO, Group Chief Legal Officer and 
General Counsel, Group Chief Audit Executive, 
and the External Auditor. External advice is 
sought by the committee where appropriate.

Francesca Barnes and Ian Cormack attended 
committee meetings as observers in their 
capacity as members of NWH Ltd’s BRC. 
Meetings of the Group and NWH Ltd’s BRCs 
share much of a common agenda and are 
generally held in parallel.

expectations; and continues to respond to the external 
environment and cost of living pressures.

Further information on key topics considered during the 
year and areas of focus and challenge by the committee 
is provided on the following pages.

Meetings and visits
There were eight scheduled meetings of the committee held 
in 2023. Six of the eight meetings were held in person, with 
the remaining two meetings held virtually during the year. 
Details of meeting attendance can be found on page 97. 
The committee reported to the Board on the committee’s 
activities after each meeting, escalating matters for the 
Board’s attention as appropriate.

Outside formal meetings, BRC met with the Risk 
Leadership Team and considered improvements to the 
risk management report. Dinners were arranged to discuss 
the future direction of the Risk function, the committee’s 
priorities, and the operation of the committee.

STRATEGIC REPORTFINANCIAL REVIEWGOVERNANCERISK AND CAPITAL MANAGEMENTFINANCIAL STATEMENTSADDITIONAL INFORMATIONNatWest Group 2023 Annual Report and AccountsCorporate governance continued

Members of the Group and the NWH Ltd BRCs also 
undertook a programme of visits to the Risk, Internal Audit 
and Finance functions, in conjunction with members of the 
Group and NWH Ltd Audit Committees.

I would like to thank my fellow committee members for 
their contributions and commitment during the last year.

Stuart Lewis
Chair of the Group Board Risk Committee

15 February 2024

BRC Chair’s induction
A full, formal and tailored induction was devised, which took into consideration my background and existing 
knowledge. As part of my induction, I had a series of meetings with the outgoing BRC Chair, fellow non-executive 
directors, the Group Chairman, the subsidiary Board Risk Committee Chairs, and external auditors. I had detailed 
sessions with executives and subject matter experts and attended NatWest Group Board training, the subsidiary 
non-executive director conference, and the Colleague Advisory Panel. The meetings were designed to give me 
a comprehensive overview of the principal risks facing NatWest Group and to address areas of particular 
regulatory interest.

116

Principal areas of Board Risk Committee focus in 2023
The table below describes the Board Risk Committee’s principal areas of focus in 2023, alongside key outcomes and stakeholders considered.

Theme

Principal areas of Board Risk Committee focus

Outcomes

Financial crime

Model risk

Oversight of the management and return to appetite 
of financial crime risk, which continued to be a key 
focus area for NatWest Group throughout the year.

Quarterly updates were presented from all three 
lines of defence and supplemented by updates from 
the Group CRO at each meeting. These included 
progress updates on return to appetite plans, 
transformation and emerging risks/issues.

Additionally, BRC considered the Money Laundering 
Reporting Officer’s (MLRO’s) report(1) and the annual 
Group financial crime risk assessment.

BRC maintained close oversight of management 
activity to return to appetite for model risk through 
regular detailed updates. There was particular focus 
on the Internal Ratings Based models and updates 
were provided on the programme of work to support 
changes to the Model Risk Management framework 
and the evolving regulatory landscape, particularly 
compliance with the PRA’s Supervisory Statement 
(SS1/23).

Throughout the year, the committee challenged management on return to appetite timetable, adequacy of 
resource and external support, and the pace of transformation and remediation to protect customers by driving 
improvements in financial crime. This included interrogating any differing views among the three lines of defence 
on confidence in the return to appetite time frame. The committee also requested progress updates from specific 
subsidiary entities as required.

Additionally, ahead of the return to appetite in 2023, the committee ascertained from management the level 
of funding required to maintain the risk appetite position and the evolution of financial crime risk to ensure that 
threats were monitored and mitigated effectively. The committee acknowledged the significant achievement 
of financial crime’s return to appetite, reflecting an improved control environment, and that this had been 
accomplished by close, collaborative work by all three lines of defence.

The committee also reviewed proposed new risk appetite measures concerning the timeliness and quality of 
a number of financial crime processes and recommended them to the Board. 

BRC held management to account on return to appetite plans and was pleased that model risk returned to 
appetite in April 2023.

A key focus area during 2023 was the amendment of Internal Ratings Based models to comply with regulatory 
changes and their submission to the PRA. The committee challenged management on progress, timings and 
regulatory expectations while noting the evolving regulatory landscape. The committee received reports from 
management on its proposed approach and assurances that it was working closely with the PRA. Management 
also confirmed that performance issues with incumbent models were well understood and mitigated.

Additionally, the committee was keen to understand the robustness of the validation process for artificial 
intelligence-related models which will be a continuing area of interest during 2024. 

(1)  Reviewed by BRC in line with the committee’s role to review reports and regulatory submissions on behalf of the Board and recommend them for approval.

STRATEGIC REPORTFINANCIAL REVIEWGOVERNANCERISK AND CAPITAL MANAGEMENTFINANCIAL STATEMENTSADDITIONAL INFORMATIONNatWest Group 2023 Annual Report and Accounts117

Corporate governance continued

Theme

Principal areas of Board Risk Committee focus

Outcomes

Risk function 
oversight and risk 
management 
strategy

Enterprise-wide 
risk management 
framework 
(EWRMF) 
embedding 
(including risk 
appetite and 
Risk and control  
self assessment  
(RCSA) activity)

BRC monitored the effectiveness of the Risk function 
and received quarterly progress updates (including 
reviews by the Internal Audit function) on the action 
plan established in 2022 to oversee work to enhance 
Risk’s effectiveness. The committee approved the 
Risk Management Strategy which defines the 
strategy for risk management for NatWest  
Group and received regular progress updates. 

The EWRMF is NatWest Group’s primary risk 
management and risk governance document. BRC 
received regular updates on the effectiveness of the 
EWRMF, particularly implementation of the updated 
RCSA process. This included detailed oversight of 
achievement of milestones, ensuring that anticipated 
benefits were delivered in the control environment 
and that lessons learned from the initial pilots were 
incorporated into subsequent assessments.

Further details can be found in the Risk and capital 
management section of the report on page 170.

Risk profile and 
reporting

Time was spent at every BRC meeting reviewing 
NatWest Group’s current and future risk profile 
relative to risk appetite via risk management reports, 
with a particular focus on the external environment 
including the UK and global economic outlook, liquidity 
and funding, credit risk, operational risk, and 
emerging risks and threats.

BRC held management to account as necessary on progress and timelines of the Risk Effectiveness Action Plan 
and was pleased that both Risk and the Internal Audit function agreed in November 2023 that the programme 
could be closed with remaining multi-year milestones transitioned to a strategic BAU programme.

BRC received regular updates on the Risk Management Strategy and challenged management to prioritise focus 
on the programmes with the most significant impact.

The annual review of the EWRMF was presented to the committee in December 2023. It was recommended to 
the Board for approval and was supported by Internal Audit’s review of EWRMF.

The committee was pleased with the significant progress made on RCSAs with all 2023 milestones completed.

The committee oversaw the refresh of both qualitative risk appetite statements and the quantitative risk appetite 
measures in line with the EWRMF. The committee supported the changes to risk appetite measures to provide 
broader coverage of focus areas at a Board level. Key changes were to capital risk, liquidity and funding risk, 
credit risk, traded market risk, operational risk, climate risk, financial crime, and reputational risk. The committee 
queried whether there needed to be increased focus on people risk, broader ESG risk, and ‘near miss’ events and 
challenged management to ensure risk appetite limits and triggers were set appropriately, with changes made to 
the proposed limits and triggers as a result. The committee provided feedback to ensure that the measures met 
regulatory expectations and were robust.

The committee considered spotlights on all principal risks during the year. Further information on these can be 
found in the respective sections of this report. The committee also reviewed proposed updates to the Key Risk 
Policies(1) and approved them under its Board-delegated authority.

The committee continued to challenge management to improve the format and content of the risk management 
report, resulting in the introduction of a new risk management report during 2023 with a focus on highlighting 
key messages clearly and succinctly, strengthening data, providing more trend analysis, and reducing the 
overall length of the report.

The committee encouraged management to include headlines and outlook, focus on reporting on risk and 
returns, include commentary on return to appetite plans where applicable, and continue to progress plans to 
automate the reporting. Additionally, the committee emphasised the importance of robust data and metrics. 
The risk report will continue to be refined during 2024.

(1)  Risk policies are in place for each principal risk and define, at a high level, the cascade of qualitative expectation, guidance and standards that stipulate the nature and extent of permissible risk taking. 

They are consistently applied across NatWest Group and subsidiary legal entities and form part of the qualitative expression of risk appetite for each principal risk. 

STRATEGIC REPORTFINANCIAL REVIEWGOVERNANCERISK AND CAPITAL MANAGEMENTFINANCIAL STATEMENTSADDITIONAL INFORMATIONNatWest Group 2023 Annual Report and AccountsCorporate governance continued

Theme

Principal areas of Board Risk Committee focus

Outcomes

118

Risk profile and 
reporting 
(continued)

The committee received an annual spotlight on top 
and emerging threats which focused on proposed 
changes to the framework and the increasingly 
intertwined nature of top and emerging threats.

Transformation/
Major Change 
programmes

BRC maintained oversight of the delivery of 
NatWest Group’s transformation and material 
change programmes and their position relative  
to risk appetite.

Conduct and 
regulatory 
compliance risk 
(including 
Consumer Duty 
and ring-fencing 
compliance)

The committee also received an update on the 
management of UBIDAC withdrawal risks as part of 
the phased withdrawal from the Republic of Ireland.

Conduct and regulatory compliance remained a key 
area of interest for the committee given the breadth 
of issues it impacts.

A spotlight on conduct and regulatory compliance 
highlighted the developments and improvements 
that had taken place during 2023, progress made 
in ring-fencing compliance, Consumer Duty and 
surveillance remediation as well as the work 
carried out to enhance reporting in order  
to support oversight. 

BRC continued to focus on principal and emerging risks and their strategic impact. Liquidity & funding, including 
the impact of the collapse of Silicon Valley Bank and Credit Suisse, the resulting global financial turbulence and 
the mitigating actions taken by management, were considered during the year, as were the continuing impact 
of Russia’s invasion of Ukraine, the cost-of-living pressures affecting our customers and our colleagues, and 
management of first and second order risks as a result of the Israel/Gaza conflict. The committee requested 
that management provide an overview of how the top and emerging threats work informed NatWest Group’s 
strategy and business model and how NatWest Group responded to crystallising threats.

The committee supported the Board in its oversight of customer exits and reputational risk and received updates 
on the outputs and recommendations from the reviews carried out. The committee considered the annual 
reputational risk spotlight which included changes to the reputational risk policy and risk appetite metrics to 
align with the recommendations.

Detailed reports on legal and regulatory developments and litigation risks were considered on a quarterly basis 
and verbal updates were provided at intervening meetings.

Quarterly reports were received from the Chairs of the franchise risk committees and board risk committees of 
material regulated subsidiaries, providing oversight of key risk and control issues and a channel for escalation of 
issues. The BRC Chair joined the meetings of the board risk committees of material regulated subsidiaries and 
the Chairs of these committees were also invited to join BRC meetings throughout the year. 

Regulatory programmes were a particular area of interest during 2023 and BRC sought assurance from 
management that there was sufficient budget and resource for all regulatory programmes, including Consumer 
Duty, and that there was appropriate connectivity between the businesses’ risk profile and investment. 

The committee sought to understand how management evidenced conduct and control improvements that had 
been put in place.

The committee supported the Board in overseeing management’s progress in addressing Consumer Duty 
requirements through regular updates on a detailed milestone plan to implementation. The volume of work to be 
carried out and the challenging timelines were acknowledged by the committee, and it questioned all three lines 
of defence to gain assurance that the milestone plan continued to meet regulatory expectations, that there was 
sufficient budget and resource, and that focus remained on the correct areas.

The committee received regular updates from management on ring-fencing conflicts and its approach to support 
the Board ring-fencing compliance attestation and was pleased that it was successfully submitted in March 2023.

STRATEGIC REPORTFINANCIAL REVIEWGOVERNANCERISK AND CAPITAL MANAGEMENTFINANCIAL STATEMENTSADDITIONAL INFORMATIONNatWest Group 2023 Annual Report and AccountsCorporate governance continued

Theme

Principal areas of Board Risk Committee focus

Outcomes

119

Operational risk, 
operational 
resilience, and 
cyber security

Data management 
and BCBS239

Operational risk has been a key area of focus for 
BRC throughout the year. It received regular updates 
on NatWest Group’s operational risk profile and 
risk appetite. This included updates on operational 
resilience, manual controls, fraud, near misses, end 
of life systems, and information and cyber security.

The committee considered the operational resilience 
self-assessment(1) in detail prior to approval by 
the Board, with important business services and 
associated impact tolerances operating as the 
foundation for the assessment.

The committee also received biannual spotlights on 
payments technology, controls and architecture which 
included the outputs from an end-to-end review.

In addition, updates on information security 
contained in the risk management report were 
reviewed at every meeting and BRC dedicated 
time to the consideration of cyber risk, the external 
threat landscape and the actions being taken by 
management in response during the presentation of 
the annual information and cyber security spotlight. 
This included detail on the work being undertaken 
to ensure that new technological advances such 
as machine learning are introduced in a safe and 
secure way and the measures in place to support 
an increasingly consistent approach to security.

Data is a continuing area of focus for the BRC and 
it received reports on the data management risk 
profile, including the activity underway to transform 
data consumed by Risk and Finance functions for risk 
and regulatory reporting purposes and progress in 
responding to issues identified as part of a 2022 
industry-wide data thematic review. 

The committee was pleased to see a lower number of operational control events during 2023. It remained an 
area of focus for the committee and regulators and the committee requested that additional detailed updates on 
operational risk performance and trends be provided. The committee challenged management on the number 
and mitigation timescales of Very High unaccepted risks and received updates on the methodology and 
framework that had been put in place.

The committee received regular updates in respect of end of life systems, investment levels and how NatWest 
Group compared to its peers. Following challenges and queries from the committee, the addition of two end of 
life Board-level risk appetite measures were approved by the Board in December 2023.

Manual controls are a key area of concern for BRC and the committee requested quarterly updates on the 
management of and the progress made in reducing their number. Particular focus was given to a review 
of manual controls within payments processing and how the review was expected to drive improvements. 
The committee will continue to challenge management on the reduction of manual controls and drive to 
automation during 2024.

Throughout the year the committee challenged the scope and coverage of operational risk appetite and, 
in response, new Board-level risk appetite measures designed to cover the material operational risk focus 
areas and overall management of operational risk were approved by the Board in December 2023.

The committee continued to emphasise the importance of a cohesive approach to data management in order 
to resolve concerns around the timeliness and accuracy of some data and encouraged management to work 
collaboratively across these programmes. The committee sought clarity on completion dates for all activities 
within the data strategy in order to track progress.

The committee received regular updates on compliance with BCBS239. This included findings from an 
Internal Audit assessment and management’s response to it. The committee challenged management on 
the methodology used to assess NatWest Group’s compliance status and discussed the role that the BCBS239 
Framework played in improving overall data quality. Changes to the BCBS239 Framework were reviewed and 
approved by the committee under Board delegated authority.

(1)  Reviewed by BRC in line with the committee’s role to review reports and regulatory submissions on behalf of the Board and recommend them for approval.

STRATEGIC REPORTFINANCIAL REVIEWGOVERNANCERISK AND CAPITAL MANAGEMENTFINANCIAL STATEMENTSADDITIONAL INFORMATIONNatWest Group 2023 Annual Report and AccountsCorporate governance continued

Theme

Principal areas of Board Risk Committee focus Outcomes

120

Outsourcing and 
third party risk 
management

Financial and 
Strategic risks

BRC maintained oversight of NatWest Group’s 
outsourcing and third party risk management 
to facilitate oversight of the identification 
and management of third-party related risks. 
In particular, the committee focused on the 
management of Cloud providers and related risks.

BRC received progress updates from 
management on Outsourcing Risk Standards, 
policy and framework as well as the design 
and deliverables of the Third Party Risk 
Management Programme. The committee 
continued its oversight over NatWest Group’s 
critical service providers.

Regular monitoring of principal financial and 
strategic risks is a pivotal part of BRC’s role both 
via routine risk reporting and via regular focused 
reports. Particular attention was paid to deposit 
and liquidity risk, and discussions took place 
concerning NatWest Group’s deposits strategy, 
the interest rate environment and position 
relative to its peers.

BRC reviewed capital, liquidity and funding 
requirements during 2023 and also reviewed 
capital distribution proposals prior to 
Board consideration.

BRC received separate updates on the retail 
and wholesale credit risk portfolios in addition to 
reporting on credit and market risk within the risk 
management report. The committee also received 
updates on the decisions made by the Executive 
Credit Group. Further spotlights were considered 
in respect of traded and non-traded market risk.

In response to questions and challenges from the committee, management provided detailed information to confirm 
appropriate exit plans were in place for critical service providers, including cloud suppliers. BRC also discussed 
management’s response to a regulatory review in relation to exit plans and stressed exit plans and challenged 
management as necessary on timings and progress.

The committee challenged management to adjust processes as required to ensure an enriched view of supplier risk 
by sector, optimising internal credit risk resources.

In response to a request from the committee, management provided an overview of the outputs and findings 
from cloud scenario testing which had been carried out. The committee discussed the improvement opportunities 
that management had identified, the regulatory landscape and NatWest Group’s position relative to its peers. 
The committee sought enhancement to risk appetite metrics in relation to cloud hosting and a Board-level 
cloud risk appetite measure was approved by the Board in December 2023.

The committee recommended the outsourcing policies for Board approval.

Credit risk and market risk – Management updated BRC on the sources of credit risk, including asset quality, risk 
management approach, risk appetite and controls. Following a challenge from the committee and extensive reviews, 
management assured BRC that no leading indicators of a deterioration in quality were being seen in either the retail or 
wholesale credit loan portfolios. In order to support the management of key and material segments of the wholesale and 
retail credit portfolios further, additional Board-level risk appetite measures were approved by the Board in December 
2023, covering mortgages, unsecured lending, securitisations, leveraged funds and the commercial real estate portfolio.

The committee also questioned management on the measures put in place to support customers in difficulties due 
to the cost of living crisis, including problem debt preparedness and monitoring for signs of stress. The committee 
requested updates from management on specific focus areas as they arose during the year, including in relation 
to mortgage payment shock and the management of personal accounts used to run businesses, and received 
assurances from management that a pro-active approach was being taken across NatWest Group with sufficient 
resource levels in the customer services teams.

In relation to market risk, management provided the committee with an overview of the measures that had been put 
in place to manage the volatile external environment; how risks were being mitigated; and the Group’s position in 
relation to its peers.

ICAAPs, ILAAPs and Budget and Risk Appetite Stress Tests(1) – The committee reviewed and recommended to the 
Board the scenarios to be used during 2024 for the budget process, IFRS 9 management, and the monitoring of the risk 
profile relative to the approved risk appetite. BRC considered the budget and budget stress test as well as the ICAAP 
and ILAAP for NatWest Group and recommended them to the Board for approval. The committee approved the ILAAP 
scenarios under delegated authority. The committee challenged management on the basis for the downturn scenarios 
and received confirmation that the scenarios had been adjusted to reflect the faster movement of deposits.

Liquidity and funding – In light of the volatile external environment, the committee requested additional information 
from management regarding NatWest Group’s deposit strategy. Additionally, in response to a challenge from the 
committee, management provided a training session to the Board that focused on liquidity and funding.

Capital distributions – The committee provided a detailed review of proposals for capital distributions to shareholders 
prior to approval by the Board, including a directed buyback and on-market buybacks.

Climate risk – The committee received regular reporting on NatWest Group’s performance against the climate risk 
appetite measures and was provided with an overview of progress during 2023, the performance of franchises and 
functions in embedding the climate risk framework, and nature risk considerations. From January 2024, climate risk 
appetite measures were updated to reflect the existing Climate transition plan and expanded to include nature risk. 
The committee challenged management on whether updates were required to the 2030 ambitions and targets in light 
of the external policy environment and received assurance from management that these will be reviewed and revised, 
aligned with target setting frameworks and external developments.

(1)  Reviewed by BRC in line with the committee’s role to review reports and regulatory submissions on behalf of the Board and recommend them for approval.

STRATEGIC REPORTFINANCIAL REVIEWGOVERNANCERISK AND CAPITAL MANAGEMENTFINANCIAL STATEMENTSADDITIONAL INFORMATIONNatWest Group 2023 Annual Report and AccountsCorporate governance continued

Theme

Principal areas of Board Risk Committee focus

Outcomes

Financial and 
Strategic risks 
(continued)

Stress testing, 
recovery plans and 
the resolvability 
self-assessment

Pension risk – The committee received updates on pension risk’s performance against risk appetite in each risk 
management report. Additionally, the committee received a dedicated spotlight on pension risk which included 
confirmation that no significant Pillar 2A or 2B capital impacts arose as part of the 2023 ICAAP.

BRC reviewed in detail the stress testing activity 
undertaken by management to identify and monitor 
risks and threats.

BRC also monitors and challenges the development 
of plans which would allow NatWest Group to be 
dealt with effectively in the event of financial failure.

Stress testing scenarios – Stress testing scenarios used to monitor and measure risk profile have been kept 
under close review by the committee given the turbulent external environment and the importance of capturing 
the range of outcomes NatWest Group needs to be prepared for. In relation to risk appetite and risk monitoring, 
the committee supported management’s use of stress testing, sensitivity testing, and scenario analysis tools and 
challenged management regarding the reporting of additional stress testing data points in the risk management 
report. BRC considered the stress scenarios to be used for monitoring a moderate, severe and extreme stress.

121

Control 
environment

Accountability and 
remuneration

BRC continued to monitor the effectiveness 
of internal controls required to manage risk 
and was provided with updates regarding 
the control environment ratings of NatWest Group, 
franchises, functions, Digital X, and legal entities. 

BRC continued to provide oversight over the risk 
dimension of performance and remuneration 
arrangements, as well as providing accountability 
review recommendations from a risk management 
perspective, working closely with RemCo.

Recovery Plan – Whilst no regulatory submission was required in 2023, BRC received detailed status updates 
and feedback from the PRA was reported.

Resolvability self-assessment – The committee reviewed the 2023 Resolvability Self-Assessment(1) and 
recommended the final submission to the Board for approval. Additionally, the BRC Chair attended a series of 
meetings with management focusing on the resolution barriers. Management confirmed that feedback from 
the Bank of England’s 2021 assessment had been addressed. The committee discussed how resolvability 
was evidenced and the controls in place across the Group to ensure that processes were being followed.

The committee continuously challenged management on progress towards an improved control environment, 
with particular focus on Financial Crime, Wealth, and RBSI.

The committee reviewed and supported management’s report on the effectiveness of internal controls required 
to manage risk.

Remuneration – The risk and control goals of the NatWest Group Executive Committee members and relevant 
attendees (ExCo) were considered by the committee and continued to focus on ensuring alignment with 
regulatory expectations as well as key risk management deliverables. These were recommended to RemCo, 
together with the individual performance goals for the Group Chief Risk Officer.

BRC also considered the risk and conduct performance of ExCo, to ensure a fair reflection of risk and conduct 
performance in variable pay award and vesting outcomes. In response to questions and challenges from the 
committee, management explained the rationale for any proposed risk-related adjustments to variable pay, 
including annual bonus awards, the grant of relevant Restricted Share Plan awards and vesting of the 2021 
Long-Term Incentive awards, and BRC recommended them to RemCo.

The committee discussed and recommended to RemCo proposed risk adjustments to NatWest Group’s 
bonus pool calculation to reflect NatWest Group’s risk and conduct management performance. The committee 
particularly focused on the weighting given to specific events and challenged management on its rationale.

Remuneration policy – The committee carried out its annual review of the Material Risk Taker identification 
process and had no concerns to escalate to RemCo.

Accountability – The committee continued its oversight of regulatory reportable events, other material 
investigations and resultant accountability review recommendations, advising RemCo on the appropriateness 
of these recommendations from a risk perspective.

Further detail on how risk is considered in remuneration decisions can be found in the Report of RemCo on pages 138 to 139.

(1)  Reviewed by BRC in line with the committee’s role to review reports and regulatory submissions on behalf of the Board and recommend them for approval.

STRATEGIC REPORTFINANCIAL REVIEWGOVERNANCERISK AND CAPITAL MANAGEMENTFINANCIAL STATEMENTSADDITIONAL INFORMATIONNatWest Group 2023 Annual Report and Accounts122

Combining the SBC and TIC agendas has ensured that 
our Board committee structure continues to support the 
Board in overseeing the execution of our strategy and 
promoting NatWest Group’s long-term sustainable success. 
Technology, innovation and data are integral to our 
strategic priorities as we strive to be a relationship 
bank in a digital world.

In July 2023, the committee’s Terms of Reference (ToR) were 
updated to formalise the committee’s role in overseeing 
Consumer Duty on behalf of the Board, including oversight 
of the implementation plan and ensuring Consumer Duty 
is properly embedded within NatWest Group. The updated 
ToR also referred to the Group Consumer Board Champion 
being a member of the committee.

Membership
In April 2023 the committee was delighted to 
welcome Roisin Donnelly as a member who brings 
a wealth of experience in customer, data and 
digital transformation matters. Roisin was also 
confirmed as Consumer Duty Board Champion 
in April 2023. Following the departure of Mike 
Rogers and Graham Beale from the Boards, 
membership of the committee comprised three 
non-executive directors, with one non-executive 
director from the NatWest Holdings Limited 
Board observing, along with management 
attendees. More details of membership and 
attendance of the committee can be found 
in the Corporate Governance report.

Corporate governance continued

Report of the Group  
Sustainable Banking 
Committee

Letter from Yasmin Jetha,

Chair of the Group Sustainable 
Banking Committee

Supporting 
long term 
value 
creation

Climate and 
environmental 
progress 

Principal 
areas of 
focus

People,  
culture and 
learning 

Enterprise

Customer

Technology, 
data and 
innovation

Dear Shareholder,

I am delighted to present my first report as Chair of the 
Group Sustainable Banking Committee (the committee 
or SBC).

I would like to take this opportunity to thank the previous 
committee Chair, Mike Rogers, who served as SBC 
Chair since 2018 and provided outstanding leadership 
to the committee.

During 2023, the committee continued to support 
the Board in overseeing, supporting and challenging 
actions being taken by management to run the bank as 
a sustainable business, capable of generating long-term 
value for stakeholders. This year our agendas and rich 
discussions have maintained a strong focus on our 
support for customers, colleagues and communities.

We held several spotlight sessions throughout the year, 
covering the principle areas of focus for the committee, 
namely climate, learning, enterprise, customer, people and 
culture, conduct and ethics, and technology, innovation and 
data. The views of internal and external stakeholders were 
sought wherever possible and meeting time was prioritised 
towards meaningful debate and discussion.

The 2022 committee performance evaluation sought more 
frequent updates on key topics, which was reflected in the 
agendas. During the year we strengthened our operating 
rhythm by establishing a new framework for the SBC, 
ensuring focus on outcomes and long-term value creation, 
benefits to the customer and learning from best in class, 
including other industries.

Expanded remit of the committee
The Board agreed to retire the Technology and Innovation 
Committee (TIC) on 30 April 2023 and, with effect from 
1 May 2023, the committee’s remit was expanded to 
include technology, innovation and data.

At its final meeting in March 2023, TIC considered: an 
update on technology capabilities and ambitions, which 
form part of the NatWest Digital X strategy; a spotlight 
on payments, which considered the current and future 
landscape and required areas of action; and progress 
on data architecture. The committee encouraged 
further strategic focus on payments and consideration 
of forthcoming regulatory changes. Updates on data 
strategy have continued to be provided to the Board 
and Group Board Risk Committee during the year.

STRATEGIC REPORTFINANCIAL REVIEWGOVERNANCERISK AND CAPITAL MANAGEMENTFINANCIAL STATEMENTSADDITIONAL INFORMATIONNatWest Group 2023 Annual Report and Accounts123

Corporate governance continued

Meetings
The committee continues to hold five meetings per annum 
and reports to the Board on the committee’s activities after 
each meeting, escalating matters for the Board’s attention 
as appropriate. All meetings were held in person. The 
committee operates under delegated authority from 
the Board and its terms of reference are available on 
natwestgroup.com. These are reviewed annually and 
approved by the Board.

Conclusion
The committee has continued to effectively support the 
Board and has played an important role in providing 
detailed consideration of matters which will drive NatWest 
Group as a sustainable business generating long-term value 
for stakeholders. We have continued to benefit from a broad 
range of internal and external stakeholder perspectives, to 
better understand how NatWest Group’s actions are 
supporting our customers, colleagues and society.

Theme

Principal areas of committee focus

I want to take the opportunity to thank everyone who 
has contributed to the committee’s activities during 2023, 
especially committee members and attendees for their 
support and continued commitment.

Yasmin Jetha
Chair of the Group Sustainable Banking Committee

15 February 2024

Outcomes

Climate and 
environmental 
progress

Presentations considered progress on climate matters and principal focus areas for 2023 to support our 
climate ambitions. This included consideration of climate-related risks, growth opportunities and trade-offs.

Pilots on the Property (home retrofit) and Food systems were presented which demonstrated the use of the systems 
thinking approach and potential associated growth opportunities. The committee received updates on strategic 
partnerships established to develop our thinking and help identify and solve climate-related problems. Updates on 
sustainable bonds and green finance products demonstrated the initiatives underway to support customers in 
various sectors.

The committee reflected on the positive external market reaction to NatWest Group’s 2022 Climate-related 
Disclosures Report and announcements published in February 2023 and considered the steps being taken for 
this to continue to develop, acknowledging the challenges faced by macro factors and external headwinds.

The committee has continued to support the Board in its oversight of the implementation and delivery of the Climate 
transition plan. Updates were provided on the tools and processes that we have started to develop to support 
customer engagement within our newly developed Climate Decisioning Framework, as well as work to incorporate 
the Climate transition plan in forecasting and budget processes. The committee also received progress updates 
in relation to our climate and sustainable funding and financing target and learned about efforts to co-develop 
solutions with corporates to deploy climate and sustainable funding and financing funding in supply chains.

The committee welcomed Stuart Graham (Senior Partner) from Bernstein Autonomous Research LLP, who provided 
expert observations and feedback on NatWest Group’s progress and future improvement areas. It was noted that 
NatWest Group ranked second globally in The Autonomous Paris Readiness Index (APRI), published in 2022, which 
ranks banks on climate risk, with a heavy weighting on managing transition risk.

The committee considered steps being taken to embed Environmental, Social and Governance (ESG) across our 
supply chain and how this compared to peers. The update detailed key activities to align our supply chain to the 
bank’s climate ambitions, including the refreshed Supplier Charter, which helps set expectations of suppliers and 
the deepening of understanding of human rights risks in the supply chain. Supply chain decarbonisation pilots have 
provided insights that inform 2024 approach and plans.

The committee noted NatWest Group’s ESG rating performance and other key themes arising in relation to this.

The committee had detailed discussion on the external 
headwinds impacting NatWest Group’s ability to 
achieve its 2030 climate ambitions and targets. Whilst 
it was acknowledged that there are a number of 
factors outside NatWest Group’s control, including 
reliance on UK Government policy, the committee 
challenged the sufficiency of actions taken by 
NatWest Group to close gaps against its climate 
ambitions and targets.

The committee encouraged focus on supporting 
customers through their transition and wanted to 
understand customer feedback on the tools being 
provided to ensure they were useful.

The committee was keen to understand the 
ability to scale initiatives to provide support to more 
customers and the limitations faced as a result of the 
UK’s infrastructure.

The committee encouraged consideration of 
opportunities across the whole of the UK and the 
use of Regional Boards.

STRATEGIC REPORTFINANCIAL REVIEWGOVERNANCERISK AND CAPITAL MANAGEMENTFINANCIAL STATEMENTSADDITIONAL INFORMATIONNatWest Group 2023 Annual Report and Accounts124

Corporate governance continued

Theme

Principal areas of committee focus

Outcomes

People, culture 
and learning 

Given significant focus on culture and alignment to the strategy, an update on progress on the One Bank Culture 
journey and the key drivers of culture was provided. A healthy culture, strong purpose, high levels of engagement 
and clear values were confirmed. Spotlights on leadership capability, scaling experimentation, and changes to 
performance management processes demonstrated the work being undertaken to drive a One Bank culture.

Acknowledging the integral role of ethics in the assessment of NatWest Group’s culture, the committee wanted to 
understand how business ethics was monitored and reported at NatWest Group.

The committee considered action being taken by management to implement our Future Workforce Design, to 
ensure the bank has the right skills, capabilities and roles for the future and can respond to the internal and external 
environment at pace. The committee learned how our Future Workforce Design approach will deliver the workforce 
needed in the face of changing customer expectations, technology advances, and future workforce trends. The 
committee reviewed impacts on two specific areas, Human support in Retail and Software engineering in Digital X, 
and noted the changes in the nature of work and skills required in the future.

The committee considered how the HR Transformation programme will improve colleague experience by providing 
more efficient, effective and economical HR services resulting in the acquisition of new capabilities, adopting new ways 
of working and empowering colleagues to deliver great outcomes for customers and communities. The evolution of 
the operating model will also support the delivery of Colleague Journeys, aligned to the One Bank vision and pivot 
to growth.

On behalf of the Board, the committee noted the approach taken to the development of workforce policies 
and practices.

Customer

The committee considered actions being taken by management to improve customer service and experience across 
key customer segments. Committee discussion focused on Consumer Duty, customer vulnerability and our response 
to the economic environment.

Consumer Duty has been a priority focus of the committee during 2023. There have been a number of spotlights to 
ensure timely updates on the work underway to embed the Duty and review progress towards key milestones and 
compliance as at July 2023 and phase two in July 2024. The Consumer Duty Board Champion is a member of the 
committee and provided input on their industry discussions and engagement with management on steps to embed 
the Duty. The committee also received the annual Internal Audit Behavioural Risk review which focused on the 
work being undertaken on Consumer Duty.

The committee had a spotlight session on Competition and Markets Authority (CMA) Service Quality Survey 
performance and plans to improve customer advocacy. The committee wanted to understand how the CMA 
survey and Net Promoter Scores were used and the usefulness of the survey to our customers and colleagues.

The discussion on customer vulnerability considered how the bank’s approach has been materially improved 
in the past 18 months and is already improving outcomes for customers. Through data and monitoring we 
now identify more vulnerability via inferred vulnerability and customers who have disclosed to us. Discussions 
on branch closure and fraud helped to demonstrate how vulnerability is considered in the bank’s decision-making.

The committee received a Cost of Living brief at every meeting providing insight into how our customers are 
responding to the external environment and how we are supporting the people, businesses and communities 
we serve.

The committee acknowledged the strong bank-wide 
culture scores but wanted to understand variance 
in businesses and functions. It was noted that 
the creation of a people index allowed areas of 
challenge across NatWest Group to be identified.

The committee encouraged management to monitor 
the impact of experimentation, including how it 
would enhance culture and psychological safety.

The committee was pleased with the scale of 
management’s ambition on the Future Workforce 
Design but it was acknowledged that there were 
many aspects which needed to be aligned to deliver 
success. The committee encouraged management 
to ensure that any potential disproportionate impact 
on gender and other forms of diversity was managed 
carefully to ensure equitable treatment of all employee 
groups. The positive potential to offer employees more 
rewarding work was also noted.

The committee supported the ambitious work being 
undertaken on the HR Transformation update and 
noted the importance of technology enablement to 
deliver efficiency savings. The committee noted the 
importance of closely tracking benefits to deliver the 
projected value creation.

The committee discussions focused on meeting 
the required outcomes under the Consumer 
Duty legislation. Discussions focused on how 
communications would be reviewed to ensure 
customer understanding of financial products and 
how data would be used to evidence good customer 
outcomes. The directors supported the risk-based 
approach to remediation.

In relation to customer vulnerability, the committee 
sought to understand the number of customers that 
could be considered vulnerable and how customers 
were identified by the bank as potentially vulnerable.

The committee agreed it was important it continued 
to focus on cost of living actions being taken to 
support customers since it was anticipated the 
external environment would continue to 
be challenging. 

STRATEGIC REPORTFINANCIAL REVIEWGOVERNANCERISK AND CAPITAL MANAGEMENTFINANCIAL STATEMENTSADDITIONAL INFORMATIONNatWest Group 2023 Annual Report and AccountsCorporate governance continued

Theme

Principal areas of committee focus

Outcomes

125

Technology, 
data and 
innovation 

Sessions focused on innovation and partnerships, payments, and artificial intelligence (AI) and automation.

The committee received an overview of our new, bank-wide innovation framework which was being used to catalyse 
bank-wide growth through structured Innovation which would scale and deliver initiatives through the core bank.

The committee considered new payment initiatives intended to stem the disintermediation of payments income, 
including Take Payments and Tap to Pay.

AI and automation is a key area of focus developing at pace, and the committee considered AI use cases being 
deployed across NatWest Group for customer benefit, noting how they could enhance the existing automation 
strategy. The committee noted progress made in evaluating the areas of potential value for leveraging AI and 
associated risks. The committee acknowledged the importance of risk management and controls and discussed 
the use of model risk governance. Andrew Rogoyski, a member of the Technology Advisory Board and AI expert, 
joined the session and provided an external perspective. A number of other Board members also joined the session.

The committee was keen to understand how 
partnerships were used in the innovation ecosystem 
and encouraged management to consider the use of 
accelerator hubs and universities to support innovation 
initiatives. The committee considered the programme 
to encourage colleagues to bring forward potential 
future initiatives and discussed how capabilities could 
be enhanced to drive more innovation at all levels 
across the bank.

The committee requested that the SBC MI Report 
be enhanced with new metrics relating to technology, 
innovation and data to allow it to monitor progress.

The committee wanted to understand how payments 
initiatives progress and requested a future update on 
the underpinning payments technology architecture 
to understand risks and opportunities in this area.

The committee was keen to understand how 
improvements and benefits as a result of AI 
were being measured.

The committee considered the approach to AI 
in various jurisdictions and amongst regulators.

The committee emphasised the importance of 
management’s approach to AI being sufficiently 
customer focused to ensure stakeholder trust 
was maintained.

Enterprise

The committee received an update on NatWest Group’s Enterprise activity, including the strategy and partnership 
approach. The committee heard feedback from customers on the importance of the support provided to them by 
the accelerator hubs.

The committee discussed both the growth opportunity 
and challenges in relation to NatWest Group’s 
Enterprise ambitions.

The committee discussed the SME (small and medium-sized enterprises) banking market context and NatWest 
Group’s position. The session reflected on our broad proposition that enables us to serve all customers in this 
segment with distinctive elements, including FreeAgent, Mentor, and Enterprise support.

The committee discussed the changing competitive 
landscapes and the entrance of alternative finance 
providers to the sector and activities.

The update included a spotlight on the work undertaken internally and in partnership with Aston University 
to measure the impact and outcome of NatWest Group’s interventions on its Enterprise activity. The analysis 
demonstrated improved survivability and growth rates of those customers involved in accelerator hubs versus a 
control group. Professor Mark Hart (Enterprise Research Centre, Aston University) presented the findings of work to 
date and noted that the impact measurement results were interim and would continue to develop. He commended 
the results achieved given the external context of the business environment.

The committee was keen to understand how the 
accelerator hubs compared to other programmes 
across the industry and how they could be scaled 
without reducing impact to ensure greater support 
for customers.

The committee noted the innovative approach 
presented in relation to measuring impact, which 
should provide robust analysis and metrics upon 
which stakeholders could measure NatWest Group.

STRATEGIC REPORTFINANCIAL REVIEWGOVERNANCERISK AND CAPITAL MANAGEMENTFINANCIAL STATEMENTSADDITIONAL INFORMATIONNatWest Group 2023 Annual Report and AccountsCorporate governance continued

Theme

Principal areas of committee focus

Outcomes

Supporting 
long term 
value creation

The committee supported the Board in overseeing the initial work to reflect on the purpose and understand how 
this might evolve. This included consideration of the desktop research, and internal and external stakeholder 
perspectives. The majority of Board members joined the committee for these discussions. Sarah Gillard, the CEO 
of the Blueprint for Better Business, provided her perspectives following interviews with stakeholders and colleagues, 
and highlighted the opportunity to bring purpose further into the core of the business.

The committee noted that using ‘purpose in practice’ 
is essential and it was important to link purpose with 
long-term sustainable performance. The committee 
was keen to understand all stakeholders’ views, 
including investors.

126

The committee discussed the meaning of Sustainable Banking to ensure a common understanding of the importance 
of running a business that is capable of generating long term value for its stakeholders. The committee considered 
how medium to longer term priorities could be measured through financial and non-financial metrics.

Following the presentation of the impact measurement work being undertaken by Aston University, the committee 
received an update on the broader impact measurement work underway across the bank, the proposed new bank 
wide impact measurement framework, and planned next steps for 2024.

SBC considered NatWest Group’s 7th Annual Modern Slavery & Human Trafficking Statement. The committee 
was provided with a comprehensive update on Human Rights including progress made in 2023 and the plan 
for 2024, and the approach to the first disclosure of NatWest Group’s Salient Issues.

As a founding signatory of the UN Principles for Responsible Banking (PRB), the committee was provided 
an update against the major milestones in the 4 year PRB journey, which were achieved by September 2023.

The committee considered and provided advice to the Group Performance and Remuneration Committee 
on the setting and assessment of performance against people and culture, customer, purpose targets.

The committee agreed it should focus on medium 
to longer term priorities driving the bank as a 
sustainable business through a multi-stakeholder 
lens and requested the inclusion of relevant financial 
and non-financial metrics in the data provided 
to it in future.

The committee welcomed the experimentation 
underway in relation to impact measurement, 
and encouraged management to ensure the 
measurements were objective given customers’ 
multi-variable behaviour.

The committee recommended NatWest Group’s 
7th Annual Modern Slavery & Human Trafficking 
Statement to Board for approval. It noted the value 
of the Colleague Advisory Panel engagement which 
had resulted in the clarification of roles described.

The committee supported and recommended 
the publication of disclosure on Salient Human 
Right Issues to Board.

STRATEGIC REPORTFINANCIAL REVIEWGOVERNANCERISK AND CAPITAL MANAGEMENTFINANCIAL STATEMENTSADDITIONAL INFORMATIONNatWest Group 2023 Annual Report and AccountsDear Shareholder,

On behalf of the Board, I am pleased to present the 
remuneration report for 2023. This has been a year 
of significant change for the organisation, with a new 
Group Chief Executive Officer (Group CEO), Paul Thwaite, 
now confirmed in role on a permanent basis after an 
initial appointment in July for a period of 12 months, and 
an announcement of a new Chair, Rick Haythornthwaite, 
who will succeed Howard Davies from 15 April 2024.

Performance highlights for 2023
In an uncertain economic environment, NatWest 
Group has performed well in 2023 delivering an 
operating profit of £6.2 billion and a RoTE of 17.8%.

Our capital generation has remained strong and 
we continue to deliver returns and distributions to 
shareholders. In 2023 £3.6 billion of capital was 
returned to shareholders including a proposed 
final dividend of £1.0 billion.

Board changes and impact on remuneration
The committee has been heavily involved in guiding the 
Board and overseeing management activity with regard 
to performance and remuneration matters through this 
period of change. The decisions made during this transitional 
period, in the context of remuneration, are summarised on 
the following page.

Directors’ remuneration  
report

Letter from Lena Wilson, CBE,

Chair of the Group Performance and 
Remuneration Committee

127 Chair’s introduction

131 Remuneration at a glance

134 Wider workforce remuneration and 

the directors’ remuneration policy

141 The Annual remuneration report

127

Colleague highlights

January 2023
 – A cash payment of £1,000 (adjusted for local 
salary levels) was made to approximately 
60,000 colleagues.

 – We launched our new Partner Leave policies, 
which introduced significantly enhanced pay 
and leave for eligible colleagues.

February 2023
 – We announced our new Sharing in Success scheme 
for all colleagues, designed to reward One Bank 
behaviours and outcomes and align all colleagues 
across NatWest Group to our purpose and strategy.

April 2023
 – Nearly 90% of our junior UK colleagues (A and B 
grades) covered by our negotiated pay approach 
received a salary increase of at least 7%, with 
almost two-thirds receiving 8% or more, on top 
of the £1,000 payment in January. Salary ranges 
were also increased.

November 2023
 – We were certified as a Regional Living Wage 
Employer for our global operations by the 
Fair Wage Network.

December 2023
 – We announced Beyond, our changes to 

performance management for all colleagues, 
including the removal of performance ratings 
from 2024 onwards.

From April 2024 onwards
 – Nearly 95% of our junior UK colleagues (A and B 
grades) covered by our negotiated pay approach 
will receive a salary increase of at least 3.5%, with 
almost two-thirds receiving 5% or more. In addition, 
our UK starting salary will move to £23,500 per 
annum, an increase of 15% since September 2022.

 – Our first award under our Sharing in Success 

scheme will be awarded in May 2024, with a share 
award of £1,000 for all eligible employees (adjusted 
for local salary levels), subject to shareholder 
approval of the recommended dividend.

STRATEGIC REPORTFINANCIAL REVIEWGOVERNANCERISK AND CAPITAL MANAGEMENTFINANCIAL STATEMENTSADDITIONAL INFORMATIONNatWest Group 2023 Annual Report and AccountsDirectors’ remuneration report continued

Executive director changes
On 25 July 2023, Paul Thwaite was appointed as the Group 
CEO for an initial period of 12 months. The committee 
set Mr Thwaite’s annual base salary on original appointment 
at £1,050,000. Mr Thwaite has now been permanently 
appointed as Group CEO from 16 February 2024; details 
on pay for 2024 are on page 150. Mr Thwaite has been an 
active member of NatWest Group’s defined benefit pension 
scheme that was available to all employees recruited at the 
same time as him. Other elements of his fixed and variable 
pay are in line with the standard terms of our approved 
directors’ remuneration policy (the Policy). Mr Thwaite has 
confirmed that, following his permanent appointment to the 
role of Group CEO, he will become a deferred member of the 
defined benefit scheme as soon as reasonably practicable 
and can choose to join NatWest Group’s defined contribution 
pension arrangements. The committee agreed that his 2023 
variable pay awards would be pro-rated to reflect the time 
spent in his Group CEO role and in his previous role as CEO 
of the Commercial and Institutional business (Ring Fenced 
Bank). More details of Mr Thwaite’s remuneration 
arrangements are on page 141.

Alison Rose stepped down as Group CEO by mutual 
agreement with effect from 25 July 2023. In line with 
Ms Rose’s service agreement, she will continue to receive 
her fixed pay for her contractual notice period, which will 
end on 26 July 2024. In accordance with the terms of the 
Policy and our share plan rules, any awards due to vest 
after cessation of her employment on 26 July 2024 will lapse 
on that date. No bonus or variable remuneration will be paid 
to Ms Rose in respect of her service during 2023. Ms Rose’s 
shareholding requirement will continue to apply for a period 
of two years from the date of cessation of her employment. 
More details of payments made to and received by Ms Rose 
are on page 150 under ‘Payments for loss of office and 
payments to past directors’.

Joining arrangements for Rick Haythornthwaite
Mr Haythornthwaite joined the Board of NatWest Group as 
an independent non-executive director on 8 January 2024 
and following a handover period will take over as Chair 
on 15 April 2024, when Howard Davies will stand 
down from the Board. On assuming the role of Chair, 
Mr Haythornthwaite’s fee will be £775,000 p.a., which  
is the fee currently paid to Mr Davies.

Wider workforce
Following on from the extensive support provided in 2022 to help our 
colleagues with the cost of living, continued targeted action has been 
taken to help those colleagues most likely to be affected by the sudden 
spike in inflation. Payments of £1,000 (adjusted for local salary levels) 
were made in January 2023 to approximately 60,000 colleagues, with 
broad parts of the UK workforce receiving a further salary increase of 
at least 7% in April 2023. We will build on this in April 2024, continuing 
to target fixed pay spend to our A and B grade colleagues and further 
increasing our minimum rate of pay in the UK to £23,500 pro-rata. In 
December 2023, the committee agreed that no salary increases would 
apply from 1 April 2024 for the Group CEO, who had been appointed 
for an initial period of 12 months, and Group CFO. This compares to 
an average salary increase for the global workforce at 4%. Mr Thwaite 
has since been appointed permanently as Group CEO with effect from 
16 February 2024. Pay arrangements for the executive directors for 
the 2024 performance year are on page 150, including in respect of 
Mr Thwaite being appointed permanently as Group CEO.

Wider workforce considerations have remained a key focus of 
the committee throughout 2023. We believe it is imperative that 
we continue to monitor and discuss colleague sentiment with regard 
to both performance and pay matters, and I therefore attended the 
Colleague Advisory Panel (CAP) in May 2023 to discuss colleague 
remuneration and benefits, as well as our approach to executive pay 
and its link to our strategy and purpose. These ongoing two-way 
discussions with colleagues are a valuable tool to deepen our 
understanding of colleague views and also to explain the alignment 
between our executive director and wider workforce pay policies. 
More details of our work with the CAP are on page 136.

After good committee discussion on what would further drive 
individual and organisational performance, in late 2023 we announced 
Beyond – our changes to performance management for all colleagues, 
including the removal of performance ratings for 2024 and onwards 
and a changing approach to managing goals, feedback and pay.

NatWest Group has been an accredited Living Wage Employer in the 
UK since 2014 and sets pay levels above the real living wage (RLW) 
rates. In 2023, we were also pleased to be certified as a Regional Living 
Wage Employer for our global operations, recognising that our rates 
of pay for our colleagues outside the UK are at or above the living 
wage threshold as defined by the Fair Wage Network.

In last year’s report I announced our new Sharing in Success scheme 
for all colleagues. The scheme is intended to recognise One Bank 
behaviours, drive a performance culture with purpose-led outcomes 
and further align colleagues with our strategic direction. The scheme 
is a welcome addition to our employee value proposition, alongside 
broader policy enhancements, which will help in light of market 

128

Performance 
highlights

Income growth

12.13%

2022: 26.15%

Attributable profit

£4,394 million

2022: £3,340 million

RoTE

17.8%

2022: 12.3%

Climate and sustainable funding 
and financing(1)

£29.3 billion

2022: £24.5 billion

Shareholder returns through 
dividends and buybacks

£3.6 billion

2022: £5.1 billion

(1)  Cumulative contribution of £61.8 billion towards 
£100 billion between 1 July 2021 and the end 
of 2025 target.

STRATEGIC REPORTFINANCIAL REVIEWGOVERNANCERISK AND CAPITAL MANAGEMENTFINANCIAL STATEMENTSADDITIONAL INFORMATIONNatWest Group 2023 Annual Report and AccountsDirectors’ remuneration report continued

competition for talent. For 2023, we measured success based on financial performance, our 
approach to risk, helping our customers thrive, living up to our climate targets and ambitions, 
and delivering value for shareholders. Our first award under our Sharing in Success scheme 
will be awarded in May 2024, with a share award of £1,000 to all eligible employees 
(adjusted for local salary levels), subject to shareholder approval of the recommended 
dividend at the April 2024 Annual General Meeting (AGM). More details of our Sharing 
in Success scheme are on page 134.

I am also proud of our new Partner Leave policies launched in 2023 which support all eligible 
employees with significantly more time away from work to help their partner look after their 
new child. The policies introduce significantly enhanced pay and leave for eligible fathers and 
partners to share the caring responsibilities. The policy is open to both same-sex parents and 
heterosexual parents, ultimately championing the potential of both parents and promoting 
gender equality in the workplace. Colleague feedback has been overwhelmingly positive, 
with over 1,200 colleagues benefiting from the policy.

Financial wellbeing is vitally important, and colleagues are supported with access to pension 
and protection products, shopping discounts, as well as a comprehensive range of financial 
health initiatives. Over 20,000 colleagues contribute to our Sharesave scheme each month, 
which is available to approximately 97% of colleagues, with participants across the UK, 
Ireland, India and Poland. It provides an opportunity for colleagues to benefit from increases 
in the NatWest Group share price with limited risk, encouraging financial capability and 
aligning their interests with shareholders, and is particularly popular with colleagues at 
A-C grades. I am pleased that our 2023 Sharesave offer proved to be the most successful 
in recent memory, and this demonstrates colleagues are responding to our support for 
colleague share ownership and financial wellbeing.

Bonus pool for the wider workforce
The bonus pool is based on a balanced range of strategically important measures 
including; financial performance, customer outcomes, colleague experience and diversity, 
risk management, risk events and progress against our climate and purpose ambitions. 
The committee agreed a 2023 bonus pool of £356.0 million for those colleagues eligible 
to receive an award. This is around 3% lower than the 2022 bonus pool of £367.5 million, 
despite a larger bonus eligible headcount. The bonus pool outturn reflects the impact on 
shareholders this year due to missed guidance, despite increased group operating profit 
of 20.4% year-on-year.

Pay gap reporting
We are making good progress in building a diverse, equitable and inclusive workplace 
and the committee reviews gender and ethnicity pay gap metrics as part of the process. 
This is the sixth year we have published ethnicity pay gap information on a voluntary basis.

Following our approach last year, we disaggregated our ethnicity pay gaps to compare 
Black, Asian, mixed and multiple and ethnic minority average hourly pay to that of White 
colleagues. We are confident that our colleagues are paid fairly, and our policies and 
processes are kept under review to make sure this continues to be the case. You can  
find full details of our pay gap reporting in the Strategic report and on natwestgroup.com.

Individual pay adjustments
In 2023, we concluded the accountability review into the events that led to the breaches of 
the Money Laundering Regulations 2007. None of the individuals in scope were found to be 
accountable on an individual level, but we recognise that the issues represent a collective 
failure. Colleagues who were bonus eligible in 2021 were impacted by a reduction in the 

129

bonus pool when the fine was handed down, likewise the relevant senior executive 
committee members had their awards reduced to reflect the bonus pool adjustment. No 
further adjustment was deemed necessary for these individuals. However, the committee 
determined that similar adjustments should be made to ten ex-colleagues who were not 
impacted by the adjustments made in 2021 as they had left the bank. Further details are 
provided on page 137.

Remuneration outcomes for 2023
The assessment of performance against their annual bonus scorecards resulted in a scorecard 
outcome of 53.6% for Mr Thwaite and 52.3% for Ms Murray, including the impact of 
downwards risk modifiers to reflect risk performance against core goals, balanced by strong 
leadership behaviours. Mr Thwaite received a separate discretionary award in respect of the 
portion of 2023 when he was CEO of the Commercial & Institutional franchise. Further details 
of this award are not included within this report as it does not relate to his time as an executive 
director. The committee considered the outcomes for Mr Thwaite and Ms Murray to be a fair 
reflection of performance and felt no further discretionary adjustments were required.

Performance measures

Weighted outcome

Financial (60%)

25.2% out of 60%

Return on Tangible Equity (30%)

Income growth (10%)

Cost reduction (10%)

Medium-term capital target (10%)

Strategic (35%)

25.1% out of 35%

Climate (10%)

Customer (10%)

Purpose, culture and people (10%)

Enterprise and capability (5%)

Personal (5%)

Group CEO personal performance

Group CFO personal performance

Post application of risk modifier (0-100%)

CEO Outcome

CFO Outcome

14.2%

3.2%

2.8%

5.0%

7.8%

4.8%

8.3%

4.2%

4.0%

2.5%

53.6%

52.3%

Grant of 2024 Restricted Share Plan (RSP)
The committee also approved that RSP awards for Mr Thwaite and Ms Murray would be 
granted at maximum as satisfactory performance had been achieved over the year prior to 
award. The vesting of the RSP awards will be subject to assessment against pre-determined 
criteria that consider whether sustainable performance has been delivered over the three 
years after grant. Full details of the annual bonus and RSP performance assessments can 
be found on pages 143 and 148.

STRATEGIC REPORTFINANCIAL REVIEWGOVERNANCERISK AND CAPITAL MANAGEMENTFINANCIAL STATEMENTSADDITIONAL INFORMATIONNatWest Group 2023 Annual Report and AccountsDirectors’ remuneration report continued

Vesting of long-term incentive (LTI) awards granted in 2021
LTI awards were granted to Mr Thwaite and Ms Murray in March 2021. Prior to the awards being 
granted to Mr Thwaite and Ms Murray, reductions of 55.2% and 54.5% respectively were applied to 
the maximum award as a result of the pre-grant performance assessment over 2020. In December 
2023, we considered whether anything had come to light since the grant which would change our 
original view of performance. Based on the pre-vest assessment, the committee concluded that 
there had been no material deterioration in financial, customer, risk, culture or purpose-linked 
performance since grant. Therefore, a sustainable level of performance had been achieved over 
the period and no further adjustments were necessary under the pre-vest test. The committee also 
considered carefully whether any windfall gain had taken place in relation to the grant in 2021 and 
determined that no adjustment should be made, noting in particular that there had been no material 
fall in share price compared to the prior year grant and pre COVID-19 level. The share price used 
to determine the number of shares subject to the award was in fact 9.7% higher on a like-for-like 
basis relative to the prior year grant and 18.8% lower relative to the level pre COVID-19. It was 
noted that both these figures are less than 20%, the level above which further consideration 
would typically be given to an adjustment. Further details of the performance assessment 
and consideration of windfall gains can be found on page 147.

Implementation of the Policy for 2024
Under our Policy, annual bonus awards, with formulaic weighted measures and purpose-led 
targets, are complemented by RSP awards that support longer-term performance and shareholder 
alignment. This construct provides restrained pay outcomes, alignment between the interest of our 
executive directors and shareholders and incentivises sound risk management.

In December 2023, the committee agreed that no salary increases would apply from 1 April 2024 
for the Group CEO, who had been appointed for an initial period of 12 months, and Group CFO. 
This compares to an average salary increase for the global workforce at 4%. The maximum bonus 
opportunity and RSP awards for executive directors in 2024 remains unchanged at 100% of salary 
and 150% of salary respectively. The committee reviewed the 2024 performance measures for 
annual bonus awards and the underpin criteria for RSP awards, as detailed later in this report, 
which remain unchanged and continue to align with our purpose-led strategy.

Mr Thwaite has subsequently been permanently appointed as Group CEO and the committee 
has reviewed his remuneration arrangements in accordance with the Policy. With effect from 
16 February 2024 his base salary will be £1,155,660 per annum, an increase of 10% from his 
current salary of £1,050,000 per annum which was set at the time of his appointment on 26 July 
2023 for an initial period of 12 months. His fixed share allowance will continue to be set at 100% 
of salary and he will also receive standard benefit funding of £26,250 per annum and standard 
pension funding of 10% of his salary. This sets Mr Thwaite’s fixed pay at the same level as the 
fixed pay previously paid for the Group CEO role prior to his appointment in July 2023.

The committee noted that pay of our executive directors continues to remain below the target 
total compensation opportunity of other major UK banks. The committee remains very aware 
of the importance of recognising good performance and the need to attract and retain highly 
talented colleagues.

New Employee Share Plan
At the 2024 AGM we will seek approval for the NatWest Group plc 2024 Employee Share Plan. 
This will replace, and largely replicates, the 2014 Employee Share Plan, which expires in June 2024. 
It is intended that all non-tax advantaged share awards granted after March 2024 to both senior 
executives and colleagues, including annual bonus and RSP awards, will be granted under the new 
2024 Employee Share Plan. Further details, including a plan summary, will be set out in the Letter 
to Shareholders.

130

Looking ahead
How we reward and support colleagues remains of critical importance. 
Our approach is to reward colleagues in a fair, sustainable and transparent 
way. In 2024 we will roll out Beyond, our redesigned approach for performance 
management including goals, feedback and pay. This will aim to drive a culture 
of high performance and create a better experience for colleagues. In 2024, 
the committee will also continue focus and discussion on wider workforce 
considerations.

Our executive directors’ strategic scorecard for the last ten years has evolved 
to include people, climate, enterprise and financial capability measures alongside 
established focus on delivering against key financial metrics and customer 
and risk considerations. ESG metrics are also a core part of our performance 
assessment for our bonus pool. We will continue to use ESG performance 
metrics for variable pay that are demanding, quantifiable and clearly linked 
to our strategy.

During 2023 we engaged with the current Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) 
and Prudential Regulation Authority (PRA) ‘Diversity and Inclusion’ consultation 
and will continue to contribute to the important discussion on how the pace of 
meaningful change in diversity and inclusion can be accelerated in financial 
services. In October 2023 the FCA/PRA published a revised policy statement 
announcing the removal of the variable pay cap for UK banks. NatWest Group 
has operated a variable pay cap of one times fixed pay since the regulations 
came into force in 2014. Whilst we do not anticipate making any immediate 
changes to our existing construct, we have increased our normal maximum 
variable to fixed pay ratio to 2:1, although this is expected to be used on a 
gradual and targeted basis. This should align NatWest more closely to peers, 
ensuring we have the flexibility to remain competitive. No changes are being 
made to the executive directors whose remuneration will be determined based 
on the terms of our Policy, approved at the 2022 AGM.

The three-year term of our current Policy comes to an end at the 2025 AGM. 
The committee will review our current approach and consider how it should 
evolve considering the need to have a market competitive pay to retain and 
attract talent, and maintain strong alignment with shareholders’ interests. 
The committee will also consider whether any changes are required to our 
approach noting the removal of the variable pay cap. We will engage with our 
large shareholders and proxy advisory bodies to understand their perspectives 
prior to bringing our new Policy for shareholder approval at the 2025 AGM.

I hope this letter and the information that follows will explain our approach in 
2023 to remuneration. I am grateful for the support of our stakeholders during 
this process and would like to thank my fellow committee members for their 
valuable contribution.

Lena Wilson, CBE
Chair of the Group Performance and Remuneration Committee

15 February 2024

STRATEGIC REPORTFINANCIAL REVIEWGOVERNANCERISK AND CAPITAL MANAGEMENTFINANCIAL STATEMENTSADDITIONAL INFORMATIONNatWest Group 2023 Annual Report and Accounts131

Remuneration at a glance

Executive director remuneration outcomes (£000’s)

Paul Thwaite

Fixed Pay  Bonus

RSP/LTI

Sharesave

Pay outcomes

Awarded for 2023

Single figure 2023

951

951

245

245

1,216

508

2

2

Fixed pay

Annual Bonus

RSP award

2021 LTI

 Sharesave

Total

2,414

1,706

Alison Rose

Fixed Pay

1,452

1,452

Total

1,452

1,452

Katie Murray

Fixed Pay Bonus

RSP/LTI

Sharesave

1,673

1,673

409

409

1,173

859

3

3

Total

3,258

2,944

Fixed Pay (£000’s)

2023 Annual Bonus

2023 RSP pre-grant

2021 LTI vesting

Paul 
Thwaite 951

Post risk modiﬁer

Scorecard assessment

25.2% 
42% 
of max

25.1%
72% 
of max

4.0% 
80% 
of max

53.6% of max

54.3% of max

150%

of salary (no adjustment 
at pre-grant)

Maximum

60%

35%

5%

Financial

Strategic

Personal

Katie 
Murray

1,673

Post risk modiﬁer

Scorecard assessment

25.2% 
42% 
of max

25.1%
72% 
of max

2.5% 
50% 
of max

52.3% of max

52.8% of max

150%

of salary (no adjustment 
at pre-grant)

Amounts for 
Mr Thwaite based 
on fixed pay since 
appointment as Group 
CEO on 25 July 2023.

Maximum

60%

35%

5%

Financial

Strategic

Personal

The maximum bonus award was based on 100% of salary earned over 2023. 
This equated to £458k for Mr Thwaite and £782k for Ms Murray. The assessment 
of performance against their annual bonus scorecards resulted in a scorecard 
outcome of 53.6% of maximum for Mr Thwaite and 52.3% of maximum for 
Ms Murray. A downwards risk modifier of 0.71% applied for the Group CEO and 
0.46% for the Group CFO to reflect risk performance against core goals, balanced 
by strong leadership behaviours. The committee considered the outcomes for 
Mr Thwaite and Ms Murray to be a fair reflection of performance and felt no 
further discretionary adjustments were required.

Award levels reflect Group 
and individual performance 
in 2023 and will be subject 
to a further assessment 
pre vesting. Awards are 
delivered in shares to align 
with long-term performance 
and shareholders. See page 
148 for further details 
of the pre-grant and 
pre-vest performance.

£900k

44.8% of 
max, £403k 

44.8% of 
max, £403k 

£508k 

Maximum

Following 
pre-grant test

Following 
pre-vest test

Vesting value 
(including share 
price movement)

£1,500k

45.5% of 
max, £682k 

45.5% of 
max, £682k 

£859k 

Maximum

Following 
pre-grant test

Following 
pre-vest test

Vesting value 
(including share 
price movement)

Prior to the awards being granted to the Group CEO 
and Group CFO, reductions of 55.2% and 54.5% 
respectively were applied as a result of the pre-grant 
performance assessment over 2020. In December 2023, 
after considering whether anything had come to light 
since the grant which would change the original view 
of performance, no adjustment was proposed. Vesting 
value reflects an increase in share price over the period.

Shareholding requirements for executive directors as at 31 December 2023

Paul Thwaite

128%

119%

Katie Murray

307%

0

100

200

300

209%

400

500

600

700

800

900

Shares held outright and performance-assessed unvested share awards that count towards requirement (net of tax)

Unvested share awards still subject to performance assessment (do not count towards requirement)

Shareholding requirement

STRATEGIC REPORTFINANCIAL REVIEWGOVERNANCERISK AND CAPITAL MANAGEMENTFINANCIAL STATEMENTSADDITIONAL INFORMATIONNatWest Group 2023 Annual Report and Accounts 
 
 
 
 
 
Remuneration at a glance continued

Summary of Policy and implementation in 2024

132

+1

+2

+3 

+4

+5

Years
+6

+7

+8

+9

+10

Summary of Policy and Implementation in 2024

Key 
elements

Performance 
year

Variable 
pay
grant
year

Salary

Paid over 
performance year

Pension

Benefits

Fixed 
Share 
Allowance

Paid over 
performance year

Paid over 
performance year

20%

20%

20%

20%

20%

Paid over 
performance year

Released in equal tranches over a five-year period

Bonus

Performance  
year

50% cash

50% shares

50%

Paid 
upfront

Share element subject to  
12 months retention period

Restricted 
Share Plan

Share 
ownership

Malus and 
clawback

Granted provided 
satisfactory 
performance 
over year

After three years, 
performance assessed 
against underpin criteria

20%

20%

20%

Vests pro-rata 
over years 3-7, 
subject to 
12 months’ 
retention period

20%

20%

20%

20%

20%

20%

20%

Ongoing

Subject to malus prior to vesting 
Subject to clawbacks for seven years from grant

Clawback extended to 10 years 
in certain circumstances

Any increase will not normally be greater than the average salary increase for NatWest Group employees over the period 
of the policy. Other than in exceptional circumstances, the salary of an executive director will not increase by more than 
15% over the course of this policy.
Implementation in 2024: No salary increase is proposed for the Group CFO for 2024. The Group CEO’s salary will 
increase with effect from 16 February 2024 as result of his permanent appointment. 
Group CEO: £1,155,660 Group CFO:  £787,950

Pension contribution, aligned to the wider workforce, at 10% of base salary.
Mr Thwaite has been a member of NatWest Group’s defined benefit pension scheme. He is entitled to a pension 
allowance of 10% of salary. He exchanged this and a portion of his other fixed pay for participating in the defined benefit 
scheme. Mr Thwaite will become a deferred member of the defined benefit scheme as soon as reasonably practicable 
and can choose to join NatWest Group’s defined contribution pension arrangements.

£26,250 standard benefit funding.
Other benefits can be paid within the terms of the Policy.

100% of base salary.
Shares released over five years.
Payable broadly in arrears over the performance year, currently in four instalments per year.

Maximum award: 100% of salary.

Operation: Awarded upfront with a 50/50 split of cash and shares.
Annual bonus assessed based on a weighted scorecard of strategic measures, as set out below.
A downwards risk modifier also applies.

Financial metrics
Group RoTE
Group underlying income excl. notable items
Group operating expenses excl.  
litigation and conduct costs
CET1 

Total

Maximum award: 150% of salary

Weighting Non-financial metrics
Climate
30%
Customer
10%
Purpose, culture and people
10%

10%

60%

Enterprise and capability
Personal
Total

Weighting
10%
10%
10%

5%
5%
40%

Operation: Delivered in shares, vesting in equal tranches over years three to seven with a 12-month holding 
period following each vesting.

Metrics: RSP awards subject to satisfactory performance before grant and an underpin after three years to 
check performance has been sustainable.
CEO: 500% of salary CFO: 300% of salary

On leaving, requirement to hold shares of a value equal to the lower of the shareholding requirement immediately 
prior to departure or the actual shareholding on departure, for a period of two years.

Any variable pay awarded is subject to malus prior to vesting and clawback for seven years from grant, 
extended to ten years in certain circumstances. See page 137 for further details.

STRATEGIC REPORTFINANCIAL REVIEWGOVERNANCERISK AND CAPITAL MANAGEMENTFINANCIAL STATEMENTSADDITIONAL INFORMATIONNatWest Group 2023 Annual Report and Accounts