26 

Strategic report

Risk management continued

Principal risks

Link to

See page 5

MAP 1: Client sales and marketing

Increased risk

MAP 2: Consumer sales and marketing

Static risk

MAP 3: Cost of food

MAP 4: In-unit costs

MAP 5: Above-unit overheads

Decreasing risk

New risk

Risk and description

Climate change and sustainability

Mitigation

Climate change

2023: 

 2022: 

Strategic pillar link: People/Performance/Purpose

The impact of climate change on the environment may lead to 
issues around food sourcing and supply chain continuity in some 
of the Group’s markets. Issues in these areas could affect the 
availability of some food products, and potentially may lead to 
food cost inflation.

Social and ethical standards

2023: 

 2022: 

Strategic pillar link: People/Performance/Purpose

Compass relies on its people to deliver great service to its clients 
and consumers and recognises that the welfare of employees is 
the foundation of its culture and business. Compass remains 
vigilant in upholding high standards of business ethics with 
regard to human rights and social equality.

Health and safety

Health and safety

2023: 

 2022: 

Strategic pillar link: People/Performance/Purpose

Compass feeds millions of consumers every day and its companies 
employ hundreds of thousands of people around the world.  
For that reason, setting the highest standards for food hygiene and 
safety is paramount.

Health and safety breaches could cause serious business 
interruption and could result in criminal and civil prosecution, 
increased costs and potential damage to the Company’s reputation.

The Group continues to focus on evaluating its exposure to climate 
change and seeks to identify potential future issues early so that 
sourcing and operations can be adjusted, and menus adapted 
appropriately. Work continues with clients and suppliers to propose, 
execute and measure solutions to support their efforts and those of 
Compass in reducing greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions. Compass 
has targeted climate net zero GHG emissions by 2050 alongside 
validated science-based targets to reduce emissions by 2030 
(from a 2019 base year) in line with the 2015 Paris Agreement. 

To enhance its ability to counter risks to its businesses and supply 
chains from modern slavery, Compass has focused on the areas 
where its human rights strategy can have the greatest impact. 
This has been done through the Human Rights Working Group, 
the engagement of external specialist advisers, the Group’s modern 
slavery e-learning tools and ongoing work to strengthen and improve 
the Group’s human rights due diligence through supplier evaluation 
and labour agency reviews.

Management meetings throughout the Group feature a health and 
safety update as one of their first substantive agenda items.

Health and safety improvement KPIs are included in the annual 
bonus plans for each of the businesses’ management teams. The 
Group has policies, procedures and standards in place to ensure 
compliance with legal obligations and industry standards.

The safety and quality of the Group’s global supply chain are assured 
through compliance with a robust set of standards which are 
regularly reviewed, audited and upgraded as necessary to improve 
supply chain visibility and product integrity.

Further mitigations in place include our Global Operational Safety 
Standards, Global Supply Chain Integrity Standards and a Global 
Allergen Management Plan. 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Risk and description

Health and safety continued

Pandemic 

2023: 

 2022: 

Strategic pillar link: People/Performance/Purpose

The Group’s operations were significantly disrupted due to the 
global COVID-19 pandemic and associated containment measures. 
Compass has recovered well and learned from the pandemic, and 
as a result this risk has declined. Further outbreaks of the virus, or 
another pandemic, could cause further business risk.

People

Recruitment

2023: 

 2022: 

Strategic pillar link: People/Performance

Failure to attract and recruit people with the right skills at all levels 
could limit the success of the Group.

The Group faces resourcing challenges in some of its businesses in 
some key positions due to labour shortages and a lack of industry 
experience amongst candidates, appropriately qualified people, 
and the seasonal nature of some of Compass’ businesses.

Retention and motivation

2023: 

 2022: 

Strategic pillar link: People/Performance

Retaining and motivating the best people with the right skills,  
at all levels of the organisation, is key to the long-term success  
of the Group.

Changes to economic conditions may increase the risk of attrition 
at all levels of the organisation.

Potential business closures resulting from further COVID-19 or 
other pandemic-related lockdowns or other social distancing 
controls could significantly impact the Group’s workforce in 
affected regions.

Compass Group PLC  Annual Report 2023

  27

Mitigation

Operations and working practices have been adjusted to retain  
the skills and experience of colleagues and provide flexibility in the 
event of another pandemic which leads to a resumption of 
containment measures.

To protect the Group’s employees, clients and consumers, 
enhanced health and safety protocols and personal protective 
equipment requirements and guidelines, hygiene requirements and 
site layout solutions developed in consultation with expert advisers 
and with our clients, have been adopted.

Careful management of the Group’s cost base and robust measures 
to protect the Group’s liquidity position have ensured that we remain 
resilient and well placed to take advantage of appropriate 
opportunities as they arise.

Robust incident management and business continuity plans are in 
place and are monitored for effectiveness and regularly reviewed to 
ensure they reflect evolving best practice. 

The Group aims to mitigate this risk by efficient and time-critical 
resource management, mobilisation of existing experienced 
employees within the organisation, improved use of technology such 
as apps and social media, targeted recruitment, and training and 
development programmes.

The Group has established tools, training, development, 
performance management and reward programmes to help retain, 
develop, motivate and support its people.

The Group has a number of well-established initiatives which help to 
monitor levels of engagement and to respond to the needs of 
employees. Specifically, Compass has increased its local focus and 
employee support on mental health awareness, stress management 
and resilience to better equip its people in times of uncertainty 
and change.

To protect its workforce, Compass applies measures available  
to it to retain as many of its skilled workforce as possible, 
including redeployment.

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
28 

Strategic report

Risk management continued

Risk and description

Clients and consumers

Sales and retention

2023: 

 2022: 

Strategic pillar link: People/Performance

Mitigation

Compass has strategies based on quality, value and innovation that 
strengthen its long-term relationships with its clients and consumers.

The Group’s business model is structured so that it is not reliant on one 
particular sector or group of clients.

The Group’s businesses rely on securing and retaining a diverse 
range of clients.

The potential loss of material client contracts in an increasingly 
competitive market is a risk to Compass’ businesses.

Technology is used to support the delivery of efficiencies and to 
contribute to growth through, for example, cashierless and cashless 
payment systems and the use of artificial intelligence. This is beneficial 
to clients and consumers and positively impacts retention and new 
business wins.

Service delivery, contractual compliance and retention

2023: 

 2022: 

Strategic pillar link: People/Performance

The Group’s operating companies contract with a large number of 
clients. Failure to comply with the terms of these contracts, 
including proper delivery of services, could lead to the loss of 
business and/or claims.

Competition and disruption

2023: 

 2022: 

Strategic pillar link: Performance

The Group operates in a highly competitive marketplace. The 
levels of concentration and outsource penetration vary by country 
and by sector. Some markets are relatively concentrated with two 
or three key players. Others are highly fragmented and offer 
significant opportunities for consolidation and penetration of the 
self-operated market.

Ongoing structural changes in working and education 
environments may reduce the number of people in offices and 
educational establishments.

The emergence of new industry participants and traditional 
competition using disruptive technology could adversely affect the 
Group’s businesses. 

Economic and political environment

Geopolitical

2023: 

 2022: 

Strategic pillar link: People/Performance/Purpose

The escalating tensions in the Middle East and the ongoing 
Russia-Ukraine conflict have elevated geopolitical risks, 
heightened national security threats to countries in those regions 
and disrupted the global energy market, which have contributed to 
cost inflation, and economic and cyber-security risks. 

Compass continues to focus on financial security and safety. In today’s 
environment, these are key strengths for clients.

Contracts may be renegotiated. There is continued focus on retention 
and new sales and the use of technology and innovative client solutions.

Processes are in place to ensure that the services delivered to clients 
are of an appropriate standard and comply with the required 
contract terms and conditions.

Compass aims to minimise this risk and to respond to new market 
and consumer food services trends by continuing to promote its 
differentiated propositions and by focusing on its strengths, such as 
flexibility in its cost base, quality, value of service and innovation.

Harnessing knowledge and experience and continuing to invest in 
technology helps to counter any potential risk and to capitalise on 
the opportunities created.

Compass continues to evolve its offer to increase participation rates 
and service sites of different sizes.

The businesses are able to adapt to changes in the service provision 
environment and where possible take advantage of changes in the 
market. By leveraging its expertise and technology Compass is able 
to differentiate its food services offer. For example, investments 
in SmartQ and EAT Club have given Compass platforms that allow 
it to pivot food operations according to changing client and 
consumer demands.

As a Group, Compass is monitoring the situation closely with 
the safety and security of the Group’s employees front of mind. 

Whilst we do not operate in Israel or the Palestinian territories,  
we do have interests elsewhere in the Middle East. Last year, 
Compass permanently exited the Russian market and moved 
away from all known Russian suppliers.

The Group continues to manage inflation risks by sharing best 
practice across the Group to drive greater efficiencies through  
menu management, supplier rationalisation, labour scheduling,  
and productivity through the increased use of technology.  
Cost indexation in our contracts also gives Compass the  
contractual right to review pricing with clients.

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Risk and description

Mitigation

Economic and political environment continued

Compass Group PLC  Annual Report 2023

  29

Economy

2023: 

 2022: 

Strategic pillar link: People/Performance/Purpose

Sectors of Compass’ business could be susceptible to adverse 
changes in economic conditions and employment levels.

Continued worsening of economic conditions has increased the 
risk to the businesses in some jurisdictions.

Cost inflation

2023: 

 2022: 

Strategic pillar link: People/Performance

At Compass, our objective is always to deliver the right level of 
service in the most efficient way. An increase in the cost of labour, 
for example, minimum wages in the US and UK, or the cost of food, 
could constitute a risk to our ability to do this.

Political instability

2023: 

 2022: 

Strategic pillar link: People/Performance/Purpose

Compass is a global business operating in countries and regions with 
diverse economic and political conditions. Operations and earnings 
may be adversely affected by political or economic instability.

Compliance and fraud

Compliance and fraud

2023: 

 2022: 

Strategic pillar link: People/Performance/Purpose

Ineffective compliance management with increasingly complex 
laws and regulations, or evidence of fraud, bribery and corruption, 
anti-competitive behaviour or other serious misconduct, could 
have an adverse effect on the Group’s reputation or on 
its performance and/or lead to a reduction in the Company’s share 
price and/or a loss of business. It could also lead to criminal 
proceedings, sanctions or other litigation being brought against the 
Company, its directors or executive management.

Companies face increased risk of fraud, bribery and corruption, 
anti-competitive behaviour and other serious misconduct both 
internally and externally, due to financial and/or performance 
pressures and significant changes to ways of working.

As part of Compass’ strategy, the Group is focused on productivity 
and purchasing initiatives which help to manage the cost base. 
During adverse conditions, if necessary actions can be taken to 
reduce labour costs and action plans have been implemented to 
protect profitability and liquidity.

As part of the MAP framework, and by sharing best practice across 
the Group, Compass seeks to manage inflation by continuing to drive 
greater efficiencies through menu management, supplier 
rationalisation, labour scheduling and productivity, and through the 
increased use of technology. Cost indexation in our contracts also 
gives Compass the contractual right to review pricing with clients.

Cost action programmes and the continued oversight of supply chain 
costs are also mitigating the risks in this area.

The Group remains alert to future changes presented by emerging 
markets or fledgling administrations and tries to anticipate and 
contribute to important changes in public policy.

Where possible, Compass seeks to absorb price increases through 
operational efficiencies. Cost indexation in our contracts also gives 
Compass the contractual right to review pricing with clients.

Recruitment and retention strategies are also in place to mitigate 
any impact on labour supply.

Compass remains vigilant to changes in political stability in local 
jurisdictions and retains the flexibility to take appropriate mitigating 
action as necessary.

The Group’s zero-tolerance-based Code of Business Conduct 
(CBC) and Business Integrity Policy (BIP), govern all aspects of its 
relationships with its stakeholders. Compass operates a continuous 
improvement process as part of the Group’s Ethics and Integrity 
programme to enhance and strengthen its culture of integrity, 
sharing insights and emerging trends between regional and country 
management teams.

The Group undertakes a robust risk management assessment that 
helps identify major risks and ensures the internal control framework 
remains effective through regular monitoring, testing and review. 
Regulatory and compliance risks are included in this process to 
enable visibility and planning to address them.

A strong culture of integrity is promoted through Compass’ Ethics 
and Integrity programme and its independently operated Speak Up, 
We’re Listening helpline and web platform. All alleged breaches of 
the CBC and the BIP, including any allegations of fraud, bribery and 
corruption, anti-competitive behaviour and other serious misconduct, 
are followed up, investigated and dealt with appropriately.

Regulation and compliance risk is also considered as part of the 
annual business planning process.

Our Ethics and Integrity e-learning platform provides increased 
engagement on key regulatory and ethics and integrity topics for 
Group employees and clear communication of standards and 
expectations. Internal Audit regularly reviews internal controls and 
analyses financial transactions to mitigate the risk of error or fraud.

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
30 

Strategic report

Risk management continued

Risk and description

Compliance and fraud continued

International tax

2023: 

 2022: 

Strategic pillar link: Performance

The international corporate tax environment remains complex and 
the sustained increase in audit activity from tax authorities means 
that the potential for tax uncertainties and disputes remains high. 
The need to raise public finances is likely to cause governments to 
consider increases in tax rates and other potentially adverse 
changes in tax legislation, and to renew focus on compliance for 
large corporates.

Information systems, technology and cyber

2023: 

 2022: 

Strategic pillar link: People/Performance

The digital world creates increasing risk for global businesses 
including, but not limited to, technology failures, loss of 
confidential data, data privacy breaches and damage to brand 
reputation through, for example, the increased threat of cyber-
attacks, and use and instantaneous nature of social media.

Disruption caused by the failure of key software applications, 
security controls, or underlying infrastructure, or disruption caused 
by cyber-attacks could impact day-to-day operations and 
management decision-making, or result in a regulatory fine or 
other sanction and/or third party claims.

The incidence of sophisticated phishing and malware attacks 
(including ransomware) on businesses is rising with an increase in 
the number of companies suffering operational disruption, 
unauthorised access to and/or loss of data, including confidential, 
commercial, and personal identifiable data.

A combination of increased geopolitical, economic instability and 
accessibility of sophisticated artificial intelligence (AI) enabled 
tools and techniques have contributed to a significant increase in 
the risk of phishing and malware attacks including ransomware 
across all industries. The democratisation of generative AI has 
given widespread access to powerful online AI services for content 
creation. This opportunity presents several risks including to data 
privacy and confidentiality.

Mitigation

Compass seeks to plan and manage its tax affairs efficiently in the 
jurisdictions in which the Group’s businesses operate. Compass acts 
in compliance with relevant laws and disclosure requirements.

Compass manages and controls these risks in a proactive manner 
and in doing so exercises judgement and seeks appropriate advice 
from reputable professional firms. Tax risks are assessed as part of 
the Group’s formal governance process and are reviewed by the 
Board and the Audit Committee on a regular basis.

The Group proactively manages its tax arrangements in accordance 
with various government-led initiatives and ensures compliance is 
achieved by putting robust processes and controls in place, 
including third-party support and review.

Compass continually assesses its cyber risk, and monitors and 
manages the maturity of its enterprise infrastructure, platforms and 
security controls to ensure that it can effectively prevent, detect and 
respond to current or future cyber-attacks.

Appropriate crisis management procedures are in place to manage 
issues in the event of a cyber incident occurring. Our response 
protocols are supported by using industry-standard tooling, 
experienced IT and security professionals, and external partners to 
mitigate potential impacts. Assurance is provided by regular 
compliance monitoring of our key information technology control 
framework, which is designed to prevent and defend against cyber 
threats and other risks.

The Group relies on a variety of digital and technology platforms to 
manage and deliver services and communicate with its people, 
clients, consumers and suppliers. Compass’ decentralised model 
and infrastructure help to mitigate propagation of attacks across 
the Group’s technology estate.

Compass continues to be focused on the need to maximise the 
effectiveness of its information systems and technology as a 
business enabler. As such, the Group continues to invest in 
technology and specialist resources in order to further strengthen 
its platforms, cyber-security defences and controls to prevent and 
detect cyber threats and respond to attacks in order to mitigate the 
risk of operational disruption, technology failure, unauthorised 
access to and/or loss of data.

The Group has implemented configuration changes designed 
to block phishing emails, increased awareness campaigns, 
and provided cyber training to help employees identify these 
kind of attacks.

In response to the potential risks posed by AI, Compass has 
implemented principle-based rules that apply globally, and we are 
currently developing a framework for the responsible use of AI in all 
our markets.

Information systems, technology and cyber-security controls and 
risks are assessed as part of the Group’s formal governance 
processes and are reviewed by the Audit Committee on a 
regular basis.

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Compass Group PLC  Annual Report 2023

  31

Viability statement

In accordance with provision 31 of the UK Corporate Governance 
Code 2018, the directors have assessed the Group’s viability, 
considering its current trading performance, financial position, 
financing, strategic plan and principal risks.

The Group’s long-term (A/A2) and short-term (A-1/P-1) credit 
ratings and well-established presence in the debt capital markets 
provide the directors with confidence that the Group could 
refinance the maturing debt and facilities as required.

Business prospects

The Board has considered the long-term prospects of the Group 
based on its business model, strategy and markets as set out on 
pages 2 to 11. Compass is a global leader in food services and the 
geographical and sector diversification of the Group’s operations 
helps to minimise the risk of serious business interruption or 
catastrophic damage to its reputation. The Group’s business model 
is structured so that it is not reliant on one group of clients or sector. 
The Group’s largest client constitutes 2% of underlying revenue, 
with the top 10 clients accounting for 9%.

Assessment

The directors have determined that a three-year period to 
30 September 2026 is an appropriate period over which to provide the 
Group‘s viability statement on the basis that it is the period reviewed 
by the Board in its strategic planning process and is aligned to the 
typical length of the Group’s contracts (three to five years). The 
directors believe that this presents the Board and readers of the 
Annual Report with a reasonable degree of confidence over this 
longer-term outlook.

The Board’s assessment of the Group’s viability comprises the 
following business processes:

 – Risk management process: The Group operates a formal risk 

management process under which the Group’s principal risks are 
assessed and prioritised biannually. Risks and corresponding 
controls and mitigations are reviewed by country and regional 
leadership teams on an ongoing basis. The findings of the risk 
reviews, including the principal risks and any developing trends, 
are reported to the Board twice a year. In making its viability 
assessment, the Board carried out a robust evaluation of the 
emerging and principal risks facing the Group (see pages 26  
to 30), including those that would threaten its business model, 
future performance, solvency or liquidity.

 – Strategic planning process: The Board considers annually a 

three-year, bottom-up strategic plan and a more detailed budget 
which is prepared for the following year. Current-year business 
performance is reforecast during the year. The plan is reviewed 
and approved by the Board, with involvement throughout from the 
Group CEO, Group CFO and the Executive team. The Board’s role 
is to consider the appropriateness of key assumptions, taking 
into account the external environment and business strategy. 
The most recent three-year plan was approved by the Board 
in November 2023.

 – Headroom and covenant analysis: At 30 September 2023, the 

Group had £2.0 billion of undrawn committed bank facilities, which 
mature in August 2026, and £0.7 billion of cash net of overdrafts. 
Term debt maturities in the three-year period total £1.8 billion, of 
which £0.3 billion was pre-financed with bond issues in September 
2022. Based on the forecast cash flows in the strategic plan, the 
remainder of the maturing debt is expected to be refinanced during 
the three-year period to 30 September 2026 to maintain the 
desired level of headroom. The £2.0 billion of committed bank 
facilities are expected to be refinanced during 2025.  

A reverse stress test has been undertaken to identify the 
circumstances that would cause the Group to breach the 
headroom against its committed facilities or the financial 
covenants on its USPP debt. The reverse stress test, which 
removes discretionary M&A expenditure and share buybacks 
as mitigating actions, shows that underlying operating profit1 
would have to reduce by more than 80% of the strategic plan 
level throughout the three-year assessment period before the 
leverage covenant is reached. The refinancing requirement is 
not accelerated in the reverse stress test as a mitigating action 
given the strong liquidity position of the Group.

The principal risks that would have the most significant impact 
on the Group’s business model, future performance, solvency or 
liquidity are further outbreaks of COVID-19 or another pandemic 
and associated containment measures, geopolitical tensions, 
economic conditions and food and labour cost inflation and 
these, together with the other principal risks identified on pages 
26 to 30, have been considered as part of the viability assessment. 
Specific scenarios based on the principal risks have not been 
modelled on the basis that the level of headroom to absorb the 
occurrence of such risks is substantial and there is a range of 
other actions available that could be implemented to mitigate 
the potential impact.

Substantial mitigating actions were identified and implemented 
as part of the Group’s COVID-19 pandemic response in 2020, 
including reducing capital expenditure, resizing the cost base, 
renegotiating client contracts, pausing M&A activity and 
shareholder returns, raising equity, negotiating covenant 
waivers and securing additional committed funding. These 
actions illustrate the flexibility the Group has to mitigate the 
impact of adverse events.

In the event that the financial covenants were to come under 
pressure, mitigating actions include repaying the loan notes from 
available liquidity, or refinancing, in advance of their maturity or 
negotiating covenant waivers.

Conclusion

Based on the results of this analysis, the Board has a reasonable 
expectation that the Group will be able to continue in operation 
and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the three-year period to 
30 September 2026.

Palmer Brown
Group Chief Financial Officer

20 November 2023

1.  Alternative Performance Measure (APM) (see pages 206 to 213). The Group’s APMs are defined in note 34 (non-GAAP measures) and reconciled to GAAP 

measures in notes 2 (segmental analysis) and 34 to the consolidated financial statements.

32 

Strategic report

People

Social Promise, Compass Group UK & Ireland

Compass Group UK&I’s Social Promise sets out its aspiration to positively impact one million lives by 
2030 through job creation, education, training and community and charitable engagement. 
Underpinning its Social Promise is a commitment to addressing barriers to progression, particularly in 
relation to gender, race and among those from less-advantaged or under-represented backgrounds.

During the year, Compass Group UK&I worked with Social Value Portal to quantify the social value 
created by its business, which was measured at over £590 million. It also launched a socio-economic 
survey to provide a workforce data baseline for measuring the impact of its social mobility programmes.

In March, the business published its first combined Gender and Ethnic Minority Pay Gap Report, which 
revealed a median ethnicity pay gap of -7.9%3, indicating greater representation for ethnic minority 
employees in higher-paid roles and locations, and a median gender pay gap of 12.6%3 (lower than the 
UK national average of 14.9%).

Most recently, Compass Group UK&I was recognised as a Living Wage Champion at the Living Wage 
Foundation annual awards for its work advocating with over 300 clients to pay the Real Living Wage 
(RLW), with an extra 20,000 colleagues being paid the RLW or above since October 2021.

Over
£590m
Social and Local 
Economic Value 
(SLEV) created1,2 

-7.9%
ethnic minority 
median pay gap3 

12.6%
gender pay gap, 
lower than national 
average3

1.  Compass Group UK&I People and Communities Report 2021-2022.
2.  Measured by Social Value Portal.
3.  Compass Group UK&I Gender and Ethnic Minority Pay Gap Report 2023.

Compass Group PLC  Annual Report 2023   33
  33

Putting our people first 

At Compass, we know that our success is largely down to the skills 
and ingenuity of our chefs and front line teams. They lead the way in 
providing sustainable and safe food at scale, promoting healthier 
choices and creating great experiences for the people we serve. 
We feel uniquely positioned to create lifetime opportunities for our 
people and positively impact the communities in which we operate. 

Culture 

Our caring, winning culture makes us a better business. Openness, 
trust and accountability are fundamental to the way we work, and we 
are committed to ensuring that our people are treated fairly and with 
respect, have opportunities to grow and develop, and work in positive, 
supportive teams.

Providing opportunities for all means we value having a diverse and 
inclusive workforce at all levels and we are determined to support 
our people to break through traditional gender, ethnicity and 
socio-economic barriers that might exist in society. 

Our businesses support people throughout their careers, both in the 
good times and when life experiences can be challenging. Tailored 
support at local level aims to help people struggling with issues around 
mental health, wellbeing and the cost of living. 

Advancement

Our businesses work to ensure that people who want to pursue a 
career in the food and hospitality industry can succeed with Compass. 

Compass encourages new joiners to make use of innovative tools such 
as digital onboarding applications and training programmes. A more 
accessible and flexible learning portfolio makes it easier for our people 
to pursue their longer-term ambitions.

This year, more than 1,500 colleagues have signed up for the UK&I’s 
landmark training and development scheme, Compass Career 
Pathways, with over 50% of those who have completed the 
programme having moved or been promoted into a new role.

Reaching disadvantaged groups 

Examples of how Compass is reaching disadvantaged groups are 
as follows.

Compass Group UK&I launched a Social Partner career hub as part of 
its Mission to a Million Social Promise. The hub supports candidates 
who face barriers to entering the job market, including ex-offenders, 
people leaving care, the long-term unemployed and people with 
disabilities. In a new tailored recruitment process, the hub works with 
partner organisations to match candidates with job opportunities and 
internships within the business. Training in relation to autism has been 
provided to unit managers to understand the challenges candidates 
face and deliver a supportive, inclusive and personalised hiring process.

Ex-military personnel bring unique skill sets and insights to the 
business. Compass Group UK&I has an estimated 1,000 employees 
who are part of the Armed Forces community and has reiterated its 
support for the Armed Forces by re-signing the Armed Forces 
Covenant. The business holds the Gold Employer Recognition Scheme 
award and has expanded the pledges to include a policy supporting 
the redeployment of spouses of serving military personnel. In the US, 
Compass has a well-developed careers programme for military 
veterans, working with Hiring our Heroes and supported by VetNet, 
the company’s veteran employee network. In 2022, Compass 
Australia became a part of the Australian Prime Minister’s Veteran 
Employment Program, and provides military veterans and those 
transitioning from defence with extra support into new career 
pathways by providing a structured support and mentoring 
programme as well as training for leaders and managers. It also 
supports families of serving military personnel into sustainable and 
ongoing employment that fits in with deployment needs.

Deborah Lee
Group Chief People Officer

The Compass Group Foundation

The Compass Group Foundation (the Foundation)1 is an 
independent charity, launched in January 2023 and provides 
grants to non-profit organisations in the communities in which 
Compass’ businesses operate.

Funding is provided to increase access to job opportunities for 
disadvantaged groups, through training and experience in the 
food service and hospitality sector, to support equitable market 
access for smallholder farmers and entrepreneurs in the food 
supply chain, and by way of emergency response for urgent 
humanitarian support. 

The Foundation leverages the Group networks and employee 
volunteering, to make a difference for the community. In the 
last year, the Foundation supported 14 initiatives across 
eight countries.

One such organisation supported is Sai Swayam Society in 
India. Funding from the Foundation has enabled 240 young 
people from the speech and hearing-impaired community to 
attend training, delivered through sign language, and focused 
on hospitality, IT, life and soft skills, and helping to secure jobs. 

In Spain, the Foundation provided funding to Fundación 
Integra, supporting women who have been victims of domestic 
violence, to work towards a Kitchen Assistant certification 
through Compass Spain’s Woman’s Academy, with Compass 
volunteers providing training and tutoring to the women as they 
progress with the qualification.

In the UK, the Foundation has supported Compass’ key charity 
partner, FoodCycle, to train volunteers who help to tackle food 
poverty, loneliness and food waste. Employees from Compass 
UK&I volunteered to support the training and upskilling of the 
FoodCycle volunteer teams.

In February 2023, the Foundation made a donation to support 
people affected by the earthquakes in Türkiye and Syria.

For more on the Foundation go to 
www.compassgroupfoundation.org

1.  Registered charity number 1187218 (England and Wales).

Our aim is for Compass to reflect the communities 
in which we operate and to give all employees 
equal opportunities to progress their careers. 
Diversity, equity and inclusion (DE&I) is a living 
imperative within the businesses, and everyone, 
from front line workers to the Group’s leadership, 
has a role to play in creating a supportive and 
caring environment for all.

34 

Strategic report

People continued

Compass Group US is a long-time partner of Navigate, working with 
young people from underrepresented communities to become the 
future of the hospitality and food service workforce. This year, over 
50 Navigate internship programme graduates worked with the 
business. In addition, the business created partnerships with 
Historically Black Colleges & Universities to educate students on 
careers. The US team is active at members’ careers fairs for talent 
recruitment and has created a scholarship fund for black students at 
Johnson C. Smith University in Charlotte, North Carolina.

As one of the country’s largest employers of Aboriginal and Torres 
Strait Islander people, Compass Australia has an important role to 
play in reconciliation and closing the considerable opportunity gap 
between Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander peoples and non-
Indigenous Australians. The business provides sustained career 
development through its accredited training and cultural awareness 
programmes and is a proud partner of the Clontarf Foundation, 
providing support, life skills and graduate employment prospects 
to young Aboriginal men. 

Compass Norway, in cooperation with the Norwegian Labour and 
Welfare Administration, has worked to support individuals struggling 
to find employment, by offering the opportunity to achieve a certificate 
of apprenticeship and Norwegian language skills.

Growing careers 

From entry level to leadership, Compass invests in its people to help 
them achieve their career ambitions and shape the expertise and 
passion that drives the businesses.

Around the world, Compass businesses run programmes that identify 
and nurture a diverse cohort of leaders from within their existing teams. 

In Asia, the Compass Japan Academy introduced a six-month long 
programme for 300 future managers and Compass Group India 
launched a new immersive Leadership Lab to support the career 
growth of new leaders. The Indian business also provided 40,000 
employees with additional training through a new digital app to 
support learning journeys and opened two new skills centres to enable 
in-person tuition and the development of key capabilities.

As part of their career development, employees in the US completed 
more than one million training sessions in the business’s Learning 
Management System.

Leadership and career development

Executive leaders
c.350

Emerging leaders
c.1,600

Multi-unit leaders
c.8,500

First-time / 
Front line 
leaders
c.50,000

Rise
Global  
Gender 
Programme

30% Club
Winning Operator Women
Impact Leadership 
Consumer-led Growth 
Europe and Middle East Academy

L

e

a

30% Club 
Consumer-led Growth
Mapping for Action
Leadership Labs

Leadership in Action
Mapping for Action
Leadership Labs

d

e
r
s
h
i
p

D

e
v
e
l
o
p

m

e

n
t

 
Compass Group PLC  Annual Report 2023

  35

Human rights activity

As a Group, we are committed to upholding human rights, always 
treating people fairly, with dignity and respect, and we expect our 
businesses’ suppliers to uphold these same high standards 
throughout the value chain. 

We recognise the importance and responsibility of respecting 
the human rights of all our employees within our own operations, 
those workers throughout our businesses’ supply chains and the 
communities in which our businesses operate. 

We approach human rights in the same way as we conduct our 
business activities: ethically and with integrity, as set out in our 
Code of Business Conduct (CBC) and Global Supplier Code of 
Conduct (SCOC), demonstrating our commitments and Compass’ 
Values in our actions and behaviours.

We are also guided by our Human Rights Policy (reviewed in 
September 2023), in which we set out our belief that everyone 
is entitled to basic rights and freedoms, whoever they are, and 
wherever they live.

In the past year, we have continued to make progress to increase 
awareness and deepen the knowledge and understanding of the 
principal human rights risks across the diverse and complex 
environments our businesses operate in. We have also taken the 
opportunity to improve and enhance the associated processes, 
procedures, systems, training and polices aimed at improving 
our performance in this area. 

From reinforcing and further expanding existing successful 
practices and tools (such as, the award-winning Ethical 
Recruitment process in our business in the Middle East, the 
Supply Chain Risk Management (SCRM) framework and Supplier 
Ethical Data Exchange (Sedex) implementation), to developing 
new bespoke Human Rights training such as Striving For a More 
Equitable World and launching our Third-Party Integrity Due 
Diligence process, our businesses have focused on those activities 
where they can make the greatest positive impact.

In the coming year, we will continue to build on our progress to 
date, concentrating our efforts and investment where we can make 
the biggest difference, and continuing to promote best practice 
across the Group’s businesses and their supply chains.

For more on our approach to human rights, including our 
Human Rights Policy and Modern Slavery Act Statement go to:  
www.compass-group.com/en/sustainability/people/human-rights-
and-ethical-trade

Apprenticeships are a hugely popular route to a successful career in 
Compass, alongside the more traditional graduate routes. The UK&I’s 
unique Forward with Marcus Wareing programme runs alongside a 
Level 4 Senior Culinary Chef or Level 5 Operations Departmental 
Manager apprenticeship standard, and partners with the Michelin-
starred chef, focusing on sustainability, diversity and leadership.

Respect

Our aim is for Compass to reflect the communities in which we operate 
and to give all employees equal opportunities to progress their 
careers. Diversity, equity and inclusion (DE&I) is a living imperative 
within our businesses, and everyone, from front line workers to the 
Group’s leadership, has a role to play in creating a supportive and 
caring environment for all. 

In the UK&I, Compass has added Ability, an employee network 
supporting people with disabilities, to its four established networks: 
Women in Food, Within (promoting ethnic, religious and cultural 
diversity), Pride in Food (for members of the LGBTQ+ community and 
allies) and You Matter (supporting mental health and wellbeing). 
Activities recognising and celebrating awareness events such as 
Pride Month, Mental Health Awareness Week, Learning Disability 
Week and International Women’s Day run throughout the year. 

Strength in diversity

Our Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Policy sets out our approach to 
diversity, equity and inclusion. It applies to all Compass employees, 
including directors and officers and all our majority-owned businesses, 
including subsidiaries and joint ventures. Our aim is to ensure that all 
employees and job applicants are given equal opportunity and that our 
organisation is representative of the communities in which we operate; 
that each employee is respected and valued and able to give their best 
as a result. 

Having people from diverse backgrounds in Compass is a huge 
strength for our businesses. For example, Black History Month was 
re-imagined as Black Future Month focusing on black inclusion and 
was celebrated with a series of events across the UK business 
including support from Non-Executive Director Arlene Isaacs-Lowe, 
who held roundtables with colleagues from the UK, US, Türkiye and 
UAE businesses.

At Compass Group USA, over 17,000 people completed DE&I training, 
and their Be the Difference conference in July 2023 was attended by 
more than 2,000 colleagues where they discussed empowering front 
line talent, exploring neurodiversity and the importance of allyship. 

In Belgium, Compass was awarded a diversity accreditation from the 
Brussels Employment Minister, as an employer which recognises, 
respects and values differences in the workplace.

In Australia, Compass was ranked number one in the Indigenous 
Employment Index in 2022 and has introduced an Indigenous training 
programme leading to an accredited Cert III in hospitality, with a 97% 
success rate for completion and employment. 

With its embedded commitment to DE&I, Compass Canada has 
launched Stronger Together Compass, focusing on mental health and 
wellness through its Diversity and Inclusion Action Councils, to provide 
colleagues with a safe space for conversation, where they can access 
resources and support one another. 

In India, the business launched a new digital training module in the 
fight against sexual harassment with over 6,000 employees 
completing the training.

Reinforcing its commitment to inclusivity in all talent areas, in 
February 2023, Compass UK&I became a patron of the Multicultural 
Apprenticeship Alliance, which partnered with Chartwells to launch 
the first Junior Chef Academy in Wales.

36 

Strategic report

People continued

Celebrating women chefs

For the last four years, Compass Group USA’s Women in Culinary 
(WiC) programme has addressed inequalities and opportunity gaps 
within the hospitality industry by supporting women chefs with 
dedicated training, leadership development programmes and 
advancement opportunities. WiC is driving cultural change as well as 
career growth, igniting executive allyship and fostering kind kitchens. 
This year’s WiC showcase event was held in Dallas and encompassed 
International Women’s Day. The event gave a platform to exceptional 
female chefs from across Compass Group US businesses, displaying 
and celebrating their amazing talents. 

2023 female representation 

Board
Executive Committee
Senior leaders
All management
Total workforce

20231

38%
40%
34%
46%
56%

2022

33%
40%
37%
46%
57%

1.  Figures stated as at 30 September 2023. 
2.  The gender breakdown disclosures required in the Strategic Report pursuant 
to section 414C(8)(c) of the Companies Act 2006 are made on page 129 
and are incorporated by reference into the Strategic Report.

Engagement 

Nurturing our people throughout their career is important to us. 
We support the health and wellbeing of our people with programmes 
and initiatives designed to help them stay healthy, happy and 
secure because we care about the physical and mental wellbeing 
of our colleagues.

For the last four years, Compass Group USA’s Women 
in Culinary programme has addressed inequalities and 
opportunity gaps within the hospitality industry by 
supporting women chefs for dedicated training, 
leadership development programmes and 
advancement opportunities.

Compass Group USA has launched Health is Wealth, a programme 
focused on mental, physical, financial and nutritional health. More 
information on the Health is Wealth programme can be found on 
page 106. In the UK&I, Compass provides free, easily accessible 
digital healthcare services to employees, including an annual health 
check, digital GP, second medical opinion, mental health therapists 
and nutritional consultations.

In the UAE, Compass has established the People Happiness Forum, 
giving everyone in the business a right to have their voice heard, with a 
platform to share their opinions. The ideas from the forum helped the 
business to win Gold for best company to work with, best recruitment 
strategy and best career development programme in the Plan3Media, 
Employee Happiness Summit Awards for UAE-based companies. 

We recognise that household pressures can impact the wellbeing of 
our people. Compass Group USA and Compass UK&I help their people 
take better control of their financial commitments by enabling them to 
access their pay in advance of their normal payday, when they need it, 
as well as supporting healthy savings habits. Compass UK&I provides 
around 200,000 free meals for colleagues every week and enhanced 
its Helping Hands hardship fund, providing emergency support grants 
to employees. Whilst Compass India’s We Care fund also provides an 
emergency backstop for employees when they need help. 

Compass Group PLC  Annual Report 2023

  37

Compass in the community 

As well as supporting our people directly, our businesses create 
positive social impact by investing in, and contributing to, the local 
communities in which they operate.

In the US, Compass’ Foodworks business has launched its IGNITE 
programme, offering grants to minority and women-owned business 
enterprises throughout the country. Foodworks helps these 
businesses purchase new equipment, expand operations and 
achieve necessary certifications. 

Chartwells Higher Education in the US has launched an innovative 
Teaching Kitchens platform, with onsite culinary experts and 
registered dieticians to promote culinary and nutritional literacy. 
These events seek to foster culinary curiosity and encourage a 
sense of adventure. The Teaching Kitchens initiative helps improve 
productivity, creativity, morale and engagement with client 
wellness initiatives.

Compass’ businesses advocate at local, national, and international 
level to promote diversity, equity and inclusion across their operations, 
as well as through their business partners and suppliers. Compass 
Australia, is recognised as a leader in Aboriginal and Torres Strait 
Islander engagement through positive impact partnerships, respect 
and recognition through advocacy of The Voice to Parliament, and 
co-designing training and employment pathways for Aboriginal and 
Torres Strait Islander people.

Priorities for the year ahead

Talent development and career opportunities remain key and are 
important to those who work in our businesses. We will continue to 
build out the Compass Academy concept and enhance career 
pathways in our businesses, with a particular focus on culinary and 
leadership skills. 

Employee engagement remains important and local strategies will 
seek to enhance the employee experience whilst also extending care 
programmes for employees during challenging times. 

Funding of local initiatives by The Compass Group Foundation will 
enable greater community impact across our businesses and increase 
our reach and impact on the social agenda.

Global employee engagement  
survey results 

Listening to colleagues through employee engagement surveys, 
townhalls, community meetings, social platforms and maintaining 
close relationships with formal employee representative groups 
and unions, are some of the ways employees can have their say on 
topics that matter most to them and helps them contribute to our 
strategy and success. 

This year’s global engagement survey heard the voices of 140,000 
colleagues across 19 countries, with a 63% response rate (up from 
54% last year) indicating enhanced engagement overall. 

Overall engagement scores held steady at 4.0 despite significantly 
higher participation levels from countries which have traditionally 
seen lower engagement. Eight out of 10 respondents agreed that 
they were treated fairly and with respect, felt part of a caring and 
positive team and were confident in the leadership of the business.

Whilst there remains work to do on personal growth, we were 
pleased to see an overall improvement of 5% (to 70%) in respect of 
career prospects and opportunities. 

We were also pleased that overall engagement levels remained 
consistent despite the continued disruptive impact of external 
factors on our people’s lives and a decline in life satisfaction in 
general. We know that what matters most to our people is to feel 
valued and to be able to give their best. To ensure all our people 
feel part of our caring, winning culture, we must deliver on our 
commitments of Respect, Teamwork and Growth for everyone and 
continue in our mission to provide opportunities for all.

Our Designated Non-Executive Director for Workforce Engagement, 
Ireena Vittal, hosted six roundtable sessions in the year with 
employees from 12 countries. These sessions provided insight into 
employee sentiment on topics ranging from culture and diversity to 
artificial intelligence, inflation, wellbeing and reward.

Further details can be found on page 75.

2022/23 Awards

Healthiest Employers®:  
Hall of Fame 2023
Compass Group USA

Multicultural Apprenticeship 
Awards: Retail, Hospitality & 
Tourism Employer 2023
Compass Group UK&I

International Association for 
Food Protection (IAFP):  
Black Pearl Award 2023
Compass Group USA

Brussels Economy and  
Employment Ministry:  
Diversity Accreditation 2022
Compass Group Belgium

Living Wage Foundation:  
Recognised Service Provider 
Champion Awards 2023
Compass Group UK&I

Newsweek: America’s Greatest 
Workplaces for Diversity 2023
Compass Group USA

Fortune: World’s Most Admired 
Companies 2023
Compass Group PLC

Forbes: America’s Best Large 
Employers 2023
Compass Group USA

38 

Strategic report

Purpose

Progress on our journey to address Scope 3 emissions

We have taken the next step on our journey to reach climate net zero by 2050 by partnering 
with leading climate management platform Planet FWD. It was a big step, enabling us to 
improve our methodology for measuring emissions and enhancing the quality of our data for 
the supply chain (Scope 3) which generates most of our greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions.

Our total Scope 3 emissions for 2022 were calculated using data from our top four markets 
– the US, UK, France and Australia representing 78% of our global revenues – using a hybrid 
volume and spend approach, and extrapolated to our smaller markets. We particularly focused 
on increasing data quality for purchased goods, the most significant source of emissions. The 
project to transition from spend to volume took six months to complete which has necessitated 
the use of 2022 data for reporting this year. This improvement in data quality has resulted in 
more granular estimates of food-related emissions and lower emissions estimates for 2022.

There is more to do, but we are making great progress and tackling Scope 3 emissions will 
remain one of our top sustainability priorities.

Compass Group PLC  Annual Report 2023   39
  39

Shelley Roberts
Group Chief Commercial Officer with responsibility  
for Health, Safety and Sustainability

Environmental leadership

Food waste

Reducing food waste is one of the greatest environmental challenges 
facing our sector and therefore one where we have the greatest 
potential to make a significant difference. Our culinary teams and 
front line staff are instrumental in tackling this challenge, employing 
a range of diverse food waste reduction technologies across their 
businesses. This year, we made food waste reduction our top priority. 
Our target was to adopt food waste tracking technology in 6,000 
locations and, with every region united in support, we achieved 
7,943 locations, proudly surpassing our 2023 target – which is 
linked to an element of the annual bonus plan of executive directors 
and senior management.

In 2022, we launched Waste Not 2.0 – our proprietary, tablet-based, 
online tracking tool for chefs – and have since rolled it out across 12 
countries in nine languages. Waste Not 2.0 enables kitchen teams to 
identify opportunities to minimise food waste beyond the usual trim, 
bones, core and peel waste. Using the tool’s analytics, managers can 
evaluate data, quantify, and report on the carbon footprint of kitchen 
waste, leveraging this information to reduce or avoid future wastage.

Our ability to demonstrate progress in reducing our 
carbon impact and food waste is helping us attract 
new clients, who rely on us as a trusted partner to 
help them achieve their sustainability goals.

Purpose

Our Planet Promise

Our Planet Promise encompasses our values as an ethical, sustainable 
and inclusive business, together with our ambition to have a positive 
impact on the world. As well as being the right thing to do, this mission 
is also key to our growth aspirations and our long-term success.

Our ability to demonstrate progress in reducing our carbon impact and 
food waste is helping us attract new clients, who rely on us as a trusted 
partner to help them achieve their sustainability goals. Together with 
Compass, clients and consumers in every market can navigate 
towards a less wasteful, healthier, plant-forward lifestyle.

In September, we hosted our inaugural Sustainability Deep Dive; 
a virtual event providing institutional investors, analysts and other key 
stakeholders with an opportunity to enhance their understanding of 
the Group’s sustainability strategy, climate net zero progress, and 
operational innovations towards a more sustainable future for all.

Our actions are guided by the United Nations Sustainable 
Development Goals (UN SDGs), especially those where we can have 
the greatest impact: carbon reduction, food waste, animal welfare, 
a reduction in high-emission products, and care for the health and 
wellbeing of our people and consumers.

In a global market, it is inevitable that some regions and countries will 
move faster than others towards our pledge of climate net zero by 
2050. Compass UK&I is leading the industry and has committed to 
achieving climate net zero by 2030. The UK&I are working with 
external partners to support their strategy, such as leading 
University of Oxford expert, Professor Sir Charles Godfray FRS, who 
is supporting them to shape and deliver their climate ambitions. 

Data transparency is embedded in our philosophy and our Task Force 
on Climate-Related Financial Disclosures (TCFD) report (see pages 
45 to 54) includes disclosure of our climate-related risks and 
opportunities for 2023. 

Investing in innovation

We are investing in technology to ensure decision making is supported 
by data-driven insights across all areas of our sustainability strategy. 
Our businesses are providing clients with dashboards to visualise 
progress across the ESG metrics that are important to them with 
data provided by tools such as Waste Not 2.0, our proprietary food 
waste tracking technology, and via Planet FWD, a leading climate 
management platform. We continue to make investments to support 
our own ambitious goals, including enhancing our management of 
supply chain risks using the Supplier Ethical Data Exchange 
(Sedex) platform.

In September 2022, the Group issued fixed-rate sustainable bonds  
of €500m (£434m) and £250m maturing in 2030 and 2032, 
respectively. The proceeds of the bonds have to be allocated to 
expenditure on Eligible Sustainable Projects in line with the Compass 
Group Sustainable Financing Framework during the three years 
before, and two years after, the date of issue.

See more at www.compass-group.com/en/media/news/2022/
compass-group-issues-first-sustainable-bonds.html

40 

Strategic report

Purpose continued

Food waste reduction highlights

Stop Food Waste Day, our global day of 
action received over
93 million
 impressions on social media

Investment in proprietary
food waste 
measurement 
technology 
Waste Not 2.0 which has been  
deployed in 12 countries and is 
available in nine languages

Food waste measured at almost
8,000 sites
supported by a performance  
measure within the executive  
director and senior management 
annual bonus plan

Strong progress on our contribution  
to goal 12 of the UN SDGs with our 
commitment to 
reduce food waste by 
50% by 2030
supported by our investment and 
deployment of food waste tracking 
technology

A new training experience focused on 
food waste reductions named
Chefs Creating Change
was built and delivered by our  
Global Culinary Forum, inspiring onsite 
actions that can be taken by our chefs 
back to their units

Working alongside ReFED in the US, a 
non-profit partner dedicated to ending 
food loss and waste, our US business 
has integrated
enhanced analytics data
to enable Waste Not 2.0 to report the 
water and carbon impact of the food 
waste being generated at site level 

Compass Group PLC  Annual Report 2023

  41

As a global leader in food service, Compass is uniquely positioned to 
raise awareness and make a positive impact on the reduction of food 
waste throughout the sector. Compass USA launched Stop Food 
Waste Day (SFWD) in 2017, and the event is now the largest annual 
global day of action in the fight against food waste. SFWD not only 
draws attention to the problem but also engages and educates 
colleagues in the sector by sharing practical, creative and impactful 
ways to change behaviour and stop food waste. It also brings together 
consumers, businesses, not-for-profit organisations and government 
entities and encourages them to tackle the problem on a global scale.

This year, SFWD reached people in over 70 different countries, as well 
as being celebrated by units in all of our operating markets. It included 
themed menus, consumer pledges, recipe videos, and the launch of 
the second Stop Food Waste Day online cookbook, which received 
impressive engagement, as evidenced by more than 16,000 reads 
and 68,000 impressions. The campaign resonated widely, reaching 
over 93 million people through a variety of media, and achieved 26 
million views on X (formerly known as Twitter) alone; whilst Compass 
Group USA generated further engagement by hosting a SWFD live 
session featuring renowned food waste experts and leaders.

Chefs across the Group are leading transformative sustainability 
efforts within the food industry from the bottom-up, and this year we 
held our first Global Culinary Forum, named Chefs Creating Change, 
which tackled the pivotal issue of food waste, and provided a platform 
for front line teams to come together, deepen their understanding of 
food waste reduction, and exchange expertise in areas such as 
procurement, inventory management, menu creation and the 
application of technology. This ground-breaking event, conducted 
across four time zones, engaged approximately 3,000 chefs in the 
largest ever gathering of Compass culinary experts worldwide.

Menu reformulation

Creating climate-friendly and healthy menus that appeal to consumers 
is key to driving forward our sustainability agenda. Our culinary 
experts, registered dieticians, operators and marketing teams across 
the Group work together to ensure they deliver what their clients and 
consumers desire. Drawing upon our exceptional culinary expertise, 
we stand at the forefront of the industry, capable of delivering 
delicious meals that harmoniously blend flavour and health benefits. 
As the regulatory landscape evolves, we continue to provide food that 
encourages healthier eating for our clients. 

Our recent Global Eating at Work survey revealed that 49% of our 
younger consumers are expressing a heightened demand for 
plant-based options. Our approach replaces high-impact proteins 
such as beef and lamb with chicken and sustainable fish. We 
incorporate minimally processed plant-based foods without 
compromising on flavour, use less red meat, and blend animal protein 
with vegetables. Additionally, we position climate-friendly dishes 
prominently on menus to normalise their consumption without 
explicitly labelling them as vegetarian or vegan.

We are proud to be a member of the World Business Council for 
Sustainable Development (WBCSD) and by co-chairing the Positive 
Consumption action area we are donating our time to develop a 
behaviour change toolkit for the participating food service members. 
The project is driving food systems transformation by developing 
solutions that support healthy people on a healthy planet.

Our chefs are leveraging behavioural change strategies using nudging 
techniques to steer consumers towards healthier options. This gives 
us an invaluable opportunity to foster a broader acceptance of 
nutritious, sustainably-sourced and plant-forward, nutritious dishes.

Our behavioural change strategies include:

 – Choice architecture: strategically positioning health-focused menu 

options in prominent locations, ensuring they catch the eye of 
consumers first

 – Information: providing comprehensive ingredient and nutritional 

information, coupled with practical advice for making better dietary 
decisions. Our goal is to empower guests with the knowledge they 
need to make choices that align with their health objectives

 – Incentives: motivating consumers towards healthier choices, and 
offering incentives such as extra loyalty reward points for selecting 
menu items that promote wellbeing

 – Emotional appeals: reinforcing positive choices by communicating 
monthly updates on the increased consumption of plant-based 
proteins or reduced red meat. This helps foster a collective goal of 
healthier eating

 – Social influence: leveraging the impact of social behaviour, tracking 
and communicating instances where consumers appreciate and 
choose new health-conscious options. This showcases their 
popularity and desirability, influencing individual selections

Our culinary experts strategically blend various levers for enhanced 
impact. For example, by combining choice architecture with financial 
incentives in a US manufacturing plant, the business was able to shift 
total purchases of healthy options from less than 30% to more than 
45%, and nudged beverage selection to 92% ‘better for you’ options.

Supplier initiatives

Close collaboration with suppliers is essential on our journey to climate 
net zero, because we know this goal cannot be achieved in isolation. 
We are actively leveraging our scale as a significant buyer of food in 
our ongoing drive towards decarbonisation, and see great potential for 
progress in working towards this shared goal with our partners.

For example, since January 2023, Compass UK&I has mandated that 
all new contracts require suppliers to set Science-Based Targets 
(SBTs) within 12 months of a contractual start date. This is 
supplemented with relevant KPIs related to sourcing, packaging and 
water consumption. By integrating multiple aspects of sustainability 
into their tendering process, our UK&I business has emphasised its 
dedication to sustainable procurement while meeting rapidly evolving 
industry requirements.

In May, the first Future Forward meeting was held in the US by our US 
businesses’ procurement arm, Foodbuy. This enabled Compass 
Group USA and their Foodbuy leaders to collaborate with some of their 
supplier partners on the future of sustainability within the food supply 
chain. Presentations were made by major suppliers setting out 
strategies to reduce GHG emissions from the farm level right through 
to the packaging and distribution of the finished product. Several 
Foodbuy member representatives attended, offering valuable insights 
from an operational standpoint.

During the year, over 450 suppliers, clients and colleagues attended 
the Foodbuy Conference 2023 at ExCeL London, a full-day event with 
a strong focus on sustainability, culminating in a gala awards dinner. 
The conference offered attendees an exclusive insight into the 
journey Foodbuy UK is on as a business, and what it has planned 
for the year ahead.

In the US, 300 people attended the Foodbuy US summit in Nashville, 
Tennessee, including the Compass US and Foodbuy leadership team 
and many of their major suppliers. There was a strong emphasis on 
sustainability throughout the presentations, which included an 
address from our Global Director of Sustainability.

Carbon reduction

Most of Compass Group’s GHG emissions are Scope 3, for which we 
are indirectly responsible. Our work with Planet FWD, a leading carbon 
management consultancy specialising in the food and agriculture 
industry, on measuring our Scope 3 emissions for 2022 (see page 38) 
is giving us valuable information which better enables us to work 
with suppliers to reduce the emissions of the Group’s products 
and services.

42 

Strategic report

Purpose continued

Our purchased goods emissions (Scope 3, category 1) decreased 
significantly against our 2019 baseline, as we evolved our approach 
from spend-based assessments to volume-based assessments. This 
is an important step which allows us to identify and take action on 
emissions reductions with greater accuracy than with a spend-based 
approach. Improving data accuracy to report Scope 3 emissions was a 
six month process, resulting in 2022 emissions reported in this year. 
However, our 2019 assessment had underestimated energy usage in 
client kitchens, which have subsequently increased in 2022, offsetting 
emissions reductions achieved in purchased goods, resulting in an 
overall emissions decrease of 12%.

The Group has targeted a 28% reduction in our absolute Scope 3 GHG 
emissions from all purchased food and drink by 2030, from a base 
year of 2019 - a goal approved by the SBTi. We will deliver this by 
focusing on food waste reduction, training our teams, reformulating 
our menus and working closely with our suppliers to explore new 
sustainable business practices. Moving to a volume-based approach 
and further developing our understanding of granular estimates of 
food-related emissions will help us achieve our target, with a reduction 
in emissions coming from product mix and sourcing opportunities. 
We are also working to align with the new Forest, Land and Agriculture 
(FLAG) guidance under the SBTi in 2024.

The next phase of our journey with Planet FWD is to utilise its 
industry-leading technology to manage our data when reporting 
emissions across our largest markets, to enable greater collaboration 
with clients in support of carbon-reduction initiatives. We are also 
investing in technology to influence consumer behaviour at the point 
of purchase, through carbon labelling with market-leading providers 
such as Foodsteps and HowGood. Carbon labelling scores food on 
whether it has a higher or lower environmental impact, based on the 
total GHG emissions generated from the extraction of raw materials to 
end of life.

Methodology

Compass Group PLC is required to report its global and UK energy use 
and carbon emissions in accordance with the Companies (Directors’ 
Report) and Limited Liability Partnerships (Energy and Carbon Report) 
Regulations 2018. The data reported in these tables represent emissions 
and energy use for which Compass Group PLC is responsible and is 
incorporated by reference in the Directors’ report on pages 56 to 130. 
To calculate our Group emissions, we have used the main 
requirements of the GHG Protocol Corporate Standard along with the 
UK Government GHG Conversion Factors for Company Reporting 2023.

We monitor the energy usage and GHG emissions of our owned and 
operated sites across 28 countries (2022: 29), which represent 98% 
of the Group’s underlying revenue (2022: 98%). tCO2e per £ million 

turnover is calculated by dividing our total gross emissions (location 
based) by underlying revenue2 for the countries monitored.

Our Scope 1, 2 and 3 emissions have been externally verified by a 
third-party, and we will continue to verify this data in the coming years.

See more at www.compass-group.com/en/sustainability/ 
performance-and-reports.html

Our absolute emissions have increased year-on-year as Compass 
continued to successfully win new business across all regions, and, 
by the end of the year, revenues grew significantly. However, we are 
still making good progress in delivering our commitments and have 
already reduced our Scope 1 and 2 emissions by 10% compared with 
a 2019 baseline. When normalised by revenue we have seen a 12% 
year-on-year reduction in our GHG emissions ratio. Our UK emissions 
have fallen as a result of a robust set of actions to deliver carbon 
reduction initiatives, including the implementation of renewable 
electricity and energy efficiency solutions across our direct operations. 

Energy efficiency

Across Europe, we continue to make good progress, led by Compass 
UK&I, which is continuing to implement its 100% electric vehicle 
policy. This year, Compass Spain has initiated projects including the 
installation of solar panels at their head office site and is also 
transitioning its fleet to electric vehicles.

In the US, SCS Global Services have certified Canteen’s largest 
Californian branch as carbon neutral for Scope 1 and 2 emissions, 
marking a major step towards Canteen’s commitment to achieving 
climate net zero by 2030. The branch team achieved this goal by 
completing a comprehensive GHG inventory of their operations, 
identifying emission hotspots and reduction targets, introducing 
electric delivery trucks to reduce emissions, improving energy 
efficiency, reducing overall waste, and investing in credible carbon 
mitigation projects to offset the remainder of its emissions.

Reusable solutions

Compass is contributing towards building a more circular economy, in 
which materials can be reused or recirculated to keep them in use as 
long as possible and to minimise waste. In Europe, for example, our 
businesses are reducing the use of unnecessary single-use plastic to 
a level below that required by the EU Single-Use Plastics Directive. 
Reducing unnecessary single-use plastics at scale can help drive 
behavioural change in employees and clients, which we hope they 
will carry into other areas of their work and home lives.

Global energy consumption and greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions for the period 1 October 2022 to 30 September 2023

Scope 1 – Emissions from the combustion of fuel or the operation of any 
facility, including fugitive emissions from refrigerants use tCO2e
Scope 2 – Emissions resulting from the purchase of electricity, heat, steam 
or cooling (location-based) tCO2e
Scope 2 – Emissions resulting from the purchase of electricity, heat, steam 
or cooling (market-based) tCO2e
Total gross emissions (location-based) tCO2e
tCO2e (location based) per million £ turnover 
Energy consumption used to calculate above emissions/kWh

For the year ended 30 Sept 2023

For the year ended 30 Sept 2022

UK and offshore1

Global

UK and offshore1

Global (certain  
data restated) 

1,934

147,282

3,881

137,9853

2,497

49,714

2,385

46,807

268
4,431
1.9
21,194,715

50,104
196,996
6.4
786,600,491

1,047
6,266
3.2
31,837,141

47,071
184,7923
7.33
737,653,4823

1.  UK and offshore emissions are a subset of the global emissions disclosed.
2.  Alternative Performance Measure (APM). The Group’s APMs are defined in note 34 (non-GAAP measures) and reconciled to GAAP measures in notes 2 (segmental 

analysis) and 34 to the consolidated financial statements.

3.  2022 restated to correct an error in the calculation of Scope 1 emissions in the US. The restatement increases global Scope 1 emissions and total gross emissions 
by 37,985 tCO2e, energy consumption by 161,858,604 kWh and tCO2e per million £ turnover (GHG intensity ratio) by 1.5. The GHG intensity ratio presented on 
page 7 for 2020 and 2021 has also been restated to increase tCO2e/£m by 2.0 and 1.8 to 9.5 and 9.0, respectively.

 
 
Reducing single-use materials, specifically unnecessary plastic, is an 
industry-wide challenge that requires collaboration across the value 
chain. In response to this challenge, Compass USA co-founded the 
Single-Use Materials Decelerator (SUM’d), a non-profit, cross-sector 
group of NGOs and technical experts working to reduce reliance on 
single-use materials in the food industry. Together, they built the 
Understanding Packaging Scorecard, a simple, free tool to assess 
the sustainability impact of common food-service packages. 

To learn more, read the SUM’d case study at  
www.upscorecard.org/compass-case-study/

Current sustainable plastics initiatives include:

 – the launch of Google’s Single-Use Plastics Challenge in partnership 

with Canteen in the US. The challenge invites food companies 
which offer packaging that is free of single-use plastic to test their 
solutions in Google’s US cafes and micro kitchens. Challenge 
finalists will have the opportunity to pitch to Google and Canteen to 
scale across Google’s US offices

 – the deployment of reusable cutlery within Compass Saudi Arabia’s 
healthcare business has successfully eliminated approximately 
460,000 packets of single-use cutlery annually

 – the installation of 180 water fountains in more than 80 business 
units across Compass Spain, offering a sustainable alternative to 
single-use plastic bottles of water. This is already saving 3.9 million 
containers a year and avoiding 87.7 tonnes CO2e

 – operating a zero-waste soccer stadium in partnership with Levy 
Restaurants in the US, eliminating single-use consumer plastics
 – the introduction of a returnable, reusable solution to disposable 
packaging, CauliBox, which launched with a Compass UK&I 
Restaurant Associate site. Since October 2021, more than 33,000 
CauliBoxes have been used, and the total emissions saved is now 
approaching 8,000kg CO2e. Customers manage their CauliBox via 
an app, which monitors when they borrow and return a container 
and allows them to build up CauliCoin rewards with bespoke 
promotional codes. The initiative has helped the restaurant 
switch the salad bar to reusables only, further driving positive 
behavioural change

 – a sustainable cup solution for events, introduced by Levy in the UK. 
A 10 pence micro deposit is linked to a charity partner for donations. 
The cup retention rate during the 2022-2023 sports season was a 
remarkable 95.6%, resulting in a CO2e reduction of 7,400kg

 – switching to Ozzi 100% reusable Tupperware across Chartwells in 
the US, a major step in Compass USA’s initiative to significantly 
increase the adoption of reusable containers. Since the last 
financial year they have so far changed 97% of their containers, 
marking an almost complete switch to reusables

Positive procurement

Procurement teams are focused on several initiatives to make a 
positive impact on the planet and the communities that our 
businesses are part of. Sourcing local products, building an inclusive 
and diverse supplier base, supporting regenerative agriculture, 
demanding high animal welfare standards, protecting human rights 
and promoting ethical trade, are key strategic imperatives which drive 
the bottom line whilst enhancing our brands. These initiatives together 
with our animal welfare and palm oil commitments also drive impact 
beyond our business.

Compass Group PLC  Annual Report 2023

  43

The next phase of our journey with Planet FWD 
is to utilise its industry-leading technology to 
manage our data when reporting emissions 
across our largest markets, to enable greater 
collaboration with clients in support of carbon 
reduction initiatives.

44 

Strategic report

Purpose continued

Animal welfare

We are committed to upholding the Five Freedoms of animal welfare: 
freedom from hunger and thirst; from pain, injury and disease; from 
fear and distress; from discomfort; and freedom to express normal 
behaviour. Our businesses track animal welfare in every country we 
operate in, and work with their supply partners to make progress and 
address challenges. As a founding member of the Global Coalition for 
Animal Welfare (GCAW), we are working pre-competitively with other 
leading international food companies. Together, we collectively 
address systemic barriers to change, share best practices and make 
progress on key animal welfare issues at a faster pace than would 
otherwise be possible. In 2023, GCAW’s focus has been on improving 
welfare for laying hens, broiler chickens and pigs. Compass’ global 
footprint means our businesses face unique regional and local 
challenges. To better understand and overcome these we engage 
closely with several global, regional, and country-focused NGOs. 
These partnerships have proved valuable in helping drive 
welfare standards. 

Diverse, equitable and inclusive supplier base

We are working collaboratively with clients, suppliers and other third 
parties to continue building a more diverse, equitable and inclusive 
supplier base. In the year under review, we started to collect more 
data from our operating companies to help us identify opportunities 
to increase our impact. We have partnered with: Minority Supplier 
Development UK, which champion ethnic-minority-owned businesses 
in the UK; WeConnect, which amplifies the presence of female 
business owners and helps them compete in the global marketplace, 
and; in the US, with Disability:In, the leading non-profit resource for 
business disability inclusion. All three organisations are helping us to 
further identify and support diverse suppliers. In the US the Foodbuy 
Diverse Supplier Accelerator Program, now in its third year, was 
created to offer a broad range of services and resources to assist the 
growth of diverse suppliers. This initiative focuses on 10 new women 
and minority-owned businesses each year, providing them with 
mentors, education sessions, and industry connection opportunities. 

Sustainable and ethical supply chain

Led by the Supply Chain Risk Management (SCRM) Committee, 
over the past year we have continued to strengthen our approach 
to identifying and mitigating business integrity, human rights, and 
environmental risks in our supply chains. Given the size and 
complexity of the Group’s businesses and their supply chains, a 
risk-based approach is taken and we continue to invest in education, 
awareness, technology, partnerships, and training to ensure due 
diligence processes continue to evolve. 

The Group’s Global Supplier Code of Conduct (SCOC), launched in 
2022, is an essential part of the contractual requirements for all 
suppliers. It sets out the principles, expectations and behaviours we 
require our supply chain partners to adhere to in areas of business 
integrity and ethical principles, human rights and labour standards, 
health and safety, and sustainability. 

Sedex has now been adopted by 14 countries (including all top 10 
markets by revenue), providing data on ethical practices for supplier 
sites in 54 countries. We have also introduced a new Third-Party 
Integrity Due Diligence process, piloted in 10 countries. We have 
continued our partnerships with Earthworm Foundation and 
Slave-Free Alliance, whilst our US business continues to support 
the Coalition of Immokalee Workers’ Fair Food Program. Learnings 
gained through these partnerships have been shared internally and 
with suppliers to expand understanding and increase our impact. 
Our Human Rights Working Group has been a powerful forum for 
sharing best practice throughout our regions. See page 35 for 
more information.

Community impact

We want to take care of the communities where our businesses 
are based in ways that make a real difference to each individual 
community. Locally-made investments have substantially benefited 
many local food producers and small-scale ventures that have 
partnered with Compass because they share our values. Our 
businesses use their skills and resources to provide donations of food 
where it is most needed, support charity projects that can change 
lives, and advocate for social enterprises that seek to make lasting 
change for the better.

Food donations

Donating good-quality food, that would otherwise go to waste to those 
in need is not only sustainable, it is the right thing to do. Compass 
businesses work with food recovery partners in all our markets to 
make sure good food reaches people in food poverty. They donate 
where they can have the greatest impact, from supporting local 
community food banks and food pantries to participating in child meal 
programmes. During the year, Compass businesses donated over 
1.6 million meals to their local communities. 

Food Fleet is a dynamic mobile food provider and management 
company in our North America business, in Hawaii. During the year, 
Food Fleet worked closely with the Wave Foundation and We Do 
Better Relief alongside suppliers, vendors and chefs to deliver 
essential assistance to the Maui community, which was severely 
affected by wildfires on the island.

Social enterprises

One of our US businesses, Wolfgang Puck Catering, actively 
collaborates with a range of small-scale ventures and food producers 
that work to foster positive social change. One such enterprise is 
Scott Family Farms, a third-generation family business, which aims 
to mentor black farmers and reshape farming for black communities. 
Wolfgang Puck Catering also collaborates with Homeboy Industries 
in East Los Angeles, the world’s largest gang intervention and 
rehabilitation programme, providing resources to help rebuild the 
lives of former gang members.

Another US community venture, Foodworks, has introduced its 
IGNITE programme; a community initiative, which provides grants to 
minority and women-owned businesses across the US. Foodworks 
offers small business coaching, quality assurance training, marketing 
assistance and extensive exposure to partners nationwide to facilitate 
the rapid expansion of local restaurants.

The Compass Group Foundation

In the UK, The Compass Group Foundation supports the charity 
FoodCycle, which runs a network of community kitchens, using 
surplus produce which would otherwise go to waste. 

In Australia, Compass Group has partnered with Foodbuy Australia as 
well as Bridging the Gap Foundation (founded by Menzies School of 
Health and Science Research), which has been granted seed funding 
by the Foundation to pilot a Nutritional Hunger Program (NHP).

The NHP aims to end nutritional hunger in remote Indigenous 
communities by co-designing a programme with local Indigenous 
community leaders to find solutions to get high-quality, nutritious 
food to Indigenous communities at reasonable prices. Training and 
education will also be provided to various community groups and 
members, including store owners, in areas of food production, 
sanitisation, cooking, inventory management and healthy choices 
for better health outcomes. See page 33 for more information 
about the Foundation.

Compass Group PLC  Annual Report 2023

  45

Task Force on 
Climate-related 
Financial Disclosures 
(TCFD)

We set out below our climate-related financial disclosures, 
which are consistent with the four pillars and 11 recommended 
disclosures of the Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures, 
including the TCFD all-sector guidance, and in compliance with the 
requirements of LR 9.8.6R.(8) (UK Listing Rules).

This disclosure also complies with the requirements of the 
Companies Act 2006 as amended by the Companies (Strategic 
Report) (Climate-related Financial Disclosure) Regulations 2022.

Executive summary

Without coordinated action, climate change poses a significant risk 
to our planet, people and economies. For the global food system, on 
which we all rely, rising global temperatures, water stress and extreme 
weather events can disrupt supply chains, reduce crop yields and 
damage community livelihoods. However, for those who drive 
innovation and take a leadership position on sustainability, there are 
also significant opportunities.

As a Group, we are proud of the work we are doing in partnership with 
our clients to support our shared climate goals. Sustainability is 
intrinsic to the way we conduct business and our long-term success, 
while also being deeply ingrained in our culture, from our chefs to our 
executive leadership.

We have many tried-and-tested operational levers at our disposal to help 
mitigate supply chain disruptions resulting from climate change, through 
our procurement scale, sourcing flexibility, menu management and 
culinary and digital innovation. There is no single solution to this global 
challenge, and we are making many incremental changes across 
thousands of our units and throughout our businesses’ supply chains.

To tackle climate change, it is vital that we measure, track and understand 
how climate change impacts our operations, our clients and our strategy. 
The purpose of this TCFD statement is to provide investors and wider 
stakeholders with a better understanding of our exposure and strategic 
resilience to climate-related risks, and to enable us to identify climate-
related opportunities that are material to the Group. We consider all risks 
and opportunities evaluated in this statement to be industry-wide, applying 
to each of our sectors, our competitors and other key stakeholders.

Our analysis comprises three climate scenarios (1.5°C, 2.5°C and 4°C) 
for which we have considered physical risks, transition risks and related 
opportunities. This year, our third year of disclosure, we have materially 
expanded the scope of our scenario analysis in four key areas:

 – in addition to risks, climate-related opportunities have also been 

examined this year

 – the Geographic Scope has increased from the US in 2022 to now cover 
four of our largest markets (the US, UK, Australia and France), which 
together represent over three-quarters of the Group’s underlying revenue

 – the Product Scope has expanded from six in 2022 to seven of our 
most significant product categories (adding beverages this year), 
which together represent over 60% of our total MAP 3 food spend in 
the four in-scope markets

Sustainability is intrinsic to the way we conduct 
business and our long-term success, while also 
being deeply ingrained in our culture, from our 
chefs to our executive leadership.

46 

Strategic report

Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures continued

 – we have considered three time horizons in our scenario analysis this year 

 – The Board has overall responsibility for oversight of the 

(short, medium and long-term), enabling greater depth of analysis 
compared to 2022 where only the medium-term was considered

We also included a broader range of internal and external 
stakeholders in our scenario analysis, including external climate 
resilience experts. This enhanced engagement identified four specific 
risks as the most relevant physical climate-related risks, and these 
were the focus of our quantitative scenario analysis.

Based on our modelling this year, the most significant financial impact, 
whilst still moderate, arises from chronic water stress in the US and 
Australia in 2050, with beef and dairy production likely to be most 
impacted by climate change. These findings are consistent with our 
strategy to build competitive sourcing programmes in alternative food 
categories such as meatless proteins, and to nudge consumers towards 
diets that are more planet-friendly. Consequently, we are confident in 
our ability to mitigate the impact of this risk.

Last year we modelled transition risks, which identified carbon taxation 
in the US (in a low-carbon scenario) as the most significant potential 
impact. We believe this conclusion continues to be relevant this year 
and we remain confident in our ability to manage the financial risk 
under this scenario, with the net impact expected to be immaterial. 

We are dedicating significant resources to acquiring and 
implementing cutting-edge technologies to enhance our sustainability 
services for clients and to maximise the opportunities that we 
anticipate will arise from the climate transition. This includes strategic 
investment in our monitoring and measurement capabilities, which 
enable our businesses to offer in-depth and tailored roadmaps for 
their clients, while positioning the Group as a trusted partner in 
helping them achieve their own sustainability goals.

Furthermore, we recognise the important role we can play – through 
direct engagement and close collaboration with our businesses’ 
supply chain partners – in creating a low-carbon supply chain that is 
fit for the future. In 2023, this was a focus area during the Future 
Forward day that we hosted with key suppliers to our businesses in the 
US. In the UK, it is now a requirement for all suppliers to set their own 
science-based targets, in line with Compass’ own commitments. This 
is also extensively discussed in the supplier conferences that our 
various markets host each year.

Despite significantly expanding our analysis this year, we recognise 
that scenario analysis is limited by the availability of data on the 
long-term impacts of climate change, and our disclosures will need to 
evolve as data availability improves. We are committed to working with 
experts to continue to review the scope of our analysis and evolve our 
process in future years. 

The analysis shown in this disclosure was completed in 2023, with the 
exception of the quantitative scenario analysis on carbon taxation, 
which was completed in 2022. The qualitative and quantitative 
scenario analysis will be repeated at a minimum every three years in 
line with the relevant regulations. 

Governance

Oversight of climate-related risks and opportunities

Compass has well-established governance structures designed to 
effectively oversee the management of its principal risks, including 
climate change risks and opportunities. Principal risks are reviewed 
biannually by the Board. Climate change is a principal risk and it was 
embedded into our risk management processes in 2021 (see page 26).

Climate-related risks and opportunities are overseen and managed at 
the highest levels of the Company through the following governance 
structures and processes:

management of climate-related risks and opportunities, which it 
exercises through the Corporate Responsibility (CR) Committee and 
the Audit Committee

 – The Corporate Responsibility Committee meets at least three times 
a year and comprises all the Non-Executive Directors of the Board, 
together with the Chair of the Board, Group Chief Executive Officer 
(CEO) and Group Chief Financial Officer (CFO). It receives reports at 
every meeting from the Group Chief Commercial Officer (CCO), the 
Global Director of Sustainability and other senior managers to 
ensure that progress is being made towards meeting the Group’s 
specific CR KPIs and ongoing CR commitments, including 
greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions and food waste reduction targets

 – The Audit Committee meets at least three times a year and 

comprises all the independent Non-Executive Directors of the Board. 
In line with the governance process used for financial management, 
it considers the potential impact of climate change on the financial 
statements, including the output of the Group’s scenario analysis, the 
costs to achieve the Group’s climate net zero commitments, and their 
impact on the financial statements and related disclosures

 – Executive sponsorship is shared jointly between the Group CEO and 
Group CCO, who have the highest management-level responsibility 
to form, review and communicate the Company’s climate-related 
global strategy, policies and standards. This includes setting and 
reviewing progress towards targeted KPIs, assessing climate-related 
risks and managing and monitoring associated opportunities

 – They are supported at an operational level by the Global Director of 
Sustainability, who leads the Group Sustainability function. This 
function provides support to the Group’s regions and countries to 
ensure sustainability strategies are implemented and climate-
related risks and corresponding controls and mitigations are 
reviewed on an ongoing basis

 – At Executive Committee level, the Regional Managing Directors 
(RMDs) are responsible for managing climate-related risks and 
opportunities for their respective regions. At a country level, the 
country Managing Directors are responsible for managing 
climate-related risks and opportunities in their respective countries

Board

Overall oversight of risks and opportunities  
presented by climate change

Corporate 
Responsibility 
Committee

Reviews development and 
implementation of policies 
and strategies, including 
those on climate change

Reviews TCFD analyses

Reviews performance 
against CR KPIs

Audit Committee

Reviews the effectiveness 
of risk management 
and internal 
control processes

Reviews the impact  
of climate-related risks  
and opportunities on 
financial statements

Executive 
management

Communicates the 
climate-related strategy, 
policies and standards to 
the Corporate 
Responsibility Committee

Group Sustainability 
function and country 
teams

Assess and manage 
environmental and  
climate-related risks 
and opportunities

Compass Group PLC  Annual Report 2023

  47

Strategy

Climate-related risks and opportunities and their impact on 
the operations of the Group

Our specialist internal teams partnered with external climate 
resilience experts to conduct qualitative and quantitative risk 
assessments and scenario analysis to identify climate-related risks 
and opportunities.

In 2022, we published the results of our scenario analysis, which 
showed that Compass is well placed to respond to transition risks and 
market pressures through our dynamic operational and strategic 
levers. This year, we expanded our assessment to align with the latest 
guidance from the 2021 TCFD Annex. We also conducted a deeper 
analysis to understand our exposure to physical climate-related risks 
and opportunities across four key geographies (details of which can be 
found in the Scope section on page 48).

At Compass, we are aware that some of our markets are already 
experiencing the physical impacts of climate change. We want to 
ensure that our strategy is resilient and set up to deliver on our Planet 
Promise of a sustainable future for all. This commitment encompasses 
the Company’s values as an ethical, sustainable and inclusive 
business, and is key to our growth aspirations. 

We are committed to reaching climate net zero by 2050, supported 
by our Sustainable Financing Framework, and we have plans in place 
to mitigate and adapt to climate-related risks and a future climate 
transition. We are also making strategic investments which will 
enable the Group and its businesses to capitalise on climate-related 
opportunities, including investing in state-of-the-art technology to help 
our clients realise their sustainability goals effectively and efficiently. 

Scenario analysis

In 2022, we analysed two low-emission scenarios and one high-
emission scenario to understand the physical and transition risks and 
opportunities of climate change. This year, to understand the physical 
risks and opportunities in greater depth, we have chosen 2.5°C and 
4°C scenarios to model chronic and acute physical risks and 
opportunities. A separate 1.5°C scenario allows us to focus on the 
impact of transition risks and opportunities. 

These three climate scenarios, which are explained in more detail 
in the table below, were chosen by our specialist internal team, 
which includes representatives from the Sustainability, Finance, 
Commercial and Procurement functions, in consultation with our 
expert external partners.

 Scenario

Key attributes 

Rationale for inclusion 

Pathway to cost increase

Scenario A –

1.5°C by 2100

(SSP 1/ RCP 2.6 
combination)

Scenario B –

2.5°C by 2100

(SSP 2/ RCP 4.5 
combination)

Scenario C –

4°C by 2100

(SSP 5/ RCP 8.5 
combination)

The world takes rapid and drastic action to limit global warming 
and meet the ambition of the 2015 Paris Agreement:

 – coordinated action across public and private sectors
 – low-carbon technologies take over from fossil fuels
 – shift in consumer demand and preferences towards 

low-carbon products and services

The world follows a path in which social, economic and 
technological trends do not shift markedly from 
historical patterns:

 – development and income growth proceeds unevenly
 – middle-of-the-road emissions with inconsistent 

technological process

 – global and national institutions work towards, but make 

slow progress in, achieving the UN Sustainable 
Development Goals

The world continues to use fossil fuels as the engine of 
economic growth, resulting in worst-case levels of 
global warming:

 – severe and frequent extreme weather, with chronic 

changes to seasonal weather patterns

 – extensive business disruption, severely damaging 

economic growth

 – protectionist government policies to build resilience to 

climate change

A < 2°C scenario is required 
by TCFD. This scenario allows 
Compass to explore transition 
risks in key markets, consider 
changes in consumer and 
client preferences and 
understand competitor and 
stakeholder pressures. 

This scenario allows 
Compass to prepare for a 
disorderly transition away 
from fossil fuels. Under this 
2.5°C scenario, Compass 
examines both physical  
and transition risks 
and opportunities.

Increase in sourcing 
costs due to carbon 
pricing on agricultural 
(farm to farm gate) 
and freight emissions.

Increase in sourcing 
costs due to carbon 
pricing on agricultural 
(farm to farm gate) 
and freight emissions, 
and production losses 
leading to higher 
procurement costs.

This scenario allows 
Compass to assess the 
impact of acute and chronic 
physical climate-related 
risks and opportunities on 
the business, supply chain, 
supplier network, 
and stakeholders.

Loss in production 
leads to higher 
procurement costs 
due to the costs 
involved in switching 
sourcing. No carbon, 
plastic or food tax 
is assumed.

48 

Strategic report

Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures continued

Scope and assumptions

Time horizon

We consider three time horizons – three years (short-term), four to 10 
years (medium-term) and greater than 10 years (long-term) – to be 
the relevant time horizons for our scenario analysis, with the 
assumption that climate-related issues often manifest themselves 
over the medium to long-term.

 – Short-term – three years is the period reviewed by the Board in its 
annual strategic planning process and is aligned to the typical 
length of the contracts in the Group’s businesses (three to five 
years). It is also consistent with the time period of the Group’s 
viability statement (see page 31).

 – Medium-term – this time horizon allows for the outcomes of 

scenario analysis to influence the development of our strategic 
objectives.

 – Long-term – analysis over this time horizon is more uncertain due 

to the limited availability of data on the long-term impacts of climate 
change, the severity of which will be contingent on the actions 
taken over the short and medium-term.

Geographic and Product Scopes

To understand the impacts of physical and transition risks and 
opportunities in greater depth, the scope of the scenario analysis 
was expanded this year to include consideration of four countries 
(2022: 1) and seven product categories (2022: 6). Our business 
model in all sectors is very similar, hence we do not believe there 
would be any material differences in the outcomes if we considered 
different sectors in this exercise.

The Geographic Scope of the expanded scenario analysis was 
determined on the basis of both materiality (with the US, UK, Australia 
and France representing 78% of the Group’s underlying revenue in 
2023) and reach (with each of our reporting regions – North America, 
Europe and Rest of World – represented in the analysis). The balance 
of our underlying revenue comprises multiple countries, with no 
individual country representing more than 4% of the Group’s total 
underlying revenue in the year.

The product focus for the scenario analysis was protein (beef, pork, 
poultry and dairy), produce (fruit and vegetables) and in addition, this 
year, beverages. Together, these products represent more than 60% 
of the total MAP 3 food spend in 2023 in the four in-scope countries.

Qualitative scenario analysis

Building on the work conducted in 2022, a long-list of climate-related 
risks and opportunities was identified using the climate scenarios 
mentioned above. Their impacts on the business were discussed with 
business leaders and management across the markets in scope for 
the assessment. Workshops with our specialist internal teams, market 
representatives, Group senior management and external climate 
resilience experts were held to qualitatively assess each climate-
related risk and opportunity to determine the possible operational and 
financial impacts. Participants included representatives from the 
Sustainability, Finance, Commercial and Procurement functions. The 
likelihood and impact of the risks were ranked to determine a list of 
relevant transition and physical climate-related risks and opportunities.

The process of understanding our risk exposure and impact has been 
incremental. This year’s in-depth analysis of physical risks has 
provided Compass with granular insight into how the impact of 
climate-related risks and opportunities varies across specific 
geographies in each time horizon.

The table on pages 49 and 50 summarises the climate-related risks 
and opportunities identified during the qualitative scenario analysis 
and, for each one, shows the potential impact, geographical exposure 
and time horizon during which the impact is expected to materialise. 
Climate-related risks and opportunities are continuously reviewed 
together with other business risks as part of our biannual Major Risk 
Assessment (MRA) process. Climate-related risks and opportunities 
are assessed based on their potential impact on profit before interest 
and tax (PBIT) in accordance with the criteria set out in the Board-
approved Risk Management Policy (see page 26).

The table also highlights for each risk the combination of strategic 
business model levers and operational measures available to the 
Group to mitigate the impact of the risks and to seize the opportunities 
identified. Many of these levers and operational measures are ones we 
regularly deploy and, based on our experience, will allow us to mitigate 
the impacts to levels deemed minor or negligible.

Multiple material levers we can use to mitigate these risks

The table below shows the relevant physical and transition risks and opportunities identified for Compass, including an assessment of potential 
impact, likely time horizon and geographic exposure.

Compass Group PLC  Annual Report 2023

  49

Description and impact 

Exposure  Mitigation 

Risk/opportunity  
and time horizon

Acute physical risks 

Extreme heat  
and drought (S)

Increased extreme 
heat and drought 
events

1   2

Transportation disruptions, crop stress 
leading to reduced yields and/or 
catastrophic crop failure, raw material 
shortages and increased operating costs. 
Transportation routes in the Australian 
market are vulnerable to disruption 
from wildfires.

US, UK, 
Australia 
and 
France

 – flexible menu planning arrangements that allow our 
businesses to select local, seasonal and readily 
available ingredients

 – minimising food waste to maximise value of 

limited resources

 – strategic diversification of suppliers and sourcing 

regions to reduce reliance on single-source ingredients

 – increased use of alternative farming methods 

(e.g. indoor vertical farming)

US, UK, 
Australia 
and 
France

 – flexible menu planning
 – minimising food waste 
 – strategic diversification of suppliers and sourcing regions
 – flexible contractual terms with suppliers to manage and 

mitigate short-term disruption

 – contingency planning and rapid response to emergency 
situations (e.g. the Emergency Preparedness team in 
the US)

Global

 – market-based initiatives to support farmers (e.g. 

Compass US supporting the Carolina Farm Stewardship 
Association to provide advice and support to small 
farmers), focusing on sustainable farming practices and 
climate resilience

 – strategic diversification of suppliers and sourcing regions
 – increased use of alternative farming methods (e.g. 

indoor vertical farming)

 – reducing food waste

 – using analytical tools (e.g. carbon footprinting) to allow 

operators to improve energy, water and waste 
performance through menu and equipment 
management

 – strategically building competitive sourcing programmes 
in alternative categories (e.g. meatless proteins and 
dairy alternatives)
 – reducing food waste

Extreme weather 
events (L)

Increased flooding, 
hurricanes and 
cyclones

Increased crop stress, reducing yields and/
or catastrophic crop failure from flooding, 
and distribution-network failures from 
weather damage (due to flooding, 
hurricanes and cyclones) to public 
infrastructure, disrupting operations and 
sourcing while increasing operating costs. 

Chronic physical risks

Extreme heat (L)

Increased global 
temperatures leading 
to climate-related 
health impacts, 
diseases and pests

32

Increased range, spread and distribution of 
weeds, disease, pests and fungi, reducing 
crop yields. Extreme heat and disease 
leading to cow weight loss and lower milk 
production. Increased exposure of 
agricultural workers to extreme heat in 
Australia and US, limiting operational hours 
and increasing operating and key input 
costs for farmers.

Water stress (L)

Increased water stress 
and scarcity

4

Increased water stress in Australia and the 
US leading to reduced water availability for 
cattle feed, reducing dairy and beef herd 
sizes and production, and increasing costs 
of key inputs. Reduced water availability for 
beverage suppliers, disrupting production 
and increasing costs of key inputs.

US  
and 
Australia

Transition risks

Taxation (S/M)

Taxation on animal 
protein (beef and 
dairy) and 
transportation

Higher compliance costs or increased 
insurance premiums on carbon use. 
Increasing costs and/or decreasing revenue 
due to taxation on the production and sale 
of beef and dairy. Increased carbon 
taxation on GHG emissions associated with 
the transport and distribution of products 
and services, increasing operating costs.

Global

 – continued menu reformulation and accelerated 

plant-forward strategy

 – reducing food waste
 – continued close collaboration with key suppliers on 

GHG emissions reduction

 – building local sourcing options to reduce food miles
 – mature pricing practices and processes 

S Short M Medium L Long-term

1   2   32
quantitative scenario analysis (see table on page 47).

  4  The four specific risks identified by the Group as the most relevant physical climate-related risks, which were the focus of the 

50 

Strategic report

Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures continued

Risk/opportunity  
and time horizon

Description and impact 

Exposure  Mitigation 

Transition risks continued

Market (M)

Changing consumer 
preferences and 
behaviours away from 
animal proteins (meat 
and dairy) 

Reduced demand for certain products, 
services and menus, and impact on 
competitive market position due to shifts in 
consumer preferences. 

US  
and 
UK

 – continued menu reformulation to reduce animal protein 

on the plate

 – reducing food waste
 – industry-leading plant-forward training for our chefs
 – expanding use of technology and consumer apps to 

display carbon labelling

 – working with suppliers on new plant-forward options 

and reduced-carbon ingredients

 – strategically building competitive sourcing programmes 

in alternative protein categories 

Policy and legal (S/M)

Regulation on plastic 
and food waste

Increased cost of use (through increased 
taxation or ban on use) and disposal of 
plastics leading to loss of revenue and 
increased regulatory disciplinary action. 
Fines due to inefficient food waste 
management, increasing operating costs.

Global

 – application of technology to measure our food waste 

footprint (on track to halve food waste across our global 
operations by 2030)

 – exploring and implementing solutions to move away 
from single-use and fossil-fuel based plastics (e.g. in 
Australia, Compass has already made the transition 
ahead of federal and state legislation)

Opportunities

Resource efficiency 
(M)

Reduction in food 
waste across all 
operations

Market (S)

Shift in consumer 
preferences towards 
plant-based menus 
and products

Resilience (M)

Use of operational and 
strategic levers such 
as procurement scale, 
menu management, 
and culinary and 
digital innovation to 
mitigate climate-
related supply chain 
disruptions

Energy sourcing (M)

Use of lower emission 
sources of energy, 
switch to renewable 
electricity across all 
operations and 
transitioning of all 
fleet vehicles to 100% 
plug-in electric

Physical opportunity 
(L)

Crop diversification 
and increasing local 
sourcing (especially in 
higher latitudes) 

Cost reductions and reputational benefits 
resulting in increased demand for goods/
services and increasing revenue.

Global

 – continued rollout of and investment in proprietary 
technology to measure our food waste footprint 
(e.g. Waste Not 2.0)

 – food waste KPI added to executive annual bonus plan
 – food reclamation partnerships to repurpose food waste 

into meals for community support

Opportunity to become a market leader in 
plant-based meals, resulting in increased 
demand and increasing revenues.

Global

 – continue to expand our offer of healthy, lower-carbon, 
plant-based menu items, reformulating menus in line 
with our plant-forward strategy

 – increase share of seasonal and locally-sourced products
 – use of eco-labels to accelerate the transition and 

position Compass as a market leader 

Higher availability of products compared  
to competitors, and increasing 
consequent revenues.

Global

 – expand use of existing operational and strategic 

levers globally

 – leverage global procurement strategy to reduce 
exposure to fluctuations in raw material costs

 – flexible menu planning and pricing 

Reduced exposure to fossil fuel prices, 
and lower operating costs.

Increased growth viability resulting in 
reduced logistical emissions and costs.

Global

 – continue seeking to improve operational efficiency and 

use new technologies that emerge as the sector 
transitions to a low-carbon economy

 – increasing adoption of 100% plug-in electric vehicles by 

our businesses

 – our businesses in the UK and France have already 

adopted 100% renewable energy, while other markets 
have begun the transition

Global

 – allocation of funding towards new production 

techniques such as regenerative agriculture, vertical 
farming and hydroponics; transitioning farmers from 
traditional farming

 – Compass Netherlands has partnered with Local2Local, 
a platform that enables farmers and producers to sell 
their products locally

S Short M Medium L Long-term

Compass Group PLC  Annual Report 2023

  51

The chronic risks were only modelled for the US and Australia on the 
basis that only these countries are expected to experience temperature 
increases at levels that will impact livestock and milk production.

Last year, in addition to physical risks, we also modelled transition 
risks relating to taxation. As we consider that the conclusions of that 
analysis remain relevant this year, they have not been re-modelled. 

The food products selected for the quantitative scenario analysis 
remain consistent with last year, with protein (beef, dairy, poultry 
and pork) and produce (fruit and vegetables) continuing to be the 
focus of our modelling.

The table below shows the results of this year’s quantitative scenario 
analysis in respect of physical risks, together with last year’s 
low-carbon transition scenario. We are confident that our strategic 
business model levers and operational measures will allow us to 
mitigate the impacts to levels deemed minor or negligible.

Quantitative scenario analysis

Each of the risks and opportunities identified during the qualitative 
scenario analysis was considered for quantification based on the level 
of risk identified, its likelihood and the additional insight that would be 
gained from quantification.

We continue to enhance our risk management and climate change 
decision-making processes and, consistent with the qualitative 
scenario analysis, have extended our modelling to short, medium and 
long-term timeframes (2025, 2030 and 2050) and four countries (US, 
UK, Australia and France). Last year, only one timeframe (2030) and 
one country (US) were considered.

This year, we have focused our analysis on the four most relevant 
physical climate risks identified during the qualitative scenario 
analysis: acute drought and heat events, and chronic water stress 
and temperature increases. These have been modelled under 
the three climate scenarios, A, B and C, explained on page 47, 
across the relevant markets and each of the short, medium and 
long-term timeframes. 

Quantification of potential cost impacts by climate scenario

Risk

Type

Description

Impact

Drought

Acute

1

Acute

Chronic

Chronic

Extreme 
heat
2

Extreme 
heat

32

Water 
stress
4

Prolonged period of 
abnormally low 
rainfall leading to a 
shortage of water
Prolonged period of 
abnormally high 
surface temperatures

Sustained abnormally 
high surface 
temperatures

Sustained higher 
temperatures and 
reduced precipitation

Taxation2 Transition Carbon tax on 

agricultural and 
freight (Scope 3) 
emissions

Crop stress leading 
to reduced yields

Crop stress leading 
to crop failure

Heat leading to cow 
weight loss and 
lower milk 
production
Reduced water 
availability for cattle 
feed, thus reducing 
herd size
Higher compliance 
costs or increased 
insurance premiums

Country

US, UK,  
Australia
and
France 
US, UK,  
Australia
and
France 
US  
and 
Australia

US  
and 
Australia

US

Focus area

Poultry, 
pork, 
produce

Poultry, 
pork, 
produce

Beef, dairy

Beef, dairy

Beef, 
dairy, 
poultry, 
pork, 
produce

Cost impact1 – 2025/2030

Cost impact1 – 2050

A 
(1.5° C)

B
(2.5° C)

C
(4° C)

A 
(1.5° C)

B
(2.5° C)

C 
(4° C)

N/A

N/A

N/A

N/A

Potential unmitigated annual food cost increase1

< 2.5%

2.5-5.0%

5.0-7.5%

1. The cost impact columns indicate the potential unmitigated gross annual percentage increase in the cost of food products in scope for each risk scenario.
2. Scenario analysis on taxation in 2022 considered the low-carbon (1.5°C and 2°C) transition scenarios and calculated the cost impact for a 2030 time horizon only.

S Short M Medium L Long-term

1 2 32

4  The four specific risks identified by the Group as the most relevant physical climate-related risks.

Key assumptions

 – it is assumed that the price elasticity of food products is 100%, 
i.e. when the yield decreases by 1, the price increases by 1
 – it is assumed that the price elasticity of poultry and pork feed 
is 50%, i.e. when the price of feed increases by 1, the price of 
poultry and pork increases by 0.5

 – the output of the analysis is an estimated cost increase assuming 
no volume changes from 2022 levels and no changes in business 
activities. The results refer to this scope only and, as such, cannot 
be extrapolated

 – the analysis does not include the mitigation or adaptation measures 

that would be undertaken by the Group’s businesses and their 
suppliers to offset the estimated cost increases

52 

Strategic report

Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures continued

Consistent with last year, no potential financial impacts in 2030 of 
2.5% or more of total spend on in-scope food categories before 
business levers were identified in respect of the physical climate 
risks modelled.

This year’s modelling of physical risks shows that the most significant 
potential impact is from chronic water stress in the US and Australia in 
2050 under all three climate scenarios, with an estimated annual cost 
increase in the range of 2.5% to 5.0% of the total spend on in-scope 
food categories across the US, UK, Australia and France. The analysis 
shows that beef and dairy production is likely to be most impacted by 
climate change, with costs increasing in the long-term. However, our 
existing strategy, informed by a focus on potential climate impacts, is 
building competitive sourcing programmes in alternative food 
categories including meatless proteins and dairy alternatives, such 
that the impact of this risk can be successfully mitigated by the Group. 

The most significant potential impact identified during our quantitative 
scenario analysis last year was from the transition risk of carbon 
taxes on animal protein in the US in 2030 under low-carbon climate 
Scenario A, with an estimated annual cost increase in a range of 
5.0% to 7.5%. Whilst we concluded that the application of the 
business levers at hand in our operational model would substantially 
reduce the financial impact, the analysis showed that carbon tax on 
our Scope 3 GHG emissions is a key risk to mitigate and, therefore, 
it is the focus of our current efforts, which are highlighted in the 
Metrics and targets section below.

Future roadmap on scenario analysis

We will continue to evolve our scenario analysis for future TCFD 
disclosures. In 2024, we expect to quantify an opportunity while 
continuing to expand our analysis into more geographies and 
product categories.

The resilience of the Group strategy

Compass Group’s sustainability leadership, climate net zero roadmap 
and well-established plant-forward strategy make us more resilient 
and adaptable than many of our peers to the impacts of climate 
change, most notably evolving client and consumer demands and 
the projected climate impacts on animal protein production costs 
and availability.

The Group benefits from a wide range of strategic and operational 
processes already in place that can be flexed to address changing 
market dynamics, supply disruption and other impacts of climate 
change. These processes include a combination of operational 
mitigation measures and strategic business model levers, captured in 
the table on page 49 and 50. The main levers available to Compass 
are flexible menu arrangements with clients, food waste management 
to optimise resource efficiency, and continued strategic diversification 
of suppliers and sourcing regions. Compass already widely deploys 
these levers as part of our normal business practices, and we are 
confident they will continue to provide a competitive advantage during 
any climate transition.

Beyond these business levers, we are also evolving our approach to 
carbon. Most of Compass Group’s GHG emissions are Scope 3. 
Collaboration with our suppliers is essential as we recognise that we 
cannot impact those emissions on our own. We are working with 
partners like Planet FWD (see page 38), and we are moving to a 
volume-based data approach, to build a more granular understanding 
of food-related emissions.

Working with our suppliers on reducing their carbon emissions, 
combined with menu engineering and reducing food waste, form 
the three key levers to our carbon reduction strategy.

We believe our business model will be resilient in all three climate 
change scenarios that were considered during the process. 

Risk management

Processes for identifying and assessing climate-related risks

Climate change has been assessed as a principal risk by the Board 
since 2021, recognising the potential impacts it can have on our 
businesses in the medium and long-term. Climate change risks and 
opportunities are considered as part of our MRA process: a structured 
biannual bottom-up and top-down risk review completed by all 
countries, which is the cornerstone of our risk management framework.

The process for identifying climate-related risks and opportunities is 
consistent with last year and continues to involve both country 
leadership teams and central functions, including Finance, Risk 
Management, Legal and Sustainability. Risks are identified and 
assessed within each country and region, and the Group risks are 
assessed biannually by the Board.

In accordance with our risk management framework, we assess the 
materiality of key risks and opportunities, including climate-related 
risks and opportunities, and deem them to have a substantive 
financial or strategic impact if there is a one-off or recurring annual 
profit impact of more than 4% of our PBIT. More information about our 
risk management framework can be found on pages 24 and 25.

Processes for managing climate-related risks

As noted on pages 26 to 30, the Group’s principal risks (which include 
climate-related risks) are all considered as part of the Group’s 
strategic planning process and viability statement assessment. 
In addition, we note on page 151 how climate risk has been 
considered in the basis of preparation of the Group’s 
consolidated financial statements.

Climate risks and mitigations are monitored throughout the year by 
the Executive Committee, as part of the biannual MRA process, and 
separately by a cross-functional steering group. RMDs are responsible 
for managing climate change risks and opportunities for their 
respective regions while responsibility at the country level sits with 
the country Managing Directors.

The development of action plans to manage the climate-related risks 
and maximise the opportunities, and the continual monitoring of 
progress against agreed KPIs, are integral parts of both business 
process and core activities throughout the Group. These KPIs consist 
mainly of the metrics described in the Metrics and targets section 
below, and are in line with our strategy and the conclusions of our 
scenario analysis.

Metrics and targets

Focus on food waste and GHG emissions in line with 
strategy and results of quantitative scenario analysis

In line with our commitment to the Paris Agreement and our 
sustainability strategy, which includes climate action, we have 
established climate-related metrics and targets for the short, 
medium and long-term, at both a Group and operating country level. 
We have committed to:

 – reaching climate net zero GHG emissions across our global 

operations and value chain by 2050. The climate net zero goal 
includes interim 2030 targets validated by the Science Based 
Targets initiative (SBTi) 

 – reducing absolute Scope 1 and Scope 2 GHG emissions by 46% 
by 2030 from a 2019 base year, in line with an ambition to limit 
future warming to 1.5°C above pre-industrial levels 

 – reducing our absolute Scope 3 GHG emissions from all purchased 

food and drink by 28% by 2030 from a 2019 base year, aligned with 
a trajectory to limit global warming to well below 2°C compared to 
pre-industrial levels 

Compass Group PLC  Annual Report 2023

  53

We have also committed to achieving carbon neutrality worldwide in 
our Group operations by 2030 (Scopes 1 and 2). To achieve this, we 
will compensate and later neutralise remaining Scope 1 and 2 direct 
GHG emissions through high-quality carbon removal projects. As a 
critical step towards lower GHG emissions, we have also committed to 
reducing food waste by 50% by 2030. To support the business to meet 
these targets the Group launched a Sustainable Financing Framework 
in July 2022 to issue sustainable debt. Under this framework, in 
September 2022 we successfully issued two sustainable bonds, 
raising proceeds of €500 million and £250 million respectively, which 
will be used to progress the Group’s sustainability initiatives and the 
delivery of its global climate net zero target. As of September 2023, we 
have allocated 50% of the proceeds raised on sustainable initiatives, 
including operating expenditures on certified ethically traded coffee 
and tea and certified sustainable fish and seafood. 

Further details can be found in the latest Sustainable Bond Allocation 
Report on the Group’s website www.compass-group.com/en/investors/
debt-investors/sustainable-financing

Food waste

With a third of all food produced globally wasted every year, reducing 
food waste – both within our own operations and by working with 
suppliers to reduce food waste at source – is a core strategic priority for 
the Group and our businesses. By sending less food waste to landfill and 
ensuring good food is not wasted, we are helping to mitigate climate 
change, relieving pressure on natural resources. This strategy will also 
continue to enhance purchasing and product management efficiencies 
throughout our operations globally, supporting the mitigation of the 
physical and transition risks identified in our scenario analysis.

We are on track to achieve a 50% reduction in food waste by 2030, 
which we see as our most immediate contribution to reducing GHG 
emissions. This year, we have more than doubled our food waste 
measurement capability by deploying our range of food waste 
management systems in nearly 8,000 sites across all regions, 
with data assurance provided by an independent third party. Our 
investment in technology helped deliver a 28% reduction in food 
waste in 20221. The continued global rollout will see food waste 
technology made available in relevant sites across all Compass 
markets, improving tracking and accountability of kitchen waste 
worldwide while also delivering significant reductions in the Group’s 
Scope 3 GHG emissions and clients’ carbon footprints. See page 39 
for further details on our progress on food waste this year.

Scope 1 and Scope 2 GHG emissions

We report our energy usage and Scope 1 and 2 GHG emissions 
annually (see page 42). In 2023, we monitored the energy usage and 
GHG emissions of our owned and operated sites across 28 countries 
(2022: 29) which represent 98% of the Group’s underlying revenue2 
(2022: 98%). This year, we have again calculated our Scope 2 GHG 
emissions using market-based methodology to recognise the 
purchasing of low-carbon energy. Our Scope 1 and 2 GHG 
emissions normalised by revenue are disclosed on page 42.

Scope 3 GHG emissions

Of our emissions, 98% sit under Scope 3 and are related to the 
products we purchase. Although these emissions are not entirely 
within our control, we can influence changes through menu choices, 
reducing food waste or by working with suppliers to contribute to 
reductions. We have improved our methodology and we now measure 
emissions on a volume basis rather than by spend, which is a more 
accurate reflection of our Scope 3 GHG emissions. Our most recent 
data show an approximate 30% reduction in our Scope 3 purchased 
goods emissions compared to our 2019 baseline.

1.  Reported reduction based on information available at the date of publication. 
Progress on food waste reduction in 2023 will be disclosed in the Group’s 
annual Sustainability Report in January 2024.

2.  Alternative Performance Measure (APM) (see pages 206 to 213). The Group’s 
APMs are defined in note 34 (non-GAAP measures) and reconciled to GAAP 
measures in notes 2 (segmental analysis) and 34 to the consolidated financial 
statements.

This year, we have more than doubled our food 
waste measurement capability by deploying our 
range of food waste management systems in 
nearly 8,000 sites across all regions, with data 
assurance provided by an independent third party. 
Our investment in technology helped deliver a 28% 
reduction in foot waste in 20221.

54 

Strategic report

Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures continued

GHG Scope 3 – Category

Comment on data

Purchased goods  
and services

Capital goods
Fuel and energy-
related activities

Upstream 
transportation and 
distribution
Waste generated in 
operations
Business travel 

Employee commuting

Upstream leased 
assets
Use of sold products

End-of-life treatment 
of sold products

Investments

Calculated with average data methodology using activity data for 94% of food spend in the USA, 95% in Australia, 
and a significant portion in the UK. All other purchased goods and services were calculated using spend data and 
environmentally extended input-output (EEIO) emissions factors. These emissions factors include upstream 
transportation for purchased goods and services, unless upstream transportation is separately purchased by 
Compass Group.
Spend-based method was used on capital goods to calculate the emissions using EEIO emissions factors.
Primary data for Scope 1 and 2 emissions was used to calculate the upstream portion of these activities (US Life Cycle 
Inventory (LCI) data for most countries). France was calculated using energy usage per meal and fuel usage for 
transportation emissions.
Upstream transportation emissions are included in emissions for category 3.1 (Purchased goods and services) 
unless purchased separately. Transportation represented in category 3.4 was calculated using spend data and 
EEIO emissions factors. France was extrapolated based on data from freight providers.
Waste studies for each country were used to approximate food waste based on purchased food. France was 
calculated based on estimated waste per meal.
Air travel was calculated based on total miles travelled, taking into account country-specific domestic versus 
international flights, to determine average emissions load. In countries with primary data available, ground travel was 
also calculated based on total miles travelled by mode of transportation, using each country’s government-published 
emissions factors. In other countries, ground travel emissions were estimated based on total spend for travel.
Employee commuting was calculated using total number of employees commuting, commuting days in a year, 
assumed commute distances, assumed vehicle types, and emissions factors from each country’s government-
published emissions factors.
Compass Group does not lease upstream assets. Energy usage in client kitchens was previously included in this 
category but is now included in category 3.11 (Use of sold products).
Compass Group’s use of sold products primarily comprises energy usage in client kitchens. Energy use calculations 
were estimated using factors based on electrical and natural gas usage in commercial kitchens by revenue. 
Differences in food costs and consumer prices across countries were normalised using food indices from FAOSTAT. 
Energy usage in client kitchens was previously represented in category 3.8 (Upstream leased assets).
Estimates were made for both end-of-life food waste and packaging waste. Food waste rates are country-specific. 
All packaging is assumed to end up as waste, and the quantity of packaging is estimated according to average 
packaging mass:product ratios based on submitted food weights. These emissions were previously treated as 
category 3.5 (Waste generated in operations).
Calculations were based on revenue data and EEIO emissions factors for relevant sectors. For partially-owned 
investments, revenue is allocated to Compass by percentage of ownership or period of ownership, and only this 
portion is used for emissions estimates. This category was previously not relevant.

Building a low-carbon supply chain can only be achieved through 
close collaboration with our supply chain partners. In the UK&I this 
year, we have mandated that all suppliers establish science-based 
targets, while in the US we hosted roundtable discussions with our key 
suppliers to explore their carbon reduction strategies. 

technology which will allow us to further reduce food waste, more 
accurately refine our menu and production planning, and enhance 
procurement efficiency. The target for this KPI was met in 2023, with 
the 2024 annual bonus KPI focusing on driving usage of the 
technology (see page 120).

Calculations of Scope 3 emissions going forward

Work on other metric categories

In order to monitor our progress in reaching our 2030 science-based 
targets, we will continue to measure and disclose our relevant Scope 3 
emissions annually.

Internal carbon pricing

We recognise the importance of having an effective internal carbon 
pricing system in place, as well as the effects of a possible increase in 
the price of carbon offsets going forward. We therefore continue to 
assess how to introduce an internal carbon pricing method as a matter 
of priority whilst we evolve our data reporting systems to be able to 
capture data at a product level, which would be a critical enabler.

Remuneration

To further strengthen our targets and commitments, the 
Remuneration Committee introduced a new ESG KPI for the 2023 
annual bonus plan for executive directors and senior management, 
to support our sustainability priorities (see pages 116 to 117). This 
focuses on reducing food waste across our operations, targeting an 
annual increase in the number of sites recording food waste using 
industry-leading technology. This has been effective in focusing our 
leadership to accelerate the deployment of food waste management 

We recognise the importance of measurement and follow-up to drive 
change and have considered the seven metric categories in the 
TCFD recommendations. In addition to the metrics mentioned 
above, we will continue to explore how to measure transition risks, 
physical risks, climate-related opportunities and capital deployment 
to the extent relevant.

Conclusion

We are encouraged by the findings of the expanded scenario analysis 
this year, which support and reaffirm our sustainability strategy and 
the mitigating actions we are already taking across our global 
operations. Though additional climate-related risks have been 
identified, we are confident in our ability to manage these risks whilst 
maximising the available opportunities. Consequently, we expect the 
net impact to be immaterial to the Group.

We remain steadfast in our commitment to collaborate with partners 
in our ecosystem to decarbonise while continuing to work with 
external experts to broaden the scope of our efforts in this area and 
further improve our TCFD disclosures year-on-year.

Compass Group PLC  Annual Report 2023

  55

Non-financial and sustainability  
information statement

The table below sets out where stakeholders can find information in our Strategic report that relates to non-financial matters detailed under 
section 414CB of the Companies Act 2006.

Page

38-44

42

45-54

26

10

32-37

26-27

12

13-14

84

35

33-35

11

74-79 and 
 103-104

38-44

13-14

29-30

84

4-6

7

7

Reporting requirement

Some of our relevant policies1

Environmental  
matters

 – Sustainability Strategy
 – Environmental 

Policy Statement

Where to read more in this Report about our impact,  
including the principal risks relating to these matters

Purpose

GHG Emissions

TCFD reporting

Principal Risks – Climate change and sustainability

Employees

 – Code of Business Conduct
 – Business Integrity Policy
 – Workplace Health and 
Safety Policy Statement

 – DE&I Policy

Chief Executive’s review – People

People 

Principal Risks – Health and Safety, People

Human rights

 – Code of Business Conduct
 – Business Integrity Policy 
 – Modern Slavery Act 

Statement
 – Human Rights 

Policy Statement

Safety culture

Ethics and integrity

Whistleblowing, anti-bribery and fraud

Human Rights

Employee diversity

Social matters

 – Social Purpose

Chief Executive’s review – Purpose

Stakeholder engagement

Purpose Report

Ethics and integrity

Principal Risks – Compliance and fraud

Whistleblowing, anti-bribery and fraud

Strategy and business model

Global Lost Time Incident Frequency Rate

Global Food Safety Incident Rate

Anti-bribery and 
corruption

 – Code of Business Conduct
 – Business Integrity Policy
 – Speak and Listen Up Policy
 – Sourcing Responsibly

Business model

Non-financial KPIs

Principal risks

1.  The Company’s policies, statements and codes are available on the Company’s website, www.compass-group.com.

The Strategic report, as set out on pages 1 to 55, has been 
approved by the Board and signed on its behalf by

Alison Yapp
Group General Counsel and Company Secretary

20 November 2023

Global Total Recordable Injury Frequency Rate

12, 56, 89, 120

Greenhouse gas intensity ratio

Risk management

7

24-30

56 

Governance

Governance and 
leadership

Ian Meakins
Chair of the Board

Dear Shareholder

On behalf of the Board, I am pleased to present Compass Group PLC’s 
annual Corporate Governance and Directors’ Report for the financial 
year ended 30 September 2023. Throughout this and other parts of 
the Annual Report, we have sought to provide shareholders and other 
stakeholders with an insight into how our governance framework has 
supported our performance during the year.

Board changes, succession planning and talent pipeline

This year, as part of the ongoing succession planning process, the 
Nomination Committee undertook a comprehensive review of the 
composition of the Board, together with the succession plans for the 
Board and the Executive Committee and key roles in the Group’s 
North America business. The review considered the tenure of the 
Board’s non-executive directors and the skills and experience that will 
be needed in the future as directors retire, having served their term in 
office, and as the food services industry continues to evolve.

In May, the Nomination Committee recommended the appointment of 
Leanne Wood as a non-executive director to the Board. Leanne will 
stand for election at the forthcoming AGM in February 2024. More 
details of the appointment process and Leanne’s induction are on 
page 94. The Committee also considered changes to the roles and 
responsibilities of some non-executive directors, and recommended 
these to the Board. 

Following Gary Green’s decision to retire and step down from the 
Board, as announced in September 2023, the Committee considered 
the appointment of his successor and also the appointment of a new 
Group Chief Financial Officer (CFO). I am pleased to report that our 
detailed succession planning processes ensured there was an 
exceptional pipeline of internal talent available, and this has enabled 
us to fill these two key Board positions with internal candidates. 
Carol Arrowsmith will retire from the Board at the conclusion of the 
2024 AGM having served more than nine years on the Board. More 
details of all of these changes can be found in the Nomination 
Committee report on pages 94 and 95.

In the coming year, the Committee will continue to focus on 
succession planning for the Board and Executive Committee, ensuring 
there is a strong and diverse pipeline of future senior leaders.

Diversity, equity and inclusion

Across the Group, we continue to ensure the workforce is 
representative of the communities that Compass serves, and 
we are making promising headway. Information on the initiatives 
being implemented to drive positive change can be found in People on 
pages 32 to 37 and also on our website, www.compass-group.com.

At Board level, changes made in recent years reflect our aim for better 
gender balance and diversity in its broadest sense, and we will 
continue to advance this agenda. As set out on page 65, we have 
made good progress. At the date of this Report, 38% of directors are 
women versus 33% last year. In July, Anne-Françoise Nesmes 
succeeded John Bryant as Senior Independent Director, and three 
members of the Board are from a minority ethnic background. In the 
coming year, we hope to meet the target of having at least 40% of 
Board membership represented by women.

Audit tender process

This year was KPMG’s 10th year as the Company’s external auditor 
and, during the year, the Audit Committee conducted a competitive 
tender process for the role of external statutory auditor. Following the 
conclusion of the tender process, the Audit Committee recommended 
to the Board that the incumbent, KPMG LLP, be reappointed as the 
Company’s external auditor. More detail about the audit tender process 
can be found in the Audit Committee report on pages 87 and 88.

Environmental, social and governance (ESG) matters

Throughout the year, the Board was kept up to date on the progress 
and effectiveness of the Group’s ESG strategies. With regard to 
environmental matters, the Board and the Corporate Responsibility 
Committee have reviewed the Group’s progress toward its climate net 
zero commitment, and closely monitored the developing sustainability 
disclosure landscape and reporting frameworks. On social matters, we 
reviewed plans to create lifetime career opportunities and to further 
improve the experience of employees in the Group, including 
initiatives designed to give back to and create value for the 
communities in which Compass operates. As part of the Group’s 
continuing drive to improve its safety culture, the Corporate 
Responsibility Committee approved a move from the Lost Time Injury 
Frequency Rate (LTIFR) workplace health and safety performance 
measure, to the Total Recordable Injury Frequency Rate (TRIFR) 
performance measure for 2024, reflecting the continuing maturity 
of Compass’ safety culture.

More detail on these matters can be found on in the Strategic report 
on pages 1 to 55 and on our website, www.compass-group.com.

Governance reforms

The Board and its committees continue to monitor developments in 
governance, particularly the proposed changes to the UK Corporate 
Governance Code 2018 and the proposed audit reforms.

Change in presentation currency

The Board approved a change in the Group’s presentation currency 
from sterling to US dollars to take effect from 1 October 2023. More 
information can be found on pages 81 and 84.

Compass Group PLC  Annual Report 2023

  57

Stakeholders

Board effectiveness

The Board values engagement with stakeholders. As set out on 
page 74, for practical reasons, most stakeholder engagement takes 
place between the Company’s subsidiaries and their stakeholders at 
an operational level. Direct engagement between members of the 
Board and stakeholders is principally with employees and investors. 
However, the Board ensures that there are effective mechanisms in 
place to support the continuous flow of information between the 
Board, senior management and the wider organisation to enable the 
Board to understand the views of all our stakeholders.

This year, we conducted an internal evaluation of the Board and its 
committees. The results of the evaluation concluded that the Board 
and its committees continue to operate effectively, and I am confident 
that we have an appropriate balance of capability, skills, experience 
and diversity on the Board to continue to do so. However, we are not 
complacent, and we have identified a number of priorities for the 
Board and its committees for the year ahead to help us continue to 
build on the progress we have made to date, and to contribute to the 
ongoing success of the Group.

Details of how the Board has oversight of stakeholders’ interests, 
together with examples of how decisions taken by the Board  
have impacted stakeholders during the year, can be found on 
pages 74 to 79 and 81.

Ian Meakins
Chair of the Board

20 November 2023

Compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code 2018

Compliance statement

Board leadership and company purpose

It is the Board’s view that for the financial year ended 
30 September 2023, the Company was compliant with the 
principles and provisions set out in the UK Corporate Governance 
Code 2018 (the Code) with the following exception. During the first 
three months of the financial year, the Company did not comply 
with provision 38 (alignment of executive director pension 
contribution rates with those available to the workforce).  
The Company has been compliant with provision 38 since 
31 December 2022, when existing pension benefits for executive 
directors were aligned to the maximum rate available to the 
majority of the wider UK workforce. 

For more information, please refer to page 115 of the Directors’ 
Remuneration report.

The Company’s auditor, KPMG LLP, is required to review whether 
the above statement reflects the Company’s compliance with the 
provisions of the Code specified for its review by the Financial 
Conduct Authority’s (FCA) Listing Rules and to report if it does not 
reflect such compliance. No such report has been made.

Our commitment to corporate governance

The Board is committed to the high standards of corporate 
governance set out in the Code. The Code can be found on the 
FRC’s website, www.frc.org.uk.

This Corporate Governance report, together with the Directors’ 
Remuneration report set out on pages 97 to 126, describes how 
the Board has applied the principles and complied with the 
provisions set out in the Code for the year under review. The 
Directors’ Report also contains information required to be 
disclosed under the FCA’s Listing Rules and Disclosure Guidance 
and Transparency Rules. To the extent necessary, certain 
information is incorporated into this Report by reference.

This Corporate Governance report on pages 56 to 126 and the 
Other Statutory Disclosures on pages 127 to 130, together with the 
Directors’ responsibilities statement on page 131 and the Strategic 
report on pages 1 to 55, which make up the Directors’ report have 
been incorporated by reference.

Compass is led by an effective and balanced Board dedicated to 
promoting the long-term sustainable success of the Company, 
generating value for shareholders, and contributing to wider 
society. The Board has established the Company’s purpose, values 
and strategy, which are aligned with its culture. Read more on 
pages 56 to 81.

Division of responsibilities

The roles of the Chair of the Board and the Group Chief Executive 
Officer (CEO) are separate, and there is an appropriate 
combination of executive and independent non-executive 
directors. The responsibilities of the Chair, Group CEO and Senior 
Independent Director (SID) are set out in writing. Read more on 
pages 66 to 68.

Composition, succession and evaluation

Appointments are subject to a formal, rigorous and transparent 
procedure. Succession plans, designed to promote diversity of 
gender, social and ethnic backgrounds, and cognitive and personal 
strengths, are in place for the Board and senior management. The 
Board and its committees are evaluated annually, in accordance 
with the Code. Read more on pages 93 to 96.

Audit, risk management and internal control

Formal, transparent policies and procedures are in place to ensure 
the independence and effectiveness of the internal and external 
audit functions, the integrity of financial and narrative statements, 
and to manage and mitigate risks. Read more on pages 82 to 88.

Remuneration

Compass has remuneration policies designed to support its 
strategy and promote long-term sustainable success. Executive 
remuneration is aligned to the Company’s purpose and values and 
is clearly linked to the delivery of long-term strategy. Read more on 
pages 97 to 126.

58 

Governance

Board of Directors

Appointment: Appointed to the Board in 
September 2020. Became Chair of the 
Board in December 2020.

Key skills and competencies: Ian is an 
experienced Chair and former CEO with 
a strong background in B2B and B2C 
businesses across a variety of sectors in 
global organisations.

Current external appointments: Ian is a 
non-executive director and Chair Designate 
of Unilever PLC.

Previous experience: Ian is a former 
non-executive Chair of Rexel SA and a 
former Chief Executive of Wolseley plc 
(now Ferguson plc), Travelex Holdings Ltd 
and Alliance Unichem plc (until its merger 
with Boots). Prior to that, he held positions 
at Diageo plc, Bain & Company and Procter 
& Gamble, and was a founding partner at 
Kalchas Group management consultants. 
Ian was previously a non-executive director 
of O2 plc and SID at Centrica plc. He was 
formerly non-executive Chair of The 
Learning Network B.V.

Appointment: Joined the Board in 
February 2012. Previously held the roles of 
Group CFO, Group Chief Operating Officer 
(COO), Europe, and Deputy Group CEO. 
Assumed the role of Group CEO in 
January 2018.

Key skills and competencies: Dominic 
has extensive financial management 
experience in a number of international 
businesses, together with 
general operational management 
experience. He is a chartered accountant.

Current external appointments: Dominic  
is a non-executive director of London Stock 
Exchange Group plc and a member of the 
Council of University College London.

Previous experience: Dominic is a former 
non-executive director of Shire plc, CFO of 
Iglo Foods Group Limited, and European 
Finance & Strategy Director at Cadbury Plc, 
having previously held senior finance roles 
at that company. Before that, Dominic was 
a director at PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP.

Current external appointments: None.

Previous experience: Palmer is a former 
Group Commercial Director and Chief 
Strategy Officer, Compass Group North 
America. Prior to that, he served as General 
Counsel and Executive Vice President of 
Corporate & Legal Affairs for the Group’s 
US business.

Previous experience: Gary joined the 
Group in 1986 in a senior finance role in 
the UK and became a UK director in 1992. 
He relocated to the US in 1994 as CFO of 
the Group’s North America business and, 
in 1999, became its CEO.

Appointment: Appointed to the Board in 
October 2021, having joined the Group 
in 2001. Assumed the role of Group CFO 
in November 2021. 

Key skills and competencies: During 
his tenure, Palmer has held a variety of 
senior finance, strategy and legal positions 
and played a central role as a member of 
the Executive team in North America. He 
also coordinated many of the acquisitions 
and disposals for the Group. Palmer has 
degrees in business and law and is a 
certified public accountant.

Appointment: Joined the Board in January 
2007. Appointed Group COO, North 
America, in April 2012.

Key skills and competencies: Gary brings 
strong business and operational leadership, 
business development, and wide-ranging 
sales experience. Gary is a chartered 
accountant and has an honorary doctorate 
from Johnson & Wales University in the US.

Current external appointments: None.

Ian Meakins (67)
Chair of the Board

Dominic Blakemore (54)
Group Chief Executive Officer (CEO)

Palmer Brown (52)
Group Chief Financial Officer (CFO)

Gary Green (66)
Group Chief Operating Officer (COO), 
North America

Compass Group PLC  Annual Report 2023

  59

Committee membership key

Audit Committee

Nomination Committee

Chair 

Designated Non-Executive Director for 
Workforce Engagement

Corporate Responsibility Committee

Remuneration Committee

Senior Independent Director

Secretary

Appointment: Appointed to the Board in 
July 2018. Appointed Chair of the Audit 
Committee in February 2021. Appointed 
SID in July 2023.

Key skills and competencies: Anne-
Françoise has a wealth of experience in 
finance and accounting in international 
organisations with a strong focus on 
strategy, M&A and governance. She is 
a chartered management accountant.

Current external appointments: CFO of 
Smith+Nephew PLC.

Previous experience: Anne-Françoise is a 
former CFO of Merlin Entertainments PLC 
and Dechra Pharmaceuticals PLC, and also 
held a number of senior finance roles 
during her 16-year tenure at 
GlaxoSmithKline.

Appointment: Appointed to the Board in 
June 2014. 

Key skills and competencies: Carol brings 
extensive advisory experience, especially in 
advising boards on executive remuneration 
across a range of sectors. She is a Fellow of 
the Chartered Institute of Personnel and 
Development.

Current external appointments: Non-
executive director of Centrica plc and a 
director and trustee of Northern Ballet 
Limited.

Previous experience: Carol is a former 
partner and adviser of Deloitte LLP and 
Vice Chair of their UK business, a director 
of the Remuneration Consultants Group, 
a director of Arrowsmith Advisory, a 
non-executive director of Vivo Energy PLC 
and TMF Group Limited, and a member of 
the Advisory Group for Spencer Stuart.

Appointment: Appointed to the Board in 
May 2016.

Key skills and competencies: Stefan 
brings extensive experience of working in 
international environments, particularly 
in the operation, sales and marketing of 
well-known consumer food and drink 
brands.

Current external appointments: CEO of 
Imperial Brands PLC.

Previous experience: Stefan is a former 
CEO of Inchcape plc. Before joining 
Inchcape, he was President of Bacardi 
Limited’s European region and was also 
responsible for its global commercial 
organisation and global travel retail. 
Previous roles have included a number 
of worldwide senior positions at 
Cadbury Plc, Unilever PLC, Diageo plc, 
Burger King and Procter & Gamble.

Appointment: Appointed to the Board 
in September 2018. Appointed Chair of 
the Remuneration Committee in 
February 2023. 

Current external appointments: Non-
executive Chair of Flutter Entertainment plc 
and non-executive director of Coca-Cola 
Europacific Partners plc and Ball Corporation.

Key skills and competencies: John brings 
over 30 years’ experience to the Board with 
a particular focus on finance, operations, 
M&A, strategy and portfolio transformation.

Previous experience: John is a former 
Executive Chair and CEO of global 
consumer goods company Kellogg. Prior to 
joining Kellogg in 1998, John held strategic 
and operational roles in several companies, 
worldwide. John is also a former non-
executive director of Macy’s Inc.

Anne-Françoise Nesmes (52)
Senior Independent Director (SID) 

Carol Arrowsmith (69)
Non-Executive Director

Stefan Bomhard (56)
Non-Executive Director

John Bryant (58)
Non-Executive Director

60 

Governance

Board of Directors continued

Arlene Isaacs-Lowe (64)
Non-Executive Director

Sundar Raman (48)
Non-Executive Director

Nelson Silva (68)
Non-Executive Director

Ireena Vittal (55)
Non-Executive Director and Designated  
Non-Executive Director for Workforce 
Engagement (DNED)

Appointment: Appointed to the Board in 
November 2021.

Key skills and competencies: Arlene brings 
over 20 years’ executive experience in 
corporate social responsibility (CSR), 
finance, strategy and sales across the US, 
Europe, the Middle East and Africa.

Current external appointments: Non-
executive director of Equitable Holdings, 
Inc. and Xenia Hotels & Resorts, Inc., 
Financial Secretary of The Links Foundation, 
Incorporated and a member of the advisory 
board of Howard University School of Business.

Previous experience: Arlene is a former 
Global Head of CSR of Moody’s 
Corporation, where she developed and 
implemented their global CSR strategy. 
She joined Moody’s Corporation in 1998, 
where she held various senior leadership, 
analytical, commercial and relationship 
management roles. Prior to joining 
Moody’s, Arlene was CFO of Equinox Realty 
Advisors LLC, and before that, she was a 
portfolio manager with MetLife Realty 
Group, Inc. Arlene is a former member of 
the advisory board of Agbanga Karite LLC. 

Appointment: Appointed to the Board in 
January 2022.

Key skills and competencies: Sundar 
brings over 20 years’ experience as an 
executive in the US, operating in highly 
competitive markets and successfully 
growing global consumer brands.

Current external appointments: Global 
CEO of Procter & Gamble’s Fabric and 
Home Care business.

Previous experience: Sundar is a former 
President, Home Care and P&G 
Professional with Procter & Gamble. 
Sundar started his career with Procter & 
Gamble in 1998 as a market analyst and 
has held a number of senior leadership 
roles in business intelligence, marketing 
and innovation across a variety of product 
lines and market segments. Sundar is a 
former Chair of the American Cleaning 
Institute, and a former member of the 
Board of the National Underground 
Railroad Freedom Center.

Appointment: Appointed to the Board in 
July 2015. Appointed Chair of the 
Corporate Responsibility Committee in 
February 2017.

Key skills and competencies: Nelson has 
considerable executive management 
experience in a variety of senior leadership 
roles within major international companies, 
with a particular focus on Brazil.

Current external appointments: Non-
executive director of Nutrien Ltd, 
Altera Infrastructure L.P. (private company) 

and an adviser to Appian Capital Advisory LLP 
and HSB Solomon Associates LLC.

Previous experience: Nelson is a former 
executive director of Petróleo Brasileiro 
S.A., CEO of BG Group in South America, 
non-executive director of Cosan Limited, 
Managing Director of Embraer for Europe 
and Africa, CEO of All Logistica in Argentina 
and President of BHP Billiton’s Aluminium 
business unit. Prior to joining BHP Billiton, 
Nelson held a number of senior positions at 
Vale S.A., including Sales and Marketing 
Director.

Appointment: Appointed to the Board in 
July 2015. Appointed Designated 
Non-Executive Director for Workforce 
Engagement in October 2019.

Key skills and competencies: Ireena brings 
strong advisory, business and operational 
experience across a variety of retail 
businesses, with a particular focus on India.

Current external appointments: Non-
executive director of Asian Paints Limited, 
Diageo plc and Godrej Consumer Products 
Limited, and an independent director of 
UrbanClap Technologies India Private Limited.

Previous experience: Ireena is a former 
non-executive director of WIPRO Limited, 
Housing Development Finance Corporation 
Limited, Titan Company Ltd, The Indian 
Hotels Company Limited, Cipla Limited, 
Tata Global Beverages Limited, Tata 
Industries, Zomato Media Private Limited, 
GlaxoSmithKline Consumer Healthcare and 
Axis Bank Limited. She was also previously 
Head of Marketing and Sales at Hutchinson 
Max Telecom and a partner at McKinsey 
and Company.

Compass Group PLC  Annual Report 2023

  61

Committee membership key

Audit Committee

Nomination Committee

Chair 

Designated Non-Executive Director for 
Workforce Engagement

Corporate Responsibility Committee

Remuneration Committee

Senior Independent Director

Secretary

Appointment: Appointed to the Board in 
May 2023.

Vodacom Group Limited, a publicly-listed 
company in South Africa.

Key skills and competencies: Leanne 
has a wealth of experience in people and 
organisational strategy and also has wider 
strategic and operational experience in 
global organisations, including in the 
food and beverage, retail and 
technology sectors.

Current external appointments: Leanne 
is Chief Human Resources Officer of 
Vodafone Group Plc and is the lead 
Vodafone non-executive director for 

Appointment: Joined the Group in August 
2018. Appointed Group General Counsel 
and Company Secretary in October 2018.

Key skills and competencies: Alison has 
more than 30 years’ international 
experience in FTSE and NYSE listed 
companies across the services, industrial 
and engineering sectors. She has 
significant experience in strategic 
M&A, crisis and change management.  
Alison is a solicitor.

Current external appointments: None.

Previous experience: Before joining 
Vodafone, Leanne was the Chief People, 
Strategy and Corporate Affairs Officer for 
Burberry Plc. Prior to that, she worked for 
Diageo plc for 15 years in a variety of roles, 
latterly as their Group HR Director. She has 
also worked in strategy and finance for Allied 
Domecq Plc, LEK Consulting and United 
Distillers. Leanne is a former non-executive 
director of The Go-Ahead Group Plc.

Previous experience: Alison is the former 
Chief General Counsel and Company 
Secretary of Amec Foster Wheeler plc, 
Company Secretary and General Legal 
Counsel of Hays plc and Company 
Secretary and Group Legal Adviser of 
Charter plc. Prior to joining Charter, 
Alison held a number of senior legal roles 
at Johnson Matthey plc and was a 
corporate and commercial lawyer at 
Turner Kenneth Brown.

Leanne Wood (51)
Non-Executive Director

Alison Yapp (58)
Group General Counsel and 
Company Secretary

Directors’ diversity of skills and experience

e
c
n
e

i
r
e
p
x
e
O
E
C

e
c
n
a
n
F

i

y
g
e
t
a
r
t
S

A
&
M
d
n
a

n
o

i
t
a
r
e
n
u
m
e
R

d
n
a
h
t
l

a
e
H

y
t
e
f
a
s

l

e
p
o
e
p
/

R
H

s
n
o

i
t
a
r
e
p
O

d
n
a
s
e

l

a
S

g
n
i
t
e
k
r
a
m

s
d
o
o
g

r
e
m
u
s
n
o
C

l
i

a
t
e
r
d
n
a

d
n
a
e
r
u
t
l
u
c

,
t
r
A

y
t
i
r
a
h
c

d
n
a
d
o
o
F

e
g
a
r
e
v
e
b

y
t
i
l
i

i

b
a
n
a
t
s
u
S

y
t
i
r
u
c
e
s
-
r
e
b
y
c

/
y
g
o

l

o
n
h
c
e
T

Ian Meakins

Dominic Blakemore

Palmer Brown

Gary Green

Carol Arrowsmith

Stefan Bomhard

John Bryant

Arlene Isaacs-Lowe

Anne-Françoise Nesmes

Sundar Raman

Nelson Silva 

Ireena Vittal

Leanne Wood

Board tenure

Board balance

5

6

2

1

3

9

0-5 years

5-10 years

>10 

Chair

Executive directors

Non-executive directors

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
62 

Governance

Executive Committee

G

D

G

D

G

T

Appointment: Joined the Board in 
February 2012. Previously held the roles of 
Group CFO, Group COO, Europe, and 
Deputy Group CEO. Assumed the role of 
Group CEO in January 2018.

Key skills and competencies: Dominic 
has extensive financial management 
experience in a number of international 
businesses, together with general 
operational management experience.  
He is a chartered accountant.

Previous experience: Dominic is a former 
non-executive director of Shire plc, CFO of 
Iglo Foods Group Limited, and European 
Finance & Strategy Director at Cadbury Plc, 
having previously held senior finance roles 
at that company. Before that, Dominic was 
a director at PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP.

Appointment: Joined the Group in August 
2018. Appointed Group General Counsel 
and Company Secretary in October 2018.

Key skills and competencies: Alison 
has more than 30 years’ international 
experience in FTSE and NYSE listed 
companies across the services, industrial 
and engineering sectors. She has 
significant experience in strategic 
M&A, crisis and change management. 
Alison is a solicitor and holds an 
LLB (Hons) from Bristol University.

Previous experience: Alison is the former 
Chief General Counsel and Company 
Secretary of Amec Foster Wheeler plc, 
Company Secretary and General Legal 
Counsel of Hays plc and Company 
Secretary and Group Legal Adviser of 
Charter plc. Prior to joining Charter, 
Alison held a number of senior legal 
roles at Johnson Matthey plc and was 
a corporate and commercial lawyer at 
Turner Kenneth Brown.

Appointment: Appointed to the Board in 
October 2021, having joined the Group 
in 2001. Assumed the role of Group CFO 
in November 2021. 

Key skills and competencies: During 
his tenure, Palmer has held a variety of 
senior finance, strategy and legal positions 
and played a central role as a member of 
the Executive team in North America. He 
also coordinated many of the acquisitions 
and disposals for the Group. Palmer has 
degrees in business and law and is a 
certified public accountant.

Appointment: Appointed to the Executive 
Committee as Group CPO in September 
2021, having joined the Group in 2019.

Key skills and competencies: Deborah is 
highly experienced in strategic leadership, 
stakeholder engagement and people 
management in multinational environments. 
She is a chemistry graduate from Imperial 
College, London, holds a post-graduate 
qualification in Personnel Management, an 
HR MBA and is a Fellow of the Chartered 
Institute of Personnel and Development. 
Deborah possesses a wealth of global 

Previous experience: Palmer is a former 
Group Commercial Director and Chief 
Strategy Officer, Compass Group 
North America. Prior to that, he served 
as General Counsel and Executive Vice 
President of Corporate & Legal Affairs for 
the Group’s US business.

experience, having studied and worked in 
the US, Europe and the UK.

Previous experience: Deborah started her 
career at BT as a graduate in 1997, where 
she spent almost 20 years in various senior 
leadership roles across HR and learning 
and development. In 2016, she joined a 
luxury Italian online fashion retailer as 
Chief People Officer before joining Compass 
in 2019 as Group Engagement Director. 

Dominic Blakemore (54)
Group Chief Executive Officer (CEO)

Alison Yapp (58)
Group General Counsel and  
Company Secretary 

Palmer Brown (52)
Group Chief Financial Officer (CFO)

Deborah Lee (49)
Group Chief People Officer (CPO)

Committee membership key

D

Disclosure Committee

T

Treasury Management Committee

G

General Business Committee

Compass Group PLC  Annual Report 2023

  63

G

Appointment: Joined the Board in 
January 2007. Appointed Group COO, 
North America, in April 2012. 

Key skills and competencies: Gary 
brings strong business and operational 
leadership, business development, 
and wide-ranging sales experience.  
Gary is a chartered accountant and has 
an honorary doctorate from Johnson  
& Wales University in the US.

Previous experience: Gary joined the 
Group in 1986 in a senior finance role in 
the UK and became a UK director in 1992. 
He relocated to the US in 1994 as CFO of 
the Group’s North America business and, 
in 1999, became its CEO.

Appointment: Appointed to the Executive 
Committee as Group CCO in January 2022, 
having joined the Group in 2017.

Key skills and competencies: Shelley has 
extensive strategic, operational and 
commercial management experience, 
including M&A, gained in leadership 
positions with Australian and FTSE listed 
organisations in highly complex operating 
environments. She is a Chartered 
Accountant (ICAEW), a graduate of the 
Australian Institute of Company Directors, 
and holds a Bachelor of Business Science 

and Finance (Hons) from the University of 
Cape Town.

Previous experience: Prior to joining 
Compass, Shelley was the Chief Operating 
Officer at Sydney Airport, Managing 
Director of Tiger Airways and also worked 
in investment banking at Macquarie Bank 
as a Division Director in Australia. Shelley 
qualified as a Chartered Accountant at 
KPMG in London, subsequently joining 
easyJet Plc, where she held various senior 
finance and strategy roles in the UK.

Appointment: Appointed to the Executive 
Committee in November 2015, having 
joined the Group in 2008. Appointed 
Managing Director of the Group’s UK & 
Ireland (UK&I) business in November 2019.

Key skills and competencies: Robin holds 
a Bachelor’s degree in history. He is a 
respected innovator with significant 
experience in people management and 
business operations.

Previous experience: Robin has held a 
variety of roles at Compass. Previously, 
Robin was Managing Director of Chartwells, 
UK and Group Chief People Officer. Prior to 
joining Compass, Robin’s career included 
senior HR roles at Scottish and Newcastle 
Breweries, Diageo plc and Woolworth’s 
(part of Kingfisher PLC).

Appointment: Appointed to the Executive 
Committee as Regional Managing Director 
Europe and the Middle East in February 
2022, having joined the Group in 2012. 

Key skills and competencies: Kathinka 
has extensive commercial and operational 
experience and significant experience in 
change management. Kathinka holds a 
BI Executive in Board Management from 
Oslo Norwegian Business School, and a 
Bachelor’s degree in International Business 
from Oslo University.

Previous experience: Kathinka joined 
Compass in 2012 as Operations Director 
for the Group’s Norwegian business. 
In 2016, Kathinka was appointed MD of 
Norway and during her time in this role, 
she led the integration of one of the 
Group’s largest acquisitions. 

Prior to joining Compass, Kathinka’s 
career included a number of senior roles, 
including Operations Manager at a 
Nordic facilities management company.

Gary Green (66)
Group Chief Operating Officer (COO),  
North America

Shelley Roberts (48)
Group Chief Commercial Officer (CCO)

Robin Mills (56)
Managing Director, UK & Ireland

Kathinka Friis-Møller (48)
Regional Managing Director, Europe and 
the Middle East 

64 

Governance

Executive Committee continued

Committee membership key

D

Disclosure Committee

T

Treasury Management Committee

G

General Business Committee

Appointment: Joined the Group and 
Executive Committee, and appointed 
Regional Managing Director Latin America 
in November 2017.

Key skills and competencies: James 
is highly experienced in business 
development and leadership and holds a 
Bachelor’s degree in economics from Notre 
Dame University, an MBA from Harvard, 
and has completed INSEAD’s advanced 
management programme.

Previous experience: James has spent 
over 30 years in Latin America as an 
entrepreneur, executive and non-executive 
board member in several service-based 
organisations in the region, including 
Founder and President of Contax SA, COO 
at Oi SA and Board and Audit Committee 
member at Gol Linhas Aereas.

Previous experience: Gaétan started his 
career in audit with accounting firm Mazars 
before moving to management consulting 
at Deloitte where he specialised in 
large-scale outsourcing projects.

Appointment: Appointed to the Executive 
Committee and as Regional Managing 
Director Asia Pacific in October 2022, 
having joined the Group in 2002. 

Key skills and competencies: Gaétan has 
20 years’ international experience working 
at Compass where he has held a number of 
Managing Director roles in Africa, Central 
Asia, Ireland and more recently France. 
During his time with the Group, Gaétan has 
acquired strong business development and 
operational leadership acumen and brings 
significant experience in market innovation 
and change management. Gaétan holds an 
MSc in Management from Emlyon 
Business School.

Appointment: Petros will succeed Palmer 
Brown as Group CFO on 1 December 2023 
and will become a member of the Board of 
Directors and Executive Committee on the 
same date. Petros joined the Group in 
January 2020 and is the current Regional 
Finance Director, Europe and the 
Middle East. 

Previous experience: Petros has been 
Regional Finance Director for Europe and 
the Middle East for just under four years 
where he has played a key role in the 
turnaround of the region, focusing on growth 
strategies, the operating model and core 
processes as well as the use of data analytics 
to drive better commercial outcomes.

Key skills and competencies: Petros has 
extensive financial, operational and 
portfolio transformation experience in large 
multinational businesses. He holds a BSc 
in Physics from Ioannina University and a 
PhD in Chemistry from Reading University.

Prior to joining Compass, Petros worked in 
fast-moving consumer goods businesses 
including Procter & Gamble, Reckitt 
Benckiser and Coty in Europe and North 
America in senior finance, operational and 
strategic roles. 

James Meaney (59)
Regional Managing Director,  
Latin America

Gaétan de L’Hermite (50)
Regional Managing Director, Asia Pacific

Group CFO with effect from 1 December 2023

Petros Parras (43)
Regional Finance Director,  
Europe and the Middle East 

Diversity

Gender identity or sex

Men
Women

Ethnic background

White British or other white (including minority-white groups)
Mixed/Multiple ethnic groups
Asian/Asian British
Black/African/Caribbean/Black British

Compass Group PLC  Annual Report 2023

  65

Number  
of Board  
members

 8
5

Percentage  
of the Board

62%
38%

Number of senior 
positions on the 
Board (CEO, CFO, 
Chair and SID)

Number in  
executive 
management

Percentage of 
executive 
management

3
1

6
4

60%
40%

Number of  
Board  
members

Number of senior 
positions on the 
Board (CEO, CFO, 
Chair and SID)

Percentage  
of the Board

Number in  
executive 
management

Percentage of 
executive 
management

10
–
2
1

77%
–
15%
8%

4
–
–
–

9
1
 –
–

90%
10%
–
–

Board

Gender identity or sex 

Ethnic background

Men

Women

62%

38%

White British or other 
white (including 
minority-white groups)

Asian/Asian British

Black/African/
Caribbean/Black British

77%

15%

8%

Executive Committee

Gender identity or sex 

Ethnic background

XX%

X

X

%

XX%

X

X

%

Men

Women

60%

40%

X

X

%

XX%

X

X

%

XX%

XX%

XX%

White British or other 
white (including 
minority-white groups)

Mixed/multiple ethnic
groups

90%

10%

Notes to table and graphics.

1.  The information above is stated as at 30 September 2023.
2.  The FCA’s Listing Rules now set board diversity targets for listed companies that (i) at least 40% of the Board are women, (ii) at least one of the roles of CEO, CFO, 
Chair and SID is held by a woman and (iii) at least one director is from a minority ethnic background. Compass has met the targets for (ii) and (iii) but does not yet 
meet the target of 40% of the Board being women. During the year, the Company undertook a search for two new non-executive directors and took steps to ensure 
that a diverse pool of candidates was identified. As a result of the search, the Company offered roles to two female candidates but only one of those candidates 
accepted. The Company is continuing its search in the coming year and hopes to meet all the FCA’s targets by the end of 2024.

3.  Gary Green will step down as an executive director on 30 November 2023. Petros Parras will be appointed as an executive director from 1 December 2023. These 

changes will not affect the Board’s gender identity/sex or ethnic background percentages shown above. 

66 

Governance

Governance  
framework

Board

The Board comprises the Chair, executive directors and independent non-executive directors, and their biographies can 
be found on pages 58 to 61. It is responsible for establishing the Group’s purpose, values, strategies and objectives to 
generate and preserve value over the long term for shareholders and to contribute to wider society. It is assisted by four 
principal committees (Audit, Corporate Responsibility, Nomination and Remuneration), each of which is responsible for 
the matters delegated by the Board and set out in its own terms of reference.

Audit 
Committee

Responsible for the 
oversight of the Group’s 
financial reporting and 
the effectiveness of the 
Internal and External 
audit functions. 

Corporate 
Responsibility 
Committee

Responsible for the 
oversight of the Group’s 
corporate responsibility, 
people, health, safety and 
sustainability, ethics and 
integrity and stakeholder 
engagement strategies.

Nomination 
Committee

Ensures the Board and 
the Executive Committee 
have the necessary 
balance of skills, 
experience and diversity 
to oversee and deliver the 
Group’s strategy. 

Remuneration 
Committee

Determines the reward 
strategy for executive 
directors and senior 
management in the 
context of the wider 
workforce and ensures 
reward is aligned with 
shareholders’ interests.

See pages 82 to 88.

See pages 89 to 92.

See pages 93 to 96.

See pages 97 to 126.

A number of executive management committees have also been 
established: Executive, General Business, Treasury Management and 
Disclosure. These consider various matters for recommendation to 
the Board and its principal committees, or deal with day-to-day 
matters within the authority delegated by the Board.

The Executive Committee, led by the Group CEO, is responsible for 
day-to-day operational management and implementation of strategy.

The General Business Committee deals with general administrative 
matters on behalf of the Company within clearly defined limits 
delegated by the Board.

The Treasury Management Committee oversees the implementation 
of the treasury policies approved by the Board, while the Disclosure 
Committee oversees the disclosure of market-sensitive information 
and other public announcements (as necessary).

 
Compass Group PLC  Annual Report 2023

  67

Responsibilities of the Board

Leadership

Sustainability

The Board leads the Group’s governance structure. It provides 
stewardship of the Company to safeguard its long-term sustainable 
success, creating value for shareholders and enabling the Company 
and its subsidiaries to contribute to the communities and wider 
societies in which they operate. The Board is responsible for setting 
the tone from the top by demonstrating leadership.

Purpose, values and culture

The Group’s corporate culture is integral to its success. It defines 
Compass, what the Company stands for, and how it does business. 
Compass’ reputation has been built on a solid foundation of ethical 
values, underpinned by a well-defined and effective system of 
governance. This culture has assisted in the creation and protection 
of the long-term value of the Company and supports its strategy to 
deliver sustainable growth.

The Board defines the purpose of the Company and the values that 
guide it. A common set of expected behaviours based on Compass’ 
corporate values, and an effective system of governance, are 
described in the Code of Business Conduct (CBC). These have 
shaped and embedded a strong ethical and governance culture 
across the Group.

The Group CEO and other members of the executive management 
team actively promote ethical standards to ensure they are 
maintained, and good governance is put into practice.

Key functions such as Legal, Finance, People, Ethics and Integrity 
and Internal Audit also promote and embed high standards of ethical 
behaviour and corporate governance across the Group.

The Board, supported by its committees, monitors the alignment of 
the Group’s culture with its purpose, values and strategy through 
a variety of mechanisms, cultural indicators and reporting lines, 
including those summarised below.

Cultural indicators

Health and safety

 – Lost Time Incident Frequency Rate (LTIFR)
 – Food Safety Incident Rate (FSIR)
 – safety walks and results

People

 – results of the global employee engagement survey and 

pulse surveys

 – gender pay gap disclosures
 – diversity, equity and inclusion (DE&I) statistics
 – retention rates

Ethics and integrity

 – Internal Audit reports
 – annual confirmation of compliance and pledge in respect of 

compliance with the CBC by senior managers
 – Speak Up, We’re Listening statistics and trends

Clients and suppliers

 – adherence to the Global Supply Chain Integrity Standards
 – client retention rates
 – supplier audits

 – greenhouse gas emissions
 – food waste reduction
 – number of sites deploying food waste technology
 – sustainable sourcing

Workforce engagement

The Designated Non-Executive Director for Workforce Engagement 
(DNED) provides a communication channel between the Group’s 
workforce and the Board to ensure that the employee voice is 
represented in the boardroom. As part of a structured programme 
of engagement, the DNED, Ireena Vittal, held six roundtable meetings 
in the year with a diverse set of employees representing different 
sectors, countries and cultures. In addition, non-executive director, 
Arlene Isaacs-Lowe held two further employee roundtable meetings. 
The outcomes of the discussions were reported back to the Corporate 
Responsibility Committee. Read more about these workforce 
engagement sessions on pages 75 and 91.

Governance and risk

The Board is responsible for oversight of risk and for setting risk 
appetite. It ensures that the necessary resources are in place for the 
Company to meet its objectives to measure its performance. A robust 
governance and risk management framework is in place to ensure that 
each business is being operated and managed appropriately, and that 
prudent and effective controls are in place to identify emerging and 
principal risks and to manage and mitigate those risks. Read more 
about risk management on pages 24 to 30.

Group strategy

The Board’s approval, effective oversight and monitoring of the 
implementation of strategy are vital to the long-term sustainable 
success of the Group. The Board considers and approves the 
Group’s strategic aims over the short, medium and long-term. 
The implementation of strategy is monitored and evaluated on an 
ongoing basis. Food service remains at the core of Compass’ strategy. 
The market for food service continues to provide significant structural 
growth opportunities. To ensure Compass remains well placed to 
capture future market opportunities, the business continues to create 
innovative, bespoke offerings tailored to the needs of clients and 
consumers. More details of Compass’ business model and strategy 
can be found on pages 1 to 55.

Engagement with stakeholders

The Board ensures that the Company continues to operate in the 
best interests of its shareholders as a whole. In exercising its duty to 
promote the success of the Company, the Board also has regard to 
other stakeholders, the environment, the reputation of the Company 
and the need to act fairly between its members. How the Company 
engages with its stakeholders and how the Board has oversight of 
stakeholder engagement is described on pages 74 to 79. The 
Company’s Section 172 Statement can be found on page 80.

Management delegation and oversight

The Board delegates the delivery of strategy and day-to-day 
operational management of the Group to the Executive Committee, 
which is led by the Group CEO.

68 

Governance

Responsibilities of the Board continued

Roles in the boardroom

The Board comprises executive and non-executive directors, which ensures that no individual or small group of individuals dominates the Board’s 
decision-making. All non-executive directors, except the Chair of the Board, are considered independent. The Chair was considered to be 
independent on appointment. The roles and responsibilities of Board members are detailed below and demonstrate a clear division between the 
roles and responsibilities of the Board and executive management. The role descriptions of the Chair of the Board, Group CEO and SID are 
reviewed annually by the Board and are updated as necessary to reflect changes in legislation or best practice. These documents were last 
reviewed in September 2023. It was concluded that the documents in their current form continue to be fit for purpose and no changes were made.

Copies of the documents can be found on our website, www.compass-group.com

Role

Non-Executive Chair

Leading the Board and ensuring its overall 
effectiveness in discharging its duties.

Independent Non-Executive 
Directors

Independent non-executive directors 
meeting the independence criteria as set 
out in the UK Corporate Governance Code 
comprise more than half of Board 
membership.

Description

 – shaping the culture in the boardroom and promoting openness, challenge and debate
 – setting the agenda for Board meetings, focusing on strategy, performance, value 

creation, risk management, culture, stakeholders and accountability

 – chairing meetings and ensuring there is timely information flow before meetings and 

adequate time for discussion and debate

 – fostering relationships based on trust, mutual respect and open communication inside 

and outside the boardroom

 – leading relations with major shareholders to understand their views on governance and 

performance against strategy

 – providing constructive challenge, giving strategic guidance, offering specialist advice 

and holding executive management to account

 – ensuring that no individual or small group of individuals can dominate the Board’s 

decision-making

Designated Non-Executive Director 
for Workforce Engagement

 – bringing the views and experiences of the workforce into the boardroom
 – enabling the Board to consider the views of the workforce in its discussions and  

Providing an effective engagement 
mechanism for the Board to understand the 
views of the workforce.

decision-making

Senior Independent Director

 – providing the Chair of the Board with support in the delivery of objectives, where 

Providing a sounding board for the Chair of 
the Board and serving as an intermediary for 
other directors and shareholders.

Group CEO and Executive Directors

Leading the implementation of the Group’s 
strategy set by the Board. 

Group General Counsel and Company 
Secretary

Supporting the Chair of the Board and 
ensuring directors have access to the 
information they need to carry out 
their roles.

necessary

 – working closely with the Nomination Committee, leading the process for the evaluation 

of the Chair of the Board and ensuring orderly succession to the Chair role

 – acting as an alternative contact for shareholders, providing a means of raising concerns 

other than with the Chair of the Board or senior management

 – Group CEO: leading the Executive Committee and ensuring its effectiveness in managing 
the overall operations and resources of the Group; also leading the implementation of the 
Group’s strategy

 – executive directors: providing information and presentations to the Board and 

participating in Board discussions regarding Group management, financial performance 
and operational matters

 – providing a channel for Board and committee communications and a link between the 

Board and management

 – advising the Board on legal and corporate governance matters and supporting the Board 
in applying the Code and complying with UK listing obligations, and other statutory and 
regulatory requirements 

Compass Group PLC  Annual Report 2023

  69

Board meetings

Board meetings are held through a combination of physical and virtual attendance. Each year, the Board aims to hold one or two meetings 
overseas. This year, the Board visited the Group’s business in the US. 

Overseas visits provide an opportunity to assess local management performance and potential, gain further insight into how the business works on 
a day-to-day basis and to speak face-to-face with local management to better understand the challenges they face and listen to their views.

By visiting operations, directors meet with a diverse group of colleagues including regional, country and senior management and high-potential 
employees on a more informal basis, which supports the succession planning process. The format of visits often comprises an overview of the 
country’s macroeconomic environment and social trends, the challenges and opportunities facing the business combined with a review of the 
competitive landscape, and a detailed review of the relevant sectors in which the business operates, including its people and its three-year plan.

In addition to health and safety, and routine financial and operating reports and updates, the Board spends time reviewing Group strategy and 
performance against the strategic plan.

Meetings between the Chair of the Board and non-executive directors, both with and without the presence of the Group CEO, are scheduled in the 
Board’s annual programme.

During the year, the non-executive directors held regular meetings without the presence of the executives, typically following each Board meeting. 
These meetings provide the non-executive directors with a forum in which to share experiences and discuss wider business topics. In addition, the 
non-executive directors attended a dinner without the executive directors present.

Board and committee meeting attendance table

Board

Audit  
Committee 

Corporate 
Responsibility 
Committee 

Nomination
 Committee

Remuneration 
Committee

Eligible to 
attend1

Meetings 
attended

Eligible to 
attend1

Meetings 
attended

Eligible to 
attend1

Meetings 
attended

Eligible to 
attend1

Meetings 
attended

Eligible to 
attend1

Meetings 
attended

6
6
6
6
6
6
6
6
6
6
6
6
2

6
6
6
6
6
6
6
6
6
5
6
5
2

3
–
3
–
3
–
3
–
3
3
3
3
1

3
–
3
–
3
–
3
–
3
2
3
3
1

3
3
3
3
3
–
3
3
3
3
3
3
1

3
3
3
3
3
–
3
3
3
2
3
3
1

4
–
4
–
4
–
4
4
4
4
4
4
2

4
–
4
–
4
–
4
4
4
2
4
4
2

4
–
4
–
4
–
4
–
4
4
4
4
2

4
–
4
–
4
–
4
–
4
2
4
2
2

Carol Arrowsmith
Dominic Blakemore
Stefan Bomhard
Palmer Brown
John Bryant
Gary Green
Arlene Isaacs-Lowe
Ian Meakins
Anne-Françoise Nesmes
Sundar Raman2
Nelson Silva
Ireena Vittal3
Leanne Wood4

1.  Maximum number of meetings a member was eligible to attend.
2.  Mr Raman was unable to attend due to unavoidable commitments that had been in place prior to his appointment, but provided his feedback on the papers to the 

Chair in advance of the meeting.

3.  Mrs Vittal was unable to attend due to ill health, but provided her feedback on the papers to the Chair in advance of the meeting.
4.  Appointed to the Board on 4 May 2023.

 
 
The matters reserved for the Board are reviewed annually to ensure 
that they continue to be fit for purpose. They were last reviewed in 
September 2023 when they were updated to align to the amended 
treasury policies and to update the financial approval requirements 
following the change in presentation currency which is effective from 
1 October 2023. 

Full details can be found on our website, www.compass-group.com.

November

February

March

May

July

September

70 

Governance

Board activities

Matters reserved for the Board

The Board has a formal schedule of matters reserved for its decision 
as follows:

 – purpose, strategy and management
 – values, culture and stakeholders
 – Board membership and other appointments
 – financial and other reporting and controls
 – audit, risk and internal controls
 – contracts and capital structure
 – communication
 – remuneration
 – delegation of authority
 – corporate governance and other matters

The Board had a full agenda during the year as set out in the table below:

Purpose, strategy and implementation
Group CEO’s review including a business update covering financial 
performance, health and safety performance, ESG, people and cultural 
indicators, initiatives and performance
Group CFO’s report including performance results and outlook, finance,  
treasury and tax initiatives
M&A and disposals, contract approvals and other capital expenditure

Strategy review including Group, regional and sector/forum updates  
and post-investment review, budget and three-year plan
Stakeholder engagement and shareholder analysis

Approval of change in presentation currency from sterling to US dollars 
(effective 1 October 2023)
Risks
Formal biannual material risk assessment 

Governance
Review of full-year results including going concern, viability statement,  
and final dividend
Review of half-year results and interim dividend

Trading update

Approval of outcome of audit tender process

Review of AGM Notice of Meeting

Approval of corporate governance documentation 

Approval of Board appointments/changes to directors‘ roles/responsibilities

Review of Committee minutes

Review of post-AGM Remuneration Report resolution statement

Effectiveness
Annual Board evaluation process and outturn

Annual review and approval, and ad-hoc review and approval of directors’ 
conflicts of interest 

Compass Group PLC  Annual Report 2023

  71

At every meeting, the Board is briefed on aspects of the Group’s 
strategic pillars: People, Performance and Purpose.

People

Performance

People are Compass’ greatest asset. During the year, the Board and 
the Nomination Committee continued their focus on developing the 
Board’s blend of skills and experience. The Board also continued its 
employee engagement efforts through a variety of means including 
roundtable meetings and site visits.

In March, the Board visited the Group’s US business. During the visit, 
the Board attended the annual Envision Summit at the University of 
Miami. The Envision Group provides expertise and functional support 
to all operating sectors in the US, with a focus on growth, innovation 
and performance underpinned by sustainability.

At the summit, the Board and other delegates listened to 
presentations from business leaders, and toured stands showcasing 
frictionless technologies and brands which are being deployed by 
Compass to deliver quality food and hospitality experiences and a 
positive impact for the food system. Afterwards, the Board met with 
the senior North America leadership team and other delegates on an 
informal basis and listened to their perspectives.

In May, Leanne Wood joined the Board, building on the work already 
undertaken to broaden the diversity and capabilities of the Board. 
Leanne is the current Chief Human Resources Officer of Vodafone 
Group Plc and has extensive HR, strategic and operational 
experience. The Board fully supports management’s ambition to 
create a diverse workforce and to increase female representation at 
senior levels in the organisation. 

The role of the DNED is to provide an effective communication 
channel between the Group’s workforce and the Board to ensure that 
the employee voice is represented in the boardroom. Ireena Vittal has 
been the DNED since 2019. This year, the Board approved the 
Nomination Committee’s recommendation that Ireena’s tenure in this 
role be extended until the conclusion of her term in office as a 
non-executive director. Details of the employee roundtables held by 
Ireena during the year together with the meetings held by her Board 
colleague, Arlene Isaacs-Lowe, can be found on page 75.

During the year, a number of the non-executive directors separately 
visited some of the businesses’ operations in Australia, Portugal, 
Switzerland and the US. During the visits, the directors met with local 
management and toured client sites in the Business & Industry and 
Education sectors. These visits gave the non-executive directors the 
opportunity to engage with clients to understand what is important to 
them and why they choose to work with Compass. Time was also spent 
talking to front line employees and consumers and listening to their 
feedback. One director took the opportunity to assist the local team 
with operational tasks and to join a safety moment before service 
commenced for the day. These visits provided the directors with a 
first-hand experience of the Group’s businesses, the challenges and 
opportunities facing them, and the views of stakeholders.

Regular reports from management, feedback from activities 
undertaken by Ireena Vittal and her Board colleagues and other 
initiatives have helped inform the Board’s discussions and decision-
making during the year. More information on our People initiatives can 
be found on pages 32 to 37.

Throughout the year, the Board monitored the Group’s performance 
against the strategic framework and priorities, including M&A, global 
trends, and risks and opportunities. To assist it, the Board received 
regular reports from the Group CEO and the Group CFO, and 
presentations from each of the Group’s Regional Managing Directors 
on regional performance. It also received updates from key functional 
heads, e.g. Legal, Tax, Treasury, Information Systems and Technology, 
and People on matters that could have an impact on the Group’s 
financial or operational performance.

In March, the Board reviewed the strategic plans for the Group. The 
Group’s strategic priorities continued to be focused on organic growth 
across all sectors and geographies supplemented through disciplined 
M&A. The Board reviewed the addressable food services market 
analysed by region and sector together with the continued structural 
growth opportunities available to the Group, which were expected to 
deliver future revenue growth. The Board also reviewed the three 
strategic pillars underpinning the growth ambitions, namely People, 
Performance, and Purpose. 

The Board receives reports from the Group CEO at every meeting on 
progress against the Group’s strategy. In addition, the Board receives 
annual business updates from the regional management teams 
setting out progress against their regional strategic objectives. 

At each meeting, the Board receives a report from the Group CFO 
setting out the financial performance of the regions and the Group in 
the latest period and for the year to date. The Board considers the key 
financial performance metrics, including revenue, organic revenue 
growth, operating profit and margin, operating cashflow and cashflow 
conversion. It also regularly reviews the financial outlook of the Group. 
Additionally, the Group CFO’s report provides the Board with updates 
on tax and treasury matters, cyber-security arrangements and 
technology developments.

In September, the Board reviewed the Group’s preliminary budget for 
the financial year ending 2024 and the three-year plan for 2024-2026. 
The Board reviewed the key financial metrics against the backdrop of 
an uncertain economic climate and elevated levels of inflation. The 
budget and the three-year plan were both approved in principle 
subject to final approval being given in November 2023.

Twice a year, the Board reviews the material financial and non-
financial risks facing the Group’s businesses, including new and 
emerging risks, and agrees the Group’s principal risks at the half and 
full-year. It also considers the identification of risks and opportunities, 
the development of action plans to manage risks and maximise 
opportunities, and the continual monitoring of progress against agreed 
key performance indicators. The Board agreed that due to the 
escalating tensions in the Middle East and the ongoing Russia-Ukraine 
conflict, the trend for geopolitical risk should be elevated to reflect the 
year-on-year increase in risk. The Group’s principal risks, and how 
these are managed, are set out on pages 24 to 30.

72 

Governance

Board activities continued

The Board has also established processes for identifying emerging 
risks and horizon scanning for risks that may arise over the medium to 
long-term. The Board has identified artificial intelligence (AI) as an 
emerging risk as the democratisation of generative AI has given 
widespread access to powerful online AI services for content creation. 

During the year, the Board conducted a post-investment review which 
sampled around 20 client contracts. The review considered the 
profiles of the contracts, including: annual revenues, capital 
expenditure and investment returns by sector and region, post-tax 
returns and contract ROCE, the performance of new and retained 
contracts versus the original business case, and proactive contract life 
cycle management designed to safeguard returns. The detailed 
post-investment review concluded that the Group’s disciplined 
approach was creating shareholder value. 

Following a recommendation from the Audit Committee, the Board 
approved a change in the Group’s presentation currency from sterling 
to US dollars with effect from 1 October 2023. This will provide 
investors and other stakeholders with greater transparency over the 
Group’s performance and will mitigate foreign exchange volatility on 
earnings, given that approximately three-quarters of the Group’s 
underlying operating profit originates in US dollars. 

The Board also received a presentation from chefs and culinary 
innovators from the Group’s Global Culinary Forum. The Forum was 
created to bring together key culinary talent to collaborate and 
exchange ideas and share best practices by tapping into the rich seam 
of knowledge and unique insights from those at the forefront of the 
Group’s businesses. The Board was keen to understand the progress 
being made by the Forum, which is helping to drive better commercial 
and sustainability outcomes. More information on our strategy and 
business model can be found on pages 1 to 55.

Purpose

At every meeting, the Board is briefed by the Group CEO on Purpose 
including up-to-date performance data on the Group’s workplace 
health and safety and food safety metrics against the established 
limits set at the beginning of the year. It is also briefed on the progress 
being made on the Group’s sustainability agenda, including the new 
food waste metric which was introduced at the beginning of the year, 
and social initiatives. 

During the year, the Corporate Responsibility Committee monitored 
the adoption of food waste tracking technology in operations across 
the Group. Reducing food waste is one of the greatest environmental 
challenges facing our sector and therefore one where we have the 
greatest potential to make a significant difference. More information 
about our efforts to reduce food waste can be found on page 39.

In February, the Chair of the Board, together with the Group CEO, 
Group CFO, SID and Committee Chairs attended the 2023 AGM with 
the other directors participating online. The AGM is an important 
event in the Board’s calendar where directors have the opportunity to 
listen to the perspective of shareholders, answer their questions and 
to meet with them on a more informal basis. At the 2023 AGM, 
shareholders asked questions about a wide range of topics including 
Compass’ approach to the UK real living wage, job security, diversity, 
equity and inclusion, animal welfare and sustainability. In addition to 
the AGM, the Group CEO, Group CFO, other directors and senior 
managers also met regularly with investors as part of the Group’s 
investor engagement programme, details of which can be found on 
page 76. The Remuneration Committee Chair also engaged 
extensively with investors during the year, and details of that 
engagement can be found on pages 97, 98, 103 and 104.

In November 2022, the Board considered and approved the 
Company’s 2022 Modern Slavery Act (MSA) Statement which 
provides an update on the progress made in the last year to further 
develop Compass’ approach to mitigating the risks of modern slavery 
in the Group’s businesses and their supply chains.

The 2022 MSA Statement can be found on our website,  
www.compass-group.com.

The 2023 MSA Statement will be published on our website in 
December 2023. More information about the Group’s Purpose can be 
found on pages 38 to 44.

Compass Group PLC  Annual Report 2023

  73

During the year, the directors participated in a training session 
delivered by the Group’s sustainability team, the external auditor and 
the Company’s external sustainability advisers, which focused on the 
evolving ESG landscape. The directors discussed the developing 
disclosure requirements under the EU Corporate Sustainability 
Reporting Directive and the International Sustainability Standard 
Board’s first two sustainability reporting standards, together with 
recent TCFD developments. The training session also highlighted 
developments in the broader ESG landscape and the growing 
expectations of stakeholders.

Conflicts of interest

As part of their ongoing development, executive directors are 
permitted to take on one external non-executive role on a non-
competitor listed company board, subject to prior approval by the 
Board. Fees earned for the appointment may be retained by the 
director. The Board monitors the extent of directors’ other interests 
and the time commitment required to fulfil those interests to ensure 
that the effectiveness of the Board is not compromised.

Each director has a duty under the Companies Act 2006 to avoid a 
situation in which they have, or might have, a direct or indirect interest 
that conflicts, or possibly may conflict, with the interests of the 
Company. This duty is in addition to the obligation owed to the 
Company to disclose to the Board an interest in any transaction or 
arrangement being considered by the Company. The Company’s 
articles of association authorise the directors to approve such 
situations and to apply other provisions to allow conflicts of interest 
to be managed. The Board follows an established procedure when 
deciding whether to authorise an actual or potential conflict of 
interest. Only independent directors (i.e. those with no interest in 
the matter under consideration) can make the relevant decision. 
In making a decision, the directors must act in good faith and in a 
way they consider most likely to promote the Company’s success. 
Further, the directors may, if appropriate, impose limits or conditions 
when granting authorisation.

The Board considered and authorised each director’s reported actual 
and potential conflicts of interest at its meeting in July 2023. It also 
considered any changes on an ad-hoc basis throughout the year. Any 
authorised conflicts are reviewed at least every 15 months.

Board administration

Information and support

All directors have access to the advice of the Group General Counsel 
and Company Secretary, who ensures that satisfactory Board 
procedures are followed, and good corporate governance 
and compliance processes and practices are adhered to. Together 
with the Group CEO and the Group General Counsel and Company 
Secretary, the Chair of the Board ensures that the Board is kept 
properly informed and is consulted on all matters reserved for it, that 
Board papers are of a high standard, and that information is 
distributed in a timely fashion to allow directors to be suitably 
prepared in advance of meetings.

The Board has established a procedure for directors, if deemed 
necessary, to seek independent professional advice at the Company’s 
expense in the furtherance of their duties.

In accordance with the Company’s articles of association, directors 
have been granted an indemnity by the Company to the extent 
permitted by law in respect of liabilities incurred as a result of their 
office. The indemnity would not provide any coverage where a director 
is proved to have acted fraudulently or dishonestly. The Company has 
also arranged appropriate insurance cover in respect of potential legal 
action against its directors and officers.

Board effectiveness, induction, training and development

A formal and rigorous evaluation of the Board, its committees, the 
Chair of the Board and individual directors is conducted every year. 
The Nomination Committee is responsible for overseeing the 
evaluation process. The Chair of the Board is responsible for acting on 
the evaluation’s results, recognising strengths and addressing any 
areas for improvement that have been identified. The details of this 
year’s internal evaluation process can be found on page 96.

The Chair of the Board addresses the developmental needs of the 
Board. All directors are required to refresh and update their skills, 
knowledge, expertise and familiarity with the Company on an ongoing 
basis, ensuring that the Board continues to operate effectively. 
A formal, comprehensive and tailored induction is provided to all 
directors following their appointment, including external training, visits 
to key locations within the Group, and meetings with members of the 
Executive Committee, other senior executives and functional heads. 
The induction also covers a review of the Group’s governance policies 
and structures, including details of the risks and operating issues 
facing the Group.

As part of ongoing training, the Board and its committees receive 
regular updates from expert advisers such as the Group’s auditors, 
external legal counsel, remuneration advisers and internal subject 
matter experts, and have access to external training courses where 
appropriate. The Chair of the Board, supported by the Nomination 
Committee, considers the training needs of directors as part of the 
annual evaluation process. Where a training need is identified by the 
Nomination Committee or a director, the Group General Counsel and 
Company Secretary facilitates this.

