 
INSIDE THIS REPORT

Strategic Report

Governance

1

2

4

6

9

Group Highlights

Centrica At A Glance

Chair’s Statement

Group Chief Executive’s Statement

Our Purpose, Culture and Values

10 Business Model and Strategic Framework

12 Market Trends

13 Macro Trends

57

59

64

72

79

82

Directors’ and Corporate 
Governance Report

Board of Directors

Corporate Governance Statement

Income

– Audit and Risk Committee

– Nominations Committee

– Safety, Environment and Sustainability 
   Committee

14 Our Stakeholders and s172 statement

84

– Remuneration Report

18 Group Chief Financial Officer’s Report 

110 Other Statutory Information

22 Our View on Taxation

23 Business Review

26 Key Performance Indicators

28 Our Principal Risks and Uncertainties

35 Assessment of Viability

38 Group Chief People Officer’s Report

41 People and Planet

46

47

– Non-Financial and Sustainability
   Information Statement

– Task Force on Climate-Related Financial
   Disclosures

READ MORE ABOUT

Financial Statements

114

Independent Auditor’s Report

127 Group Income Statement

128 Group Statement of Comprehensive 

129 Group Statement of Changes in Equity

130 Group Balance Sheet

131 Group Cash Flow Statement

132 Notes to the Financial Statements

229 Company Financial Statements

241 Gas and Liquids Reserves (Unaudited)

242

Five Year Summary (Unaudited)

Other Information

243 Shareholder Information

244 Additional Information

– Explanatory Notes (Unaudited) 

249 People and Planet

– Performance Measures

252 Glossary

OUR COMPANY

READ MORE ON 
PAGES 4 to 5

OUR PROGRESS 
IN 2023

READ MORE ON 
PAGES 6 to 8

OUR FINANCIAL 
PERFORMANCE

READ MORE ON 
PAGES 18 to 21

OUR PEOPLE

OUR GOVERNANCE

READ MORE ON 
PAGES 38 to 40

READ MORE ON 
PAGES 57 to 58

Unless otherwise stated, all references to the Company shall mean Centrica plc (registered in England 
and Wales No. 3033654); and references to the Group shall mean Centrica plc and all of its subsidiary 
undertakings and equity-accounted associate/joint venture undertakings; and references to operating 
profit or loss, taxation, cash flow, earnings and earnings per share throughout the Strategic Report are 
adjusted figures, reconciled to their statutory equivalents in the Group Chief Financial Officer’s Report on 
pages 18 to 21. See also notes 2, 4 and 10 to the Financial Statements on pages 134 to 135, 143 to 149 
and 160 for further details of these adjusted performance measures. In addition see pages 244 to 248 
for an explanation and reconciliation of other adjusted performance measures used within the 
document. This Annual Report and Accounts does not offer investment advice, and does contain 
forward-looking statements. The Disclaimer relating to this Annual Report and Accounts is included on 
page 253.

WWW.CENTRICA.COM

 
GROUP HIGHLIGHTS

We reported another strong financial result in 2023, 
against a backdrop of continued elevated commodity 
prices and volatility for much of the year. We’ve also 
been focused on improving colleague engagement 
and operational performance, resulting in improved 
customer outcomes as we look to underpin customer 
retention, growth and long-term profit sustainability.

GROUP OPERATIONAL METRICS

GROUP FINANCIAL METRICS (YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2023)

British Gas Services & Solutions – Services 
Engineer Net Promoter Score (NPS)(1) 

2023

2022

Total recordable injury frequency rate 
(per 200,000 hours worked) 

2023

2022

£6,512m

2022
£(240)m

£2,752m

2022
£3,308m(5)

Group statutory operating profit/(loss)

Group adjusted operating profit

70.6p

2022
(13.3)p

33.4p

Group statutory basic EPS

Group adjusted basic EPS

2022
34.9p(5)

Colleague engagement(2)

2023

2022

£2,752m

Group statutory net cash flow from 
operating activities

2022
£1,314m

£2,207m

Group free cash flow from continuing
operations

2022
£2,487m

Total greenhouse gas emissions (tCO2e)(3)

2023

2022

†

(4)

£2,744m

2022
£1,199m

4.0p

Adjusted net cash

Full year dividend per share

2022
3.0p

† Included in DNV Business Assurance Services UK Limited (DNV)’s independent limited 
assurance engagement. See page 249 or centrica.com/assurance for more. 
(1) Measured independently, through individual questionnaires, the customer’s willingness 

to recommend British Gas following a gas engineer visit.

(2) Colleague engagement methodology has changed from percentage favourable to an 

average score out of 10, measuring how colleagues feel about the Company. 
(3) Comprises scope 1 and 2 emissions as defined by the Greenhouse Gas Protocol. 
(4) Restated due to availability of improved data.
(5) 2022 comparator as reported. Excluding disposed Spirit Energy Norway assets 2022, 

adjusted operating profit was £2,823m and adjusted EPS was 34.2p.

Strategic report | Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

1

+71+640.841.127.77.41,681,4752,009,885CENTRICA AT A GLANCE

We are unique amongst energy companies in the 
UK and Ireland, operating across the energy value 
chain through our distinct, but complementary 
businesses. Our Purpose is to energise a greener, 
fairer future as we journey towards net zero for our 
customers and Centrica.

OUR PURPOSE, 
CULTURE AND 
VALUES

Our Purpose is – ‘energising 
a greener, fairer future’. Our 
culture and values remain 
firmly embedded in who we 
are and guide everything 
we do.

READ MORE ON PAGE 9

2

Governance | Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

OUR STRATEGY 
AND BUSINESS 
MODEL

RETAIL
Focused on providing 
leading customer service 
and experience, helping 
customers to save money 
and decarbonise through 
innovative offerings.

OPTIMISATION
Supporting the responsible 
buying and selling of 
energy, managing risk 
across our business and 
accessing value from green 
generation in our trading 
business while continuing 
to build out the flexibility 
required for the future 
energy system.

INFRASTRUCTURE
Investing to build a low 
carbon, reliable energy 
system including power 
generating renewables, 
flexible peaking generation 
and energy storage 
through batteries and 
geological storage.

READ MORE ON PAGE 10

WHAT SETS CENTRICA APART AS AN 
INVESTMENT OPPORTUNITY?

Centrica is a uniquely 
integrated energy company 
operating primarily in the UK 
and Ireland. We aim to deliver 
long-term value for investors 
by driving and leading the 
energy transition through our 
distinct, but complementary 
businesses.

21,000

7,000

Colleagues worldwide

Engineers

7,200

Volunteering days

Top 50

Ranked in The Times Top 
50 Employers for Gender 
Equality 

13.0GW

Route to market for 
renewables under our 
management 

RETAIL

(1)

British Gas has been supplying energy to British 
homes and businesses for over 200 years.
In British Gas Energy, we are strengthening our 
operations to drive innovation, retention and better 
customer outcomes, to underpin long-term profit 
sustainability.  

Energy supply, services and solutions for residential 
and business customers in the Republic of Ireland.
Bord Gáis Energy is creating value from its 
integrated model, investing in the future energy 
system to help underpin energy security and 
decarbonisation in Ireland. 

Our team of around 7,000 engineers provide 
customers with repairs, home improvements, 
maintenance and heating installations.
British Gas Services & Solutions has 
significantly improved operations in service and 
repair, whilst driving growth in on-demand and 
heating installs. 

OPTIMISATION

INFRASTRUCTURE

(1)

A global energy trading 
company which helps move 
energy from source to use, 
and managing energy 
procurement & risk.
Centrica Energy 
strengthened its portfolio 
in 2023, delivering a 3% 
increase in renewable assets 
under management to 
13.0GW. 

Energy supply and low 
carbon solutions for 
businesses, building and 
operating a portfolio of 
flexible assets.
Centrica Business 
Solutions is focused on 
customer service and 
delivering improved margins 
in energy supply while 
building out its asset 
portfolio. 

Oil and gas production from 
existing UK assets fuelling 
homes and business across 
the UK and Europe.
Spirit Energy was awarded 
a carbon storage licence for 
Morecambe Bay, which has 
the potential to be one of the 
UK’s largest carbon storage 
hubs.

A 20% interest in the UK’s 
portfolio of existing nuclear 
power stations.
In Centrica Nuclear, 
we extended the lives of 
existing nuclear power 
stations in 2022 and 
are exploring further 
investment in Nuclear 
generation.

The owner and operator of 
Rough, the UK's largest gas 
storage facility, helping 
manage seasonal demand 
and energy security.
Centrica Energy Storage+ 
has increased the capacity 
at Rough to 54bcf and 
continues to explore its role 
in the future of hydrogen. 

(1) Included within Retail and Infrastructure. Read more on page 10.

SUPPORTING COMMUNITIES, OUR PLANET AND EACH OTHER
Our People & Planet Plan aims to create a more inclusive and sustainable future – from being a net zero 
business by 2045 and helping our customers be net zero by 2050, to creating the diverse and inclusive 
team we need to get there and contributing to the communities we’re all part of.

READ MORE ABOUT OUR PEOPLE & PLANET PLAN ON PAGE 41

READ MORE ABOUT OUR APPROACH AND OUR JOURNEY TO NET ZERO AT CENTRICA.COM/PEOPLEANDPLANET

Strategic report | Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

3

CHAIR’S STATEMENT

shareholders. Our performance has allowed 
us to resume and grow our dividend, whilst 
remaining prudent, and we have also returned 
capital to shareholders through our share 
repurchases. These actions reflect the Board’s 
confidence in the strength of Centrica and its 
ability to deliver.

OUR SUPPORT FOR CUSTOMERS
Our performance matters to our shareholders 
– including those thousands of private retail 
shareholders of whom many were the original 
‘Sids’ who bought shares during the 
privatisation of British Gas in the 1980s. It also 
matters to our customers. It is only because 
we are in such a strong, resilient position 
that we can go above and beyond for our 
customers.

In 2023 we brought our total commitment to 
helping customers since the start of 2022 to 
£140 million, we hired 700 more UK-based 
colleagues to support customers over winter 
and into the future, and net promoter scores in 
our Retail businesses have been improving.

The way the price cap is structured means 
that if customers don’t pay their bills, costs are 
added to the bills of all other customers. We 
will continue to strive to find the right balance 
between supporting those in difficulty whilst 
keeping bills as low as possible for all our 
customers. 

This work shows leadership and it is 
something we can be proud of. Leadership 
also means responding responsibly when 
something goes wrong. 

Early in 2023 it was brought to our attention 
that the supplier we worked with to install 
prepayment meters under warrant had, in 
some instances, not been showing our 
customers empathy and respect. This is a 
complex area, and the business took swift 
action to investigate and report publicly on the 
findings. 

Our in-depth investigation highlighted some 
issues in the installation of prepayment 
meters. However, whilst these were not 
systemic, we take the view that even one 
failure, is one too many. Chris O’Shea and his 
team showed leadership and humility in 
investigating the issues and putting them right. 
Centrica takes pride in the fact that we do 
more to support customers that are in financial 
difficulties than anyone else in the markets we 
serve and we will always strive to do the right 
thing by our customers.  

Scott Wheway | Chair

Centrica occupies a unique place in the energy 
market. It is a place I am very proud that we 
occupy. We are a lynchpin of stability in a market 
that for the last few years has been in turmoil. 

This instability in energy markets has largely 
been caused by global conflicts, and these 
conflicts look set to continue. Whilst we 
cannot control this, we are acutely aware of 
the impact that price fluctuations have on all 
our customers. 

While other suppliers in the UK have collapsed 
due to the volatility and uncertainty in the 
market, we have not only stepped in to 
support their customers but actually improved 
our resilience and business model to ensure 
we can be there for all of our customers, old 
and new. You can read more about this in the 
‘Business Model’ section on page 10. 

It is this resilience that means we can add 
value across the entire energy value chain. We 
are integrated in a way that differentiates us 
from our competitors. This is important in 
itself; our business model is built on each part 
of Centrica supporting the others, but it has 
also been important for ensuring we can 

support those who are struggling most during 
the crisis. I am very pleased with what we 
have achieved in 2023.

OUR PERFORMANCE
When I became Chair of the Board in 2020 
the business was in a very different position. 
Over the last few years, we have been going 
through a turnaround process and can now 
say the vast majority of that is complete. We 
can see the impact of the turnaround in the 
strong performance of the business. 

I believe people have started to appreciate the 
quality of the Company we have here. We 
have a resilient balance sheet, good or 
improving returns across business units, and 
we have a clear plan for the future. We have 
shown that the way our business fits together 
really compounds the overall value of it. 

A strong Centrica is vital for the customers 
who rely on us every day and is good for our 

4

Strategic report | Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

 
Towards the end of the year, we were also 
very pleased to announce the appointments of 
Jo Harlow and Sue Whalley as Non-Executive 
Directors. They bring an exciting mix of 
experience to our Board, and I know their 
contribution to the Remuneration Committee 
and Nominations Committee will be highly 
valued. 

Thank you to all colleagues across Centrica for 
your contribution in 2023.

SUMMARY
This year Centrica has taken significant steps 
forward on performance, on delivering the 
things that people care about and on showing 
where our future lies. We are never satisfied 
and there is still work to do, but I hope our 
stakeholders across society can see a 
company that cares about what it does and 
makes a significant contribution to the UK’s 
energy system.

I am confident that our capabilities, our 
resilience, and our determination will deliver 
great things in 2024, and I look forward to 
reporting on our progress next year.

Scott Wheway, Chair
14 February 2024

OUR CONTRIBUTION TO ENERGY 
SECURITY
Security of supply has climbed in importance 
over the last two years and is likely to remain 
important as long as global conflicts continue. 
Our performance has meant we could take a 
leading role in this area. I know the team at 
Centrica are hugely proud of the contribution 
we’ve made to energy security in the UK 
and Ireland. 

Over 2023 we’ve expanded the capacity of 
the Rough storage field, improving the UK’s 
gas storage levels. However, the capacity of 
the storage field at Rough is unlikely to be 
expanded further without the certainty of a 
regulatory model that would underpin a very 
significant investment for the future. Our 
colleagues in Centrica Energy have also 
played a pivotal role in securing Liquified 
Natural Gas (LNG) through multi-billion-dollar 
deals, including a new deal with Delfin 
Midstream in the US that will enhance energy 
security for the customers we serve.

OUR FUTURE
Alongside our Interim Results in July 2023, 
Chris and the Centrica Leadership Team 
presented our new, Green Focused 
Investment Strategy. We announced that 
Centrica intends to invest between £600m 
and £800m a year over the next five years 
primarily in security of supply and flexibility, 
renewable generation, and our customers. We 
also gave guidance on our expected range of 
annual operating profit in our Retail and 
Optimisation businesses and provided clarity 
on a new financial framework, including our 
progressive dividend policy. 

Centrica’s direction was already clear to our 
investors and our wider stakeholders, but the 
July update provided a clear overview of the 
approach Centrica will take in the future. I’m 
glad the update was received positively by the 
market.

I am excited to see what Centrica can 
accomplish in the coming years and I want to 
take this opportunity to assure our 
shareholders that your Board will be prudent 
custodians of your money.

OUR SUPPORT FOR NET ZERO
Our Green Focused Investment Strategy will 
also mean that Centrica is playing its part to 
underpin the energy transition.

We are unequivocal in our support for net 
zero. We believe it is an opportunity for the UK 
and Ireland and we will continue to feed into 
live discussions with our valuable experience 
of energy markets. Gas is likely to continue to 
be a transition fuel for some time, and your 
Board is acutely aware that we have a 
responsibility to ensure that energy is 
affordable for everyone through the transition. 

Last year I said that to meet net zero a 
combination of technologies will be required, 
and that these technologies would create 
opportunities for companies with strong 
balance sheets, flexible business models and 
detailed knowledge of markets. This year, it is 
my belief that we have cemented our position 
as one of those companies.

We are one of the largest heat pump installers 
in the UK’s emerging heat pump market, we 
are leading on hydrogen innovation across the 
UK and Ireland, and our strategy shows the 
scale of our ambitions in renewables. Our 
commitment is not merely words, it can be 
seen in our actions. 

OUR COLLEAGUES
None of this would be possible without the 
fantastic work of our colleagues. It is a great 
source of pride for me that Centrica continues 
to grow and that we continue to show 
leadership in the areas people care about, 
such as our Carers Leave Policy. 

Over the course of 2023 we have seen the 
engagement of our colleagues increase, no 
doubt due to the supportive culture that Chris 
and Centrica’s Leadership Team have 
nurtured in the business. I was also very 
happy to see the continuation of our Shadow 
Board initiative. It is absolutely right that a 
representative group of our colleagues should 
have the opportunity to share their views on 
the management decisions that impact them. 

Of course, we have also welcomed new 
employees to the business this year and I 
welcome all of them, not least the 700 
permanent employees that were hired in time 
to support our customers over the winter. I am 
also delighted to welcome Russell O’Brien to 
Centrica on his appointment as Group Chief 
Financial Officer and Executive Director in 
March 2023, and Philippe Boisseau who was 
appointed to the Board as a Non-Executive 
Director in September 2023. 

Strategic report | Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

5

GROUP CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S
STATEMENT

when installing prepayment meters under 
warrant. We immediately apologised, we 
suspended the installation of prepayment 
meters under warrant, and we launched an 
investigation overseen by an independent third 
party. Whilst our investigation found no wide-
ranging problems with our systems and 
processes, it did highlight some isolated 
instances that fell short of the high standards 
of behaviour that we expect when engaging 
with customers. As a result, we have brought 
all such activity ‘in house’ (as opposed to 
using contractors) and have spent the past 
year ensuring our policies, procedures and 
practices are updated and that our colleagues 
are fully trained in these areas. We also 
contributed to the development of new 
industry rules to protect vulnerable customers. 
At the time of writing, we have not yet 
restarted the installation of prepayment meters 
under warrant. However, we may choose to 
do so in the future, as, done properly, they are 
an effective tool both in helping customers 
manage their costs and in helping energy 
companies manage bad debts, which is even 
more important as people struggle with the 
cost of living. This is important because under 
the price cap, those who pay for their energy 
ultimately end up paying for those who 
choose not to pay, and we don’t think 
that’s right.

However, we are not sitting on our hands 
waiting for others to solve the problem of 
people who can’t pay for their energy. We 
have taken decisive steps to support 
consumers who are facing hardship and 
we’ve done more than any other UK energy 
company. Since 2022, we have committed 
£140 million to support customers struggling 
with their energy bills in the UK and Ireland, 
which is on top of around £400 million of 
contributions we are required to make each 
year. It is a huge amount of money but our 
customers are at the heart of everything we 
do, and we must support them when they’re 
in need. Unfortunately it cannot address all of 
the issues our customers face today because 
these are not limited to energy costs – people 
are struggling to pay their mortgage or rent, 
their council tax, their food costs, and so 
much more. This is a societal issue which 
requires a societal response.

We have been vocal in our calls for regulatory 
reform, both in terms of how energy 
companies are made more robust to avoid 
failures in the future, and in terms of how we 
can have a system which is fairer for 
consumers. 

Chris O’Shea | Group Chief Executive

I am increasingly coming to the conclusion that the 
speed with which things seem to change is now 
simply indicative of the world we live in. The news 
cycle has shortened, the urgency with which things 
need to happen has increased, and the pace at 
which we are moving in our quest to make your 
Company the best is as fast as I’ve seen it in my 
five and a half years at Centrica. 

Despite that pace of change, I stand by the 
statement I made in last year’s report. I said: 

“ My belief is that climate change is the 
biggest single threat facing civilisation 
today, and net zero is the biggest single 
opportunity we have at Centrica. 
Climate change is real, it’s here, and 
it’s impacting lives across the planet. 
Transforming how we generate, store 
and use energy can make a huge 
difference to reducing the warming of 
our planet. Longer term, if the net zero 
transition is thoughtful and targeted, 
it can keep prices stable for customers 
and drive economic growth, especially 
for those companies and countries at 
the forefront of the transition.”

As I write at the end of 2023, I am even more 
convinced that this is the case. Your 
Company is incredibly well placed to both 
drive forward, and benefit from, the energy 
transition. This will require a relentless focus on 
performance and continuous improvement, 
and disciplined but bold capital allocation to 
ensure we have a portfolio of investments 
across a mix of technologies. We have a lot to 
play for. 

I believe we get more right than we get wrong, 
but the real test of character is how you 
respond when things go wrong. It’s my view 
that we need to put things right when this 
happens, and we need to learn from our 
experience.

Sadly, we saw an example of getting it wrong 
early in 2023 when a report highlighted some 
of our contractors were not treating our 
customers with the respect they deserved 

6

Strategic report | Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

For consumers, we believe that the standing 
charge for gas and electricity where people 
pay a fixed fee to cover things like network 
costs (roughly £300 each year) should be 
eliminated. Those costs should be recovered 
through the unit rate for gas and electricity so 
that those who consume less pay less and 
those who consume more pay more. We also 
believe a social tariff should be introduced 
where those who are the most vulnerable pay 
less for energy. We believe that this, along 
with all policy costs, should be funded from 
general taxation but that is not something 
which has universal support. 

For energy companies, we believe that they 
should be made to hold sufficient capital to 
ensure that if more companies go bust, their 
shareholders pick up the costs rather than the 
unacceptable situation in recent years where 
the costs were picked up by consumers. We 
have seen some progress on this, with Ofgem 
requiring energy companies to hold £115 of 
capital for each customer by March 2025. 
This is welcome but it is our view that this 
does not go far enough, nor fast enough. We 
believe that all companies should be required 
to hold in the region of three times this 
amount and that they should not be able 
to take on additional customers until they 
can demonstrate they are financially sound. 
As of now, a number of energy companies 
effectively have a free bet, using customer 
deposits to fund their businesses. If their bet 
comes good, their owners get all of the 
rewards; and if it doesn’t, consumers bear all 
of the cost. This cannot be right, and we urge 
Ofgem to be more focused on establishing a 
fairer market for consumers and to ensure 
energy companies who are not yet financially 
resilient enough are forced to meet proper 
capital adequacy requirements.

2023 PROGRESS AND PERFORMANCE
We can support customers and credibly make 
the case for market reform only because we 
are a very resilient company. That resilience 
comes from our uniquely integrated business 
model and strong balance sheet.

We have a well-balanced portfolio with 
market-leading positions across the entire 
energy value chain. In our Retail business we 
are the largest supplier of energy to residential 
customers in the UK through British Gas 
Energy and the second largest in Ireland 
through Bord Gáis Energy, and we have a 
strong and growing B2B energy supply 
position. Our Infrastructure business brings 
electricity and gas to the market every single 
day. Then at the heart of these energy flows 
sits the Optimisation business, the glue that 
binds our group together. 

As I look at our portfolio, I see a number of high 
performing businesses. But the real value-add 
that makes us unique at Centrica comes at the 
portfolio level as we integrate our businesses 
with each other. I believe this model means we 
are well-positioned to adapt to any future 
changes in the energy landscape.

You can see just how this integration works in 
practice in our performance and achievements 
over the last year. At a Group level, our 
performance in 2023 was very strong. Our 
Group adjusted operating profit was £2.8bn 
compared to £3.3bn at year end in 2022. Our 
adjusted basic EPS was 33.4p in 2023 
compared to 34.9p in 2022, 4.1p in 2021, 
and 2.8p in 2020, and our free cash flow was 
£2.2bn. We ended the year with £2.7bn of net 
cash – just three years ago we had £2.8bn in 
net debt. In short, your Company has been 
transformed. There is still so much more that 
we can go for, but as Russell points out in his 
CFO report, there were some large one-off 
benefits in the 2023 results which we don’t 
expect to repeat in future years.

RETAIL
British Gas Energy performed well in the 
year and benefitted in 2023 from the recovery 
of costs incurred in previous years under 
Ofgem’s price cap adjustments. By the end of 
the year, we had migrated around two thirds 
of our customers on to our new software 
platform and we should complete the transfer 
in the next 12 months or so. This allows us to 
develop our new energy offering, which will 
help give our customers insight into the best 
time to use their energy, putting more power 
in their hands. Our PeakSave Sundays 
product already has half a million customers 
and we are learning every day how our 
customers vary their energy use depending on 
costs changing during the day.

Bord Gáis was quite a mixed picture in 2023. 
We continued to see pressure in the retail 
market in Ireland and had another year of 
making losses in that market, all of which were 
offset by profits made in our infrastructure (the 
Whitegate power station in Cork) and 
optimisation activities. We believe that the 
issues in the Irish retail market are temporary 
and we hope to see a return to normality 
in 2024. 

It is very pleasing to see the continued 
recovery in British Gas Services and 
Solutions with the operational foundations of 
the business as strong as they’ve been for 
many years. Our customer service has 
improved materially and we’re seeing the 
benefits in improved customer satisfaction and 
higher customer retention rates. This allows us 
to focus on increasing customer numbers 
whilst maintaining the improved operational 
delivery and getting into a positive cycle of 
growing the business. Our growth 
opportunities in this business are not only in 
our traditional contract market but in the ‘on 
demand’ market. There are 20 million 
households in the UK who pay tradespeople 
to fix things as and when they break down, a 
market we have not traditionally served. In 
2023 we delivered 218,000 ‘on demand’ jobs 
to 201,000 ‘on demand’ customers (2022: 
122,000 jobs to 114,000 customers) and we 
expect to continue to grow this area in 2024 
and for many years to come.

OPTIMISATION
Centrica Energy had another strong 
performance and continues to ensure we 
make the most of all our business areas. This 
year we saw a range of corporate power deals 
with partners such as Deutsche Bahn and 
Vodafone, among others, and were delighted 
to improve energy security with our deal with 
Delfin Midstream to buy LNG.

INFRASTRUCTURE
We made good progress across our entire 
infrastructure business in 2023, building and 
advancing our portfolio of investment 
opportunities in clean electricity generation 
and storage whilst focusing on maximising the 
value of our existing assets. We were very 
pleased to see Centrica Business Solutions 
deliver a range of projects including Centrica’s 
first major solar asset in the Codford solar farm 
earlier this year, and committing to a range of 
other projects for the future including a 65MW 
battery storage plant in Perthshire.

In Spirit Energy we extended the life of our 
Morecambe Bay gas field in the East Irish Sea 
into the 2030s and we were awarded a 
carbon storage licence allowing us to further 
our plans to invest around £1bn in developing 
one of the largest carbon storage facilities in 
the world. In Centrica Energy Storage+ we 
doubled the capacity of our Rough storage 
facility, now providing half of the UK’s entire 
gas storage capacity and we continued to 
advance our plans to invest up to £2bn to 
convert this to become the world’s largest 
hydrogen storage facility which we believe is 
necessary to unlock the UK’s 
decarbonisation. 

WE MAKE IT – we produce 
gas at Spirit Energy, and we 
generate electricity through our 
green-focused investments and 
our nuclear stake.

WE STORE IT  – we can store 
gas through Centrica Energy 
Storage+, and electricity through 
our battery projects in Centrica 
Business Solutions.

WE MOVE IT – Centrica 
Energy is one of Europe’s 
largest wholesalers of gas and 
electricity.

WE SELL IT – millions of 
homes across the UK and 
Ireland are supplied with gas 
and electricity through British 
Gas and Bord Gáis.

WE MEND IT – we install, 
maintain, and fix, heating 
systems in millions of homes.

Strategic report | Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

7

In addition to this investment programme, we 
will continue to progress our plans for 
hydrogen storage at Rough, carbon storage at 
Morecambe, and we will continue to evaluate 
the potential to bring further low carbon 
energy to our customers through investments 
in new nuclear generation. We have a rich set 
of investment opportunities, but we are also 
disciplined in our deployment of capital, and 
we will only invest where the returns are 
acceptable, the risks are manageable, and the 
balance sheet sustainable. 

Notably, our business model and our 
investment plans are robust regardless of 
the pace at which net zero is delivered. 
I would argue that Centrica is well placed to 
provide stability, remain sustainable, and 
deliver value across all our stakeholder 
groups irrespective of changes to the pace 
of net zero.  

WHEN WE MAKE AN 
INVESTMENT WE LOOK 
FOR THREE RETURNS 
ON THAT INVESTMENT

We deliver a return on 
the Infrastructure 
asset investment.

We deliver a return by 
trading that asset on 
markets through our 
Optimisation business.

This gives us the 
necessary capital base 
to deliver a return from 
our Retail business.

SUPPORTING OUR COLLEAGUES AND 
ENHANCING OUR CAPABILITIES
We have supported our colleagues on their 
own professional journeys in 2023 and I am 
pleased to see that our colleague engagement 
score improved to almost 7.7 by the end of 
the year, which is approaching top quartile 
performance for our sector. We will continue 
to provide training for growth, space for our 
employee-led networks to flourish, and 
opportunities to nurture wellbeing into 2024.

The next phase of our journey is focused on 
driving growth in all of our businesses. To this 
end we have refreshed our Purpose. 
Colleagues across Centrica will work to 
energise a greener, fairer future as we 
journey towards net zero for our customers 
and Centrica. 

In addition, we’re looking at how we can 
improve our capabilities in a number of areas. 
In Infrastructure, we have demonstrated that 
we have a team who knows how to deliver 
growth over a number of years. There is more 
to do in both our Retail and Infrastructure 
businesses and I am delighted that our new 
Chief Customer Officer will join on 1 May 2024 
with a remit to drive relentless improvements 
in customer experience and help our retail 
businesses access the growth that we all 
know is there.

CONCLUSION
2023 has been a strong year for Centrica. We 
have not got everything right, but where we 
get things wrong, we put them right. Our 
business is on an incredibly strong footing, our 
future is laid out ahead of us and we are firmly 
on the path to continue the growth we’ve 
seen in recent years.

Going into 2024 I want to take this moment to 
thank all our customers, colleagues and 
shareholders for their support this year, and I 
want to take this opportunity to assure you 
that our progress will continue. We will 
continue to support our customers, we will 
continue to improve energy security, and we 
will continue to provide the sensible, expert-
based input into the net zero discussion. 

It is always invigorating and a privilege to be 
your Chief Executive. I look forward to seeing 
what we can achieve in the year ahead.

Chris O’Shea, Group Chief Executive
14 February 2024

CENTRICA’S CONTRIBUTION TO 
SOCIETY IN 2023
It is because our business performs so 
strongly that we can contribute more to 
society than the jobs and essential services 
we provide to our 21,000 colleagues and 
our 10 million customers. Our profits have 
a purpose. We have continued to encourage 
colleagues to volunteer in their local 
communities with over 7,200 days donated 
to the communities we operate in throughout 
2023.

We’ve also fundraised and donated £4m to 
charitable causes we all care about in our local 
communities; we’ve paid over £1bn in tax 
across all of the countries we operate in; and 
as I mentioned earlier, we’ve committed 
£140m to supporting customers since the 
start of the energy crisis.

This year we’ve signed major new 
partnerships with Team GB, ParalympicsGB, 
Scottish Rugby, and the Scottish Football 
Association, all of which will have significant 
and lasting impacts on grassroots sport 
across the UK and demonstrate how net zero 
can be an opportunity for clubhouses and 
sports facilities across the country.  

WHAT DOES THE FUTURE HOLD FOR 
YOUR COMPANY?
I am particularly proud of my colleagues 
because in 2023, not only did we achieve all 
of the things we set out, but we also gave 
direction on Centrica’s future. In July we 
outlined our new Green Focused Investment 
Strategy, which will see Centrica invest up to 
£4bn over the next five years in security of 
supply and flexibility, renewable generation, 
and our customers. We expect to invest 
across three pillars: 

¢ Customer solutions. We will help 

customers better understand their energy 
usage and fully grasp their energy spending 
through innovation in smart metering and 
other flexibility tools and services that give 
customers the information to make better 
decisions about their energy costs.

¢ Security of supply and flexibility. You 
can already see our experience in batteries 
and other flexible assets – over the next five 
years we will accelerate this. You can 
expect to see more from Centrica on how 
this investment will support the roll out of 
more intermittent power generation such as 
wind and solar by balancing the grid when 
the wind doesn’t blow, and the sun doesn’t 
shine.

¢ Green electricity generation. We will 

look to increase our investment in clean 
energy with a focus on the areas we are 
strong in, looking at wind in Ireland, 
green hydrogen production and a 
continuation of our investment in solar, 
having opened our first solar farm during 
the year.

8

Strategic report | Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

OUR PURPOSE, CULTURE AND VALUES

At Centrica our Purpose is – ‘energising a 
greener, fairer future’ – because we believe in 
energy that works for colleagues, customers and 
communities, today and into the future. It’s why 
we exist. Our strategy is driven by our Purpose, 
and we live by our values. While we have evolved 
our strategy to help meet today’s challenges and 
prepare us for a net zero future, our values 
remain firmly embedded in who we are and guide 
everything we do.

We care deeply about 
our impact on the 
planet, our customers 
and our colleagues. 
We want to make a 
difference to society 
and the safety and 
wellbeing of our team 
and customers is 
paramount

We are providing 
crucial help through 
the exceptional cost 
of living crisis by 
delivering material, 
targeted support to 
customers and 
communities during 
the energy crisis, 
including via the 
British Gas Energy 
Trust.

Together we win, 
we build winning 
relationships 
throughout our own 
organisation and with 
others to deliver on the 
scale challenges the 
industry faces

We step up and 
take responsibility. 
We recognise the 
importance of 
challenging the 
industry to make 
difficult decisions for 
our future and we 
stand by our beliefs

We are nimble, 
curious and 
innovative; we adapt 
to our markets rapidly 
and seek out 
opportunities to 
support the system 
and succeed

We do things right and 
deliver for all of our 
stakeholders

We collaborate 
closely across our 
businesses to 
understand how our 
Group is exposed 
and responding to 
the climate challenge. 
Our ability to draw 
insights effectively 
between our 
businesses through 
close collaboration is 
demonstrated by our 
strong performance 
in climate disclosures.

We’ve stepped up to 
support the UK's 
security of supply, 
reinstating the Rough 
field as gas storage. 
We recognise the 
long-term needs for 
the UK and will invest 
in long-term security 
and decarbonisation 
through hydrogen 
and carbon capture.

Our Optimisation 
businesses have 
rapidly responded to 
volatile energy 
markets, managing 
risk across our Group 
and proactively 
supporting our 
customers through 
access to scale long-
term gas supply and 
LNG deals. 

We value delivering 
great service and 
customer outcomes. 
We are rigorous, and 
do things the right 
way. We have been 
recognised by Ofgem 
as a well-run supplier, 
been protecting 
customer credit 
balances and 
invested an additional 
£25m in customer 
service through the 
energy crisis. 

Strategic report | Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

9

Centrica is a uniquely integrated energy company comprising a 
balanced portfolio of market leading businesses that complement, 
de-risk and add value to one another. Together, we are greater than 
the sum of our parts.

BUSINESS MODEL

Our strategy is driven 
by our Purpose of 
energising a greener, 
fairer future for 
colleagues, 
customers and 
communities. 
In July 2023, we introduced our 
refreshed strategy, which is focused 
on creating value through the energy 
transition. Since 2020, Centrica has 
been on a journey to simplify and  
de-risk our business, strengthening 
our balance sheet and delivering 
material performance improvements 
along the way. While we remain 
focused on continuous improvement, 
we are also underpinning our future 
by delivering sustainable earnings 
from our core businesses, investing 
for longer-term value and growth, 
and delivering attractive shareholder 
returns.

Investing to build a low carbon, 
reliable energy system including 
power generating renewables, 
flexible peaking generation and 
energy storage through batteries 
and geological storage.

Centrica Energy Storage+
(formerly Centrica Storage Limited) 
Storing and withdrawing gas to 
manage seasonal demand and 
energy security

Centrica Business Solutions(1)
Low carbon solutions for 
businesses, building and operating 
a portfolio of flexible assets

Bord Gáis(1)
Power generation, asset 
management and low carbon 
solutions for businesses, building 
and operating a portfolio of energy 
assets focused on decarbonisation 

Centrica Nuclear
Minority stake in the UK’s portfolio 
of operating nuclear power stations

Spirit Energy
Oil and gas production in existing 
UK assets

We remain relentlessly focused 
on providing a leading customer 
service and experience helping 
customers to save money and 
decarbonise through innovative 
offerings.

British Gas Energy
Energy supply for residential and 
small business customers in 
England, Scotland and Wales

British Gas Services & 
Solutions
Services & solutions for residential 
customers in England, Scotland, 
and Wales

Bord Gáis(1)
Energy supply, services and 
solutions for business and 
residential customers in the 
Republic of Ireland

Centrica Business Solutions(1)
Energy supply for large business 
customers in England, Scotland 
and Wales

We are supporting the responsible 
buying and selling of energy, 
managing risk across our business 
and accessing value from green 
generation in our trading business 
while continuing to build out the 
flexibility required for the future 
energy system.

Centrica Energy
(formerly Centrica Energy Marketing 
& Trading) Trading and optimisation 
of energy globally, managing energy 
procurement and risk

(1) Note within the Group Chief Financial Officer’s Report, Centrica Business Solutions is included within Optimisation, and Bord Gáis is included within Retail.

10

Strategic report | Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

 
Our business model is well positioned to benefit from the energy 
transition, regardless of how fast it materialises. Our balance sheet 
strength, investment grade credit ratings and strong existing capabilities 
give us the building blocks to begin a material green-focused 
investment programme. 

Achieving net zero will provide opportunities for us to grow and create 
value for our shareholders. It’s good for the planet and for our 
Company. In line with the targets published in our Climate Transition 
Plan in 2021, more than 50% of our capital is expected to go into green 
taxonomy eligible projects, such as solar and batteries between 2024 
and 2028. That’s up from less than 5% in 2019.

We see a myriad of attractive investment 
opportunities across our value chain, which are 
aligned to our net zero ambitions. We expect to 
deliver average post-tax unlevered returns of at 
least 7-10% at the asset level with additional 
upside expected from being part of Centrica’s  
portfolio. Our investment programme will also 
allow us to maintain balance in the portfolio as 
existing infrastructure assets naturally decline, 
helping underpin future sustainable profits that 
will enable further investments, future growth 
and a progressive dividend.

To give a flavour of the kinds of 
investments we anticipate:
Renewable generation: This could be in our 
own projects or ones where we invest with 

partners. We can add value to these projects 
through using our route-to-market capabilities 
in Centrica Energy and selling the zero carbon 
power to our Retail customer base. 

Security of supply: We have existing 
capability and are already invested in battery 
storage and gas peaking generation, as well 
as owning a range of sites with valuable grid 
connections.

We know how to develop energy assets and  
can also look to co-locate complementary 
technologies.

Customers: We will invest in capabilities that 
will reinforce our leading market positions and 
unique workforce. We launched our 

own Smart Meter Asset company in 2023 
and will consider further opportunities 
designed to unlock the adoption of ‘big 
ticket’ household energy technologies, 
such as financing or leasing heating systems 
to households.

Any large-scale investments, such as 
expanding gas storage capacity and 
converting to hydrogen storage at Rough or 
carbon capture utilisation and storage 
(CCUS) at Morecambe, would be additional 
to the options outlined above.

Our disciplined approach to capital allocation: In our Interim Results announcement in July 2023, we 
laid out our disciplined capital allocation framework, which comprises five key elements:

Sustainable earnings: 
We expect to deliver 
around £800m of 
operating profit from our 
Retail and Optimisation 
businesses by 2026, 
with material cash 
generation expected 
from our Infrastructure 
businesses over the 
medium-term.

Maintaining a strong 
balance sheet: We aim 
to maintain a Net Debt/ 
EBITDA ratio of <1, 
which provides enough 
of a buffer to ride out any 
energy market volatility 
and provides flexibility to 
invest in the future and 
maintain and grow our 
shareholder distributions.

Progressive dividends: 
We maintain a 
progressive dividend 
policy and expect 
dividend cover from 
earnings to move to 2x 
coverage over time.

Investing for value:  
We aim to deploy 
£600-800m per year to 
2028, focusing on assets 
that generate attractive 
returns, complement our 
existing capabilities, 
provide balance to the 
portfolio, and align to the 
needs of the energy 
transition.

Returning surplus 
capital: In July 2023, we 
increased our share 
buyback programme to 
£1bn since November 
2022. Any future 
distributions will be 
reviewed against our 
revised capital 
framework and future 
outlooks.

Strategic report | Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

11

MARKET TRENDS

After a tumultuous year in 
UK energy markets, 2023 
saw market volatility return 
to pre-energy crisis levels, 
although energy prices 
remained relatively high. 
Consumer energy bills were 
somewhat shielded through 
the Energy Price Guarantee 
during the first half of 2023. 
Macroeconomic conditions, 
including elevated inflation 
and interest rates, negatively 
affected asset returns and 
capital costs.

HOW WE’RE RESPONDING
¢ Our vertically integrated model has 

allowed us to capture value across our 
business, demonstrating the benefits 
of having a balanced and diversified 
portfolio

¢ The progress we have made in 

strengthening our balance sheet will 
allow us to continue to invest in a 
diversified asset portfolio despite the 
challenging investment environment
¢ Our strategy is designed to remain 
robust under all market conditions, 
and positions us for growth and 
value creation

Like last year, our customers, 
colleagues and businesses 
continue to feel the squeeze 
on their budgets from rising 
costs and a challenging 
macroeconomic environment.

HOW WE’RE RESPONDING
¢ Since 2022, Centrica has 

committed £140m in energy 
bill support delivered directly 
and via key partners like the 
British Gas Energy Trust and 
Focus Ireland, to help them 
through the energy crisis

¢ We introduced innovative energy 
propositions including PeakSave 
Sundays, Hive SmartCharge and the 
Dimplex Quantum Storage Heater 
tariff that help customers access 
cheaper energy rates at particular 
times of the day

¢ In addition to our colleague energy 
allowance and broader benefits 
package, we launched the Centrica 
Colleague Support Foundation, an 
independent charitable trust that 
provides grant funding to colleagues 
in extreme financial difficulty

High energy prices, increasing 
climate consciousness and 
supportive Government 
incentives continued to drive 
interest in green technologies 
for homes and businesses.

HOW WE’RE RESPONDING
¢ From Hive thermostats to EV 
chargers to heat pumps, we 
install, maintain and optimise a 
range of devices in customer 
homes that place them on their 
individual journeys to net zero

¢ We offer a Home Health Check for 

residential customers, which helps them 
better understand the energy fabric of 
their home and potential pathways to 
net zero

¢ Through Bord Gáis, we are working with 
the Irish Farmers’ Association to install 
solar power systems on Irish farms, 
helping them to reduce their energy bills 
and making their operations greener

12

Strategic report | Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

MACRO TRENDS

Climate change and the 
imperative to decarbonise 
remain central concerns for 
our customers and key 
stakeholders across society. 
The last several years have 
brought the impacts of climate 
change to our doorstep, as 
we’ve experienced hotter 
summers, extended droughts, 
unprecedented flooding 
and extreme weather with 
increasing frequency. As a 
UK and Ireland energy 
industry leader and a 
responsible business, our 
strategy remains focused on 
the drive to net zero.

HOW WE’RE RESPONDING
¢ We committed to an ambitious 

investment programme that aims for 
>50% of total capex invested in green 
taxonomy investments through 2028, 
thereby underpinning our transition to 
net zero

¢ We created a new business intended 
to be a one-stop green home services 
shop for residential customers
¢ We are working with partners to 

explore decarbonisation opportunities 
for our existing conventional power 
generation and molecule storage 
assets 

Unlocking the full benefit of 
renewables will require more fast-
acting generation and storage, 
flexible energy consumption, and 
intelligent systems working in the 
background to seamlessly 
manage the two. Centrica already 
plays a key role in this area by 
optimising energy flows to and 
from grid-side assets, as well as 
within the home. Through further 
investment and continued 
customer engagement, we will 
continue unlocking opportunities 
for flexible energy generation 
and utilisation to reduce cost 
and carbon.

HOW WE’RE RESPONDING
¢ We create additional value for renewable 
asset operators and investors through 
our advanced trading and optimisation 
business

¢ We help customers to reduce the cost 
and carbon footprint of their biggest 
household energy devices, like electric 
cars and home batteries, through British 
Gas and Hive’s myriad of smart energy 
propositions

¢ We are investing in batteries and gas 

peakers to meet the near-term flexibility 
needs of the grid, and looking into other 
forms of energy storage that will meet 
the needs of the future energy system

Customers rightfully expect a lot 
from their home energy and 
services providers, which drives 
competition in the market and 
requires us to constantly 
innovate and improve. With 
recent advances in artificial 
intelligence and machine 
learning, we see an opportunity 
to further leverage the power of 
technology and data to create a 
step change in our service 
delivery and customer value 
proposition.

HOW WE’RE RESPONDING
¢ We appointed a Chief Data Analytics Officer, 
who will work across the business to identify 
and execute opportunities that harness the 
power of data to personalise our 
propositions and service delivery

¢ We are closely collaborating with leading 
technology companies to implement AI 
tools and systems across our business, 
helping our colleagues to do more and 
better for our customers

¢ We are in the midst of a digital 

transformation that will fundamentally 
change the way we work in the digital 
environment, providing material cost 
savings to the business and unlocking new 
capabilities needed for future propositions

Strategic report | Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

13

OUR STAKEHOLDERS

Engaging our key stakeholders 
enables us to create stronger 
outcomes for people, planet 
and our business.

Energy is at the heart of how we all live, work 
and move. That’s why we regularly engage 
key stakeholders to understand their interests 
and how they may be impacted by our 
actions, so that we can carefully consider their 
views and evolve our strategy accordingly. 
In doing so, we can better harness 
opportunities and reduce risk as we work to 
fulfil our Purpose of energising a greener, fairer 
future, whilst maximising the wider positive 
contribution we make in society. Engagement 
is often led by senior leaders who regularly 
update the Board. This arms the Board with 
the knowledge to make informed decisions 
that take into account the long-term 
consequences of its decisions from the 
perspective of a diverse range of stakeholders. 

SECTION 172(1) COMPANIES 
ACT 2006 STATEMENT

The Directors consider that they’ve 
performed their duty as required under 
Section 172, by promoting the 
success of the Company for the 
benefit of our stakeholders through 
their decision making. 

These pages set out our key 
stakeholders together with an 
example of how engagement was 
vital to navigating the energy crisis, 
which was one of the most 
significant issues faced by the 
Company and our stakeholders in 
2023. Further detail on how the 
Board engaged and balanced the 
needs of different stakeholders 
during 2023, together with the 
principal decisions made as a result, 
are also disclosed. 

14

Strategic report | Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

OUR KEY STAKEHOLDERS

Importance – Our 21,000-strong team are 
the beating heart of our business. Through 
engagement, we can help create a culture 
where everyone can be themselves and 
thrive. In doing so, we can attract, promote 
and retain the diverse and talented team we 
need to succeed.

Main focuses – Health, safety and wellbeing, 
reward, development, inclusion, engagement 
and communication.  

Engagement – Dialogue occurs through a 
range of channels including our colleague 
networks, Shadow Board, townhalls and 
structured engagement with trade unions. 
We also track sentiment and gather 
feedback through our engagement survey. 
We use these interactions to co-create a 
fairer, safer and more inclusive culture, 
underpinned by a competitive package of 
reward, training and policies, as well as our 
Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Action Plans.

Importance – Our long-term success is 
dependent on being able to attract and 
retain customers. The Directors therefore 
recognise the need to act on customer 
feedback, so that we can deliver on their 
expectations.

Main focuses – Customer service, energy 
prices and bill support, alongside affordable 
energy efficient and low carbon services and 
solutions. 

Engagement – We predominantly engage 
through focus groups, surveys, proposition 
and usability testing. To meet feedback, 
we’re investing in our customer service 
systems and customer-facing team, as well 
as our ability to deliver services and solutions 
that help customers save time, money and 
energy. At the same time, we provide 
dedicated channels to ensure support for 
those who need extra help with their energy 
bills. 

Importance – Shareholders and debt holders 
from across the world provide funds that help 
us run and grow our business. 

Main focuses – Financial and operational 
performance, shareholder returns and 
dividend, strategy and growth, alongside 
Environmental, Social and Governance 
(ESG) matters which includes our approach 
to net zero. 

Engagement – Investors are predominantly 
engaged via post-financial result investor 
roadshows, the Annual General Meeting 
(AGM) and ad-hoc meetings. We additionally 
respond to information requests and 
assessments from ESG ratings agencies. 
Engagement enables us to consider and 
reflect the views of different investors when 
updating on our strategy, to ensure a 
sustainable return on investment. 

READ MORE ON PAGES 38 to 40, 42 to 45          
and 70 

READ MORE ON PAGES 6 to 7, 16 to 17 
and 43-45

READ MORE ON PAGES 17, 47 and 70 

Importance – Policies set by governments 
and regulators can have a material impact on 
how we do business. Consequently, we 
work closely to help create a stable 
regulatory environment where policy is 
developed in the interests of consumers, 
whilst ensuring a sustainable and investable 
market. 

Main focuses – Market design, customer 
service, skills, inclusion, net zero, energy 
security and energy prices. 

Engagement – To exchange expertise, we 
participate in consultation processes, attend 
meetings and host technology teach-ins and 
site visits. This enables us to effectively inform 
policy development and reforms that deliver 
on key issues, such as ensuring the UK has a 
secure and affordable supply of energy and 
that progress is being made on the energy 
transition. 

Importance – Our suppliers are vital to 
securing a reliable supply of services and 
solutions for customers. To reduce risk 
across our supply chain, the Directors fully 
support collaboration to ensure they uphold 
the same high standards of business 
conduct as us. 

Importance – Local communities expect 
companies to champion issues that are 
important to them. By working in partnership 
with charities, non-governmental 
organisations (NGOs) and community 
groups, we create more inclusive and 
sustainable communities.  

Main focuses – Payment practices together 
with social and environmental compliance 
on important issues like human rights. 

Main focuses – Tackling urgent social and 
environmental issues like fuel poverty and 
climate change. 

Engagement – Suppliers are engaged 
through multiple methods such as 
tendering, onboarding surveys, site audits 
and remote worker surveys. These 
interactions help us uphold fair payment and 
enforcement of our Responsible Sourcing 
Policy, which sets out the standards we 
expect so that everyone operates in a way 
that benefits people and planet, including 
fulfilling obligations under anti-modern 
slavery laws. 

Engagement – Through meetings and 
research, the Directors understand 
community issues and how the Company 
can make the greatest difference – from 
donating to the British Gas Energy Trust to 
provide expert advice and grants alongside 
energy efficiency measures that help reduce 
energy bills and emissions, to volunteering, 
fundraising and sponsoring local charities, 
schools, clubs and more.  

READ MORE ON PAGES 16, 29 and 47

READ MORE ON PAGES 45 and 50

READ MORE ON PAGES 16, 43 and 45

Strategic report | Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

15

HELPING PEOPLE WITH THEIR 
ENERGY BILLS IN THE UK

Although 2023 saw lower wholesale energy prices 
than in 2022, the cost of energy remained high for 
consumers. Energy bills therefore remained a key 
concern for many. 

In 2023, global supplies continued to 
be constricted and government 
support schemes introduced to help 
consumers at the start of the crisis, 
had concluded. We see it as our duty 
to help customers and communities 
through difficult times, so we 
maintained close relationships with 
stakeholders to explore what more 
we could do. This enabled the Board 
to take meaningful action. 

We more than doubled our energy 
support fund to £140 million, making 
it the biggest voluntary support 
package provided by an energy 
company in the UK and Ireland. Of 
this, we have committed £134 million 
in the UK since 2022. This results in 
total donations of around £60 million 
to the British Gas Energy Trust, to 
predominantly create a dedicated 
cash support fund for customers and 
help communities. To further 
strengthen support at the heart of 
communities, £2 million was 
additionally provided to front-line 
charities like StepChange. The 
remaining funding, managed directly 
by British Gas, is helping residential 
and business customers with a 

particular focus on prepayment 
customers. To ensure support gets to 
those who need it most, we proactively 
reached out to customers and ran 
campaigns encouraging people to come 
forward. This included targeting older 
people who we found were reluctant to 
seek support and volunteering to provide 
energy advice at over 150 Post Office 
Pop-Ups at 100 locations.

Having worked so hard to help 
customers through the crisis, we were 
deeply saddened about the lack of 
empathy and respect shown by some 
contractors employed to install 
prepayment meters under warrant. We 
immediately paused installations and 
whilst our investigation resulted in 
no systemic issues being identified, we 
introduced improvements including 
bringing the installation of prepayment 
meters in-house. Like other energy 
suppliers, we will not restart installations 
until Ofgem have permitted it. The 
Directors alongside specialists in the 
Company, have worked constructively 
with the regulator to ensure customers 
are protected during this time, and 
provided related evidence at two 
Parliamentary Committees.

We also worked with parliamentarians 
to ensure they were up to date with 
the wider consumer support available 
during the energy crisis via 
information leaflets, meetings and 
drop-in sessions. 

Additionally, we worked together on 
short and longer-term improvements 
for a more secure and sustainable 
energy market. We increased 
investment in renewable and low 
carbon energy, worked with US and 
Norwegian partners to secure gas 
supplies, and expanded gas storage 
capacity at our Rough facility whilst 
progressing our thinking on net zero 
optionality at the site. Although this 
will likely see our greenhouse gas 
emissions rise in the short-term, our 
action has been vital to future-proof 
the UK’s energy security and reduce 
costs for consumers. Throughout, 
we’ve needed to balance the needs 
of different stakeholders and the 
transition to net zero, to ensure we 
help people today and avoid 
another energy crisis in the future. 

READ MORE ON PAGE 43

16

Strategic report | Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

   
SECTION 172(1) STATEMENT
PRINCIPAL DECISION BY THE BOARD

PRINCIPAL DECISION BY THE BOARD
A refreshed strategy focused on creating value for 
all our stakeholders through the energy transition.

investor presentation, Centrica’s strategy was 
better understood, they had more clarity on 
Centrica’s view of sustainable earnings, and 
on investment plans and returns. 

OUTCOMES
After carefully evaluating the relevant 
stakeholder perspectives, the Board 
concluded that the refreshed strategy will 
successfully deliver for all our stakeholder 
groups while helping improve the UK’s energy 
security in our core markets and supporting 
the transition to net zero. 

The green-focused growth and investment 
strategy ensures our customers, colleagues 
and our communities are at the forefront of 
the energy transition. It has the potential to 
bring customers greener energy and at an 
affordable price, while helping insulate the 
UK from energy shocks in the future. We are 
also investing to build a better customer 
experience, with our strong operational 
foundations already beginning to drive better 
levels of customer satisfaction. Additionally, 
we remain well positioned to help our 
customers with the changing retail energy 
trends, rewarding customers for flexing their 
energy use through PeakSave, helping 
customers understand and control their 
energy use through energy insights and 
optimising customers’ energy consumption 
through Smart Charge. 

Our strategy will support Centrica’s aim of 
connecting more closely with customers and 
provide a number of opportunities for 
colleagues. In 2023, we hired an additional 
700 UK based front line colleagues to support 
customers, and the skills required for the 
net zero transition will create opportunities for 
colleagues far into the future. 

Having simplified our portfolio and improved 
operational performance, our refreshed 
strategy is aligned to delivering sustainable 
profitability from our portfolio, and we expect 
to deliver around £800 million of adjusted 
operating profit on average each year over the 
medium term from our Retail and Optimisation 
activities. Additionally, our Infrastructure assets 

BOARD CONSIDERATIONS
With the turnaround of Centrica now 
materially complete and the balance sheet 
strengthened, the Board carefully considered 
the refreshed strategy developed by 
management and how that would impact 
our stakeholders. 

The Board anchored its consideration of the 
strategy on the expected macro-economic 
environment over the next decade, noting the 
widespread view of market experts that a 
period of material acceleration in the energy 
transition is anticipated. In that context, the 
Board considered the future of retail energy 
and services, the future of optimisation and 
trading as well as Centrica’s People & Planet 
Plan targets, including the Climate Transition 
Plan. This was overlaid against a detailed 
review of Centrica’s long-term financial 
forecasts and the expected financial 
framework through to 2028. In particular, the 
Board noted both how some of Centrica’s 
existing assets were approaching end of life 
but also how, with investment, many of them 
could play important roles in supporting 
energy security and the energy transition.

From that foundation, the Board assessed 
that the green-focused investment strategy 
was aligned to those key market trends, and 
therefore carefully reviewed the strategy from 
the perspectives of stakeholders.

Customers: the Board considered customer 
perspectives around the cost of the energy 
transition and the impact on pricing when the 
cost of living remains high. The Board noted 
how investment could benefit the customer 
experience, and the strategy could support 
customers in the transition to net zero. 

Colleagues: The Board considered employee 
perspectives around developing the skills 
needed to deliver our net zero plans. Our 
colleagues are essential in implementing our 
strategy, and the Board recognises the 
importance of investing in their skills and in our 
organisational culture. The capabilities and 
passion of our colleagues is central to 
achieving our strategy.

Investors: The Board considered investor 
perspectives on Centrica’s financial 
sustainability and how the refreshed strategy 
seeks to underpin Centrica’s financial health 
and earnings potential. Following the 
announcement of the strategy, investor 
feedback was presented to the Board. 
Investors commented that following the 

in Spirit Energy, Nuclear and Centrica Energy 
Storage+ will continue to play a vital role in the 
UK’s energy security. Recent life extensions in 
Spirit Energy and Nuclear and a capacity 
increase to our Rough gas storage facility 
mean we expect our existing Infrastructure 
businesses to continue to contribute material 
medium-term cash flows. 

We will also pursue new opportunities to 
create value from wider market trends, 
with investment expected to build to 
£600-£800 million per year until at least 2028. 
As part of this, we will invest in flexible and 
renewable power assets, replacing our 
existing declining infrastructure, as well as 
investing in an in-house smart meter asset 
provider business, supporting the roll-out of 
innovative tariffs and allowing a more direct 
relationship with customers. Over time, the 
residential heating technology mix is expected 
to transition away from gas boilers towards 
newer technology such as heat pumps. We 
are uniquely placed to support this transition 
with the UK's largest energy services 
workforce. Overall, across 2023 to 2028, 
at least 50% of our capital expenditure is 
expected to go into green taxonomy eligible 
projects, compared to only 5% in 2019. 
This will help us meet our targets to achieve 
net zero by 2045, and help our customers 
reach net zero by 2050.

Longer term, and subject to the appropriate 
regulatory frameworks being in place, we also 
retain net-zero aligned optionality for potential 
hydrogen and carbon capture investments, 
through our Rough and Spirit Energy assets, 
and continue to consider potential investment 
in nuclear new-build projects.

We will do this while maintaining strong 
liquidity, balance sheet strength and capital 
discipline, with the appropriate medium-term 
leverage for the Group assessed as being up 
to 1x Net Debt to EBITDA. This provides us 
with enough headroom to manage volatility in 
the energy system and to continue to invest 
for the future. In addition, we remain focused 
on delivering compelling shareholder returns, 
including for over 440,000 retail shareholders, 
with a progressive dividend policy, and an 
expectation that dividend cover will move to 
around 2x over the coming years supported 
by the sustainable earnings of the Retail and 
Optimisation businesses, whilst returning 
surplus capital to shareholders where 
appropriate.

READ MORE ON PAGE 68

Strategic report | Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

17

GROUP CHIEF FINANCIAL 
OFFICER’S REPORT

Russell O’Brien | Group Chief Financial Officer

Our 2023 financial performance was strong as 
we start to deliver against our refreshed 
strategy. The benefits of our balanced portfolio 
were demonstrated with robust earnings, free 
cash flow and a very healthy closing balance 
sheet position.

READ MORE ON PAGE 11

18

Strategic report | Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

FINANCIAL OVERVIEW
The Group’s adjusted operating profit was 
£2.8bn (2022: £3.3bn), with lower 
Infrastructure and Optimisation results partially 
offset by a higher Retail contribution. 
Reflecting this, along with both a lower net 
finance charge and taxation on business 
performance, Group adjusted earnings 
attributable to shareholders were £1.9bn 
(2022: £2.1bn) and Group adjusted EPS was 
33.4p (2022: 34.9p).

From a statutory perspective, operating profit 
was £6.5bn (2022: £0.2bn loss). This includes 
a large certain re-measurement gain during 
the year of £4.4bn (2022: £3.4bn loss) 
predominantly due to unwinds of 2022 out-of-
the-money positions and release of the 
onerous energy supply contract provision. In 
addition an exceptional loss of £0.6bn (2022: 
£0.2bn) was recognised driven predominantly 
by impairments to both our Nuclear 
investment and Rough gas storage asset 
reflecting changes in commodity prices and 
spreads. Statutory profit attributable to 
shareholders was £3.9bn (2022: £0.8bn loss) 
and statutory EPS was 70.6p (2022: 13.3p 
loss).  

None of the items reported in the middle 
column of the Income Statement are 
considered to reflect the underlying 
performance of the business.

The Group’s total Free Cash Flow (FCF) 
reduced to £2.2bn (2022: £2.5bn), with the 
impact of lower operating profit and the timing 
of tax payments partially offset by a net 
working capital inflow of £0.2bn (2022: £0.7bn 
outflow). 

From a statutory perspective, net cash flow 
from operating and investing activities was 
£2.9bn (2022: £0.7bn). This was higher than 
the FCF noted above largely because of the 
exclusions from that measure of movements 
in variation margin and collateral, which 
support our commodity hedging activity and 
Centrica Energy optimisation activity and 
generated an inflow of £0.6bn (2022: £1.2bn 
outflow). 

The Group’s net assets increased to £4.2bn 
(2022: £1.3bn) with the impact of the increase 
in statutory profit partially offset by the impact 
of £1.1bn from items reported in other 
comprehensive income or directly in equity, 
including impacts of the share buyback 
programme, net actuarial losses on defined 
benefit pension schemes and dividends paid 
to both shareholders and non-controlling 
interests.

REVENUE
Total Group statutory revenue increased by 11% to £26.5bn (2022: £23.7bn). Total Group revenue included in business performance, which 
includes revenue arising on contracts in scope of IFRS9, decreased by 1% to £33.4bn (2022: £33.6bn). 

Gross segment revenue, which includes revenue generated from the sale of products and services between segments, decreased by 5% to 
£35.3bn (2022: £37.2bn). This was driven largely by the impact of lower commodity prices and volatility on revenue in Centrica Energy, partially 
offset by the impact of commodity prices on retail tariffs in British Gas Energy, Bord Gáis Energy and Centrica Business Solutions. 

A table reconciling the different revenue measures is included in note 4(b) of the accounts.

OPERATING PROFIT/(LOSS)

YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER (£M)

Retail

British Gas Services & Solutions

British Gas Energy

Residential energy supply

Business energy supply

Bord Gáis Energy

Optimisation

Centrica Business Solutions

Centrica Energy (formerly Energy Marketing & Trading)

Infrastructure (excl. disposed Spirit Energy assets)

Spirit Energy (retained)

Centrica Energy Storage+

Nuclear

Colleague profit share

Operating profit from business performance excl. disposed Spirit Energy assets

Spirit Energy disposed assets

Operating profit from business performance (Adjusted operating profit)

Exceptional items and certain re-measurements

Group operating profit/(loss) (Statutory operating profit)

2023

799

47

751

726

25

1

878

104

774

1,083

235

312
536

(8)

2,752
-

2,752

3,760

6,512

2022

94

(9)

72

23

49

31

1,444

44

1,400

1,308

245

339
724

(23)

2,823
485

3,308

(3,548)

(240)

Adjusted operating profit decreased by £556m, or by £71m when 
excluding the impact of the disposal of Spirit Energy’s Norwegian 
assets in 2022, to £2,752m (2022: £3,308m or £2,823m excluding the 
disposed Spirit Energy assets).

More detail on specific business unit adjusted operating profit 
performance is provided in the Business Review on pages 23 to 25.

Statutory operating profit was £6,512m (2022: £240m loss), with the 
difference between the two measures of profit relating to a net gain on 
exceptional items and certain re-measurements of £3,760m (2022: 
£3,548m loss).
Certain re-measurements
The Group enters into a number of forward energy trades to protect 
and optimise the value of its underlying production, generation, storage 
and transportation assets (and similar capacity or off-take contracts), as 
well as to meet the future needs of our customers. A number of these 
arrangements are considered to be derivative financial instruments and 
are required to be fair valued under IFRS 9.

The Group shows the fair value movements on these commodity 
derivative trades separately as certain re-measurements, as they do not 
reflect the underlying performance of the business because they are 
economically related to our infrastructure assets, capacity/off-take 
contracts or downstream demand, which are typically not fair valued.

The operating profit in the statutory results includes a net pre-tax profit 
of £4,405m (2022: £3,393m loss) relating to re-measurements. This 
was largely made up of the components outlined below:

¢ A net gain of £3,573m on the re-measurement of derivative energy 

contracts. This predominantly reflects the unwind of 2022 out-of-the-
money energy supply contract hedge purchases, while there was 
also an unwind of our infrastructure businesses and Centrica Energy 
out-of-the-money positions from December 2022. The net positive 
impact of these two factors was £3,529m. In addition, we saw a net 
unrealised mark-to-market gain of £44m from our wider portfolio as 
we were in a net sell position at certain points in the year as 
commodity prices fell.ell.]

¢ A net gain of £833m from the onerous energy supply contract 

provision utilisation and reversal. At the 2022 year-end, an onerous 
provision was held on the balance sheet relating to our non-domestic 
customers on longer-term fixed contracts agreed at levels below the 
forward commodity prices in December 2022. This was because, 
although the Group is predominantly hedged and so does not 
expect to make a true economic loss on these contracts, the hedges 
are generally market trades which are reflected as derivatives and are 
marked-to-market through the middle column as certain re-
measurements. At 2022 year-end, the unrealised hedges were still 
in-the-money and this led to retaining an onerous contract provision. 
However, following the fall in commodity prices seen in 2023, the 
supply hedges were out-of-the-money at the end of the year and as 
a result, the remaining energy supply onerous provision has been 
fully unwound.

Further details can be found in note 7(a).

Strategic report | Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

19

Exceptional items
An exceptional pre-tax charge of £645m was recognised within the statutory Group operating profit (2022: £155m), made up of:

¢ A £549m impairment of the nuclear investment, as a result of lower forecast commodity prices, partially offset by the positive effect of life 

extensions at Heysham 1 and Hartlepool.

¢ An £82m impairment of the Rough gas storage asset as a result of a reduction in both forecast gas prices and forecast summer/winter gas 

price spreads.

¢ A £14m impairment in Centrica Business Solutions predominantly related to a battery storage asset and a gas engine, also as a result of 

the lower forecast commodity prices.

Further details on exceptional items, including on impairment accounting policy, process and sensitivities, can be found in notes 7(b) and 7(c).

GROUP EARNINGS AND DIVIDEND

YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER (£M)

Group operating profit/(loss)

Net finance cost

Taxation

Profit/(loss) from operations

Less: Profit attributable to non-
controlling interests

Adjusted earnings/(loss) attributable to 
shareholders

Adjusted earnings attributable to 
shareholders excluding disposed Spirit 
Energy assets

Notes

4(c)

8  

9  

Business 
performance

Exceptional items 
and certain re-
measurements

2023

Results for the 
year

Business 
performance

Exceptional items 
and certain re-
measurements

2022

Results for the 
year

2,752   

(39)   

(838)   

1,875   

(16)   

3,760   

—   

(1,595)   

2,165   

(95)   

6,512   

(39)   

(2,433)   

4,040   

(111)   

3,308   

(143)   

(1,046)   

2,119   

(69)   

(3,548)   

—   

793   

(2,755)   

(77)   

(240) 

(143) 

(253) 

(636) 

(146) 

1,859   

2,070   

3,929   

2,050   

(2,832)   

(782) 

1,859 

2,005 

Group earnings 
Reflecting the adjusted operating profit, net finance cost and adjusted 
taxation as described above, profit for the year from business 
performance after taxation was £1,875m (2022: £2,119m). After 
adjusting for non-controlling interests relating to Spirit Energy, adjusted 
earnings were £1,859m (2022: £2,050m, or £2,005m after excluding 
the disposed Spirit Energy assets).

Adjusted basic EPS was 33.4p (2022: 34.9p, or 34.2p after excluding 
the disposed Spirit Energy assets), which also includes the impact of a 
lower weighted average number of shares than in 2022 reflecting the 
ongoing share repurchase programme.

After including exceptional items and certain re-measurements, 
including those attributable to non-controlling interests, the statutory 
profit attributable to shareholders for the period was £3,929m (2022: 
£782m loss). 

The Group reported a statutory basic EPS of 70.6p (2022: 13.3p loss).

Dividend
In addition to the interim dividend of 1.33p per share, the proposed final 
dividend is 2.67p per share, giving a total full year dividend of 4.0p per 
share (2022: 3.0p per share). 

GROUP CASH FLOW, NET CASH AND BALANCE SHEET
Group cash flow
Free cash flow (FCF) is the Group’s primary measure of cash flow as 
management believe it provides relevant information to show the cash 
generation of the business after taking account of the need to maintain 
its capital asset base. FCF is reconciled to statutory net cash flow from 
operating and investing activities in the table below.

See explanatory note 4(f) for more details.

Finance costs

Net finance costs decreased to £39m (2022: £143m), largely due to 
increased interest income on cash balances reflecting higher UK 
interest rates, partially offset by increased interest costs on floating 
debt.

Taxation
Business performance taxation on profit decreased to £838m (2022: 
£1,046m). After taking account of tax on joint ventures and associates, 
the adjusted tax charge was £912m (2022: £1,077m). 

The resultant adjusted effective tax rate for the Group was 33% (2022: 
34%), with the profit mix moving slightly away from highly taxed E&P 
activities. The adjusted effective tax rate calculation is shown below:

YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER (£M)

Adjusted operating profit before impacts of 
taxation

Add: JV/associate taxation included in 
adjusted operating profit

Net finance cost

Adjusted profit before taxation

Taxation on adjusted operating profit 

Share of JV/associate taxation

Adjusted tax charge

Adjusted effective tax rate

2023

2,752

2022

3,308

74

31

(39)

2,787

(838)

(74)

(912)

 33% 

(143)

3,196

(1,046)

(31)

(1,077)

 34% 

A charge totalling £326m related to the Electricity Generator Levy is 
included in the Group’s cost of sales and in our share of the results of 
joint venture and associates operating profits. The Levy is not an 
income tax and is not deductible for corporation tax purposes. If this 
had been treated as a tax, the Group’s adjusted effective tax rate 
would have been 40%.

Re-measurements and exceptional items generated a taxation charge 
of £1,595m (2022: £793m credit).

See note 1(b), 3(b), 7(a), 7(b) and 9 for more details.

20

Strategic report | Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

 
 
 
 
 
 
YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER (£M)

Statutory cash flow from operating 
activities

Statutory cash flow from investing activities

Statutory cash flow from operating and 
investing activities

Add back/(deduct):

Sale and purchase of securities

Interest received

Movements in collateral and margin cash

Defined benefit pension deficit payments

Free cash flow

2023

2,752

115

2,867

12

(267)

(585)

180

2,207

2022

1,314

(566)

748

398

(46)

1,173

214

2,487

FCF was £2,207m (2022: £2,487m), as reconciled to statutory cash 
flow measures in the table above.

Net cash flow from operating activities increased to £2,752m (2022: 
£1,314m), with the impact of lower adjusted EBITDA more than offset 
by collateral and margin cash inflows and positive working capital 
movements.

Adjusted EBITDA decreased to £3,085m (2022: £3,993m), reflecting 
the movements in adjusted operating profit as described on page 19.
The collateral and margin cash inflow was £585m (2022: £1,173m 
outflow), as wholesale commodity prices reduced from their elevated 
levels last year.

The net inflow of working capital was £244m (2022: £656m outflow). 
This included an inflow of £579m in Centrica Energy, as profit on 2022 
derivative positions cash settled in 2023, which was partially offset by 
an outflow of £505m in British Gas Energy reflecting the settlement of 
high December 2022 commodity costs in January 2023 and the timing 
of customer and Government support and regulatory scheme cash 
flows. 

Net cash inflow from investing activities was £115m (2022: £566m 
outflow). Within this, interest received increased to £267m (2022: 
£46m) reflecting the higher interest rate environment, while dividends 
from our Nuclear associate increased to £220m (2022: £60m). Capital 
expenditure (including small acquisitions) increased to £415m (2022: 
£377m or £258m excluding Spirit Norway) as we build momentum in 
our green-focused growth and investment strategy. Of the 2022 
investing activities outflow, £400m related to a loan to the pension 
schemes in October 2022 to help them manage through volatile 
market conditions. 
Net cash outflow from financing activities increased to £1,414m (2022: 
£917m). This includes a reduced distribution of £17m (2022: £273m) to 
Spirit Energy’s minority partner, with the outflows in both years related 
to the disposal of Spirit Energy’s Norway assets. It also includes 
materially increased cash distributions to shareholders, with £613m 
(2022: £43m) relating to the Group’s share buyback programme and 
£186m (2022: £59m) related to ordinary dividend payments.
Group adjusted net cash
The above resulted in a £1,453m increase in cash and cash equivalents 
over the year. Gross debt reduced by £162m, reflecting the repayment 
of a bond upon its maturity in October 2023 which was partially offset 
by new lease arrangements during the year. When also including the 
impact of foreign exchange adjustments on cash, the Group’s adjusted 
net cash position at the end of December 2023 was £2,744m, 
compared to £1,199m on 31 December 2022.

Further details on the Group’s sources of finance and net debt are 
included in note 24.

Balance sheet
Net assets increased to £4,233m (2022: £1,280m), predominantly 
driven by the statutory profit. This was partially offset by the impact of 
items reported in other comprehensive income or directly in equity, 
including a £500m reduction from the share buyback programme, 
£288m net actuarial losses on defined benefit pension schemes and 
£203m of dividends paid to both shareholders and non-controlling 
interests.

Pension deficit
The Group’s IAS 19 net pension deficit was £117m at the year-end, 
compared with a £40m surplus at 31 December 2022, with the impact 
of pension deficit contributions during the year being more than offset 
by a decrease in high quality corporate bond yields used to discount 
the pension liabilities, a lower than expected return on scheme assets 
and an actuarial adjustment due to inflation experience. The technical 
provisions deficit is based on more conservative assumptions and is 
used to determine the agreed level of cash contributions into the 
schemes. In September 2022, we reached agreement with the pension 
trustees on a March 2021 technical provisions deficit of £944m, with 
annual deficit contributions remaining unchanged at £175m until 2026. 
On a roll-forward basis using the same methodology, consequent 
assumptions and contributions paid, the technical provision deficit 
would be around £900m at 31 December 2023.

Further details on post-retirement benefits are included in note 22.

Acquisitions, disposals and disposal groups classified as held 
for sale
During the period deferred consideration of £55m was received in 
respect of the Spirit Norway disposal in 2022 and £17m was 
distributed to SWM Bayerische E&P Beteiligungsgesellschaft mbH.

Further details on assets purchased, acquisitions and disposals are 
included in notes 4(e) and 12.

EVENTS AFTER THE BALANCE SHEET DATE
Details of events after the balance sheet date are described in note 26.

RISKS AND CAPITAL MANAGEMENT
The nature of the Group’s principal risks and uncertainties are broadly 
unchanged from those set out in its 2022 Annual Report, although the 
Group’s top three Principal Risks are now credit and liquidity risk, 
market risk (including the outage risk of financial loss due to impact of 
lost asset production) and weather risk. In our assessment, overall 
credit and liquidity risk has increased due to a notable increase in 
customer debt driven by cost of living challenges, high levels of fuel 
poverty and relatively high inflation impacting our customers' ability to 
pay for their energy supply. Market and weather risks have reduced 
given lower volatility in commodity markets and a fall in global wholesale 
energy prices from their 2022 peaks. In addition, political, legal and 
regulatory risks have heightened due to continued financial pressures 
facing many consumers and an impending UK general election.

The Group has actively responded to these risks. Further support 
measures and processes have been developed to help customers 
repay their debt, a Risk Capital Steering methodology has been 
developed to bolster our current robust monitoring and to improve our 
ability to react to changes in our financial risks, while we have 
successfully refinanced multi-year credit facilities to fortify our liquidity 
capacity. We also remain engaged with regulators and political parties 
and will continue to monitor and assess the impact of any changes in 
government policy in our markets.

Details of how the Group has managed financial risks such as liquidity 
and credit risk are set out in note S3. Details of the Group’s capital 
management processes are provided under sources of finance in 
note 24.

ACCOUNTING POLICIES
The Group’s accounting policies and specific accounting measures, 
including changes of accounting presentation and selected key 
sources of estimation uncertainty, are explained in notes 1, 2 and 3.

Russell O’Brien, Group Chief Financial Officer
14 February 2024

Strategic report | Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

21

OUR VIEW ON TAXATION

STATUTORY TAX RATES ON PROFITS
Group activities

The Group takes its obligations to pay and collect the correct amount 
of tax very seriously.

(1)(2)

Responsibility for tax governance and strategy lies with the Group Chief 
Financial Officer, overseen by the Board and the Audit and Risk 
Committee.

OUR APPROACH
Wherever we do business in the world, we take great care to ensure 
we fully comply with all our obligations to pay or collect taxes and to 
meet local reporting requirements.

We are committed to providing disclosures and information necessary 
to assist understanding beyond that required by law and regulation.

We do not tolerate tax evasion or fraud by our employees or other 
parties associated with Centrica. If we become aware of any such 
wrongdoing, we take appropriate action.

Our cross-border pricing reflects the underlying commercial reality 
of our business.

We ensure that income and costs, including costs of financing 
operations, are appropriately recognised on a fair and sustainable 
basis across all countries where the Group has a business presence. 
We understand that this is not an exact science and we engage openly 
with tax authorities to explain our approach.

In the UK we maintain a transparent and constructive relationship with 
His Majesty’s Revenue & Customs (HMRC). This includes regular, 
open dialogue on issues of significance to HMRC and Centrica. 
Our relationship with fiscal authorities in other countries where we 
do business is conducted on the same principles.

We carefully manage the tax risks and costs inherent in every 
commercial transaction, in the same way as any other cost.

We do not enter into artificial arrangements in order to avoid taxation 
nor to defeat the stated purpose of tax legislation.

We seek to actively engage in consultation with governments on tax 
policy where we believe we are in a position as a Group to provide 
valuable commercial insight.

THE GROUP’S TAX CHARGE, TAXES PAID AND THE UK 
TAX CHARGE
The Group’s businesses are subject to corporate income tax rates 
as set out in the statutory tax rates on profits table.

The overall tax charge is dependent on the mix of profits and the tax 
rate to which those profits are subject.

(1) From 1 January 2023, revenues from our Nuclear and solar business (included 
in energy supply and services) are subject to Electricity Generator Levy (EGL) 
at 45% on wholesale revenues sold at an average price in excess of £75/MwH, 
exceeding an annual threshold of £10 million. The EGL is accounted for as an 
expense and is included in cost of sales.

(2) With effect from 1 April 2023 the statutory rate applicable to UK supply of energy 
and services increased from 19% to 25%. The average corporation tax rate for 
the year is 23.5%.

TAX CHARGE COMPARED TO CASH TAX PAID

UK (including Petroleum Revenue Tax)

Denmark

Singapore

Republic of Ireland

Rest of world

Electricity generator levy

Total tax paid

2023 

2023 

Current tax 
charge/(credit)

Cash tax paid/
(received)

572   

96   

—   

2   

—   

670   

285   

687 

121 

25 

(29) 

(1) 

803 

285 

1,088 

Corporation tax is paid in instalments, generally based on estimates; one-off items 
and fluctuations in mark to market positions may cause divergence between the 
charge for the year and the tax paid.

FURTHER INFORMATION ON THE TAX CHARGE IS SET OUT IN 
NOTE 9 OF THE ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS.

OUR GROUP TAX STRATEGY, A MORE DETAILED EXPLANATION 
OF THE WAY THE GROUP’S TAX LIABILITY IS CALCULATED AND 
THE TIMING OF CASH PAYMENTS, IS PROVIDED ON OUR 
WEBSITE AT CENTRICA.COM/RESPONSIBLETAX

22

Strategic report | Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

23.5%75%22%12.5%UK supply of energy and services (1) (2)UK gas productionDenmark energy servicesRepublic of Ireland supply of energy and services 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
BUSINESS REVIEW

BUSINESS UNIT OPERATIONAL, COMMERCIAL AND 
FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE
We expect to deliver around £800m of sustainable adjusted operating 
profit on average each year from Retail and Optimisation by 2026, with 
additional growth potential. We also expect to deliver material medium-
term cash flows from Infrastructure.

Of the £800m per year, we expect UK residential energy supply to 
make £150m-£250m, British Gas Services & Solutions to continue to 
recover to £100m-£200m, Centrica Energy to make £250m-£350m, 
and UK business energy supply and Bord Gáis Energy to deliver 
combined adjusted operating profit of £100m-£200m.

In any given year the actual results by business are likely to fluctuate, so 
these ranges should be seen as an average over time. However, one of 
the key benefits of our balanced portfolio is that our businesses de-risk 
each other and this reinforces our confidence in the delivery of these 
overall profit projections.  

RETAIL
In Retail, we have ramped up investment in our operations and 
customer service. This has resulted in improved performance metrics, 
with lower complaints and improving NPS scores across our 
businesses. Total Retail adjusted operating profit increased to £799m 
(2022: £94m), largely due to the material recovery of costs incurred in 
prior periods through the regulatory price cap mechanism in British Gas 
Energy. 

British Gas Services & Solutions

YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER

2023

2022

Change

Services & Solutions customers (‘000) 
(closing)(1)
On-demand jobs (‘000)(2)

Boiler installs (‘000)
Services complaints per customer (%)(3)
Services Engineer NPS(4)

Adjusted operating profit/(loss) (£m)

2,950

3,193

 (8%) 

218

95

122

99

 79% 

 (4%) 

 6.0% 

 7.0% 

 (14%) 

71

47

64

(9)

7pt

nm

All 2023 metrics and 2022 comparators are for the 12 months ended 31 December 
unless otherwise stated.  
(1) Services & Solutions customers are defined as single households having a 

contract or an on-demand job with British Gas Services & Solutions.

(2) On-demand jobs are defined as Services & Repair one-off on-demand repairs, 

home improvements and maintenance.

(3) Total complaints, measured as any expression of dissatisfaction where we 

identify material distress, inconvenience or financial loss, as a percentage of 
average customers over the year.

(4) Measured independently, through individual questionnaires, the customer’s 

willingness to recommend British Gas following a gas engineer visit.

In British Gas Services & Solutions we have significantly improved our 
operations, as we look to stabilise our core activity of contract service 
and repair, whilst driving growth in on-demand and heating installs. 

Operational metrics continued to improve over the year, including a 
halving of job reschedule rates, to 3%. This improved operational 
performance underpinned improved customer satisfaction, which was 
reflected in lower complaints and higher engineer NPS. Customer 
numbers were broadly stable in the second half of 2023, having fallen 
by 6% in the first half, which had reflected a high inflation backdrop and 
cost of living pressures, and the final roll-off of ‘free product’ customers 
from the portfolio. Reflecting this, revenue per customer increased from 
£286 to £310.

Our improved operational performance and increased engineer 
capacity means we can now better target the significant opportunity 
that exists in the on-demand and heating installation markets. 
Reflecting this, on-demand customers increased to 201,000 and on-
demand jobs increased to 218,000, up 75% and 79% on 2022 
respectively. We also grew our market share and margins in boiler 
installations in a declining market, underpinned by more innovative 
commercial offerings.

Adjusted operating profit was £47m (2022: £9m loss), with improved 
productivity allowing better margin capture in the core contract service 
and repair and installation businesses, and lower pension costs. These 
positive impacts were partially offset by the impacts of lower average 
customer numbers and ongoing inflationary cost pressures. 

British Gas Energy

YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER

2023

2022

Change

Residential energy customers (‘000) 
(closing)(1)

Small business customer sites (‘000) 
(closing)
Energy complaints per customer (%)(2)
Energy Touchpoint NPS(3)

Cost per residential energy customer 
(excl. bad debt) (£)

Adjusted operating profit (£m)

7,529

7,516

 0% 

552

480

 15% 

 13.3% 

 14.4% 

17

91

751

13

83

72

 (8%) 

4pt

 10% 

 943% 

 All 2023 metrics and 2022 comparators are for the 12 months ended 31 December 
unless otherwise stated.
(1) Residential energy customers are defined as single households buying energy 

from British Gas.

(2) Total complaints, measured as an expression of dissatisfaction in line with 

submissions made to Ofgem, as a percentage of average customers over the 
year.

(3) Measured independently, through individual questionnaires, the customer’s 

willingness to recommend British Gas Energy following contact.

In British Gas Energy, we continue to invest in strengthening our 
operational foundations to drive innovation, retention and better 
customer outcomes in order to underpin long-term profit sustainability.

The number of residential customers remained broadly flat over the 
year, as price competition remained low in the market and suppliers 
competed more on service and brand. The number of small business 
customers increased by 15% in the year.

In line with our strategy we have invested further in customer service, 
including the hiring of 700 additional contact centre colleagues. 
Reflecting this, we saw lower complaints and a higher NPS, and 
improving these metrics further will remain a focus. The NPS is higher 
for customers who are on our new platform, and we continue to make 
good progress on customer migration. A further 2m customers were 
migrated in the second half of 2023, taking the total to over 5m and we 
aim for our customers migration to the new platform to be substantially 
complete by 2025. 

Reflecting our investment in customer service and migration, our 
annualised cost per residential energy customer (excluding bad debt) 
increased by £8, including a £4 increase from dual running IT costs. 
When combined, the impact from incremental investment in service 
and from total dual running IT costs was around £100m in 2023.  

Adjusted operating profit increased to £751m (2022: £72m) following a 
strong first half result which included an industry-wide one-off recovery 
of around £500m of prior period costs. These were largely related to 
unexpected standard variable tariff demand and the phasing of 
commodity costs and associated revenues; a supplier's costs may not 
perfectly match the revenues received under the price cap in a given 
period. We also delivered effective risk management and optimisation 
during the year, while higher commodity costs naturally drove higher 
unit margins. 

Strategic report | Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

23

In Centrica Energy (previously Energy Marketing & Trading), our world 
class asset-backed trading and logistics business, we are looking to 
build on our diverse portfolio of physical contracted positions, while 
continuing to leverage our differentiated risk management and 
optimisation capabilities to add further value across the Group.

Centrica Energy had another strong year in 2023, against the backdrop 
of much lower market volatility than experienced in 2022. We continue 
to build out our portfolio of physical contractual positions, delivering a 
3% increase in renewable assets under management in Renewable 
Energy Trading and Optimisation (RETO) to 13.0GW. Total renewable 
and flexible assets increased to 16.3GW (2022: 15.8GW).

We also added to our global LNG portfolio. In July 2023 we signed a 
15-year Sale and Purchase agreement with Delfin to take 1 million 
tonnes of LNG, free on board, from their floating facility in the Gulf of 
Mexico. Volumes are expected to commence towards the end of this 
decade.

Adjusted operating profit remained elevated at £774m (2022: 
£1,400m). Lower levels of market volatility impacted our gas and power 
trading business. However, we saw the benefit of our diverse portfolio, 
with increased profit in both the LNG and RETO businesses reflecting 
our ability to capture some longer-term value from the volatile 
environment seen in 2022. Included within the total operating profit was 
a £35m loss from the Sole Pit legacy gas contract (2022: £19m profit), 
with further losses from the contract at current forward prices expected 
to be around £30m in total until 2025, when the contract ends.

Centrica Business Solutions (CBS)

YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER

2023

2022

Change

Energy supply total gas and electricity 
volume (TWh)

Energy supply complaints per customer 
(%)(1)
Energy supply Touchpoint NPS(2)

Services order intake (£m)

Net investment (£m)

Adjusted operating profit (£m)

20.7

22.3

 (7%) 

 12.2% 

 9.1% 

 34% 

32

225

114

104

31

212

19

44

1pt

 6% 

 500% 

 136% 

All 2023 metrics and 2022 comparators are for the 12 months ended 31 December 
unless otherwise stated. 
(1) Total complaints, measured as any oral or written expression of dissatisfaction, 

as a percentage of average customers over the year.

(2) Measured independently, through individual questionnaires and the customer’s 

willingness to recommend.

In Centrica Business Solutions we continue to focus on strengthening 
our customer service foundations and delivering improved margins and 
sales performance in energy supply to larger businesses, while building 
a portfolio of flexible, green-focused assets.

We continued with our planned shift in focus away from supplying 
energy to the lower margin large-scale Commercial and Industrial 
sector, and total volumes fell by 7% as a result. However, within this, 
volumes supplied to medium sized enterprises grew 14% to 11.6TWh 
(2022: 10.2TWh), with consistent organic growth alongside the 
customer book acquisition of Avantigas ON Limited in H2 2022. 

We continue to focus on delivering high levels of customer service, 
although complaints per customer increased against a backdrop of 
customer concern from high energy bills and complexity relating to 
government support schemes. Despite this, customer service delivery 
remained strong, with Touchpoint NPS increasing by 1pt year-on-year.

These positive impacts were partially offset by a number of other 
factors predominantly related to a weak economy and the cost of living 
crisis. The bad debt charge increased to £541m (2022: £297m), 
including impacts from pausing field debt collection activity, with an 
increase in both residential (up £158m) and small business (up £86m). 
We also saw an underlying reduction in consumption per customer, 
with customer bills remaining elevated compared to historic levels 
alongside the reduction of wider government support for both 
residential and small business customers. In addition, 2023 profit was 
impacted by the increase in cost per customer reflecting our investment 
in customer service and system migration, and our voluntary 
commitment of a further £84m to support customers struggling to pay 
their bills.

Bord Gáis Energy

YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER

Customers (‘000) (closing)
Complaints per customer (%)(1)
Journey NPS (2)

Adjusted operating profit (£m)

2023

503

2022

526

 1.7% 

 2.2% 

18

1

19

31

Change

 (4%) 

 (23%) 

(1pt)

 (97%) 

All 2023 metrics and 2022 comparators are for the 12 months ended 31 December 
unless otherwise stated. 
(1) Total complaints, measured as any oral or written expression of dissatisfaction, 

as a percentage of average customers over the year. 
(2) Weighted NPS for the main customer interaction channels.

In Bord Gáis Energy we are focused on creating value from our 
integrated energy model, while investing in the future energy system to 
help underpin energy security and decarbonisation in Ireland. 

Against a backdrop of challenging conditions in the retail energy supply 
business, customer numbers declined by 4% as the business reduced 
its focus on customer acquisition. We continued to invest in customer 
service, resulting in lower complaints per customer compared with 
2022 and a 5pt improvement in NPS over the second half of the year, 
following a reduction in the first half. In line with our commitment to 
support our customers, we donated an incremental £3m to our energy 
support fund to help vulnerable customers struggling with bills, 
doubling the total to £6m over the past two years.

We continued with the construction of our two, hydrogen ready, 
100MW flexible natural gas peaking plants in Athlone and Dublin, with 
our investment expected to total around €300m. We expect these 
plants to be commissioned by around the middle of 2025.

Adjusted operating profit reduced to £1m (2022: £31m), reflecting 
pricing pressure in energy supply as we absorbed higher energy costs, 
particularly in the first half of 2023. This was partially offset by continued 
strong performance from our Whitegate power station and wholesale 
optimisation activities. The second half of the year saw the beginnings 
of more sustainable energy supply performance, with continued easing 
in commodity prices affording us the opportunity to pass on price 
reductions to customers. 

OPTIMISATION
In Optimisation, we continue to develop and leverage our physical 
positions and world class capabilities. Total Optimisation adjusted 
operating profit remained elevated at £878m (2022: £1,444m), 
although was lower compared to 2022 against a backdrop of lower 
absolute prices and volatility in commodity markets.

Centrica Energy

YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER
Renewable capacity under management (GW)(1)

2023

13.0

2022 Change

12.6

 3% 

Adjusted operating profit (£m)

774

1,400

 (45%) 

All 2023 metrics and 2022 comparators are for the 12 months ended 31 December 
unless otherwise stated.
(1) Including assets that have signed contracts but are not yet operational.

24

Strategic report | Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Centrica's share of Nuclear generation volumes was 14% lower than 
2022, reflecting the Hinkley Point B closure in August 2022 and higher 
scheduled outages. During 2023, the expected closure dates for 
Heysham 1 and Hartlepool were extended by two years to March 
2026, with a plus or minus one year window either side of this date. 
Additionally, in January 2024, an ambition was announced to further 
extend the lives of Heysham 1, Hartlepool, Heysham 2 and Torness, 
subject to inspections and regulatory approvals.

Adjusted operating profit from the retained Spirit Energy business was 
£235m (2022: £245m), with the impact of lower production volumes 
largely offset by a higher average achieved gas price, underpinned by 
our rateable hedging strategy. Centrica Energy Storage+ adjusted 
operating profit was £312m (2022: £339m), with strong performance in 
the first half of 2023 driven by high seasonal gas price spreads in winter 
2022/23 and further optimisation from market price volatility, followed 
by a second half which saw lower seasonal spreads for winter 2023/24 
and reduced optimisation opportunities due to lower levels of volatility. 
Nuclear adjusted operating profit was £536m (2022: £724m), with 
higher achieved prices and lower balancing charges more than offset 
by the combined impacts of lower generation volumes and a £326m 
impact of the Electricity Generator Levy, of which £285m is recorded in 
cost of sales and £41m within the share of profit after tax from 
associates.

Details of our forward hedging positions for 2024 and 2025 are outlined 
below:

Volume 
hedged

2024

Average
hedged
price

Volume 
hedged

2025

Average 
hedged 
price

Spirit Energy

443mmth

174p/th

197mmth

139p/th

Nuclear

5.4TWh

£153/MWh

1.7TWh

£110/MWh

Having announced our green-focused investment strategy in July 
2023, we have made incremental early stage progress in developing 
our asset pipeline. Net investment in CBS was £114m in 2023 (2022: 
£19m) as we continued with a range of solar, battery and gas-peaking 
investments, and we now have around 550MW of assets in detailed 
planning or delivery in the UK and Continental Europe. We also 
commenced commercial operations on the 18MW Codford solar farm 
in the first half of 2023 and acquired the operational 13MW 
Roundponds solar farm in the second half, taking total operational 
capacity in CBS to 132MW.

Adjusted operating profit increased to £104m (2022: £44m). Energy 
supply profit increased driven by strong risk management and 
commodity procurement performance, supported by the increase in 
volumes supplied to medium-sized enterprise customers. This was 
partially offset by an increased loss in Services and Assets, reflecting 
the impact of lower market price volatility on our flexible assets, and 
restructuring actions taken in our services business to improve 
profitability in the coming years.

INFRASTRUCTURE
Our Infrastructure businesses consist of our ownership in the Spirit 
Energy gas production business, the UK’s nuclear fleet, and Centrica 
Energy Storage+, the operator of the UK's largest gas storage facility, 
Rough. These businesses all saw asset lives extended in 2023 and will 
continue to play an important role for UK energy security. Total 
Upstream adjusted operating profit fell to £1,083m (2022: £1,793m or 
£1,308m excluding disposed Spirit assets).

Upstream

YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER

2023

2022

Change

Spirit Energy retained total production 
volumes (mmboe)

Nuclear power generated (GWh)

Adjusted operating profit (£m)

14.8

17.5

 (15%) 

7,456

1,083

8,719

1,793

 (14%) 

 (40%) 

All 2023 metrics and 2022 comparators are for the 12 months ended 31 December.

Total volumes from the retained Spirit Energy assets were down 15%, 
with lower production across the portfolio in line with expected natural 
decline rates. In May 2023, Spirit Energy was awarded a carbon 
storage licence for the Morecambe Hub, and its potential to be one of 
the UK’s largest carbon storage hubs provides us with long-term net 
zero optionality.

Centrica Energy Storage+ (CES+) delivered good operational reliability 
from the Rough asset following its return to gas storage operations in 
the second half of 2022, and from the Easington gas processing plant 
which CES+ also owns. An increase in capacity at Rough to 54bcf was 
announced in June 2023, with third party exemption granted until at 
least 2030. We continue to develop plans to enable us to increase 
capacity at the asset, and ultimately convert to a hydrogen storage 
facility, with any material investment subject to an appropriate 
regulatory support mechanism. 

Strategic report | Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

25

KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS

Our Key Performance Indicators (KPIs) 
help the Board and executive 
management team assess performance 
against our refreshed strategy laid out 
in July 2023.

(i) See notes 2, 4 and 10 to the Financial 

Statements for definition and 
reconciliation of these measures. 

(ii) Net zero goal measures scope 1 (direct) 

and 2 (indirect) GHG emissions based on 
operator boundary. Comprises emissions 
from all operated assets and activities 
including the shipping of Liquified Natural 
Gas alongside the retained Spirit Energy 
assets in the UK and the Netherlands. 
Non-operated nuclear emissions are 
excluded. Target is normalised to reflect 
acquisitions and divestments in line with 
changes in Group structure against a 2019 
base year of 2,132,680mtCO2e. It’s also 
aligned to the Paris Agreement and based 
on science to limit global warming, 
corresponding to a well below 2°C 
pathway initially and 1.5°C by mid-
century. 2022 restated due to availability 
of improved data. 

READ MORE ABOUT OUR 
STRATEGY REFRESH ON PAGES 
10 TO 11

READ MORE ABOUT OUR 
FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE 
ON PAGES 18 TO 21

Group free cash flow from continuing 
operations (£m)(i)

Group adjusted operating profit from 
continuing operations (£m)(i)

2023

2022

2021

2023

2022

2021

Free cash flow from continuing operations is 
the Group’s primary measure of cash flow. It 
reflects the cash generation of the business 
after taking into account the need to 
continue to invest. 

Free cash flow decreased by 11% reflecting 
the reduction in Group adjusted operating 
profit and an increase in taxes paid, largely 
related to 2022 profits. These impacts were 
partially offset by working capital inflows 
compared with outflows in 2022, with inflows 
in Centrica Energy as 2022 profits converted 
to cash more than offsetting outflows in 
British Gas Energy, largely related to the 
impact of falling commodity prices.

Group adjusted operating profit from 
continuing operations is one of our 
fundamental financial measures,  

Group adjusted operating profit fell 17% 
predominantly reflecting decreased profit 
in Upstream (part of our Infrastructure 
business), reflecting the sale of the Spirit 
Energy Norway assets and the introduction 
of the Electricity Generator Levy and 
in Centrica Energy reflecting lower energy 
price volatility. This was partially offset by 
increased profit in British Gas Energy, 
including the recovery of costs incurred in 
prior periods through the default tariff cap.

Group adjusted basic earnings per share 
from continuing operations (EPS)(i)

Total greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions – 
40% reduction by 2034 and net zero by 
2045 (base year 2019)(ii)

2023

2022

2021

4.1p

p

p

-21%

-5%

2023

2022

2021

-53%

EPS is a standard measure of corporate 
profitability. Adjusted EPS is used to 
measure the Group’s underlying 
performance against its strategic financial 
framework. 

Group adjusted basic EPS was down 4%, 
reflecting the decreased operating profit, 
partially offset by reduced finance costs with 
higher interest rates resulting in increased 
interest income on cash held and a lower 
effective tax rate due to the profit mix moving 
away from highly taxed gas production 
activities, as well as a reduction in the 
number of shares as a result of the share 
buyback programme.

Getting to net zero is vital for our planet, 
which is why we have a green-focused 
investment strategy. Towards this, we cut 
our emissions by 21% from our 2019 base 
year, building on the 5% reduction achieved 
the previous year. Further gains were mainly 
driven by emission reductions from our 
Whitegate power station as well as our gas 
production operations. Overall, we’ve made 
positive progress against our long-term goal 
to be a net zero business by 2045 (see    
page 44). 

26

Strategic report | Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

33.434.96.12,2072,4871,1742,7523,308948British Gas Services & Solutions – Services 
Engineer Net Promoter Score (NPS)(i)

Total customers (m)(ii)

2023

2022
2022
2021
2021

2023

2022

2021

Providing a great service is fundamental to 
our ability to attract and retain customers. 
With our focus on productivity and improved 
operational performance, we were able to 
provide a better service for customers. This 
led to our NPS rising by seven points. 

Our business exists to serve customers, who 
drive our growth. Following year-on-year 
gains, overall customer numbers remained 
stable with 0% change. This broadly reflects 
the challenging inflationary backdrop and 
cost of living pressures. 

(i) Measured independently, through 

(ii)

individual questionnaires, the customer’s 
willingness to recommend British Gas 
following a gas engineer visit. For wider 
business unit NPS, see pages 23 to 25.  

Includes British Gas Energy, British Gas 
Services & Solutions and Bord Gáis 
Energy households, as well as business 
customer sites in British Gas Energy and 
Centrica Business Solutions. 2022 
restated due to availability of improved 
data. For business unit customer 
numbers, see pages 23 to 25. 

(iii) Colleague engagement methodology has 
changed from percentage favourable to 
an average score out of 10, measuring 
how colleagues feel about the Company. 
We are unable to provide a 2021 
comparison due to the change in 
methodology.  

READ MORE ABOUT 
OUR NON-FINANCIAL 
PERFORMANCE ON PAGES          
41 TO 55 AND 249 TO 251

Total recordable injury frequency rate 
(TRIFR)

Colleague engagement(iii)

2023

2022

2021

2023

2022

Keeping colleagues and customers safe is  
essential to running our business 
responsibly. We therefore maintain a strong 
safety culture through preventative initiatives 
including manual handling, safe driving and 
winter readiness training. As a result, our 
TRIFR per 200,000 hours reduced by 25%. 
Incidents mainly related to slips, trips and 
musculoskeletal injuries. 

Having an engaged and motivated team is 
key to our success because colleagues are 
the beating heart of our business. Through 
our continued focus on creating a more 
inclusive and supportive place to work whilst 
connecting colleagues with our purpose and 
strategy, colleague engagement improved by 
0.3 points to 7.7, which is approaching top 
quartile performance for our sector.   

Strategic report | Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

27

7.77.4010,26610,29610,0670.841.121.07+71+64+60OUR PRINCIPAL RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES

We manage risks 
to support our 
Group strategy. 

RISK MANAGEMENT
In the following pages, we set out an overview 
of Centrica’s risk management framework. 
Our Principal Risks and the Group’s risk 
appetite is expressed in relation to our four 
categories of risk: Strategic, Operational, 
Financial and Compliance.  

RISK MANAGEMENT AND INTERNAL 
CONTROL
Centrica’s Group Enterprise Risk and Internal 
Controls Framework remains a core element 
of the Group’s Governance Model which is set 
out below. The most significant Principal Risks 
to the Group are set out on pages 30 to 34, 
in order of magnitude to the Group.

RISK APPETITE 
The Board is ultimately responsible for aligning 
the risk appetite of the Group with our long-
term strategic objectives, taking into account 
the emerging and Principal Risks. Risk 
appetites for the categories of Strategic, 
Operational, Financial and Compliance risks 
are in place and the key risks within Centrica’s 
Risk Universe have been mapped into these 
categories.

Due to the industry and the nature of some of 
the markets in which the Group operates, we 
have high to moderate risk appetites for our 
strategic and operational risks. However, we 
have a minimal risk appetite for operational 
safety risk and we continue to strive for an 
incident-free workplace. For financial risks we 
adopt a conservative approach to manage our 
liquidity position and balance sheet strength. 
However, due to the higher risks inherent in 
managing the commodity and weather 
variables within our energy supply businesses, 
we accept a higher appetite for those 
elements of financial market risk. We are 
committed to operating our businesses in 
compliance with relevant laws and regulations. 

Risks are identified and assessed at a 
Business Unit (BU) level to determine impact 
and likelihood, with an appropriate risk 
response subsequently evaluated and 
implemented. The different risk responses are: 

¢ Terminate: cease the activity that creates 

the risk;

¢ Transfer: pass the risk to another party;
¢ Tolerate: accept a level of risk;
¢ Treat: act to reduce the likelihood or 

impact of risk.

During BU and Group risk reviews, the net 
residual risk scores are compared to the 
Group risk appetite to review the adequacy of 
existing mitigating actions/controls, with 
further action taken to control and monitor 
risks as required.

RISK FRAMEWORK
Day-to-day ownership of risk sits with 
business management under the regular 
scrutiny of the Centrica Leadership Team 
(CLT) to whom the Board has delegated 
principal responsibility for risk oversight. The 
Group Principal Risks are those which could 
potentially impact delivery of our strategic 
objectives over the medium to long term, 
where medium term is up to three years, 
as determined through our strategic planning 
process. The annual risk management 
process is summarised in the diagram below.

QUARTERLY BUSINESS UNIT RISK 
REVIEWS
¢ Each BU is responsible for identifying and 
assessing its significant risks with support 
from functional subject matter experts. 
Current and emerging risks and issues are 
reviewed quarterly by the BU leadership 
teams;

¢ The finalised risk reporting and assessment 
of each BU’s control environment is then 
discussed at a Group Risk and Controls 
Review for each BU. The meetings are 
chaired by the Group Chief Financial Officer;

¢ At these quarterly reviews, recent 

assurance reports and findings from internal 
audits and other assurance reviews are 
discussed. Actions from previous audits 
and assurance reviews are tracked to 
ensure close out in line with agreed 
timescales.

EXECUTIVE AND BOARD COMMITTEE 
REVIEWS
¢ Bi-annually the Group Principal Risks are 
presented to the CLT for review and 
challenge. 

¢ These include the aggregate risk 

assessments from the BU ‘bottom-up’ 
process and any Group-level risk 
assessments. 

* Audit and Risk Committee (ARC).
** Safety, Environment and Sustainability Committee (SESC).

28

Strategic report | Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

¢ The Group Principal Risk profile, as 

reviewed by the CLT, is presented to the 
Audit and Risk Committee (ARC) for review; 

¢ Internal Audit presents four times a year to 

the ARC on any material findings as a result 
of independent assurance work; 

¢ Risk deep dives are undertaken by the 
ARC and Safety, Environment and 
Sustainability Committee (SESC) to 
review high priority risks, ad-hoc topics 
and emerging matters.

In our assessment of viability, we consider the 
potential impact of ‘severe but plausible’ risks 
and note linkages to the Group Principal Risks 
as described on pages 35 to 37. The annual 
viability assessment has been presented to 
and approved by the ARC.

BOARD
¢ The Board receives adequate information to 

review risk as part of its strategy review 
process and during the year conducted a 
robust assessment of the Company’s 
emerging and Principal Risks; 

¢ At the year-end the Board reviewed and 

approved the Principal Risk and 
Uncertainties disclosure; 

¢ We evaluate our System of Risk 

Management and Control annually, which is 
supported by a certification of controls and 
adherence to Group policies by senior 
management.

CHANGES IN RISK CLIMATE
BUs and Functions review their risks and report 
key changes as part of their Business 
Performance and Risk Reviews. Major emerging 
risks and issues are escalated immediately. 
During 2023 no new material risks were 
identified but a number of Group-level areas of 
risk were closely monitored, and actions taken 
to mitigate their impact on the Group.

Inflation and cost of living
The cost of living crisis continued in 2023, with 
food, fuel and energy prices remaining high. In 
October 2023 the fall in the energy price cap 
enabled by falls in wholesale energy prices 
helped to reduce the Consumer Price Inflation 
rate to 4.7%, compared to a high of 11.1% in 
October 2022. In November 2023, Ofgem 
announced that from 1 January 2024 the 
energy price cap will be set at an annual level 
of £1,928 (previously £1,834, a 5% rise) for a 
dual fuel household paying by direct debit 
based on typical consumption. This may result 
in further pressure on household bills.

The Energy Bills Support Scheme and the 
Energy Bills Relief Scheme, both of which 
were introduced by the Government in 2022 
have concluded. The Government has 
committed to the Energy Price Guarantee 
(EPG) remaining in place until the end of 
March 2024 should energy prices increase 
above £3,000 per year. The Ofgem price cap 
is lower than the EPG. Government support is 
focused on aligning costs for comparable 
prepayment meter (PPM) and direct debit 
customers, ensuring that PPM users no longer 

pay a premium for their energy. For eligible 
non-domestic customers, the Energy Bills 
Discount scheme is in place until March 2024.

The impact of the Government support 
schemes is considered in the bad debt 
provision (see note 17), which is also factored 
into the Going Concern review.

Energy market
Global wholesale energy prices have reduced 
since their peaks in 2022, however European 
gas and power prices remain above historical 
averages. While the war in Ukraine continues, 
alternative sources of gas to replace the Nord 
Stream 1 pipeline have been secured across 
Europe, largely through Liquified Natural Gas 
(LNG) shipped from outside the European 
continent. The Gaza conflict has the potential 
to increase market volatility if wider Middle 
Eastern states are caught up in the conflict.

The gas storage capacity for Rough has been 
increased from 30 to 54 bn cubic feet of gas, 
and Ofgem (the UK regulator) has agreed to 
extend the exemption to negotiated third-party 
access until April 2030. The strategic goal for 
Rough is to act as one of the world’s largest 
natural gas and hydrogen storage facilities and 
to play a key part of energy security 
infrastructure within Great Britain and the 
wider European market.

Centrica has concluded a 15-year LNG off-
take agreement with Delfin Midstream. The 
additional 1m tonnes per annum of LNG will 
provide another key foundation to ensuring 
energy security whilst providing Centrica with 
increased optimisation capacity from 2029.

A Risk Capital Steering methodology has been 
developed to bolster our existing robust 
monitoring and to improve our ability to react 
to changes in our Financial risks. 

Government and regulatory intervention 
In the November 2023 Autumn Statement, the 
Government announced it will legislate for a 
new investment exemption for the Electricity 
Generator Levy (EGL). The EGL is a temporary 
45% levy on receipts from the production of 
nuclear and renewable electricity sold at an 
average price in excess of £75/MWh 
applicable from 1 January 2023 to 31 March 
2028. We are reviewing the Government’s 
technical note on the new investment 
exemption and developing our approach on 
how to implement.

Other announcements impacting the Energy 
sector include £1,000 off electricity bills for a 
decade for those living near energy 
infrastructure such as pylons or onshore 
turbines; committing the Electricity System 
Operator to work with Government to 
produce a new Strategic Spatial Energy Plan; 
introducing competition into onshore electricity 
networks in 2024 to benefit consumers and 
confirmation from the Chancellor that full 
expensing for certain capital expenditure will 
be made permanent for businesses, and will 
not expire in 2026.

The Government will commit £4.5bn to 
strategic investment in UK manufacturing over 

the next five years and this includes a £2bn 
investment in the zero-emissions vehicle 
sector. A further £960m will be made available 
for new green industry growth, focusing 
on Carbon Capture Utilisation, Electricity 
Networks, Hydrogen, Nuclear and Offshore 
Wind.

Additionally in November 2023, the 
Government and Ofgem jointly published a 
Connections Action Plan, setting out a series 
of reforms to the process for connecting 
generation projects to the transmission 
network, with substantial progress expected 
in 2025 at the latest. 

We will review the measures announced in the 
Autumn Statement and the Connections 
Action plan and the potential risks and 
opportunities they present to the Group. 

Environmental, Social and Governance (ESG) 
management and reporting requirements are 
being developed at the UK, EU and 
international level. We continue to sustain our 
focus on ESG matters and on meeting our 
corresponding reporting obligations.

We await the outcome of a General Election in 
2024 and are in close contact with the main 
political parties to understand their policies on 
overall governance of the energy industry, 
taxation, storage and net zero (including 
transport infrastructure for hydrogen) and will 
monitor to assess the impact of any change in 
Government.

The Financial Reporting Council published an 
updated UK Corporate Governance Code in 
January 2024. We are already working to 
improve our Governance, control frameworks 
and assurance policies and will ensure this 
work aligns with the latest requirements.

Technology 
We continue to invest in our Finance systems 
to improve our controls, reduce duplication and 
manual intervention, and the risk of errors or 
omissions. We are strategically replacing or 
integrating our Trading and SAP ERP systems.

In British Gas Energy, 5m customers have 
been migrated to our new energy platform. 
This is strategically critical to reduce our cost 
to serve and deliver a quality service to energy 
customers at a competitive price.

Deployment of the Simplified Integrated 
Planning and Dispatch system (SIPD) and 
Supply Chain Transformation in our Services 
business is also key to transforming our 
service to customers, allowing us to better 
meet customer demand through streamlined 
processes, increased efficiency and improved 
responsiveness to customer needs.

This has not led to any changes in Principal 
Risks, but transformation risk will be 
monitored within the BUs and functions as 
these technology changes are delivered and 
embedded.

Strategic report | Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

29

PRINCIPAL RISKS 
The following Principal Risks were adopted by the Board in 2023 and reflect the position of the Group at the point of signing the 
accounts. The risks are presented in order of highest to lowest magnitude to the Group based on net residual risk, after mitigations. 
The Risk Climate is the expected change in the risk landscape from the previous year’s risk review, based on the environment and 
controls in place.

CREDIT AND LIQUIDITY RISK

Overview

Risk Category — Financial

Risk of financial loss due to counterparty/customer/third party default or a credit event limiting the availability of financial facilities or unsecured credit lines
¢ Hedging commodity price risk in the markets exposes Centrica to (i) credit risk, which is the risk of a loss if a counterparty fails to perform on its obligations or (ii) liquidity risk 

when trades on exchange or with margining agreements result in collateral postings 

¢ Trending directional price moves can lead to a build-up of mark to market positions which is a key component of credit and liquidity risk
¢ Volatile commodity markets can also increase cash and working capital requirements for both ourselves and our counterparties (with the latter increasing the risk that one of our 

counterparties fails to perform and consequently increases the risk of contagion) 

¢ Further information is included in the S3: Financial risk management section within the Supplementary Information to the Financial Statements 
¢ Cost of living, higher levels of fuel poverty, and relatively high inflation are impacting customers’ ability to pay for their energy supply, which means overall customer bad debt has 

notably increased. This has been further impacted by Ofgem’s moratorium on the installation of prepayment meters (PPMs) under warrant (in place from February 2023 to 
January 2024). BG Energy are considering the timescales and permissions required in order to restart this activity

Mitigations

¢ Financial risks reviewed regularly in dedicated Risk Committee forums
¢ Credit risk teams actively manage and reduce credit exposures, taking account of liquidity considerations
¢ Credit mitigation instruments negotiated, as needed, including guarantees, and letters of credit and/or tenor and volume restrictions imposed to avoid exposures building
¢ Centrica Energy and Group Treasury work closely to monitor liquidity requirements under normal and stressed market conditions
¢ Capital Reporting is distributed to CLT members monthly and bi-annually to the Board, who agree a risk capital buffer to underpin Centrica’s strategy
¢ Access to diversified sources of committed and uncommitted liquidity
¢ Monitoring of forecast versus actual customer debt position, and review of the bad debt provision
¢ Increased bad debt risk from the restrictions on fitting prepayment meters under warrant is partly mitigated through additional support processes to help customers to repay 

their debt

Developments

¢ Market prices persist at levels higher than historical averages, albeit lower than 2022 record highs
¢ Credit exposures have significantly reduced from 2022 levels and stand within the Group Credit Risk limits
¢ The higher interest rate environment has adversely affected some smaller sized, highly leveraged counterparties. These exposures are being actively monitored through the 

various credit review forums

¢ In 2023, the multi-year committed credit facilities which are provided by Centrica's relationship banks were successfully refinanced
¢ Sources of liquidity have been increased and diversified over the year in response to the volatile energy markets witnessed in 2022
¢ In British Gas Energy the planned implementation of an end-to-end debt management system in H1 2024 will help to manage and respond to energy customer debt

RISK CLIMATE 

MARKET RISK

Overview

Risk Category — Financial

DETERIORATED

Risk of financial loss due to trends and volatilities in commodity prices
¢ Commodity exposure arises within the trading businesses, which provide a route to market for Centrica’s upstream/infrastructure and power generation operations, sourcing of 
electricity and gas for the Group’s energy supply businesses and proprietary trading activities. We also have commodity exposures driven by our LNG portfolio, and in particular 
the Cheniere contract

¢ Material movements in commodity prices can impact in-year P&L through revenue on sale of asset production, and impact on the long-term valuation of asset portfolios
¢ Hedging commodity price risk in the markets exposes Centrica to supply shock, an unexpected event that changes the supply of a commodity, resulting in a sudden change in 

price

¢ Changes in our customer demand requirements can result in a commodity exposure as we balance our established hedges at market prices
Mitigations

¢ Review of hedging policies in bi-annual Group Risk Hedging Policy Committee
¢ The monthly Downstream Energy Margin Meeting is a forum for all relevant parties to review demand forecasting performance, hedge positions, risk and P&L, with actions 

recorded and tracked to completion

¢ Hedging decisions and risk are agenda items at the monthly Finance Performance Reviews across the Group
¢ Financial risks reviewed regularly in dedicated Risk Committee forums, financial risk reporting is monitored against limits on a daily basis in Centrica Energy
Developments

¢ Prices and volatilities have reduced but remain elevated versus historical averages
¢ Optimisations to the Route to Market process ensure that hedging decisions are made and executed efficiently 
¢ The financial impact of outage risk associated with the output of upstream/infrastructure assets remains high due to the higher price environment and the ageing asset 

infrastructure

RISK CLIMATE 

IMPROVED

30

Strategic report | Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

WEATHER RISK

Overview

Risk Category — Financial

The impact on present or future profitability resulting from volume impacts as a result of deviation to normal weather
¢ Downstream is exposed to revenue loss in warm weather which may be compounded by selling hedges at a loss
¢ When commodity prices are higher than the energy price cap allowance and the risk exposure is primarily to cold weather, additional volumes may be required for downstream 

customers at a cost higher than can be recharged

Mitigations

¢ Dynamic hedging strategy approved by the Group Chief Executive, to reduce the exposure to high price and cold weather risk
¢ Options to mitigate weather risk in British Gas Energy, to narrow the range of gross margin outcomes, are reviewed ahead of winter seasons with decision rights held by the 

Group Chief Executive

¢ The monthly Downstream Energy Margin Meeting is a forum for all relevant parties to review weather impact and hedging proposals and performance, with actions recorded 

and tracked to completion

¢ Regular reviews ensure there is adequate access to liquidity in stressed cold weather scenarios
Developments

¢ Higher European gas storage levels have helped to mitigate the risk of winter supply shocks
¢ The risk is skewed to warm weather affecting revenue generation by the downstream business together with potential losses from selling back hedges

RISK CLIMATE 

STABLE

POLITICAL, LEGAL, REGULATORY OR ETHICAL INTERVENTION/COMPLIANCE

Overview

Risk Category — Compliance/Strategic

The risk of political or regulatory intervention and changes, failure to comply with laws and regulations, or greater regulatory scrutiny detecting unknown areas of non-
compliance
¢ The level of regulatory scrutiny particularly in relation to the retail energy supply and insurance businesses in the UK remains significant; driven by a heightened political focus on 

the cost of living challenges for many consumers against the backdrop of an impending election

¢ Increased focus on ESG interventions and the impact on investor confidence in our responses
¢ Material or sustained non-compliance with legal or regulatory obligations could lead to financial penalties, reputational damage, customer churn and/or legal and/or regulatory 

action

¢ Any material real or perceived failure to follow Our Code would undermine trust in our business
Mitigations

¢ Continuous engagement with policy makers and consumer groups to help form future regulatory requirements
¢ Dedicated Corporate Affairs and Regulatory teams which examine upcoming political and regulatory changes and their impact, with reporting to the Centrica Leadership Team 

on an ongoing basis

¢ Understanding the expectations of stakeholders through reputational surveys and the review of media sentiment
¢ Continuous dialogue with Ofgem and the FCA to influence the regulatory environment
¢ The Board sets the tone from the top through Our Code and leadership behaviours
¢ Regulatory compliance monitoring activities performed by dedicated teams to drive Group-wide consistency and quality
¢ The Energy Compliance team has built capability in Energy Assurance to support the business with meeting complex regulatory requirements
¢ Control frameworks in place to deliver customer experience in line with requirements over sales compliance, billing, retentions, customer correspondence and complaints 

handling. These are regularly reviewed by relevant leadership teams through KPIs

¢ The Financial Crime team monitors threats throughout the business and adequacy of response to the threat of bribery and corruption
¢ Our Code employee annual training represents our commitment to doing the right thing and acting with integrity. The training includes new mandatory topics such as 

Consumer Duty and a refresher on all topic areas covered by our code of conduct

¢ A global ‘Speak Up’ helpline exists to provide a consistent Group-wide approach to reporting unethical behaviour
Developments

¢ Keeping pace with the volume, speed of implementation and complexity of political and regulatory change impacting the Group has proved challenging
¢ Ofgem will run a broad Compliance programme in 2024, including customer service complaints, direct debits and prepayment meter installation obligations
¢ New licence obligations introduced regarding installation of prepayment meters for reasons of debt. Ofgem is overseeing the process for a controlled ‘restart’
¢ Power granted to the Electricity System Operator to remove unviable projects from the grid connections queues 
¢ We continue to advocate for a revised policy framework for Smart meters with Ofgem and Government
¢ Ofgem’s non-domestic market review is concluding, focused on improving transparency. Broker conduct remains a concern, with Ofgem seeking powers to regulate this 

sector directly

¢ Centrica Energy is impacted by a number of regulatory changes to MiFID (Markets in Financial Instruments Directive), Remit (EU Regulation on Wholesale Energy Market 

Integrity and Transparency) and EMIR (European Market Infrastructure Regulation) 

¢ Centrica Energy investing in a Compliance Transformation Programme to respond to regulatory risks and improve Governance and controls frameworks 

RISK CLIMATE 

DETERIORATED

Strategic report | Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

31

CLIMATE CHANGE

Overview

Risk Category — Strategic

Risk of market, regulatory and policy changes driven by climate change affecting the ability of the Group to execute its strategy
¢ Increased pressure from Government, investors and customers to commit to meaningful carbon reduction targets
¢ Execution of the Group’s strategy to realise opportunities from the energy transition
¢ Timing and execution of British Gas pivot to decarbonised heating, power and transport products and services
¢ ESG management and reporting requirements are being developed at the UK, EU and international level and many have defined timelines in which Centrica, or its subsidiary 

businesses, will be legally obligated

¢ Increased focus on ‘greenwashing’ and greater rigour on  how organisations market low carbon products and propositions
Mitigations

¢ Monitoring of progress against People and Planet targets including net zero targets for our business and our customers
¢ Centrica’s Climate Transition Plan which outlines our approach to move to a low carbon future, published in 2021, will be updated in 2024 and subject to a non-binding vote at 

the 2025 AGM

¢ Progress against our Climate Transition Plan has been incorporated into executive remuneration
¢ The SESC, which is chaired by an independent Non-Executive Director, typically reviews climate change information and the Climate Transition Dashboard three times a year. 

The SESC additionally maintains oversight over material climate-related matters

¢ We have achieved full compliance in our 2023 Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD) reporting, reflected in pages 47 to 55
¢ New Business and Net Zero lines of business and Centrica Business Solutions develop innovative and competitive products and propositions to gain a significant footprint in 

the growing low carbon market

¢ Green Claims Principles have been developed and implemented to manage ‘greenwashing’ risk across the Group
Developments

¢ Continued geopolitical focus on COP28 and on how corporations respond to climate change 
¢ The Government has extended the deadlines for both the phase-out of gas boilers and the ban on petrol/diesel vehicles to 2035 and increased the grant for Heat Pump 

installations by £2.5k to £7.5k

¢ The European Corporate Social Responsibility Directive (CSRD) aims to create a sustainable economy for the EU. The CSRD requirements are broader in scope, complexity 

and granularity of reporting on ESG matters and require assurance activity

In July 2023 the Group announced a new Investment Plan, to invest between £600m–£800m a year until 2028 in renewable generation, security and flexibility of supply, and 
our customers. Our investment strategy will channel capital investment to realise investment opportunities from moving to a low carbon future. Examples of low carbon 
energy projects include:
¢ Solar farm at Codford and battery storage development at Brigg
¢ Hydrogen initiatives include a partnership with HiiROC, testing injection at Brigg
¢ Centrica Energy Storage+ is investing to support potential repurposing of the Rough asset for production and hydrogen storage
¢ Spirit Energy is exploring the feasibility of converting the Morecambe gas terminal to a Carbon Capture Storage asset and has been awarded a carbon storage licence in 2023
¢ British Gas has published a second net zero homes index to understand public sentiment and to develop relevant products and solutions

RISK CLIMATE 

CUSTOMER

Overview

Risk Category — Operational/Strategic

STABLE

Failure to deliver satisfactory customer service leading to complaints or loss of customers
¢ Cost of living, higher levels of fuel poverty and relatively high inflation are impacting customers’ ability to pay for their energy supply, overall customer bad debt has notably 

increased. This has been further impacted by Ofgem’s moratorium on the installation of PPMs under warrant (in place from February 2023 to January 2024). British Gas Energy 
are considering the timescales and permissions to restart this activity

¢ Increased call volumes driven by Ofgem Price Cap changes and the Government’s EBRS and EBSS schemes concluding
¢ British Gas Services & Solutions peak services demand exceeding engineer capacity
¢ Bord Gáis Energy continue to operate in a highly competitive landscape with expected political and customer pressure to reduce prices further in Q1 2024
Mitigations

¢ Customer facing business units focusing on complaints reduction, root cause analysis and understanding customer pain points 
¢ Customer Conduct Boards provide oversight to minimise customer detriment, complaints and regulatory action
¢ British Gas Services & Solutions continues to build delivery capacity measures through optimised planning and forecasting methodologies, and winter resilience activity 

incorporating lessons learnt from 2022

¢ Continued deployment of SIPD
¢ British Gas Energy’s ongoing recruitment of frontline colleagues to maintain adequate attrition and recruitment levels with the aim of increasing the level of onshore Customer 

Service teams; and the introduction of ‘blended’ working patterns and multi-skilling

Developments

¢ The energy crisis and customer affordability challenges, continue to drive unprecedented levels of customer contact 
¢ British Gas Energy and Bord Gáis Energy has more than doubled its energy support package in 2023 compared to 2022, which now totals £140m since the start of the 

energy crisis, and includes dedicated support for customers with PPMs in the UK (see page 6 and 16 for more)

British Gas Energy:
¢ PeakSave, the National Grid’s discount scheme to manage peak demand has been extended to Winter 2023/2024. The scheme rewards customers for using less electricity at 

peak times

British Gas Services & Solutions:
¢ Consumer Duty Embedding Program established to ensure ongoing product value for our customers
¢ Improvement activities focused on enhancing customer service include data analytics to enable us to respond to our customers more effectively
Bord Gáis: 
¢ Domestic energy customers will receive further assistance from the Government, a new €450 electricity credit payment to be paid in three instalments from December 2023. 

The 9% VAT rate on electricity and gas will be extended for 12 months

RISK CLIMATE 

32

Strategic report | Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

STABLE

PEOPLE

Overview

Risk Category — Operational
Risk of failure to attract, develop, engage and retain key talent 
Risk of deterioration to the health and wellbeing of colleagues
¢ Failure to attract and retain key capabilities and safeguard the health and wellbeing of the workforce across the business could have a detrimental impact on our ability to meet 

our strategic objectives

¢ The cost of living crisis and inflation impact on colleague mental health and wellbeing 
¢ Labour market shortages for key skills impacting retention in some BUs and locations
Mitigations

¢ Quarterly Performance Conversations in place as part of the Terms and Conditions governance framework
¢ Monitoring of key metrics including the Quarterly Employee Engagement index, absence and attrition rates. Proactive implementation of actions to support colleagues
¢ Tailored strategies in place to address localised retention and recruitment issues
¢ Succession planning continues locally with assessments of critical roles and people, rolling up to a conversation with the CLT and with the Board
¢ Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Action Plans by BU and Function to increase diversity of representation at senior levels, improve equity of opportunity and promote continuous 

behaviours 

¢ Continuous focus on our values and culture aligned to our Purpose
¢ The Shadow Board provides a forum to engage with the CLT to influence decisions, positively disrupt assumptions, and challenge executives’ thinking to support colleague-

centred decision-making

¢ Open access to colleague-led employee networks, including working parents, fertility and carers networks, to build communities within Centrica 
Developments
¢ Organisational change taking place to ensure our continued success and to help achieve growth through our net zero strategy. We will continue to monitor the impact on our 

colleagues via wellbeing and engagement data sources

¢ Externally, the Trade Union environment remains active across all sectors. There are numerous high-profile disputes relating to pay and the increased cost of living
¢ Internally, we are in negotiation for a full pay review to be implemented in March 2024. Discussions are ongoing; the outcome of this negotiation is currently unknown
¢ Following the introduction of FlexFirst during lockdown, we have committed to adopting a hybrid working approach
¢ A Centrica-wide working group continues to support colleagues with the cost of living crisis including the introduction of lifestyle savings 
¢ Colleague Support Foundation successfully launched with charity status and is supporting colleagues that need financial help and have exhausted other means
¢ As part of our ongoing commitment to Diversity, Equity and Inclusion, we have launched Courageous Conversations about Race training to provide colleagues with the 

foundation to start their journey in helping us become an anti-racist organisation

RISK CLIMATE 

SAFETY

Overview

STABLE

Risk Category — Operational
Risk of occupational, transportation, customer/third-party fatality or injury due to safety hazards
¢ Our operations have the potential to result in personal harm
¢ Significant Health, Safety and Environment (HSE) events could have regulatory, financial and reputational repercussions that would adversely affect some or all our brands and 

businesses
Mitigations

¢ Regular review of HSE risks to ensure they are reduced to as low as reasonably practicable
¢ Continued investment in training and competency to ensure maintenance of safe operating practices
¢ HSE Management Systems are established to include policies, standards and procedures to protect employees, third parties and our environment
¢ Assurance over our HSE processes and controls provided by our in-house HSE teams supported by external subject matter experts, where needed
¢ Leadership to drive improvements in HSE maturity and continuous improvement in key metrics
¢ Our approach to customer visits is continually reviewed to ensure that employees are operating in line with Government guidelines and/or industry best practices and that the 

health and safety of employees and customers is maintained

Developments

Management is enhancing existing HSE frameworks to respond to changing risks as the Group strategy evolves to include the following activities: 
¢ The continued operation of Rough as a storage facility and potential repurposing for hydrogen production and storage 
¢ The expansion of the services businesses 
¢ Development of new peaking plants in the UK & Ireland
¢ Construction of a battery storage project at Brigg
¢ Ongoing trial with HiiROC (a Green Technology company) to inject hydrogen into a gas peaking plant at Brigg

RISK CLIMATE 

STABLE

Strategic report | Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

33

CYBER

Overview

Risk Category — Operational/Compliance
Risk of failure to prevent impacts from denial of service, cyber espionage and the related theft/disclosure of confidential/customer data leading to reputational, regulatory and 
financial impacts
A cyber-attack could present to Centrica as follows:
¢ Confidentiality: leakage of customer or company confidential data by threat actor, third party, staff or system error, either maliciously or by accident
¢ Integrity: inaccuracy of Centrica’s data due to malicious or accidental alteration by internal or external parties, or malicious actors
¢ Availability: loss of assets, including data, due to a cyber compromise
Due to the diversity of Centrica’s technology, the Group could suffer any or all of the above which could lead to:
¢ Regulatory compliance impact or fines, including but not limited to, General Data Protection Regulations (GDPR), Smart Metering obligations (Ofgem), Security of Network & 

Information Systems Regulations 2018 and enhanced NIS II 

Mitigations

¢ Ongoing threat intelligence gathering, collaboration and information sharing with industry peers and National Cyber Security Centre 
¢ The Cyber Security Change Programme builds security capabilities and improvements in controls that increase the difficulty of targeting Centrica and being able to exploit 

weaknesses without detection

¢ The Ransomware Programme has delivered improvements to enhance Centrica’s ability to co-ordinate and recover from a ransomware attack
¢ Enhanced cyber controls dedicated to protecting operational technology (control systems used to manage domestic, commercial and industrial processes) have been 

implemented

¢ Training and awareness campaigns delivered to all employees in 2023 and focused training has been developed for key groups to raise awareness and highlight responsibilities 

in protecting data

¢ Cyber-attack simulations to identify and remediate control gaps
Developments

The current geopolitical situation and advancements in technology have increased the complexity of the external threat landscape. This can be attributed to several factors:
¢ Political instability in certain regions of the Middle East
¢ In Ukraine there have been several high-profile cyber-attacks on energy infrastructure
¢ The rapid pace of technological development has made it easier for cyber criminals to launch sophisticated attacks on all sectors including energy and utilities
¢ Artificial Intelligence (AI) poses a new threat to cyber security. The risk of misuse of AI to create complex attacks is expected to increase rapidly with AI tools becoming cheaper 

and more accessible

¢ The targeting of supply chains as a mechanism to attack firms by exploiting the trust between known suppliers 
¢ The volume, sophistication and frequency of ransomware attacks has evolved, with the most catastrophic bringing down IT systems within very short timeframes, and in some 

circumstances leading to publication of exfiltrated data

¢ The increased connectivity of operational technology presents an opportunity for attackers that if exploited could cause major harm and disruption to industrial processes 

including processes in the energy sector

Our business strategy to expand to low carbon markets and help our customers toward net zero may increase our regulatory obligations in maintaining our cyber security 
posture, requiring enhanced Governance and external regulator oversight
RISK CLIMATE 

DETERIORATED

OPERATIONAL ASSET INTEGRITY

Overview

Risk Category — Operational
Risk that impaired structural or asset integrity, resulting from any of a failure in design, failure in appropriate maintenance and inspection, operating outside of design 
conditions and/or human error, leads to a major accident (such as loss of containment of flammable/hazardous materials or structural collapse) that could result in multiple 
fatalities and/or major damage to the environment
¢ Failure to invest in the inspection, maintenance and development of our assets could result in significant safety issues, such as personal or environmental harm, or asset 

underperformance through unplanned outages 

¢ Failure to capture adequate return on our nuclear investment due to operational issues or early station closures suppressing earnings and cash flows
Mitigations

¢ The Group Annual Plan includes contingencies to cover events such as unexpected outages from assets
¢ Group-wide minimum operational and safety standards are applied to all assets, whether operated or non-operated, and adherence against them is monitored and reported
¢ Maintenance activity and improvement programmes are conducted across the asset base to optimise effectiveness and maximise production levels
¢ We use our presence on the Board of EDF Energy Nuclear Generation Group Limited to monitor the performance of the nuclear fleet
¢ Continued investment in training to ensure maintenance of safe operating practices
¢ HSE Management Systems are established to include policies, standards and procedures to protect employees, third parties and our environment
¢ Continuous engagement with regulatory agencies such as the Environment Agency, North Sea Transition Authority and UK Health and Safety Executive
¢ Assurance over our HSE processes and controls provided by our in-house HSE teams supported by external subject matter experts, where needed
Developments

¢ The Whitegate Plant operated with strong availability and reliability in 2023. As the plant ages and we move to more flexible generation, plant reliability and safety risks will need 
to be carefully managed as the impact of any outages can be significant. A close focus on long-term asset integrity is required through proactive management, maintenance 
and investment

¢ Rough gas storage facility reopened in October 2022, with increased levels of inspection and ongoing maintenance. The Group Insurance team continues to discuss the cost 

and benefits of business interruption cover with relevant BUs

¢ The HSE Function works with the business to ensure effective HSE resources and competency operate consistently and effectively across the business
¢ Spirit Energy continues to focus on safely delivering production from existing assets; meeting and de-risking decommissioning obligations and pursuing strategic energy 

transition opportunities from existing assets

¢ The Nuclear fleet has performed well in 2023 with strong reliability metrics, although outage downside risks are binary and potentially significant. In March 2023, a two-year 

lifetime extension was announced in respect of Heysham 1/ Hartlepool. Our nuclear business has also announced an ambition to further extend the lives of the four 
generating Advanced Gas-cooled Reactor stations (Heysham 1&2, Hartlepool, Torness), subject to inspections and regulatory approvals. There is a strategic intention to 
extend our Pressurised Water Reactor station Sizewell by 20 years to 2055. The nuclear business continues to monitor performance and station lifetimes very carefully

RISK CLIMATE 

STABLE

34

Strategic report | Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

ASSESSMENT OF VIABILITY 

We put customers needs at the centre of everything we do and this is 
the core part of our strategy, as set out in the People and Planet and 
Strategic Report sections of this Annual Report and Accounts on 
pages 41 and 10 respectively. 

REQUIREMENT
In accordance with provision 31 of the UK Corporate Governance 
Code the Directors have assessed the prospects and viability of the 
Group considering the business model (as set out in the Strategic 
Report on pages 2 to 3), current position in the context of liquidity and 
credit metrics of the Group, and Principal Risks.

4. The Group’s strategic objectives
The Group’s strategic purpose is to energise a greener, fairer future – 
because we believe in energy that works for colleagues, customers and 
communities, today and tomorrow, as set out on page 2 of this Annual 
Report and Accounts. This supports the assessment of the Group’s 
prospects.

ASSESSMENT OF PROSPECTS
The assessment considers the current position of the Group, the 
Group’s strategy, longer-term market trends and customer needs, and 
the Group’s Principal Risks as well as forecast cash generation against 
long-term obligations to repay debt and fund the defined benefit 
pension schemes.  

Our business model is designed to allow us to focus on meeting the 
changing energy supply, services and solutions needs of our 
customers, helping them transition to a lower carbon future while 
positioning ourselves to deliver returns for shareholders and meet our 
broader obligations to society over the long term.

Key factors in assessing the long-term prospects of the Group include 
the following:

1. The Group’s competitive position today
Centrica has strong brands with large customer bases as the number 
one supplier in many of the markets in which it operates. In its core 
markets: British Gas Energy and British Gas Services & Solution are the 
largest residential energy supplier and home services provider in the 
UK; Bord Gáis Energy is the second largest residential energy supplier 
in Ireland; and the Centrica Energy business is a leading route to 
market services provider across Europe. Centrica also has the largest 
heating engineer workforce in the country who are highly trusted by our 
customers and well positioned to continue to support new fuels and 
technologies. 

In assessing our prospects beyond the strategic planning period, the 
Board considers how these strengths position the Company to grow 
long term shareholder value.

2. Market trends affecting future prospects
¢ Commodity price volatility and its impact on the UK energy supply 

market;

¢ Cost of living crisis and its impact on our customers; 
¢ Increasing progress and Government support for net zero, 

corporates committing to clear net zero targets;

¢ Competition remains intense with margins under pressure within our 

retail business, and we expect that may remain the case as the 
market emerges from the current crisis; 

¢ Falling costs for battery, solar and wind, electric vehicles deployment 

accelerates, growing need for flexibility;

¢ Increasing LNG demand; and
¢ Role of data analytics, artificial intelligence, and automation 

increasingly important. 

We continuously monitor emerging trends to proactively identify 
potential risks and strategically shape our investment approach where 
we could leverage a competitive advantage. 

3. Customer needs
¢ Hassle-free, empathetic, personalised, and safe service. Offering 

solutions, not just products;

¢ Responsible options (including green tariffs) and expert guidance to 

help them achieve their net zero goals; 
¢ Trusted and credible counterparty; and 
¢ Lower costs and greater efficiency. 

5. The Principal Risks facing the Group, as set are out on pages 

28 to 34

The risks we consider to be of greatest significance in assessing our 
prospects include:

¢ Political or regulatory intervention, including increased focus on ESG 

interventions and responding to climate change;

¢ External risks associated with weather, commodity price movements 

and the cost of living crisis;

¢ Risk of financial loss due to counterparty default or a credit event 
limiting the availability of financial facilities or unsecured credit lines;
¢ Compromised asset production and health and safety impacts of 

process loss of containment; and 

¢ Operational risks associated with the effectiveness of our internal 
control environment in relation to cyber risk, data protection and 
customer conduct.

Climate change is one of the most important drivers guiding Centrica’s 
prospects today and is a core part of our Purpose as reflected by the 
actions we have taken, which include:

¢ We’ve outlined our plans for how we intend to decarbonise power, 

heat and transport through our Climate Transition Plan; 

¢ We will continue to build out our green supply and solutions offerings 

for customers;

¢ We’re training the next generation of apprentices to deliver low 

carbon technologies like heat pumps and electric vehicle chargers 
while exploring the future of hydrogen; and

¢ We’re committed to capital investment of £600–800m per year 
until 2028, of which we are aiming for at least 50% into green 
taxonomy eligible projects as set out on pages 47 to 56.

Good progress has been made on managing the prospects of the 
Group during 2023. We continue to simplify our management structure 
and increase the proportion of our colleagues who interact directly with 
customers, enabling us to put customers at the heart of everything we 
do. In addition, our balance sheet is now much stronger than in 
previous years, with an improved adjusted net cash position as at 
31 December 2023. 

The Board has confidence in the long-term prospects of the business.  
The Board believes that the strategic steps taken in 2023 aligned with 
the Group’s revised strategy as outlined in the July 2023 strategy 
update will set the Group up to be successful and generate sustainable 
profits in the long term while investing in renewable generation, security 
of supply and our customers.

ASSESSMENT OF VIABILITY
The assessment is based on the Group Annual Plan for 2024 and the 
longer-term strategic forecasts which are approved annually by the 
Board. The Board continues to believe that a three-year time horizon is 
the appropriate timeframe to assess viability and is also consistent with 
the Group’s planning cycle and the period of reasonable visibility in the 
energy markets. The Group’s focus on the energy supply and services 
businesses means the most significant risks continue to be shorter-
term in nature including, commodity prices, trading performance, 
margin cash requirements, weather, and asset performance. 

Strategic report | Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

35

Important context to the Viability Assessment is the management of the 
Group’s financing profile through accessing a diverse source of term 
funding and maintaining access to carefully assessed levels of liquidity 
which support the Group’s planned financial commitments. During 
2023, Centrica successfully refinanced the core credit facilities with 
strong support from the relationship bank group. As at 31 December 
2023, the Group had total committed credit facilities of £5.3bn, of 
which £0.2bn expire in 2024, £1.0bn expire in late 2026 and £4.1bn 
expire in 2028.  Of the £5.3bn of committed credit facilities, a total of 
£3.8bn remained undrawn  as at 31 December 2023. 

While commodity prices have shown a notable decrease in volatility 
throughout 2023, and the Group anticipates a relatively stable trend in 
2024, 2025, and 2026, it is crucial to acknowledge that in a setting 
characterised by erratic commodity prices, the Group's portfolio 
presents greater potential for value capture and outperformance. 
However, it comes with a considerably broader range of risk outcomes.

In such an environment, the pressure on liquidity intensifies, making it 
imperative for entities to focus on ensuring access to a reliable and 
diverse portfolio of financial resources.

In addition, the cost of living crisis continues. Although inflation has 
started to fall in 2023 it could remain elevated due to underlying 
pressures. As a result, the Group is exposed to elevated levels of bad 
debt as customers struggle to pay their bills.

To reflect the current volatility of risk factors, the Company has used 
judgement to determine severe but plausible scenarios and has 
modelled three versions of the Viability Assessment to give a high, base 
and low-price scenario. These scenarios reflect a range of reasonably 
possible increases or decreases in commodity prices due to market 
conditions. The price curves used for the high and low scenario are 
summarised right:

LOW PRICE ENVIRONMENT 

2024

2025

2026

NBP (p/th)

Baseload Power (£/Mwh)

69

54

68

56

68

52

HIGH PRICE ENVIRONMENT 

2024

2025

2026

NBP (p/th)

Baseload Power (£/Mwh)

319

245

210

189

162

134

Viability was initially assessed based on August 2023 prices. We have 
continued to monitor these price changes to ensure that our base, high 
and low curves remain appropriate and specifically whether our base 
assumptions remain within the high to low range. As a result of this 
exercise, the high and base price scenarios were not adjusted (as the 
base scenario remained within the high to low range). 

Commodity prices for NBP have fallen sharply in January 2024 and 
consequently we have also completed a separate assessment based 
on an updated low curve to confirm that the Group remains viable in 
the event that both NBP and baseload power fell further.

REVISED LOW PRICE 
ENVIRONMENT

NBP (p/th)

Baseload Power (£/Mwh)

2024

2025

2026

46

47

50

44

52

44

The four scenarios share the same risks but, where relevant, the risks 
were flexed to reflect the Group’s exposure in each scenario. We have 
modelled groups of risks within ‘clusters’. It is not plausible that all risks 
would occur at the same time, and therefore each of the clusters is 
considered as a plausible combination of risks. The table below details 
the risk clustering and linkage to Principal Risks. Each of the clusters 
includes common risks throughout in addition to the risks associated 
with the cluster. The risks relating to commodity price, margin cash, 
bad debt, credit risk, cyber risk and letters of credit were selected as 
constant events in all four clusters.

RISK CLUSTER

RISK DESCRIPTION

LINKS TO PRINCIPAL RISKS

RISK >5% OF 
OPENING 
HEADROOM?*

Common risks

Commodity price impacts on earnings of asset-based 
businesses 

¢ Financial Markets – Market Risk

Increased margin cash requirements arising from adverse 
market conditions

¢ Financial Markets – Credit & Liquidity Risk
¢ Financial Markets – Market Risk

Higher bad debt due to cost of living crisis

¢ Financial Markets – Market Risk
¢ Financial Markets – Credit & Liquidity Risk 

Cyber-attack – risk of failure to prevent denial of service 

¢ Cyber

Credit Risk: risk of financial loss due to counterparty default

¢ Financial Markets – Credit & Liquidity Risk 

Removal of 25% of drawn uncommitted Letters of Credit

¢ Financial Markets – Credit & Liquidity Risk

Cluster 1: Industrial 
& Regulatory

Regulatory risks in relation to loss of sensitive data

Operational impact of sustained employee industrial action

¢ Political, Legal, Regulatory or Ethical Intervention/ 

Compliance

¢ People
¢ Customer

Cluster 2: Asset 
Performance

Significant disruption to the asset-based businesses leading 
to loss of production and earnings

¢ Operational Asset Integrity
¢ Safety 

Cluster 3: Adverse 
Retail Market

Cluster 4: Trading 
Business Under-
performance

See note below**

Significant adverse weather event and commodity 
price volatility

¢ Financial Markets – Weather Risk 

Underperformance of trading business

¢ Financial Markets – Market Risk

Increased collateral requirements arising from a single-notch 
credit rating downgrade

¢ Financial Markets – Credit & Liquidity Risk

* Headroom is calculated as undrawn committed facilities plus total liquid resources.
** A credit rating downgrade risk has only been applied to scenarios where the stressed credit metrics indicate Centrica would be at significant risk of downgrade by the 

credit agencies.

36

Strategic report | Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Group-wide assumptions include:·   

¢ No material acquisitions or disposals of Group business areas; and
¢ An updated investments profile in line with the July 2023 strategy 

update;

¢ Centrica have a long-standing relationship bank group and 

successfully refinanced the committed credit facilities in 2023. As 
such, the Directors are confident in the ability of Centrica to refinance 
appropriate credit facilities; and

¢ Access to Commercial Paper and Debt Capital Markets as 

sources of liquidity.

LIQUIDITY REQUIREMENTS
Centrica has established enhanced processes to manage and monitor 
liquidity requirements across the entire organisation with a focus on 
trading entities and possible increased cash margin requirements. 
These processes include:

¢ Monitoring reasonably possible scenarios for increased liquidity 

requirements because of changes in commodity prices and market 
conditions; and  

¢ Ensuring Centrica maintains ample headroom to address 

reasonably anticipated liquidity needs throughout the Viability 
Assessment period. This entails ensuring flexibility in accessing 
debt capital markets and a range of additional resources as 
needed, including committed credit facilities, uncommitted letters 
of credit, commercial paper, and various other short-term 
funding options.

Centrica has also established enhanced governance measures to 
review liquidity forecasts under various scenarios and implement 
mitigating actions where appropriate.

Centrica uses sophisticated modelling and analysis of the volatile 
market conditions over the last two years, and market forward data to 
determine severe but plausible scenarios of the liquidity requirements of 
the whole Group. These include high and low-price scenarios which are 
reflected in the Viability Assessment. While these scenarios include 
assessing to stressed market conditions that may arise in the future, 
they will not necessarily predict future conditions given markets are 
volatile. Therefore, Centrica maintains and monitors the liquidity 
requirements across the business to ensure sufficient headroom is 
retained.

Regular assessments are performed of the credit worthiness of 
counterparties that Centrica trades with and pay and receive cash 
margin calls from. These include assessing the level of exposure to 
counterparties, monitoring and dynamically managing credit limits and 
arranging credit enhancements such as requiring letters of credit from 
financial institutions.

OUTCOME OF VIABILITY ASSESSMENT
The viability scenarios have been assessed to confirm whether the 
Group would have sufficient liquidity available to meet its future planned 
financial commitments, and that the credit metrics calculated would not 
imply a sustained fall to below investment grade credit ratings (S&P 
BB+ and Moody’s Ba1).

To reach a conclusion as to the Group’s viability, the Directors have 
considered the following:

¢ The Directors considered whether any of the scenarios and clusters 
of risks noted above breached the available headroom in the three-
year period and concluded that sufficient headroom was available in 
all scenarios; and

¢ The Directors considered whether any of the scenarios indicated 
a deterioration in the credit rating metrics which would lead to a 
two-notch downgrade, to sub-investment grade. They 
concluded that the Group has a reasonable expectation that its 
net debt ratios would continue to sustainably support investment 
grade ratings (at least BBB- for S&P, and at least Baa3 for 
Moody’s) for all scenarios. 

While mitigations were not required in any of the above scenarios to 
ensure the Group was viable, additional mitigations could be deployed 
to increase headroom and reduce the risk of a credit downgrade, 
including reductions in operational and capital expenditure.

Reverse Stress Testing identified that there are some extreme risks that 
could theoretically result in Centrica entering a position whereby its 
financial resources were insufficient to meet its liabilities as they fall due. 
However, given the current financial strength of the Company, the 
combination of events required to achieve this scenario is extremely 
unlikely to occur. We therefore believe that these risks do not represent 
a ’severe but plausible’ threat to the viability of the Company.

CONCLUSION
The Directors have considered all the above factors in their assessment 
of viability, including the availability of mitigating actions within their 
control if one of the scenarios above materialises. We have performed 
sensitivity analysis that enables the Directors to confirm that they have 
a reasonable expectation of the Group’s ability to continue to operate 
and meet its liabilities, as they fall due, over a period of at least 
three years.

Strategic report | Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

37

GROUP CHIEF PEOPLE 
OFFICER’S REPORT

Jill Shedden MBE | Group Chief People Officer

2023 has been another extraordinary year for 
Centrica. I am really proud of what all our 
colleagues have achieved together to adapt to 
changing business needs and to support our 
customers and each other throughout the year. 
We believe our culture is a unique one, with our 
‘caring’ and ‘delivery’ values standing out.

Amongst our many successes we’ve donated 
and fundraised £4 million to make a big 
difference to charitable causes we all care 
passionately about across our local 
communities. We are helping colleagues and 
customers as much as possible with ongoing 
energy and cost of living issues. We continued 
with our returns to shareholders which will also 
benefit the majority of our colleagues who are 
or will become shareholders due to our Global 
Profit Share award.

COLLEAGUE ENGAGEMENT
I am delighted that colleague engagement has 
continued to improve quarter on quarter 
improving by 0.3 points to 7.7 by the end of 
the year, which is just below top quartile 
performance for our sector. Our engaged 
workforce is also working alongside other 
business initiatives to continue improvements 
in our customer satisfaction journey, and we 
can see confidence in our products and 
services rising. 

Our People function has 
made a huge contribution 
to Centrica as we have 
partnered change in the 
business, and our positive 
colleague engagement 
scores illustrate our 
colleagues’ appreciation 
for the strong and 
supportive culture 
within Centrica.

38

Strategic report | Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

LISTENING TO OUR PEOPLE
The Shadow Board is a Centrica Leadership 
Team sponsored initiative introduced in 2021. 
The Shadow Board comprises ten colleagues, 
each with different knowledge and experience, 
and all from different business units and 
functions and at different levels across the 
Group. The Shadow Board provides an 
opportunity for the views of colleagues to 
positively challenge assumptions and influence 
decisions by offering a  colleague perspective 
on a range of topics, including those of a 
strategic nature. The Shadow Board is not 
expected to deliver outcomes independently. 

One key outcome that led from feedback from 
this process between the CLT and the 
Shadow Board is the closer relationship that 
has been actively developed between our 
networks and our British Gas Field colleagues. 

DEVELOPING NEW CAPABILITIES 
During 2023 we also made some leadership 
appointments which will support the growth 
of our businesses and achieve a cleaner, 
greener future. The new business of ‘New 
Business and Net Zero’ will continue to build 
our in-home net zero offering to residential 
customers and ensure that all of us at 
Centrica continue to play a leading role in the 
energy transition. Our new Chief Customer 
Officer role will strengthen the voice of our 
customers, continuously pushing the team to 
create a customer experience that promotes 
loyalty and retention for new and existing 
customers. In the wider workforce, we 
continued to grow our professional capability 
during 2023 with over 1,000 professional 
colleagues joining our Group. Our award 
winning Graduate & Summer Placement 
Programme and our Ex-Forces Pathway 
programme supports our People Strategy 
and our Workforce for the Future aspirations 
and demands.

Career mobility and developing our internal 
talent is critical and we have a consistent, 
future-focused Talent Framework and Talent 
Review approach in place which enables all 
people managers to better understand team 
strengths of today and development for 
tomorrow.

We continue to secure our net zero 
commitments by investing in our customer 
facing teams and our training academies. 
This includes building skills for today and the 
future in purpose-built locations and driving 
new apprenticeship pathways, giving us the 
opportunity to serve our customers with up 
to date skills and technologies.

COLLEAGUE NETWORKS
I am incredibly proud that we have a number 
of active colleague-led networks that operate 
across Centrica. Our networks cover areas 
such as gender, sexual orientation, family, 
community, disability, health and wellbeing 
and ethnicity.

We have over ten employee-led networks and 
we are proud of what our employee networks 
are achieving. They play a key role in 
partnering with the organisation to drive 
change and make our workplace a more 
inclusive place for our people to thrive in and 
be themselves.

Centrica Forces Network is a group of 
colleagues across all areas of Centrica who 
have either served in, or are serving reservists 
in the Armed Forces, or have an interest in 
being part of a community that supports these 
groups of colleagues. The objective is to 
create a diverse community that supports 
veterans and reservists within Centrica 
ensuring that we become an employer of 
choice for these groups. The network has had 
some great success with its Armed Forces 
pathway which brings talented veterans, 
serving reservists, those about to leave the 
armed forces, military spouses, and partners 
into our Group. We are delighted that our 
Forces network has recently been shortlisted 
for Employee Network of the Year at the 
British Diversity Awards. 

Our Carers Network is a support group 
where colleagues are able to connect with 
others (who may or may not be carers) who 
can share ideas and information about any 
aspect of caring. Centrica has a long and 
proud history of supporting colleagues who 
are juggling work and care and 2024 will be 
the Carers Network’s 20th anniversary.  We 
were the first company to earn Carers UK’s 
‘Carer Confident Ambassador’ accreditation 
and we have maintained this high standard 
since with an industry-leading Carers Leave 
Policy. I am proud that Centrica’s values for 
caring shine through in all that we do.

LOOKING AFTER COLLEAGUES 
AND THEIR LOVED ONES
Health, safety and wellbeing are part of 
everything we do. We believe providing 
education, tools, resources, and benefits 
to support these key priorities, can lead to a 
healthier, happier workforce and a more 
prosperous workplace. 

Centrica is focused on our colleagues being 
able to speak openly about the issues 
affecting their personal lives, as we know that 
not only is the support important to their 
mental and physical wellbeing, but that it is 
beneficial to retention and productivity. 
Looking after wellbeing is not about making 
drastic changes but rather implementing 
healthy habits that can help colleagues 

manage everyday stressors better. We do our 
utmost to create an environment and culture 
where looking after wellbeing comes naturally 
and is integrated into the way we operate. 

Our healthcare plan which is available to all 
colleagues includes many wellbeing benefits, 
such as nutritional advice, physical health, 
emotional wellbeing, menopause support, 
giving peace of mind to colleagues and 
their families.

PROACTIVE HEALTH
We have a proactive wellbeing programme 
with the aim to raise awareness of difficult and 
taboo subjects.  We have run multiple events 
on menopause, mens’ mental health, suicide 
and mental wellbeing with colleagues, experts 
and GP’s attending and sharing experiences 
and recommending practical actions to 
support, which have been attended by 
thousands of colleagues. We have ongoing 
reporting across many health metrics which 
allows us to see any trends, concerns and 
improvements. These insights drive our action 
planning for the future.

LOOKING AFTER OUR COLLEAGUES 
THROUGH THE RISING COST 
OF LIVING
During 2023 our colleagues have continued to 
face the cost of living crisis, it is important that 
we support our colleagues during this time. 
We have increased our colleague energy 
allowance to pay a proportion of the energy 
price cap. Furthermore, with inflation hitting all 
aspects of life, we introduced a new charitable 
trust ‘The Colleague Support Foundation’. 

This gives access to funds in time of financial 
need. Since our launch in July 2023, we 
have supported over 100 colleagues and 
paid out c.£100k. The payments range from 
supporting colleagues with the funeral cost of 
a loved one or covering food costs to feed 
their families. Colleagues do not have to pay 
the money back.

SHARE IN THE COMPANY’S SUCCESS
In 2023 we granted a further Global Profit 
Share award to all colleagues, relating to our 
profits in 2022. The award was made in 
shares so our colleagues share in our success 
as we continue to grow our business. We 
will be making another profit share award in 
shares in 2024, relating to our 2023 profit. 

100+

Colleagues supported by 
The Colleague Support Foundation

20,044

Colleagues who received a profit share 
payment in 2023.

OUR PATHWAY TO PARENTHOOD & PROACTIVE HEALTH

In June 2023 we launched our 
biggest support package yet to help 
our colleagues who are struggling 
with fertility. Our ‘Pathway to 
Parenthood’ package, which is 
available to all our UK employees as 
part of their healthcare plan, offers 
comprehensive financial support 
towards fertility treatment. This can 
be used for IUI, IVF, and egg or 
sperm donation and storage. It can 
also be used to cover costs for 
adoption or surrogacy. Additionally, 
we offer colleagues five days paid 
leave for their fertility treatment, 
adoption, or surrogacy appointments 
per year. We are already seeing the 
positive impact that the package is 
making, helping our employees feel 
supported whilst they go through 
huge changes in their personal lives. 

We have a suite of health and 
wellbeing resources and benefits, 
including our 120+ strong Mental 
Health First Aider Network, Wellbeing 
app, 24-hour access to a GP and 
a 24-hour emotional support line. We 
provide Mental Health Training for 
Leaders and have added two 
wellbeing vans to our wellbeing 
portfolio this year allowing us to get 
out and visit our remote workers to 
provide health and wellbeing 
consultations where they conduct 
‘Know your numbers’ tests, 
functional movement screening and 
emotional signposting. 

Strategic report | Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

39

WHAT OUR COLLEAGUES SAY ABOUT HEALTH AND WELLBEING AT CENTRICA

“ Thank you for arranging the webinar, 
it was truly appreciated. I felt privileged 
to work at Centrica and came away 
from the call feeling so engaged and 
motivated. I felt I learned strategies to help 
myself and others which is fantastic.”

“ I found this very interesting from various 
perspectives. I am a manager, a parent to a 
daughter who struggles with anxiety and 
having never suffered with anxiety myself the 
menopause has started to produce anxiety 
symptoms. It is great how much support 
Centrica offer around mental health.”

“ I am very grateful to Centrica for providing 
such an informative session on menopause 
and embracing the subject. This is a subject 
that gets brushed under the carpet in so 
many organisations so thank you Centrica.”

“ Really pleased to have these sessions 
to continue the conversations on 
women’s health and menopause. 
It helps reduce the stigma in workplace 
and helps to know, that as a woman, 
you have a support network.”

“ This topic is very close to me both 
professionally and personally. I found the 
training very useful and opened my eyes on 
a few aspects of life that I will be more 
considerate on.”

40

Strategic report | Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

PEOPLE AND PLANET

Creating a more inclusive and 
sustainable future that supports 
communities, our planet and 
each other. 

Our People & Planet Plan consists of five 
Group-wide goals that accelerate action on 
issues that matter deeply to our business and 
society, and where we’re well-placed to make 
a world of difference – from achieving net zero 
and creating the diverse and inclusive team 
we need to get there, to contributing to the 
communities we’re all part of.  

In 2023, we made really positive progress 
toward the majority of our goals but we’re 
behind on others (see pages 42 to 44). This is 
partly because transformation takes time, and 
partly because we re-focused efforts to help 
customers and communities through the 
energy crisis which has been a top priority. 
Consequently since 2022, we’ve donated 
£140 million to support people with their 
energy bills.  

With the plans we have in place, we’re 
confident we’ll get back on track to meet our 
goals in the years ahead. Central to this will 
be continuing to work closely with key 
stakeholders like colleagues, communities and 
governments, to help progress our goals and 
manage wider activities responsibly. In doing 
so, we can deliver on our Purpose of 
energising a greener, fairer future, whilst 
contributing positively to the United Nations 
Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs).

READ MORE ABOUT OUR PEOPLE & 
PLANET PLAN, CLIMATE TRANSITION 
PLAN, SDGs AND MORE  AT 
CENTRICA.COM/PEOPLEANDPLANET

READ MORE ABOUT OUR NON-
FINANCIAL KPIS ON PAGES 249 TO 251

“ I’m really proud of what we’ve 
achieved through our People & 
Planet Plan and beyond – whether 
that’s doing more than any other 
energy supplier to help consumers  
with their energy bills, or creating a 
pipeline of flexible and low carbon 
assets that provide the energy we 
need today and through the energy 
transition. The road ahead won’t 
be easy but I’m excited to be 
energising a greener, fairer future.” 

Chris O’Shea | Group Chief Executive

OUR PEOPLE & PLANET PLAN
Supporting communities, our planet and each other

PEOPLE
Supporting every colleague to be themselves to 
better serve our customers and communities.

PLANET 
Supporting every customer to live more 
sustainably. 

WE WANT TO:

WE WANT TO:

¢ Create an engaged team that reflects the full 

diversity of the communities we serve by 2030(1)

¢ Recruit 3,500 apprentices and provide career 

development opportunities for under-
represented groups by 2030                      
(2,000 apprentices by the end of 2025)

¢ Help our customers be net zero by 2050

(28% greenhouse gas intensity reduction          
by the end of 2030)

¢ Be a net zero business by 2045

(40% greenhouse gas reduction                                  
by the end of 2034)

¢ Inspire colleagues to give 100,000 days to build inclusive communities by 2030 (35,000 days by the end of 2025)

Underpinned by strong foundations to ensure we act fairly and ethically – from customer service to human rights 

DOING BUSINESS RESPONSIBLY

(1) All company and senior leaders to reflect latest 2021 Census data for working populations. This means 48% women, 18% ethnically diverse, 20% disability, 3% LGBTQ+ 

and 4% ex-service by 2030 (40% women, 16% ethnically diverse, 10% disability, 3% LGBTQ+ and 3% ex-service by the end of 2025).

Strategic report | Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

41

 
¢ inspiring more women into engineering 

through apprenticeships (see goal 2) as we 
grow diversity among our wider team; 
¢ rolling-out Courageous Conversations 

about Race training to educate colleagues 
and make them feel confident to challenge 
unacceptable behaviour; 

¢ creating a Great Minds programme for 

launch in 2024 that will help normalise and 
better support neurodiverse colleagues, 
whilst encouraging more colleagues to 
disclose if they have a disability; and

¢ helping carers better balance work with 

caring. We extended our industry-leading 
Carers Leave Policy to colleagues in 
Ireland which provides up to six week’s 
paid leave when matched with annual 
leave. And thanks to joint campaigning 
with Carers UK, all working carers in the 
UK will now receive statutory carers leave 
following Royal Assent of the bill.

Through these activities and more (see pages 
38 to 40), we’ve received external recognition 
for our efforts including earning a place in The 
Times Top 50 Employers for Gender Equality. 

In 2024, we’ll continue to embed our DE&I 
Action Plans, with a particular focus on 
improving the representation of colleagues 
who are women, ethnically diverse or have a 
disability. We’ll also encourage colleagues to 
share who they are via our ongoing #ThisIsMe 
campaign, which will enable us to target 
action and track progress more effectively. 

“ I enjoyed six years in the 
military but I was ready for a new 
adventure. So having embarked 
on an apprenticeship with 
British Gas two years ago, I’m 
pleased to now be a fully 
qualified engineer. During this 
transition, the wrap-around 
support has been invaluable and 
it’s enabled me to be at my best 
when helping customers with 
their energy.” 

Amy Gray | British Gas 
Smart Energy Engineer 

To build a more sustainable future, we need 
the best team – a diverse mix of people and 
skills, where different thoughts and ideas can 
grow, and where everyone feels welcome and 
able to succeed. 

Towards this in 2021, our leadership team 
shared an open letter with colleagues that set 
out our plan for attracting, promoting and 
retaining more diverse talent. Since then, 
we’ve seen strong progress as better 
recruitment and retention practices provided 
an initial boost to the majority of our diversity 
goals which improved by up to 4%.  

Our performance in 2023 has, however, 
remained relatively static and indicates that it 
may take time to deliver systemic change 
across our business and society. In particular, 
diversifying senior levels and growing disability 
representation are areas for us to work on. 
Attracting more women into engineering is 
also challenging given our large Field 
engineering team reflects the existing male-
dominated market, which impacts our overall 
Group performance that would otherwise be 
on track. We’re taking action which includes: 

¢ further embedding tailored Diversity, Equity 

and Inclusion (DE&I) Action Plans and 
dashboards for each business, with 
progress reviewed quarterly to drive 
improvement and accountability;

¢ expanding talent development programmes 

to over 150 colleagues from under-
represented groups whilst embedding 
succession planning and diverse shortlisting 
to strengthen our senior leadership team;

WIDER GENDER BREAKDOWN(3)

Board

Senior executives 
and direct reports

Senior leaders

All company

2023

Women

 5 (42%)

27 (34%)

Men

7 (58%)

52 (66%)

2022

Women

4 (44%)

24 (33%)

Men

5 (56%)

49 (67%)

136 (32%)

287 (68%)

117 (33%)

243 (67%)

6,221 (30%)

14,398 (70%)

5,938 (30%)

14,190 (70%)

(3) Relates to everyone who works for Centrica. Total headcount differs from elsewhere in the report as Spirit 

Energy are not included above. See page 81 for more on Board diversity.

PEOPLE
Supporting every colleague 
to be themselves to better 
serve our customers and 
communities.

By 2030, we want to:

Create an engaged team that reflects the full 
diversity of the communities we serve – this 
means all company and senior leaders to be 
48% women, 18% ethnically diverse, 20% 
disability, 3% LGBTQ+ and 4% ex-service(1)

2023 PROGRESS

Progress against goals: l On track l Behind

ALL 
COMPANY(2)

SENIOR 
LEADERS(2)

Women

30% l

32% l

– Excluding 
Field engineers

41% l

32% l

Ethnically 
diverse

Disability

LGBTQ+

Ex-service 

15% l

9% l

3% l

3% l

2% l

2% l

2% l

2% l

(1) Updated at the start of 2023 to align with newly 

released 2021 Census data for working populations. 
We aim to be 40% women, 16% ethnically diverse, 
10% disability, 3% LGBTQ+ and 3% ex-service by 
the end of 2025.  

(2) Beyond gender, data is based on voluntary 

disclosure of 74% ethnic diversity, 45% disability, 
51% LGBTQ+ and 3% ex-service. All company 
relates to everyone who works for Centrica. Senior 
leaders include colleagues above general 
management and spans senior leaders, the Centrica 
Leadership Team and the Board. 

42

Strategic report | Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

By 2030, we want to:

Recruit 3,500 apprentices and provide 
career development opportunities for     
under-represented groups (2,000 apprentices 
by the end of 2025)(1)

2023 PROGRESS

Progress against goals: l On track l Behind

Apprentices 

(1) Base year 2021. 

1,198  l 

To provide the best service for customers and 
get to net zero, we need to create thousands 
of high-quality jobs. To fill these roles, there’s a 
huge opportunity to tap into the talent of 
under-represented groups to deliver a greener 
and fairer future. So we’ve committed to hire 
an apprentice every day over the next decade.

Since 2021, we’ve recruited 1,198 
apprentices and helped over 750 trainees 
professionally qualify in areas like gas and 
whitegoods. This is slightly behind where we 
wanted to be as we slowed recruitment in 
2023 to focus on operational stability across 
our customer-facing business. As a result, we  
welcomed 165 apprentices to our team last 
year. Less hiring opportunity also impacted 
our Ex-Forces Pathway programme which got 
off to a flying start in 2022 but meant that by 
the end of 2023, 227 people had been hired 
against our rolling ambition to recruit 500 
veterans, reservists, spouses and partners, so 
it will continue into 2024-25. 

Meanwhile, progress against our ambition for 
women to make up 50% of our Smart Energy 
Apprentices, dipped from 20% to 14% but 
remains much higher than the national gas 
engineer average of 0.2% women. In 2024, 
we’ll continue to breakdown stereotypes and 
inspire more diversity in engineering through 
recruitment, marketing and volunteering 
campaigns as we work to diversify our wider 
team too. This includes ramping up our 
apprenticeship intake which we hope will get 
us back on track in the years ahead.

We’re also encouraging more young people to 
choose a career in energy. For example, we’re  
supporting Tech She Can’s educational 
programme, Tech We Can, which has directly 
reached over 60,000 students. 

By 2030, we want to:

Give 100,000 days to build inclusive 
communities (35,000 days by the end of 
2025)(2)

2023 PROGRESS

Progress against goals: l On track l Behind

Days 

20,383 l

(2) Base year 2019. 

We’re harnessing the passion of our people to 
build inclusive communities because strong 
communities are central to a more sustainable 
future. It’s also a great way to help colleagues 
develop skills and improve engagement. 

Although COVID-19 and the energy crisis 
impacted volunteering in recent years, 
volunteering has grown from strength-to-
strength and is now on track having reached 
20,383 days since 2019. As part of this, 
colleagues gave 7,228 days in 2023. This far 
exceeded our annual plan of 4,000 days 
which had been based on doubling our 2022 
performance. 

Substantive gains were largely made possible 
by fully embedding team targets at the start of 
the year to help drive and plan volunteering 
activity, whilst expanding volunteering 
opportunities via ‘The Big Difference’, which is 
inspiring colleagues to get involved in local 
causes they care passionately about. 

To maintain momentum, we’ll continue to 
expand volunteering opportunities in 2024 
including via our Get Set for Positive Energy 
schools partnership with Team GB and 
ParalympicsGB. This will stand us in good 
stead for the annual step-up required in the 
years ahead, which will see us move from            
1 in 4 colleagues volunteering in 2023 to         
1 in 3 by 2030.  

Alongside volunteering, we support our 
communities with donations and fundraising 
focused in three key areas – helping people 
with their energy today, building a more 
sustainable energy future for tomorrow, and 
making a big difference in our local 
communities everyday. Towards these 
causes, we invested over £500 million in total 
community contributions during 2023(3). 

(3) Comprises £409.44 million in mandatory and 

£88.08 million in voluntary contributions to support 
vulnerable customers and colleagues which 
includes the Warm Home Discount and Energy 
Company Obligation amongst others, alongside 
£4.05 million in charitable donations. 

SOME OF THE 
WAYS WE MADE 
A DIFFERENCE 
IN 2023

10

>800

New community organisations 
helped on the journey to net zero 
though our Energy for Tomorrow 
social impact fund, which has an 
annual budget of up to £600,000 
and has supported 36 initiatives         
to date 

Good causes supported through 
The Big Difference in 2023 – our 
£2 million local community fund 
that supports organisations like          
The Baby Bank in Windsor and 
the Children’s Hospices Across 
Scotland

€432k

Donated and fundraised during 
the year to help prevent family 
homelessness via our €4.4 million 
partnership with Focus Ireland, 
which has helped nearly 8,400 
family cases since 2015 

£140m

Cumulatively donated in energy bill 
support since 2022 to help 
customers through the energy 
crisis, which in 2023 included an 
additional £84 million being 
committed in the UK for distribution 
mainly via British Gas and the 
British Gas Energy Trust  

In Ireland during 2023, we donated 
€3 million in energy bill support 
managed by Bord Gáis Energy and 
charity partners like Focus Ireland, 
and we absorbed higher energy 
costs over the first half of the year 

Strategic report | Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

43

 
PLANET
Supporting every customer     
to live more sustainably. 

¢ launching PeakSave Sundays which has 
encouraged over 500,000 customers to 
shift their energy use away from peak 
demand to reduce pressure on the grid, 
with the reward of cutting costs as well 
as emissions.

13.0GW

Route-to-market for renewables under our 
management – enough to power around                
12 million homes

Whilst we currently purchase energy 
certificates such as Renewable Energy 
Guarantees of Origin and Nuclear Declarations 
to back both our green and standard tariffs, 
we’ll review whether that’s the right thing for 
our customers and our business in 2024. 
We’re acutely aware that the debate around 
the value of these certificates is evolving, with 
recent research studies and broader expert 
opinion, identifying a number of issues such as 
the risk that certificates do not incentivise the 
building of additional renewable or zero 
carbon power generation. We’ll engage a 
range of stakeholders on our approach and 
provide an update in due course.

In the meantime as set out in our Climate 
Transition Plan (see pages 52 and 54), we’ll 
continue to help customers reduce their 
emissions by focusing on energy efficiency 
and optimisation services alongside low 
carbon technologies and cleaner energy.

By 2045, we want to:

Be a net zero business (40% GHG reduction 
by the end of 2034)(2)

2023 PROGRESS

Progress against goals: l On track l Behind

Reduction

21% l

(2) Net zero goal measures scope 1 (direct) and 2 
(indirect) GHG emissions based on operator 
boundary. Comprises emissions from all operated 
assets and activities including the shipping of 
Liquified Natural Gas (LNG) alongside the retained 
Spirit Energy assets in the UK and Netherlands. 
Non-operated nuclear emissions are excluded. 
Target is normalised to reflect acquisitions and 
divestments in line with changes in Group structure 
against a 2019 base year of 2,132,680mtCO2e. 
It’s also aligned to the Paris Agreement and based 
on science to limit global warming, corresponding 
to a well below 2°C pathway initially and 1.5°C by 
mid-century. 

By 2050, we want to:

Help our customers be net zero (28% GHG 
intensity reduction by the end of 2030)(1)

2023 PROGRESS

Progress against goals: l On track l Behind

Reduction

10% l

(1) Net zero goal measures the greenhouse gas (GHG) 
intensity of our customers’ energy use including 
electricity and gas with a 2019 base year of 
183gCO2e/kWh, normalised to reflect acquisitions 
and divestments in line with changes in Group 
customer base. Target aligned to the Paris 
Agreement and based on science to limit global 
warming, corresponding to a well below 2°C 
pathway initially and 1.5°C by mid-century. 

The biggest thing we can do to tackle climate 
change, is to help our customers use energy 
more sustainably. This is because around 
90% of our total GHG emissions (scope 1, 
2 and 3), come from the gas and electricity 
provided to customers (scope 3). In 2023, we 
provided energy, services and solutions that 
cut the GHG intensity of the energy our 
customers use by 10% against the 2019 base 
year – equivalent to the annual emissions of 
more than 860,000 homes. Savings were 
predominantly driven by our renewable and 
low carbon energy tariffs alongside energy 
efficiency and optimisation solutions like air 
source heat pumps and Hive Active Heating. 
This was up from the 6% reduction achieved 
in 2022 and was largely due to a rise in the 
zero-carbon content of our reported electricity 
fuel mix, which improved by 5% to 80% 
compared to the UK national average of 55%. 

In 2023, we helped our customers progress 
their journey to net zero by supporting them 
with measures to decarbonise power, heat 
and transport by: 

¢ introducing market-leading incentives that 
encourage the adoption of low carbon 
technologies – whether that’s offering heat 
pump price and performance guarantees, 
or providing free electric vehicle (EV) 
charging for a year with the purchase of a 
Hive charger; 

¢ delivering around 3,000 heat pumps for the 

able to pay market and via the Energy 
Company Obligation (ECO); 

¢ cumulatively installing over 34,000 EV 

charging points since 2013; and

44

Strategic report | Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Meaningful progress has been made against 
our net zero target in 2023, with our total GHG 
emissions reducing by 21% against the 2019 
base year. This was up from the 5% reduction 
delivered in 2022 and was largely driven by 
reduced emissions from our Whitegate power 
station as well as our gas production 
operations. Sustainable savings were also 
secured via the gradual roll-out of our EV road 
fleet and across our property portfolio with 
lower occupancy being driven by FlexFirst, 
which lets colleagues choose when they want 
to work from home or come into the office.

Although we’re currently ahead of the 
glidepath for our net zero target, like many 
energy companies, our journey to net zero 
won’t be a linear one. This is because we 
operate in a challenging geopolitical 
environment where security of supply is a real 
risk for consumers and as a leading supplier 
of energy in the UK and Ireland, we have a 
responsibility to ensure they have the energy 
they need. Towards this, we increased LNG 
activity and began work on two new 100MW 
flexible peaking gas-fired power plants in 
Ireland which will come online in 2024. Whilst 
these investments will play an important role in 
securing a more affordable supply of energy 
as well as providing flexible power to back-up 
intermittent renewables, they are predicted to 
cause our emissions to rise from 2024 before 
they come back down again around 2027. 
With general consensus being that gas will be 
essential during the energy transition until at 
least the mid-2030s, our action is in line with 
what’s needed, although it does make our 
pathway to net zero more challenging in the 
short term. All of our gas peaking plants will, 
however, be capable of running on hydrogen 
when hydrogen is available which will help us 
meet our goal in the medium to long term, 
which we expect to do. 

Alongside these activities, we’ll continue to 
drive wider emissions out of our business and 
identify opportunities wherever possible to 
support the adoption of lower carbon energy 
for customers via our Climate Transition Plan – 
from securing up to 800MW of low carbon 
and transition assets by 2025 which includes 
solar, battery storage and flexible generation, 
to exploring the conversion of our Rough gas 
storage facility to store hydrogen and more 
(see pages 52 and 54).

70%

Our GHG emission reduction over the last 
decade(3)

(3) Represents our gross reductions. This differs from 

our net zero goal which is normalised for 
acquisitions and divestments against the base year. 

OUR FOUNDATIONS

Our People & Planet Plan 
is underpinned by strong 
foundations that ensure 
we act fairly and 
ethically. 

CUSTOMERS
We’ve taken decisive steps to secure a 
stronger service for customers. For example,  
in 2023, we invested in engineer training and 
customer service systems, whilst recruiting 
700 additional customer contact roles in the 
UK as part of our aim to move all call centre 
resource onshore. Compared to 2022, these 
operational improvements have contributed 
to our British Gas Services Engineer Net 
Promoter Score (NPS) rising by seven points 
to +71 and our British Gas Energy Touchpoint 
NPS gaining four points to +17, alongside a 
reduction in complaints. In Bord Gáis Energy 
complaints similarly reduced over the course 
of the year but against a backdrop of 
challenging conditions, our Journey NPS 
declined by one point to +18 despite a five 
point improvement in the second half of 2023. 
Meanwhile, at Centrica Business Solutions, 
customer concern for high energy bills and 
complexity relating to government support 
schemes led to an increase in complaints. 
Despite this, customer service delivery 
remained strong with energy supply 
Touchpoint NPS improving by one point to 
+32. See pages 23 to 24 for more.  

In recognition that energy bills remain a worry, 
we continued to help customers through the 
energy crisis. In 2023, we more than doubled 
our energy support fund to total £140 million, 
which is the largest voluntary support package 
provided by an energy supplier in the UK and 
Ireland. Since 2022, this has enabled 
meaningful advice and grants to be provided 
to customers struggling with their energy bills 
whilst providing help at the heart 
of communities (see pages 16 and 43). 

COLLEAGUES
It’s important that colleagues feel safe, 
engaged and rewarded. Although we had no 
colleague fatalities in 2023, a member of the 
public tragically lost their life in a road traffic 
accident involving one of our Dyno 
Franchisees. We also had one Tier 1 process 
safety gas release at a Spirit Energy asset, 
resulting in our process safety incident 
frequency rate increasing from zero to 0.09 
per 200,000 hours worked. Our total 

recordable injury frequency rate did, however, 
improve by 25% to 0.84 per 200,000 hours 
worked (see page 27). We continue to focus 
on keeping safety front-of-mind by reinforcing 
a strong safety culture, which in 2023 included 
improving new starter, safety and role-specific 
training. 

Alongside physical health, we’re always 
mindful of wider wellbeing. So we ran 
campaigns that talked about the importance 
of being open about mental health whilst 
encouraging use of our comprehensive suite 
of support which includes a company-funded 
benefit healthcare plan for all, a wellbeing app, 
and our 100-strong network of mental health 
first aiders. In recognition of the cost of living 
crisis, we also introduced a Colleague Support 
Foundation to provide dedicated money 
advice and grants (see page 39). The CCLA 
continued to rank us a leader for our approach 
and disclosure on mental health. 

We maintained focus on fair reward practices 
– from paying at least the Real Living Wage in 
the UK and upholding equal pay, to working 
to reduce pay gaps. Our gender pay gap 
continued to be largely driven by more men 
working in higher paid jobs like engineering, 
coupled with more women working in valued 
but lower paid jobs such as customer service. 
In 2023, our median gender pay gap 
improved by 9% to 14%. Our ethnicity pay 
gap, which we publish voluntarily, is due to 
similar factors as the gender pay gap, and 
increased by 1% to 11% median. We’re fully 
committed to reducing our pay gaps over time 
as we help transform our business, sector and 
society (see pages 42 to 43).

Action like this is important to colleague 
engagement. In 2023, our engagement score 
improved by 0.3 points to 7.7, with gains 
driven by the value we place on recognition 
and growing our colleagues, as well as a 
stronger belief in our purpose and strategy. 
This was on track with our annual goal and is 
approaching top quartile performance for our 
sector. With engagement being fundamental 
to our productivity and our success, we’ll 
target top quartile performance in 2024 by 
striving to provide a more inclusive and fulfilling 
place to work.

COMMUNITIES AND ETHICS
Our Code and Our Values set out the 
standards we expect for anyone who works 
for us or with us. This ensures we operate 
with integrity and in a way that benefits our 
communities. 

At the heart of Our Code is our commitment 
to uphold and protect human rights. We 
therefore take action to ensure colleagues and 
workers in our supply chain are safeguarded 
from abuses through activities like risk-based 
training and ongoing due diligence, alongside 
monitoring of supplier selection and renewal. 
If suppliers receive a high-risk rating relating 
to the country where they operate or the 
products/services provided, we consider 
appropriate action which may involve 

conducting a third-party audit to better 
understand the level of risk. Where concerns 
are identified, we work with suppliers to raise 
standards, and if they can’t or won’t 
improve, we may end the relationship 
and report any abuse. 

In 2023, we ramped up our audit programme 
by conducting 20 on-the-ground site 
inspections and over 6,500 remote worker 
surveys. These spanned workwear and 
manufacturing as well as solar panels, battery 
systems, smart meters and wider electrical 
products across Bangladesh, Cambodia, 
China, Hong Kong, India, Pakistan, the 
Netherlands and the UK. Whilst we’ve not 
identified any specific instances of modern 
slavery, we agreed 142 improvement 
opportunities with suppliers to help raise 
standards across labour as well as health and 
safety practices. The majority of actions have 
now been completed and the rest are planned 
to finalise in 2024. As part of our due diligence 
and monitoring across supplier selection 
and contract renewals, we also ensured 
compliance with sanctions on Russia.

Our Code additionally provides clear guidance 
on bribery and corruption. We prohibit any 
improper payments, including facilitation 
payments regardless of value or jurisdiction, 
and exchange gifts and hospitality responsibly, 
declaring them on a register. Anti-bribery 
training is also provided for higher risk roles 
and our Financial Crime team run third-party 
risk management screening. A register is used 
to record and manage potential or actual 
conflicts of interest.  

During 2023, 96% of colleagues completed 
refresher training on Our Code and confirmed 
they’d uphold its principles. If anyone 
suspects Our Code is being contravened, we 
provide a confidential 24/7 Speak Up helpline. 
In 2023, we had 1.4 reports of concern per 
100 colleagues which broadly aligns with the 
external benchmark of 1.5, demonstrating that 
colleagues feel safe to speak up. Reports 
mainly related to perceived unfair treatment 
and fraud. All reports were investigated by 
the Ethics and Compliance team, with 
quarterly monitoring via the Safety, 
Environment and Sustainability Committee 
as well as the Audit and Risk Committee, 
with matters as appropriate, brought to the 
attention of the Board. 

READ MORE IN OUR MODERN 
SLAVERY STATEMENT AT 
CENTRICA.COM/MODERNSLAVERY

ENVIRONMENT
Monitoring and managing our wider 
environmental impact is crucial. Our water 
consumption remained relatively steady during 
2022-23, increasing by 6% to 335,512m3. 
Waste decreased by 19% to 15,161 tonnes 
due to a reduction in decommissioning works 
and process enhancements in 2023 
compared to 2022. 

Strategic report | Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

45

NON-FINANCIAL AND SUSTAINABILITY 
INFORMATION STATEMENT
In line with the Non-Financial Reporting Directive and 
Companies Act 2006, we have set out where the relevant 
information we need to report against can be located. 

This includes an explanation of the relevant Group policies 
which relate to the stated matters below, together with an overall 
summary of their effectiveness, including specific examples of 
how the policies are implemented alongside due diligence 
processes conducted and associated outcomes. 

Reporting requirement

Business model

Reporting requirement
and policy position
Our Code sets out our position on key issues by providing a 
high-level summary of key policies that form the foundation for 
how we do business. 

  READ MORE AT CENTRICA.COM/OURCODE

Section

Our Strategy & Business Model – Pages 9-11

Due diligence and outcome

Colleagues
Our policy states that we work collaboratively to create a 
workplace that has a respectful and inclusive culture whilst 
offering fair reward and recognition. We’re also committed 
to working safely and provide proactive support to ensure 
colleagues’ health and wellbeing.

¢ Group Chief Executive’s Statement – Page 8
¢ Stakeholder Engagement – Pages 15 and 17
¢ Principal Risks and Uncertainties: People, Safety and Operational Asset Integrity – 

Pages 33 to 34

¢ Group Chief People Officer’s Report – Pages 38 to 40
¢ People and Planet – Pages 42 to 43 and 45
¢ Key Performance Indicators (KPIs) – Pages 27, 39, 42 to 43, 45 and 249 to 250

Environmental matters
This policy sets out that we endeavour to understand, 
manage and reduce our environmental impact. Towards 
this, we will play our part in the transition to net zero. 

Social matters
Our policy states that we will treat all of our customers fairly. 
As part of this, we strive to provide services and solutions that 
meet their needs as well as care for customers who need 
extra support. We also want to make a big difference by 
helping to create more inclusive and sustainable communities. 
We partner with community and charity organisations on key 
issues and inspire colleagues to volunteer and fundraise. 

Human rights
This policy commits that wherever we work in the world, we 
respect and uphold the fundamental human rights and 
freedoms of everyone who works for us or with us.

Anti-bribery and corruption 
Our policy commits us to working with integrity, within the 
laws and regulations of all the countries in which we operate 
and in accordance with recognised international standards. 
This includes not offering or accepting bribes or other corrupt 
practices. We will not tolerate any form of bribery 
or corruption from suppliers or others.

¢ Chair’s Statement – Page 5
¢ Group Chief Executive’s Statement – Page 8
¢ Business Model and Market Trends – Pages 10 to 13
¢ Stakeholder Engagement – Pages 15 to 17
¢ Business Review – Pages 24 to 25
¢ Principal Risks and Uncertainties: Energy Market, Government and regulatory 

intervention, Weather, Political, Legal, Regulatory or Ethical Intervention/
Compliance, Operational Asset Integrity and Climate Change – Pages 29, 31 to 32 
and 34 

¢ People and Planet including TCFD – Pages 44 to 45 and 47 to 55
¢ KPIs – Pages 24 to 26, 44 to 45, 53 to 54, 249 and 251

¢ Chair’s Statement – Pages 4 to 5 
¢ Group Chief Executive’s Statement – Pages 6 to 7
¢ Stakeholder Engagement – Pages 15 to 17 
¢ Business Review – Pages 23 to 24 
¢ Principal Risks and Uncertainties: Inflation and cost of living, Technology, 
Customer, Political, Legal, Regulatory or Ethical Intervention/Compliance, 
Cyber and Safety – Pages 29, 31 to 32 and 34

¢ People and Planet – Pages 43 to 45 and 52
¢ KPIs – Pages 23 to 24, 27, 43, 45 and 250 to 251

¢ Stakeholder Engagement – Page 15 to 16
¢ Principal Risks and Uncertainties: Political, Legal, Regulatory or Ethical 

Intervention/Compliance and Safety – Pages 31 and 33

¢ People and Planet – Page 45
¢ KPIs – Pages 45 and 251

¢ People and Planet – Page 45
¢ Principal Risks and Uncertainties: Political, Legal, Regulatory or Ethical 

Intervention/Compliance – Page 31

¢ Based on materiality, KPIs specific to anti-bribery and corruption are not reported 

externally.

46

Strategic report | Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

TASK FORCE ON CLIMATE-
RELATED FINANCIAL 
DISCLOSURES

Climate change requires 
urgent action. As an 
energy, services and 
solutions company, we 
have an essential role in 
helping our customers, 
communities and our 
business get to net zero.

It’s important that we analyse and report what 
we’re doing to effectively manage the impact 
of climate-related risks and opportunities 
across our business (see our Business Model 
on pages 10 to 11). That’s why since 2020, 
we’ve chosen to structure our reporting 
around the Task Force on Climate-related 
Financial Disclosures (TCFD) 
recommendations (see page 55), to drive 
greater transparency and action on climate-
related matters. Whilst we’ve achieved full 
compliance for the third year running in our 
2023 reporting, we’ll endeavour to 
continuously improve across all TCFD 
disclosure requirements to ensure we stay 
abreast of evolving best practice and 
stakeholder feedback. 

GOVERNANCE
As tackling climate change is at the heart of 
our purpose and strategy, climate change is 
a key issue for the Board. Governance is 
therefore embedded across the full breadth 
of our business, with the Board supported in 
its duty to oversee climate-related matters via 
a series of Board-level and executive-level 
committees (see governance diagram 
overleaf). In 2023, climate matters were 
reviewed by the Board and its Committees in 
a number of meetings including at all three 
meetings of the Safety, Environment and 
Sustainability Committee as well as via the 
annual Board strategy review. This was 
complemented by further embedding net zero 
criteria in our Group investment framework 
and into strategic planning processes 
(see page 50). 

Our approach to governance and disclosure 
is strongly influenced by the materiality of ESG 
matters which includes climate-related issues. 
To understand what’s important and what’s 
not, we assess the impact of these issues on 
our stakeholders as well as on our business. 
To do this, we undertake research and 
conduct direct engagement with stakeholders 
(see page 15) whilst applying our TCFD 
financial materiality thresholds. Through 
identification of our material issues together 
with associated laws and regulations, 
management teams can then ensure the 
necessary processes are in place to effectively 
measure, manage, mitigate and disclose. 
We recognise that stakeholder needs and 
the regulatory landscape are continuously 
evolving, so we remain agile and adjust our 
approach in line with expectations. 

To aid the Board in overseeing climate change 
matters and in managing regular engagement 
on the issue with stakeholders like investors, 
government and regulators, it’s vital the 
Board have the collective skills required. 
Consequently, the Board continuously seeks 
to strengthen capabilities on climate change 
across energy, regulation, geopolitics and 
technology, to reduce risk and maximise 
opportunities. To assess capability, the Board 
has ‘climate change and sustainability’ as one 
of the 11 criteria used in the Skills Matrix, 
spanning climate science, climate risk and 
mitigation, alongside evolving stakeholder 
expectations. In 2023, 60% of the Board were 
identified as having these competencies 
which enables us to effectively govern climate 
matters and we aim to strengthen this even 
further in the future. To support and grow 
capability in 2023, the Board underwent 
deep-dive sessions run by internal and 
external experts on greenwashing, evolving 
Environment, Social and Governance (ESG) 
regulations and responsible sourcing.  

Effectiveness in tackling climate change is 
incorporated in our remuneration scheme for 
Executive Directors via the ‘Restricted Share 
Plan’ (RSP). Vesting is subject to an underpin 
determined by the Remuneration Committee, 
whereby the Committee assesses 
performance across a range of financial and 
non-financial KPIs, including our Climate 
Transition Dashboard alongside any material 
risk of regulatory failures (see pages 85 to 87). 
The RSP vests every three years with the first 
vesting period due at the end of 2024.

LISTING RULE COMPLIANCE 
We’ve complied with the requirements of 
LR 9.8.6R, by including climate-related 
financial disclosures that are consistent 
with the four TCFD pillars and the 11 
recommended disclosures that are set 
out on page 55. 

Our climate-related financial disclosures 
additionally comply with the requirements of 
the Companies Act 2006, as amended by the 
Companies (Strategic Report) (Climate-related 
Financial Disclosure) Regulations 2022.

Strategic report | Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

47

A DIAGRAM OF OUR CLIMATE GOVERNANCE

The Board 
Has ultimate responsibility for climate change and delegates authority to its Committees

¢ Sets strategy for People and Planet matters including climate change 
¢ Reviews strategic and financial planning to ensure integration of climate 

considerations as we transition to net zero

¢ Oversees progress against climate targets and ambitions, whilst ensuring 

related risks and opportunities are managed effectively 

¢ Approves People and Planet annual reporting
¢ Chaired by Scott Wheway with attendance including the Group Chief 
Executive, who has overall accountability for climate change and 
regularly attends Committee meetings as well as chairs the CLT

READ MORE ON PAGES 57 TO 71

Our Committees
Provides challenge and reviews updates from senior leaders, with outputs shared with the Board 

Safety, Environment and Sustainability Committee (SESC)
¢ Meets three times a year and is primarily responsible for supporting 

the Board in overseeing climate change 

¢ Assesses and approves proposals relating to net zero targets and 
the Climate Transition Plan, whilst monitoring progress alongside 
risks and opportunities 

¢ Reviews annual reporting and associated requirements like TCFD
¢ Monitors stakeholder views on matters such as climate change
¢ Chaired by Heidi Mottram, Independent Non-Executive Director

READ MORE ON PAGES 
82 TO 83

Audit and Risk Committee (ARC)
¢ Meets quarterly
¢ Reviews mitigations related to Principal 
Risks, including those related to climate 
change

¢ Oversees and informs Group audits, 
financial statements and non-financial 
disclosures 

¢ Chaired by Nathan Bostock, Independent 

Non-Executive Director

READ MORE ON PAGES 
72 TO 78

Remuneration Committee
¢ Meets four times a year
¢ Ensures Executive Directors are 
appropriately rewarded - they 
consider lots of non-financial 
reporting items as part of this, 
including progress against our 
Climate Transition Plan

¢ Chaired by Carol Arrowsmith, 
Independent Non-Executive 
Director
READ MORE ON PAGES    
84 TO 102

Centrica Leadership Team (CLT)
Ensures ongoing oversight and challenge on climate strategy 

CLT – As frequently as needed at the eight meetings held per year and chaired 
by the Group Chief Executive, the CLT monitors, assesses and informs 
progress and plans relating to net zero targets and ambitions as well as  

Principal Risks and opportunities. At meetings of the Centrica Investment 
Committee, a sub-committee of the CLT, investment opportunities are 
reviewed with regard to how we can deliver net zero.  

Sub-groups 
Supports leadership on integrating climate change into strategy 

TCFD working group – Ongoing engagement led by Group Environment 
alongside Strategy, Risk, Finance and Reward, to fulfil mandated reporting 
requirements and embed climate strategy Group-wide(1) 

Group Risk and Controls Review – Chaired by the Group Chief Financial 
Officer with business unit Managing Directors and Chief Financial Officers  
in attendance, they review Principal Risks and opportunities alongside 
controls quarterly (see page 28)

Managers and teams – Operationalises climate change considerations in line 
with Group strategy 

Risk owners – Identifies, assesses and mitigates climate risks and 
opportunities 

Business units 
Follows and provides feedback on climate strategy 

(1) Group Head of Environment develops and socialises climate change strategy and progress, whilst co-ordinating and influencing related activities. Director of Group 
Strategy embeds climate change into our strategic planning and investment frameworks. Group Head of Enterprise Risk and Controls integrates climate risk and 
opportunities into the Enterprise Risk Management (ERM) Framework. Head of Accounting Reporting and Tax supports the business to understand the financial impacts 
of net zero. Group Head of Reward integrates ESG targets into remuneration frameworks.

48

Strategic report | Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Scenarios used: 
¢ Transitional impacts are assessed using 
four different scenarios from the National 
Grid Future Energy Scenarios, where 
assumptions on energy demand, 
production and use cases are adjusted 
out to 2050. This enables more detailed 
modelling of potential impacts in the UK 
and Ireland at the individual product and 
commodity level, based on the level of 
demand for different types of fuel like 
hydrogen adoption or the scale up of 
different types of technologies like EVs. 
We adapt the scenarios for the Irish 
context to reflect key differences, such 
as off-grid consumers making up a 
bigger proportion of customers.

¢ Physical impacts are assessed using 
three different scenarios based on the 
Intergovernmental Panel on Climate 
Change Representative Concentration 
Pathways. The scenarios allow physical 
climate attributes to be modelled such 
as temperature and sea level rise as well 
as flooding and extreme weather, across 
differing average temperature rises 
resulting from varying radiative forces. 
¢ Asset impairment is assessed using the 
International Energy Agency Net Zero 
Emissions scenario and Aurora Net Zero 
Mixed & High Renewable Energy Share 
scenarios, which model 1.5˚C pathways 
to net zero for the energy sector. This 
allows us to model the potential impact 
on global and regional demand for 
different energy sources in response to 
different drivers like carbon pricing. In 
turn, this affects commodity prices and 
the potential implications for the 
valuation of gas and power assets.

Net 
financial 
benefit

Our modelling suggests an overall net 
financial benefit for the Group across 
all climate scenarios 

Our scenario analysis findings (see page 51), 
show that based on our strategic plans and 
capabilities, we’re well-placed to mitigate the 
risks and seize the opportunities presented by 
climate change as we journey to net zero. 
Indeed, our modelling suggests an overall net 
financial benefit for the Group across all 
scenarios assessed. 

This is because as a uniquely integrated 
energy company with market-leading 
positions across the energy value chain, our 
business model has been designed to be 
resilient and evolve in line with the needs of the 
energy transition, to ensure that we deliver on 
our Purpose of energising a greener, fairer 
future. That said, in any given scenario, we 
fully recognise that the potential for risks to 
manifest is subject to uncertainty, as are the 
opportunities and our ability to pivot effectively 
to realise them. We therefore always consider 
this uncertainty when assessing our strategic 
resilience to decarbonisation.

Looking at our findings, we see parts of our 
business exposed to potential transitional risks 
and opportunities, such as those relating to 
policy and regulatory changes which range 
from ‘low’ to ‘high’ in significance over the 
longer term. For example, the key risk for 
British Gas and Bord Gáis Energy, mainly 
relates to the gradual phase-out of natural gas 
in heating which although an essential 
transition fuel in the mid-term, may require a 
shift in the range of services and solutions 
offered to customers. We believe we’re well 
positioned to pursue the opportunities created 
by this shift, given our brands have all the 
necessary systems and capabilities to adjust 
from the trading and sale of gas and 
electricity, to a system that’s more heavily 
dependent on electricity and hydrogen. 

STRATEGY
2023 saw no material changes to the shape of 
our business, so we decided not to re-run our 
scenario analysis as the 2022 analysis remains 
fit for purpose. In 2023 we did, however, focus 
efforts on wider related improvements such as 
expanding the scope of our analysis to include 
additional sites like our new solar farm in 
Codford, whilst increasing stakeholder 
engagement across the value chain. 

Our scenario analysis conducted in 2022 to 
test our strategic resilience to climate change, 
was run using ten independent climate 
scenarios that are most relevant to national 
climate targets as well as our business and 
the key markets in which we operate across 
the UK and Ireland. As a next step, we used 
our in-house scenario analysis model, to 
assess the various plausible pathways relating 
to global warming ranging between 1.5°C to 
4°C(1), and the potential positive and negative 
impact of each on our businesses’ key 
services, solutions and assets. 

Our in-house model projects our key lines of 
business based on the relevant external 
scenario, whilst maintaining our market share 
and unit margin at a consistent level. This 
allows us to calculate the potential growth or 
shrinkage of gross margin (GM) across each 
business in isolation or in aggregate, out to 
2050. In 2023, we updated our short, medium 
and long-term time horizon intervals from 
2025, 2035 and 2050 to 2028, 2038 and 
2050, which acknowledges the passage of 
time since our first publication and better 
aligns with our latest strategic business plan. 
We consider this time horizon appropriate as 
it also aligns with our net zero targets and 
Climate Transition Plan, as well as 
encompassing the expected lifetime of the 
vast majority of our assets alongside the 
materialisation of key potential transitional risks 
and opportunities. 

As we continue to shift our reported 
timeframes further out whilst keeping our 
base-year static, our analysis naturally shows 
a greater impact as the scenarios accelerate 
towards net zero. We do, however, recognise 
that scenarios extending this far out into the 
future are subject to significant uncertainties 
and carry material dependencies, which need 
to be taken into consideration when reviewing 
insights. 

Other critical assumptions on matters such 
as policy and technology pathways are as 
per the independent scenarios utilised in the 
analysis. 

(1) Climate scenario global warming measured out 

to 2100.

Strategic report | Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

49

from 2020 to 2025, whilst exploring longer 
term optionality at assets for hydrogen storage 
and carbon capture and storage. 

Our assessment of how climate-related issues 
might affect our business, is integrated into 
our annual strategic and financial planning 
process at a business unit level as well as a 
Group level. This includes growth plans for 
key opportunities identified, with metrics and 
targets to determine whether performance 
is on track. All investment proposals are 
additionally assessed on their anticipated 
GHG emissions, EU taxonomy eligibility and 
their role in delivering net zero, the outcome of 
which informs the final investment decision. 
This process importantly underpins how we 
are pivoting our organisation towards a lower 
carbon future and helps shape our decisions 
on energy, services and solutions.  

READ MORE ABOUT OUR FINANCIAL 
PLANNING PROCESS IN OUR CDP 
DISCLOSURE AT CENTRICA.COM/CDP23

Progressing opportunities for a greener 
future in 2023: 

65MW

Battery storage plant planned in Perthshire to 
store offshore wind energy – our largest battery 
storage project to date that’ll be capable of 
powering 130,000 homes and is due to be up and 
running by 2028

18MW

Solar farm built and opened at Codford which can 
power 5,000 homes – our first Centrica-owned 
solar farm

(1) Strategic and critical suppliers are long-term 

providers of essential products and services which 
can affect our ability to operate. Core suppliers are 
suppliers who aren’t essential but play an important 
role in the products and services provided and were 
selected by our Procurement team from a broader 
group. 

(2) A mixed portfolio of solar, battery and gas-fired 

peaking assets, all enabling the grid to decarbonise. 

For instance: 

¢ our market-leading engineering workforce 

primarily installs gas heating solutions today, 
but can be gradually upskilled to deliver 
new solutions via our centre of excellence 
training campuses that are located around 
the UK; and

¢ we’re continuing to enhance our strategic 

resilience by structurally altering our 
business model to establish positions in 
low carbon solutions like heat pumps and 
hydrogen, which are expected to drive 
the energy transition forward. This 
includes launching an internal business 
unit, New Business and Net Zero, which 
is dedicated to delivering low carbon 
solutions to residential customers, 
alongside Centrica Business Solutions 
which provides some fossil fuel-based 
solutions but specialises in helping large 
scale energy users with the creation of 
bespoke net zero action plans and the 
adoption of low carbon energy solutions.

Moreover, most of the modelled opportunities 
exist in areas where we’ve a strong market 
presence and are associated with relatively 
mature technologies like EVs, electric heat 
pumps, solar and battery storage. Clean 
hydrogen for heating is the only high-impact 
opportunity we’ve identified that’s reliant on 
more emerging technology, which may 
therefore be harder to harness. Consequently, 
we’ve been proactive in hydrogen research 
and development opportunities – whether 
that’s the trial of hydrogen production at our 
Brigg power station with HiiROC, or the 
exploration of hydrogen fuel switching at our 
Easington Terminal.

Alongside transitional risks and opportunities, 
sit our physical risks. During the scenario 
analysis, we took into account acute physical 
risks relating to extreme weather such as the 
risk of increased wave height as well as 
chronic physical risks which include those 
associated with longer term shifts in climate 
patterns that lead to sea level rise or sustained 
heat waves. Across both, our focus was on 
our energy assets in Centrica Energy 
Storage+, Centrica Business Solutions and 
Spirit Energy, which are typically more 
vulnerable to these kinds of risks due to the 
nature of activity undertaken. In 2023, we built 
on our 2022 assessment by running scenario 
analysis on new sites. This included our new 
solar farm in Codford and our distribution 
centre in Leicester. The analysis re-confirmed 
that we’re generally exposed to physical acute 
risks that are ‘low’ in significance in the near 
and longer term. Our only potential ‘medium’ 
risk arose from a physical chronic risk, 
whereby a rise in mean temperature with an 
extreme >4°C warming future by 2050, 
reduces energy demand for heating. This risk, 
however, would be partially offset by an 
increase in cooling demand and counters 
many of the transitional risks, to provide a 
natural hedge for the Group.

The risk of asset impairment was additionally 
refreshed in 2023 based on price forecasts 
aligned with a 1.5°C scenario. This showed 
that our most exposed assets were our gas 
production fields alongside our investment in 
nuclear. We found that the impact on the 
value of our gas assets was relatively ‘low’ 
due to both existing impairment headroom 
and the fact that the majority of fields are 
expected to have produced most of their 
reserves within the next five years. Our 
investment in nuclear would be further 
impaired by around £15 million, as baseload 
power price scenarios are slightly over net 
zero price forecasts (see note 7 to the financial 
statements). Further details on how the 
Directors’ have considered the impact of 
climate risk and opportunities on the wider 
financial reporting judgements and estimates, 
are provided in note 3 to the financial 
statements.

In 2023, we shifted our approach to engage 
suppliers on the potential impact of climate 
change to their operations, and their 
subsequent supply of goods and services to 
us. Through our updated Responsible 
Procurement Framework, we targeted all 
‘strategic’ and ‘critical’ suppliers as well as 
some ‘core’ suppliers to participate in our 
assessment(1). 

We had a strong supplier response rate of 
30%, with around 80% assessing their 
exposure to risk, 60% using sophisticated 
scenario analysis and 100% having resilience 
plans in place – this included the one 
company who reported a risk of disruption 
supplying us due to climate-risk. Overall, we 
concluded that our supply chain risk remained 
‘low’ in significance over the near and longer 
term. We believe that risk across our supply 
chain can be effectively managed through our 
ongoing deepening of dialogue with suppliers, 
alongside defined hedging strategies and 
collaboration with counterparties. As with all 
risks identified, we’ll continue to monitor our 
supply chain risk, so that we can act if the 
level of potential impact rises.

As the energy transition deepens, all modelled 
scenarios involve significant disruption to our 
markets. So we’ll need to adapt accordingly. 
Our assessment of the capital expenditure 
required to manage potential risks and 
opportunities, remains in line with our current 
plans and balance sheet. We’ve also identified 
numerous opportunities for capital investment 
into new and existing assets and technologies 
through the process. For example, through 
our green-focused investment strategy, 
we’ll build investment levels to £600-£800 
million per year through to 2028, with at least 
50% of capital expenditure due to go into 
green taxonomy eligible projects compared 
to 5% only two years ago. This will help us 
meet our targets to achieve net zero and 
our climate transition ambitions, including our 
commitment to invest up to £100 million in low 
carbon and transition assets(2) annually 

50

Strategic report | Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

SUMMARY OF OUR MOST MATERIAL RISKS AND OPPORTUNITIES(1) 

Impact on gross margin (GM)

0-5% 
(low)

5-10% 
(medium)

>10% 
(high)

TFCD 
category

Climate 
related trend

Potential financial
impact

Potential materiality

Strategic response
and resilience

2028

2038

(short 
term)

(medium 
term)

2050

(long 
term)

Transition: Policy, 
Markets and 
Technology

Transition away 
from fossil 
fuelled heating

Transition: Policy, 
Markets and 
Technology

Growth in low 
carbon heating 
market

Transition: Policy, 
Markets and 
Technology

Transition away 
from natural gas

Transition: Policy, 
Markets and 
Technology

Growth in low 
carbon heating 
market

Transition: 
Markets

Growth of EV 
transport market

Transition: 
Energy Source

Growth in 
demand for 
renewable 
energy

Risk: Reduced GM from the 
sale and servicing of natural gas 
residential boilers and 
commercial Combined, Heat 
and Power (CHP) units at British 
Gas Services & Solutions (BG 
S&S), Centrica Business 
Solutions (CBS) and Bord Gáis 
Energy (Bord Gáis)

Opportunity: Increased sales 
and servicing of electric and 
hydrogen fuelled heating 
systems, and associated 
opportunities in energy 
efficiency at BG S&S, CBS 
and Bord Gáis 

Risk: Reduced GM from the 
sale of natural gas from fuel 
switching and energy efficiency 
at British Gas Energy (BGE), 
CBS and Bord Gáis 

Opportunity: Increased sales of 
electricity and green/low carbon 
hydrogen at BGE, CBS and 
Bord Gáis 

Opportunity: Access to new 
and growing value pools related 
to EV charging installs, 
operation and maintenance 
(O&M), and energy supply at  
BG S&S and Bord Gáis 

Opportunity: Strong growth in 
solar and battery markets driven 
by decarbonisation at CBS, 
Bord Gáis and BG S&S

Physical Chronic Rising mean 
temperatures

Risk: Reduced sales of natural 
gas and electricity for heat at 
BGE, CBS and Bord Gáis 

Net impact for 
the Group

>2° C l

1.5° C l

>2° C l

1.5° C l

>2° C l

1.5° C l

>2° C l

1.5° C l

>2° C l

1.5° C l

>2° C l

1.5° C l

>2° C l

1.5° C l

>2° C l
+

1.5° C l
+

l

l

l

l

l

l

l

l

l

l

l

l

l

l

l
+

l
+

l

l

l

l

l

l

l

l

l

l

l

l

l

l

l
+

l
+

¢ Strategic aim to remain the market 

leader in heating solutions in the UK and 
Ireland (UK&I), whilst growing market 
share in heating installs

¢ Installation of hydrogen-ready boilers 

and CHP units

¢ Heat pump business launched with 

material growth plans, aiming for 20,000 
installs a year by 2025 with plans to 
build from there

¢ Partnering to grow capability and 
adoption with hydrogen use trials 
alongside research and development 
into low carbon CHP

¢ Strategic aim to grow customer 
numbers in UK&I energy supply

¢ Systems and capabilities in place to 
pivot towards trading and selling 
hydrogen

¢ Partnering in hydrogen production and 

use trials to grow capability and 
adoption

¢ Internal business unit, New Business 

and Net Zero, launched with the aim of 
becoming a leader in EV charging 
infrastructure installs and O&M

¢ Ambition to install up to 100,000 EV 
charging points per annum by 2025

¢ Strategy to invest up to £100 million 

each year by 2025 to build a low carbon 
and transition asset portfolio of more 
than 800MW

¢ Value derived from install, O&M and 

asset ownership

¢ Strategic aim to grow customer 
numbers in UK&I energy supply
¢ Heat pump business launched with 
material growth plans, which is also 
capable of providing cooling

¢ Analysis suggests an overall net 

financial benefit for the Group across all 
scenarios, based on our strategic plans, 
portfolios and capabilities

(1) Our financial scenario analysis is conducted every three years unless there is a material change to the business or external scenarios. Materiality above is therefore based 
on 2021 Group GM due to our last scenario analysis taking place in 2022 (see page 49). A well-below and well-above 2°C scenario for global warming has been used to 
best demonstrate the spectrum of proactive and inactive progress on climate change in our key markets, and the impact this may have on our business. In the analysis 
which spans over 95% of the Group, this table includes our most material risks and opportunities together with the inclusion of our most material physical risk because 
whilst less material than all other key risks in the long term, we believe it’s important to transparently show the net impact of physical risk on GM. All listed ‘opportunities’ 
result in a positive impact on GM whilst all listed ‘risks’ correlate to a negative impact on GM. The table concludes by showing an overall positive net financial benefit for 
the Group across all climate scenarios and time periods assessed.

Strategic report | Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

51

OUR CLIMATE TRANSITION PLAN SET OUT IN 2021 
Our Plan helps us effectively manage our risks and opportunities to ensure we deliver our net zero targets, whilst enabling a fair and 
affordable transition for all. Within our Plan, we’ve set a number of ambitions that are aspirational but are fully baked into business unit 
growth plans, to advance the energy transition. 

Our ambitions to help our customers be net zero by 2050 
are to:

¢ double the number of Hive customers to 2.5 million by 2025;
¢ deliver 6 million additional smart meters by 2025;
¢ achieve annual installs of up to 100,000 EV charging points 

and 20,000 heat pumps by 2025; and

¢ invest up to £100 million in low carbon and transition 

assets each year from 2020 to 2025(1). 

Our ambitions to be a net zero business by 2045 are to: 

¢ build a zero-emission road fleet in the UK by 2025(2); 
¢ cut our UK property emissions by a further 50% by 2030; 
¢ progress our strategic transformation to exit remaining 

activities in oil and gas exploration and production with the 
intention to run-off remaining fields and meet 
decommissioning obligations substantively by the early 
2030s, whilst stopping any further investment in new oil 
and gas fields; 

¢ redirect investment into assets that drive the transition 

forward – from securing up to 800MW of low carbon and 
transition assets by 2025(1), to exploring the conversion of our 
Rough gas storage facility to store hydrogen by 2035, and 
decarbonising the Humber industrial cluster by 2040; and
¢ grow the portion of our capital allocated to green-eligible 

activities from 5% to at least 50% by 2025(2).

We can’t achieve these ambitions on our own, so we’ll need to 
maintain an open dialogue with customers, government and 
others, to ensure they play their part as we play ours. For the 
transition to be a success, we must also ensure that we don’t 
leave anyone behind. We’ll therefore champion the needs of 
our customers and ensure support for those who struggle with 
their energy bills, create thousands of high quality inclusive 
green jobs, back sustainable initiatives in communities and 
work towards a low carbon supply chain.

Every three years, we’ll provide an update on our Climate 
Transition Plan, with the next iteration due in 2024 followed by 
a shareholder advisory vote at the AGM in 2025. At the AGM 
in 2022, our existing Plan achieved a 79.96% shareholder 
advisory approval rate.

READ MORE ABOUT PROGRESS AGAINST 
OUR AMBITIONS ON PAGE 54

READ MORE AT CENTRICA.COM/
CLIMATETRANSITION

READ MORE ABOUT CLIMATE ENGAGEMENT 
WITH TRADE ASSOCIATIONS AT 
CENTRICA.COM/TRADEASSOCIATIONS

(1) A mixed portfolio of solar, battery and gas-fired peaking assets, 

all enabling the grid to decarbonise.

(2) From 2024, our ambition for a zero-emission van fleet will be extended 

out to 2030 (see page 53). Our capital allocated to green investment will 
also run out to 2028 (see page 11).   

RISK MANAGEMENT 
Transition and physical climate risks alongside 
all wider risks, continued to be predominantly 
managed via our ERM Framework to ensure 
consistency in identification and controls 
management. The Framework uses a time 
horizon of 0–3 years to assess Principal Risks, 
coupled with a longer timeframe of 3–20 years 
to assess Emerging Risks. Following this 
process, climate change was made a Principal 
Risk in 2021 through to 2023. 

The process starts with our wider strategic 
planning process, whereby Group Strategy 
and Environment, run the climate scenario 
analysis to identify and assess risks and 
opportunities across a range of plausible 
future scenarios. They then work closely with 
Group Enterprise Risk and Control, to ensure 

full consideration of potential financial impacts 
across time horizons, alongside integration 
within the ERM Framework, the Group 
Principal Risks table and business unit risk 
registers. Climate change risks alongside other 
business unit risks are then considered at the 
Group Risk and Controls Review. The most 
material Principal Risks which include Climate 
change alongside other risks that may impact 
our ability to deliver on our Climate Transition 
Plan such as Weather and Operational Asset 
Integrity, are subsequently reported to the CLT 
and then to the Board’s ARC (see page 28). 
This is supported by more detailed reports on 
climate change strategy, progress, risk and 
opportunities, presented to the SESC. The 
Board Annual Planning Conference then 
examines the external landscape and strategic 
plans, which includes risk relating to market, 
competition, technology and policy, that are all 
influenced by climate change. With this 
context, the Board is able to review the 
robustness of the business’s strategic 
proposals and transition plans. 

READ MORE ABOUT RISK ON PAGES    
28 TO 37

METRICS AND TARGETS
We’ve a strong track record in adopting best 
practice reporting of GHG emissions as well 
as in setting and achieving climate-related 
targets. Having fully considered the TCFD 
recommendations on metrics and targets, 
we report those that are most relevant and 
material to our business and stakeholders. As 
part of this, we robustly manage and mitigate 
our impact through our metrics, targets, 
ambitions. 

These include: 

¢ metrics for energy consumption and global 

GHG scope 1, 2 and 3 emissions (see 
emissions table overleaf). The majority of 
these metrics have undergone limited 
external assurance every year since 2012. 
In 2022-23, our emissions declined, mainly 
as a result of reductions at our Whitegate 
power station as well as our gas production 
operations. 

52

Strategic report | Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

¢ targets in our People & Planet Plan focus on being a net zero 

business by 2045 and helping our customers be net zero by 2050. 
They therefore actively contribute to the UK’s target to get to net zero 
by 2050. The targets are also aligned to the Paris Agreement and 
based on science, corresponding to a well below 2°C pathway 
initially and 1.5°C by mid-century. We are, however, currently unable 
to progress our validation by the Science Based Target initiative 
(SBTi) due to the continued delayed Oil and Gas guidance, which 
the SBTi believe will apply to us. In alignment with best practice, our 
targets will predominantly be delivered through carbon abatement 
rather than offsetting. Although we expect to have hard-to-remove 
residual emissions in the 2040s, we’ll use our in-house carbon 
trading team to engage high-quality carbon removal projects like tree 
planting, to achieve net zero in a credible way. Our targets receive 
limited external assurance on a rotational basis every three years. In 
2023 we were on track with both our customer and business targets 
(see page 44); and

¢ climate transition ambitions. Our ambitions were introduced 

in our Climate Transition Plan to help respond to key risks and 
opportunities, and drive progress toward our People & Planet 
Plan net zero targets. Through incorporation into budgets, 
business plans and accounting assumptions, good progress is 
being delivered against our ambitions although we’re behind on 
some of them. For example, our EV van fleet roll-out has been 
slowed due to deployment issues which includes not all 
engineers being able to charge their vehicles easily and efficiently 
due to the majority not having private driveways in which to 
charge their EV, especially as the wider charging infrastructure is 
growing at a slower rate than anticipated. This means we will not 
meet our 2025 ambition. Delivering for our customers will remain 
our top priority, so we have re-set our ambition for a zero-

emission van fleet to 2030, which still remains five years ahead of 
the re-stated UK ban of new petrol and diesel vans. Likewise, 
demand for installing EV charging points and heat pumps has 
grown over the years but at a slower pace than expected. So 
we’ll need to remain focused on developing capability and 
market-leading offers that excite customers into taking up and 
harnessing the value these technologies create (see page 44). 
We will review our ambitions in full as we develop our updated 
Climate Transition Plan due for publication in 2024. See more 
about our progress in our Climate Transition Dashboard overleaf, 
the performance of which is embedded into remuneration 
arrangements for Executive Directors. 

To ensure we reduce our emissions and progress toward our climate 
transition targets and ambitions, we use an internal carbon price which 
helps guide commercial decisions in line with our Climate Transition 
Plan. In 2023 our internal carbon price ranged between £92/tCO2e and 
£119/tCO2e. The carbon price is time-sensitive and rises over time to 
incentivise future decisions and better predict long-term impact of 
regulation on our business. For example in 2023, our internal carbon 
price was utilised for hedging to support the decarbonisation of our fuel 
mix as well as to determine the price point for bidding in the energy 
market auction for potential future generation assets, alongside power 
purchase agreements. 

Whilst the metrics and targets set out below and on pages 44 and 54 
relate to our most material climate-related risks and opportunities, we 
measure and track a number of wider less material environmental 
metrics including water and waste (see pages 45 and 251). Our 
metrics, targets and ambitions will likely evolve in line with best          
practice and the changing world around us.   

OUR ENERGY USE AND GHG EMISSIONS

Total GHG emissions (scope 1 and 2)(1)

Scope 1 GHG emissions

Scope 2 GHG emissions
Scope 3 GHG emissions(9)
Total GHG intensity by revenue(10)

Total energy use

2023

1,681,475tCO2e †(2)
1,674,829tCO2e †(5)
6,647tCO2e †(7)

21,180,922tCO2e

64tCO2e/£m (11)
7,437,652,380kWh †(13)

2022

2,009,885tCO2e (3)(4)
2,004,693tCO2e (4)(6) 
5,193tCO2e (4)(8)

24,330,208tCO2e

85tCO2e/£m (12)
9,047,097,047kWh (14)

Reporting practices for environmental metrics are drawn from the WRI/WBCSD Greenhouse Gas Protocol and Defra’s Environmental Reporting Guidelines. Reporting is 
additionally based on operator boundary which is the more commonly used approach for reporting environmental matters, and includes all emissions from our shipping 
activities relating to LNG alongside the retained Spirit Energy assets in the UK and Netherlands. Non-operated nuclear emissions are excluded. 

† Included in DNV’s independent limited assurance report. See page 249 or centrica.com/assurance for more. 
(1) Comprises scope 1 and scope 2 emissions as defined by the Greenhouse Gas Protocol. 
(2) Comprises UK 547,542tCO2e and non-UK 1,133,933tCO2e. 
(3) Comprises UK 726,891tCO2e and non-UK 1,282,994tCO2e.
(4) Restated due to availability of improved data. 
(5) Comprises UK 542,244tCO2e and non-UK 1,132,585tCO2e. 
(6) Comprises UK 722,810tCO2e and non-UK 1,281,883tCO2e. 
(7) Market-based, comprises UK 5,299tCO2e and non-UK 1,348tCO2e. Location-based is 17,041tCO2e. 
(8) Market-based, comprises UK 4,082tCO2e and non-UK 1,111tCO2e. Location-based is 16,275tCO2e.  
(9)

Includes emissions from the following scope 3 categories defined by the Greenhouse Gas Protocol: purchased goods and services, capital goods, fuel and energy-
related activities, waste generated in operations, business travel, employee commuting, upstream and downstream transportation and distribution, use of sold 
product and investments. All emissions are calculated in line with the methodologies set out by the Greenhouse Gas Protocol’s technical guidance, apart from 
working from home emissions which are based on methodology set out in EcoAct’s homeworking emissions whitepaper. Other categories spanning upstream leased 
assets, processing of sold products, end-of-life treatment of sold product, downstream leased assets and franchises, are not included because they are not relevant 
to our business. 

(10) Carbon intensity of revenue is employed as our intensity measure because it is the most meaningful intensity measure for our diverse business and is the most widely 

used and understood measure for climate-related stakeholders such as CDP. Based on statutory revenue. 

(11) Comprises UK 25tCO2e/£m and non-UK 267tCO2e/£m. 
(12) Comprises UK 42tCO2e/£m and non-UK 203tCO2e/£m.
(13) Comprises UK & Offshore 1,654,616,311kWh and non-UK energy use 5,783,036,069kWh. 
(14) Comprises UK & Offshore 2,394,832,533kWh and non-UK energy use 6,652,264,514kWh. 

Strategic report | Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

53

OUR CLIMATE TRANSITION DASHBOARD – PROGRESS AGAINST OUR CLIMATE TRANSITION PLAN 2021(1)
Includes our net zero targets, supported by our climate transition ambitions

Progress against targets and ambitions: l On track l Behind

TARGETS & AMBITIONS 

Customer GHG emissions – 28% intensity reduction by 2030 and net zero by 2050 
(from 2019)

Hive Active Heating – 2.5 million customers by 2025 (units to date)

Smart meters – 6 million additional installed by 2025 (from 2020)

EV charging points – 100,000 in year by 2025 (annual units)

Heat pumps – 20,000 in year by 2025 (annual units)

2023 Progress

2022 Progress

10% reduction l  

6% reduction l

2.4m l

3.0m l

7.0k l

3.0k l

2.0m l

2.3m l

7.4k l

1.0k(2) l

Centrica GHG emissions – 40% reduction by 2034 and net zero by 2045 (from 2019)

21% reduction l 5% reduction(3) l

Low carbon and transition assets – 800MW installed by 2025 (from 2020)(4)
Fleet by 2025 (total to date)(5) 
– 100% EV van roll-out 
– 100% EV car roll-out

Property – 50% reduction in UK emissions by 2030 (from 2019)

Capex – grow capital allocated to green activities from 5% to at least 50% by 2025 (from 2019)(5)

132MW l

101MW l

29% l
74% l

65% l

31% l

23% l
43% l

63% l

9% l

(1) Glidepath trajectory for climate transition ambitions is not linear. Demand is expected to increasingly grow, resulting in accelerated delivery against the target as we 

approach the target date. 

(2) Restated to additionally include installations via ECO. 
(3) Restated due to availability of improved data. 
(4) A mixed portfolio of solar, battery and gas-fired peaking assets, all enabling the grid to decarbonise.
(5) From 2024, our ambition for a zero-emission van fleet will be extended out to 2030 (see page 53). Our capital allocated to green investment will also run out to 2028 

(see page 11).   

READ MORE ABOUT OUR WIDER DATA AND TRENDS IN 
OUR DATA CENTRE AT CENTRICA.COM/DATACENTRE

54

Strategic report | Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

TASK FORCE ON CLIMATE RELATED FINANCIAL DISCLOSURES 
The table below sets out the 11 TCFD recommendations and where the related information can be found.

Recommendation

Recommended disclosure

Pages

Governance 

Strategy 

a) Describe the Board’s oversight of climate-related risks and 

¢ Pages 47 to 48 and 57 to 71 

opportunities

b) Describe management’s role in assessing and managing 

¢ Pages 47 to 48, 52, 72 to 78         

climate-related risks and opportunities 

and 82 to 83 

a) Describe the climate-related risks and opportunities 

¢ Pages 49 to 52,138 to 142         

the organisation has identified over the short, medium, 
and long term 

and 152 to 156

b) Describe the impact of climate-related risks and 

¢ Pages 49 to 52, 138 to 142             

opportunities on the organisation’s businesses, strategy, 
and financial planning

and 152 to 156

¢ CDP 2023 submission 
centrica.com/CDP23

c) Describe the resilience of the organisation’s strategy, taking 

¢ Pages 49 to 52

into consideration different climate-related scenarios, 
including a 2°C or lower scenario

Risk management 

a) Describe the organisation’s processes for identifying and 

¢ Pages 28 to 29, 48 and 52

assessing climate-related risks

Metrics and targets

b) Describe the organisation’s processes for managing climate-

¢ Pages 28 to 29, 31 to 32, 34,        

related risks

c) Describe how processes for identifying, assessing, and 
managing climate-related risks are integrated into the 
organisation’s overall risk management

a) Disclose the metrics used by the organisation to assess 

climate-related risks and opportunities in line with its strategy 
and risk management process

b) Disclose Scope 1, Scope 2, and, if appropriate, Scope 3 
greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions, and the related risks

c) Describe the targets used by the organisation to manage 
climate-related risks and opportunities and performance 
against targets

48 and 52

¢ Pages 28 to 29, 48 and 52

¢ Pages 52 to 54
¢ Data centre at centrica.com/

datacentre

¢ Pages 49 to 53

¢ Pages 44 and 52 to 54
¢ Climate Transition Plan at 

centrica.com/climatetransition

The Strategic Report has been approved by the Board and 
signed on its behalf by:

Raj Roy
Group General Counsel 
& Company Secretary
14 February 2024

Strategic report | Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

55

Governance

57 Directors’ and Corporate Governance Report
59

– Board of Directors 

64 Corporate Governance Statement

72

79
82

84

– Audit and Risk Committee

– Nominations Committee

– Safety, Environment and Sustainability Committee

– Remuneration Report

110 Other Statutory Information

56

Governance | Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

DIRECTORS’ AND CORPORATE 
GOVERNANCE REPORT

DEAR SHAREHOLDER
I am pleased to present the 2023 
Directors’ and Corporate Governance 
Report. The Board recognises that good 
governance is essential for the effective 
delivery of our strategy and the ongoing 
development and sustainability of the 
Group, and in this report, we will update 
you on Centrica’s corporate governance, 
what the Board did in 2023 and the 
Board’s focus areas for the year ahead.

Having successfully revitalised the business by materially simplifying our 
portfolio and strengthening our balance sheet, alongside a relentless 
focus on operational performance, the Board has spent time seeking to 
build on this success and, as a result, significant efforts have been 
dedicated to crafting a green-focused investment strategy. This 
strategy is designed to ensure Centrica’s long-term sustainability and 
enhance stakeholder value. More information about this can be found 
on pages 14 and 15.

The Board is dedicated to delivering sustainable value to both 
shareholders and other stakeholders. In 2023, the Company declared 
and paid a total of 4.0p per share in dividends to shareholders (up 
33% on the total dividend of 3.0p per share paid in 2022). As of 
31 December 2023, we returned £613 million to our shareholders 
through our share buyback programme, with a further £2 million 
committed not yet settled, being a total of £615 million, as part of our 
commitment to distribute surplus capital. We expect to invest around 
£600-£800 million a year until 2028, primarily in customer technology, 
renewable generation and flexible power assets, enhancing the security 
of energy supply in the UK, while creating value for our shareholders. 
We have also maintained a strong focus on advancing the Company’s 
energy transition journey as outlined in our Climate Transition Plan 
(CTP). The CTP, and details of our progress to date, can be found 
at centrica.com/sustainability and in earlier sections of this Annual 
Report and Accounts.

ORGANISATIONAL CULTURE
Centrica is grounded in values of Care, Delivery, Agility, Courage and 
Collaboration, which form the core of our organisational culture. Our 
values are supported by Our Code that sets out our fundamental 
standards for engagement and collaboration. Our Code guides our 
decision-making, reflects our commitment to integrity and can be 
accessed at centrica.com/ourcode.

The Group Chief Executive regularly updates the Board on issues 
related to employee engagement, with the quarterly ‘Our Voice’ survey 
offering the Board crucial insights into the Company’s culture. This is 
supplemented with feedback from a variety of other sources, including 
dedicated colleague engagement meetings. I and my fellow Directors 
find these meetings to be most informative and we appreciate the 
opportunity to engage directly with colleagues in this way. You can find 
more information on the survey and other workforce engagement 
practices on pages 38 and 39. The Board maintains a focus on 
cultivating the Company’s culture, emphasising colleague development 
and digital enablement for Centrica’s future readiness.

DIVERSITY, EQUITY AND INCLUSION
Diversity, equity and inclusion continue to be key priorities for the 
Board. As at 31 December 2023, we complied with the diversity 
targets outlined in the FTSE Women Leaders Review and the Parker 
Review to have over 40% female representation on the Board and at 
least one Director from a minority ethnic background. We also 
complied with the Board and senior executive gender and ethnicity 
targets in the Listing Rules, save for the target that at least one senior 
position (Chair, Senior Independent Director, Group Chief Executive 
and Group Chief Financial Officer) be held by a woman. This situation 
arose when Kate Ringrose stepped down as Group Chief Financial 
Officer last year and Russell O’Brien was appointed following a 
thorough and robust recruitment process involving both a diverse 
candidate pool and interview panel. However, as explained in further 
detail in the Nominations Committee Report, the Board is fully 
committed to meeting the diversity target in relation to the above-
mentioned senior Board roles. The Board will therefore, as part of its 
ongoing succession planning arrangements, ensure that this 
requirement is taken into account in a way that enables the Company 
to meet the diversity target at the earliest possible opportunity. Overall 
the Board’s range and depth of experience and skills has expanded 
over the past year with new appointments to the Board in a way that 
will assist the Company in the delivery of its strategy. 

The Board has recently updated its diversity policy to comply with 
Disclosure Guidance and Transparency Rule 7.2.8A, the FTSE Women 
Leaders Review, and the Parker Review. This update also extends the 
policy to the Board’s Committees. For more detailed information on the 
Board’s diversity policy, please visit centrica.com or refer to the 
Nominations Committee Report on page 80.

Centrica is dedicated to fostering an inclusive environment where all 
individuals, regardless of their background, can succeed. We are 
actively working to ensure that our workforce, including senior 
leadership, mirrors the diversity of the communities we serve. Our 
Company has implemented policies aimed at enhancing diversity, 
equity and inclusion at every level. We have made progress in 
recruiting, promoting, and developing employees from diverse 
backgrounds, and we are committed to continuing these efforts.

Governance | Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

57

Throughout the year, Non-Executive Directors have visited a number of 
sites to immerse themselves in the operational aspects and 
communicate directly with employees about their work experiences 
and other significant issues. For instance, in 2023 the Board visited 
numerous sites Group wide, including the Brigg power station, the 
Hessle office, the Centrica Energy Storage gas terminal at Easington 
and the British Gas contact centre in Stockport. This engagement 
strategy is reviewed periodically to ensure its effectiveness.

Further details of how the Board has discharged its duties under 
Section 172 of the Companies Act 2006 can be found in our Section 
172 statement and Stakeholder Engagement section on pages 16 
to 17.

LOOKING FORWARD
Overall, I am pleased with the strong progress that was made in terms 
of the governance of the Company in 2023. The Board naturally 
remains focused on delivering against strategy, succession planning 
and ultimately creating long term sustainable value for all our 
stakeholders.

Thank you for your continued support and I look forward to updating 
you again during the year at our Annual General Meeting in June.

Scott Wheway, Chair
14 February 2024

BOARD COMPOSITION
On 1 March 2023, Russell O’Brien became Group Chief Financial 
Officer. During the year, after a detailed assessment of the Board’s 
needs and the strategic path of the Group by the Nominations 
Committee, three new independent Non-Executive Directors were 
appointed; Philippe Boisseau, Jo Harlow and Sue Whalley, each of 
whom brings a wealth of diverse experience to the Board. You can find 
more information on these Directors and their appointments in the 
biographies and the Nominations Committee Report on pages 59 to 62 
and 79 to 80 respectively.

BOARD, COMMITTEE AND DIRECTOR EVALUATIONS 
AND EFFECTIVENESS
In September 2023, the Board conducted a self-evaluation supported 
by Lintstock, a corporate advisory firm specialising in Board 
performance evaluations. The evaluation focused on a broad range 
of topics, which are discussed in more detail on page 66. Lintstock 
generated a tailored report, drawing on input from all the Directors. 
The output from this evaluation was reviewed at the Nominations 
Committee meeting in November 2023, in which all Directors 
participated.

The Directors concluded that, overall, the Board was performing 
effectively and the Committees were effective in supporting the Board 
to deliver against its objectives. The evaluation also identified areas 
which could benefit from increased focus and these topics (see page 
69) will be amongst the key priorities for the Board in the year ahead, 
in addition to the strategic and operational priorities already discussed 
in other sections of this Annual Report and Accounts.

ENGAGEMENT WITH OUR STAKEHOLDERS
Stakeholder views are gathered through an extensive network of 
strategic engagements to help grow the business and deliver 
improvements for our customers, colleagues and society over the long 
term. During 2023, representatives from the Board met with major 
shareholders from time to time in order to obtain their perspectives on a 
range of matters, including the Company’s performance, strategy and 
ESG matters.

The Board maintains collective responsibility for engaging with 
employees regularly throughout the year, recognising the insights and 
benefits gained by all Board members from regular interactions with a 
diverse range of colleagues.

58

Governance | Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

BOARD OF DIRECTORS*

Scott Wheway | Chair

Chris O’Shea | Group Chief Executive

Russell O’Brien | Group Chief Financial Officer 

Scott joined the Board on 1 May 2016 
and became Chair of the Board on 
17 March 2020. 

Chris joined Centrica in 2018 as Group 
Chief Financial Officer and was appointed 
as Group Chief Executive in 2020. Chris is 
also Chair of the Disclosure Committee and 
Chair of Spirit Energy (joint venture). 

Russell joined the Centrica plc Board on 
1 March 2023 and is also on the Board 
of the majority-controlled subsidiary, 
Spirit Energy.

Relevant skills and experience 
Scott has a wealth of experience as a senior 
customer-facing business leader with a mix of 
deep retail and consumer expertise. He has 
considerable knowledge gained in both the 
retail and insurance sectors, together with a 
strong understanding of operating within 
highly regulated businesses. 

Previous experience 
Scott worked in retail for 27 years both in the 
UK and internationally. His prior roles include 
chair of AXA UK plc from December 2017 until 
June 2022, seven years on the board of 
Santander UK plc, where he was the senior 
independent director, and non-executive 
director of Aviva plc between 2007 and 2016. 
He is the former chief executive officer of Best 
Buy Europe (retail services), director of The 
Boots Company plc, managing director and 
retail director of Boots the Chemist at Alliance 
Boots plc and a director of the British Retail 
Consortium. He formerly held a number of 
senior executive positions at Tesco plc (retail 
services), including chief executive of Tesco 
in Japan. 

Relevant skills and experience
Chris has wide-ranging experience across the 
entire energy value chain together with 
recognised experience in transforming 
business and financial performance. He has 
considerable knowledge of working in highly 
regulated industries and in complex, multi-
national organisations, not only in the energy 
sector but also in technology-led 
engineering and services industries.

Previous experience
Chris was appointed Group Chief Executive 
in early 2020 having previously been Group 
Chief Financial Officer. Prior to joining Centrica, 
Chris was group chief financial officer of UK 
listed Smiths Group plc and Vesuvius plc, 
and a non-executive director of Indian listed 
Foseco India Ltd. From 2006 to 2012 Chris 
held various senior finance roles with BG 
Group plc, including chief financial officer of 
Africa Middle East & Asia and Europe & 
Central Asia, prior to which he held a number 
of senior roles with Shell, (living and working in 
the UK, the US and Nigeria), and with Ernst & 
Young. 

External appointments 
Non-executive director of Lloyds Banking 
Group plc and chair of Scottish Widows 
Group.

Chris studied Accounting and Finance at the 
University of Glasgow, is a Chartered 
Accountant, and holds an MBA from the 
Fuqua School of Business at Duke University.

External appointments
None.

Relevant skills and experience
Russell has broad experience from across the 
energy value chain having spent more than 25 
years with Shell plc. He developed his financial 
management experience through work in 
various business models from Retail through 
to upstream development. Russell has 
extensive knowledge of controlling, capital 
markets, commercial finance and mergers 
and acquisitions activities. 

Previous experience
Prior to joining Centrica, Russell worked for 
Shell plc from 1995 to 2021. From 2006 to 
2009 Russell was financial controller for Shell’s 
upstream operations in the Americas. Russell 
was then CFO for Shell’s global retail business 
from 2009 to 2013. Following this, he was 
CFO for Shell’s Integrated Gas division. In 
2015 he was appointed group treasurer. 
During his time as treasurer Russell was also a 
board member of Shell Trading and chairman 
of Shell Asset Management Co. Russell has 
lived and worked in the USA, Singapore, the 
Netherlands and the UK. He was a board and 
advisory council member of the FICC Market 
Standards Board from 2015 to 2021. Russell 
is a Fellow of the Chartered Institute of 
Management Accountants and the Association 
of Corporate Treasurers. Russell studied 
Economics and Management and graduated 
from St. Andrews University in 1995.

External appointments
None.

Governance | Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

59

Carol Arrowsmith | Independent Non-Executive 
Director

Philippe Boisseau | Independent Non-Executive 
Director

Nathan Bostock | Independent Non-Executive 
Director

Carol joined the Board on 11 June 2020 
and is Chair of the Remuneration 
Committee.

Philippe joined the Board on 1 September 
2023. 

Nathan joined the Board on 9 May 2022 
and is Chair of the Audit and Risk 
Committee.

Relevant skills and experience 
Carol brings extensive advisory experience, 
especially of advising boards on executive 
remuneration across a range of sectors, and is 
a Fellow of the Chartered Institute of 
Personnel and Development. 

Previous experience 
Carol is a former deputy chair and senior 
partner of Deloitte LLP. She was a member of 
the Advisory Group for Spencer Stuart, Global 
Partner of Arthur Andersen, managing director 
of New Bridge Street Consultants and non-
executive director of Compass Group PLC 
and Vivo Energy plc.

External appointments 
Director and trustee of Northern Ballet Limited.

Relevant skills and experience 
Philippe brings broad experience of the 
energy industry, particularly of energy assets, 
energy infrastructure, energy trading and the 
renewable energy transition.

Previous experience 
Philippe was the chief executive officer of 
CEPSA (Compañía Española de Petróleos 
SA), the Spanish multinational oil and gas, 
chemicals, and renewable energy business, 
from 2019 to 2021. Before joining CEPSA, he 
worked at TotalEnergies SA for over two 
decades. During his tenure there, Philippe held 
president and senior executive roles across 
various business divisions and was 
instrumental in establishing and leading Total’s 
New Energies division from 2007 to 2016. 
Philippe was a senior advisor to Carlyle 
International Energy Partners between 2017 
and 2019 and was a board member at I-Pulse 
Inc. from 2017 to 2021. 

Philippe graduated from Ecole Polytechnique 
and has an MSc in Theoretical Physics.

External appointments 
Senior advisor to OMERS Infrastructure, 
Ondra Partners and Sibanye-Stillwater 
Limited.

Relevant skills and experience 
Nathan has worked in financial services since 
the mid-1980s and brings a wealth of 
financial, commercial, risk and compliance 
expertise, particularly in large-scale customer-
facing businesses. Nathan possesses current 
and pertinent experience in financial matters. 

Previous experience 
Nathan was chief executive officer of 
Santander UK from 2014 until early 2022, as 
well as global head of investment platforms of 
Banco Santander before leaving in late 2023. 
He joined Santander from the Royal Bank of 
Scotland plc (RBS), where he was an 
executive director and group finance director. 
He previously held the post of group chief risk 
officer and head of restructuring having joined 
RBS in 2009. Nathan served on the board of 
Abbey National plc (now Santander UK) as an 
executive director and chief financial officer 
from 2005 until 2009. Prior to this he held a 
number of senior positions with Abbey 
National, 2001 to 2004, RBS, 1992 to 2001 
and Chase Manhattan Bank, 1985 to 1992.

Nathan is a chartered accountant and holds 
a BSc (Hons) in Mathematics.

External appointments 
None.

60

Governance | Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Chanderpreet (CP) Duggal | Independent Non-
Executive Director

Jo Harlow | Independent Non-Executive Director

Heidi Mottram | Independent Non-Executive 
Director

CP joined the Board on 16 December 
2022.

Jo joined the Board on 1 December 2023.  

Relevant skills and experience
CP brings valuable expertise of digital 
technology and the use of data and analytics 
in large customer-facing businesses.

Relevant skills and experience 
Jo has more than 25 years’ experience 
working in various senior roles, predominantly 
in the branded and technology sectors.

Previous experience
CP worked for 20 years at American Express 
in various senior roles, the last of which was 
leading the company-wide digital and analytics 
organisation to enable growth, efficiency, and 
innovation globally. His experience includes 
managing digital/mobile channels and 
technology platforms across the customer 
lifecycle, applications of AI and Data Science 
across wide-ranging business applications, 
operational excellence and managing fraud 
risk. 

In his most recent executive role, CP was the 
chief digital and analytics officer for Burberry 
plc and a member of its executive committee. 
He was responsible for transforming              
e-commerce and omni-channel strategy 
globally, accelerating customer relationship 
management focus and leveraging analytics 
across the company. 

External appointments
None. 

Previous experience 
Prior to her non-executive career, Jo held 
the position of corporate vice president of 
the phones business unit at Microsoft. 
She previously spent 11 years at Nokia 
Corporation in a number of senior 
management roles, including executive vice 
president of smart devices. Jo was also non-
executive director at InterContinental Hotels 
Group PLC from 2014 to 2023 (including as 
remuneration committee chair from 2017 to 
2023) and was a non-executive director of 
Ceconomy-AG from 2017 to 2021.

Jo attended Duke University in North Carolina 
and has a BSc in Psychology. 

External appointments 
Non-executive director and chair of 
remuneration committee at J Sainsbury plc. 
Senior independent director and remuneration 
committee chair at Halma plc, and non-
executive director at Chapter Zero Ltd. 

Heidi joined the Board on 1 January 2020 
and is Chair of the Safety, Environment and 
Sustainability Committee. 

Relevant skills and experience 
Heidi brings considerable relevant strategic 
and operational experience acquired in her 
current and previous roles. Her deep 
understanding of the importance of customer 
service, delivered in complex, multi-
stakeholder environments with a high public 
profile, is particularly pertinent to the Group at 
this time, as it focuses on the delivery of its 
customer-centric strategy.

Previous experience 
Heidi began her career with British Rail in the 
mid-1980s. She held a number of roles in 
GNER, before joining Midland Mainline in 1999 
as operations director. She was managing 
director of Northern Rail from 2004, and 
before that she was commercial director of 
Arriva Trains Northern and operations director 
of Midland Mainline Limited from 1999 to 
2003. Additionally, Heidi was vice-chair of the 
North East Local Enterprise Partnership and 
Newcastle University Council. 

External appointments 
Chief executive director of Northumbrian 
Water Limited and Northumbrian Water Group 
Limited, and a member of the board of The 
Great British Railways Transition Team.

Governance | Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

61

Kevin O’Byrne | Senior Independent Director

Rt Hon. Amber Rudd | Independent 
Non-Executive Director

Sue Whalley | Independent Non-Executive Director

Kevin joined the Board on 13 May 2019. 
He became Senior Independent Director 
on 1 June 2022.

Amber joined the Board on 10 January 
2022.

Sue joined the Board on 1 December 2023.  

Relevant skills and experience 
Kevin brings extensive retail and finance 
experience to the Board, having occupied 
senior roles in a number of leading UK and 
international retailers. Kevin possesses current 
and pertinent experience in financial matters. 
The Board considers that Kevin has recent 
and relevant financial experience.

Previous experience 
Kevin was chief financial officer of J Sainsbury 
plc from January 2017 to March 2023. Prior 
to that, he was chief executive officer of 
Poundland Group plc, and previously held 
executive roles at Kingfisher plc, including 
divisional director UK, China and Turkey, chief 
executive officer of B&Q UK & Ireland and 
group finance director. Prior to that he was 
finance director of Dixons Retail plc. From 
2008 to 2017 he was a non-executive director 
and chairman of the audit committee of Land 
Securities Group PLC where he was also 
senior independent director from 2012 to 
2016. Kevin was chair of Centrica plc’s Audit 
and Risk Committee from 2019 to 2023. 

External appointments 
Non-executive director of International Flavors 
& Fragrances Inc. (NYSE listed)

Relevant skills and experience 
Amber brings a wealth of real-world 
experience in energy, policy and business.

Previous experience 
After around 20 years working in business, 
Amber served as a Member of Parliament 
between 2010 and 2019. In addition to 
holding the roles of Home Secretary, 
Secretary of State for Work and Pensions and 
Minister for Women and Equalities, Amber 
served as Secretary of State for Energy and 
Climate Change from 2015 to 2016, having 
been Parliamentary Under Secretary of State 
at the Department of Energy and Climate 
Change from July 2014 until May 2015. 
Amber led the UK team to the successful 
completion of the Paris Climate Change 
Agreement. This UN sponsored 2015 
Conference of the Parties (COP21) achieved 
a landmark global commitment to reduce 
national carbon emissions.

External appointments 
Non-executive director of Pinwheel, advisor to 
businesses including Energy 1, Equinor, FGS, 
Centerview Partners and Phoenix Group, and 
a trustee of The Climate Group, RUSI.

Relevant skills and experience 
Sue brings a blend of experience in people 
and cultural transformation, and strategic, 
technological, and operational evolution in 
large, complex organisations, championing 
the use of innovation to improve customer 
service. 

Previous experience 
Prior to joining Associated British Foods plc in 
2019, Sue spent 12 years at Royal Mail where 
she held several executive roles. She was 
chief executive officer of the UK post and 
parcels business where she led complex 
organisation and digital transformation to 
support e-commerce growth in the logistics 
and delivery business. Sue has extensive 
experience working with complex stakeholder 
landscapes including unions and regulators. 
Sue spent nearly 18 years in management 
consultancy working in a range of industries 
including retail and utilities. 

Sue is a graduate of the University of 
Cambridge and holds an MBA from Harvard 
Business School.

External appointments 
Chief people and performance officer at 
Associated British Foods plc. 

62

Governance | Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Raj Roy | Group General Counsel & Company 
Secretary

Raj was appointed Group General Counsel 
& Company Secretary on 1 October 2020.

Relevant skills and experience 
Raj has overall responsibility for legal, 
regulatory, compliance and secretariat 
activities across the Group, the effective 
operating of Centrica plc’s Board and advising 
on key issues of corporate governance and 
compliance. Raj joined Centrica in 2014 as the 
Legal Director for Residential Energy, before 
becoming General Counsel for the UK and 
Ireland region in 2017. He has led legal, 
regulatory and compliance teams at Centrica 
in various formations across the UK and 
Ireland region and the Consumer division.

Previous experience 
Prior to joining Centrica, Raj spent nine years 
at Vodafone, holding a number of senior in-
house legal roles in the Group and UK legal 
functions. Raj started his career in private 
practice, qualifying as a solicitor at Slaughter 
and May in London and subsequently working 
for Freshfields in Brussels.

External appointments 
Member of the Board of Energy UK 
(representing Centrica) and the Board of 
General Counsel for Diversity and Inclusion 
(GCD&I).

*as at 14 February 2024

The Board considers that each of the Directors 
continues to contribute effectively to the work 
and deliberations of the Board.

Reasons for the (re-)election of each of our 
Directors at the forthcoming AGM can be 
found within the Centrica plc Notice of Annual 
General Meeting 2024 which will be made 
available on our website centrica.com/agm24.

Full biographies can be found at centrica.com/
board

Governance | Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

63

CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 
STATEMENT

The Board is committed to high standards of corporate governance 
and is pleased to confirm that throughout the year ended 31 December 
2023, the Company complied with all relevant provisions of the UK 
Corporate Governance Code (UK Code) apart from Provisions 40 and 
41. An explanation of the non-compliance can be found in the 
Remuneration Committee Report on page 108. Our application of 
the UK Code is set out below. 

An explanation of non-compliance with Listing Rule 9.8.6(9) whereby 
the Company does not have at least one senior position held by a 
woman can be found on page 80. The UK Code and associated 
guidance are available on the Financial Reporting Council’s website at 
frc.org.uk. The index on page 110 sets out where to find each of the 
required disclosures in respect of Listing Rule 9.8.4 and Disclosure 
Guidance and Transparency Rules 4.1.5 R and 7.2.1.

Section 1 | Board Leadership and Company Purpose

Principles A, B, C,
D, E

The Corporate Governance statement (CG Statement) on pages 64 to 71 gives information on the Group’s compliance 
with the principles relating to the Board’s Leadership and Company Purpose. More detailed information on:

¢ the Group’s statement of purpose can be found on page 9;
¢ the Group’s strategy, resources and the indicators it uses to measure performance can be found on pages 10 to 11 

and 26 to 27 respectively;

¢ the Group’s engagement with stakeholders and the Group’s Section 172(1) Statement is set out on pages 14 to 17; 

and

¢ the Group’s approach to workforce matters can be found in the Chief People Officer’s report and in ‘Our 

people’ within our People and Planet section on pages 38 to 43. 

Details of AGM voting results can be found on page 70, the Group’s framework of controls is contained in the Audit 
and Risk Committee report on pages 73 to 74 of the CG Statement and in the Principal Risk and Viability Disclosure 
section on pages 28 to 37.

Section 2 | Division of Responsibilities

Principles F, G, H, I The CG Statement describes the structure and operation of the Board. In the CG statement, we describe on page 66 

the process the Company conducts to evaluate the Board, to ensure that it continues to operate effectively, that 
individual Director’s contributions are appropriate and that the oversight of the Chair promotes a culture of openness 
and constructive yet challenging debate. The policies and processes which support the Board to function effectively 
and efficiently can be found on our website at centrica.com/board.

Section 3 | Composition, Succession and Evaluation

Principles J, K, L

Details of the skills, experience and knowledge of the existing Board directors can be found in the Board biographies on 
pages 59 to 63. Information on the Board’s appointment process and approach to succession planning is contained in 
the Nominations Committee report on pages 79 to 80. Information on the Board evaluation process can be found on 
page 66.

Section 4 | Audit, Risk and Internal Control

Principles M, N, O

Information on the policies and procedures the Group has in place to monitor the effectiveness of the Group’s Internal 
and External Audit functions, and the integrity of the Group’s financial statements, is contained in the Audit and Risk 
Committee report on pages 72 to 74 of the CG Statement, along with an overview of the procedures in place to manage 
risk and oversee the internal control framework. Further information on the Group’s approach to risk management is 
contained in the Principal Risk and Viability Disclosure section of the Strategic Review on pages 28 to 37. The Board 
believes the 2023 Annual Report to be a fair, balanced and understandable assessment of the Company’s position and 
prospects. A description of the Audit and Risk Committee’s work in enabling the Board to reach this conclusion is 
contained in the Audit and Risk Committee report on page 73.

Section 5 | Remuneration

Principles P, Q, R

The Directors’ Remuneration Report section of the CG Statement describes the Group’s approach to Directors’ 
remuneration, including the procedure for developing policy and the Remuneration Committee’s discretion for 
authorising remuneration outcomes. Details of linkage of the Directors’ Remuneration Policy with long-term strategy 
are contained on page 102.

The Board and its committees continue to monitor developments in governance, and welcome the important revisions to the UK Corporate 
Governance Code (the Code) published by the Financial Reporting Council (FRC) on 22 January 2024.

64

Governance | Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

GOVERNANCE FRAMEWORK
The Board is responsible for leading the Group in an efficient manner, 
establishing the Group’s purpose, values and strategy, to which the 
Group’s culture is aligned. It focuses primarily on strategic and policy 
issues and is responsible for developing long-term sustainable value 
for stakeholders. It is responsible for ensuring there are effective risk 
assessment and management processes, setting the Group’s strategy, 
overseeing the allocation of resources and monitoring the performance 
of the Group. The framework to enable this is set out in a schedule 
of matters reserved for the Board. In order to allow the Board to focus 
on its priorities, a number of its oversight responsibilities have been 
delegated to four principal Committees. These responsibilities are set 
out in the terms of reference for each Committee. The Board regularly 
reviews the remit, authority, composition and terms of reference of 
each Committee. In performance of these duties, the Board has regard 
to the interests of the Group’s key stakeholders and the potential 
impact of the decisions it makes on wider society. 

Matters reserved exclusively for the Board 
There are certain key responsibilities that the Board does not 
delegate, and which are reserved for its consideration. The Board’s 
responsibilities include: the development of strategy; the acquisition 
and divestment policy; the approval of major capital expenditure; the 
Group’s capital structure; the approval of financials; and oversight 
and independent assurance of policies and procedures. The full 
schedule of matters reserved is available on the governance page 
of our website at centrica.com.

OUR BOARD
The Board comprises the Non-Executive Chair (independent on 
appointment), two Executive Directors (Group Chief Executive and 
Group Chief Financial Officer), and nine independent Non-Executive 
Directors. There is a clear division of responsibilities between the Chair 
and the Group Chief Executive, reflected in the schedule of matters 
reserved for the Board.

Board Committees
The Board oversees the Group’s operations through a unitary Board 
and four principal Committees, these being the Audit and Risk 
Committee, Nominations Committee, Remuneration Committee and 
the Safety, Environment and Sustainability Committee. The terms of 
reference for these Committees can be found on our website, 
centrica.com, and attendance at meetings of each of these 
Committees in 2023 can be found on page 68. Further information on 
the work of these Committees can be found in later sections of this 
Annual Report and Accounts (pages 72, 79, 82 and 84).

In addition to the above-mentioned Committees, the work of the Board 
is supported by a Disclosure Committee, the terms of reference for 
which are available on our website. The Disclosure Committee is 
responsible for overseeing the timely and accurate disclosure of 
sensitive information and maintaining procedures and controls to 
enable compliance with legal and regulatory disclosure obligations. 
Meetings of the Disclosure Committee are convened as and when 
necessary and membership of the Committee comprises the Group 
Chief Executive, Group Chief Financial Officer and the Group General 
Counsel & Company Secretary.

Centrica Leadership Team (CLT)
The CLT is led by the Group Chief Executive and members include the 
Group Chief Financial Officer, Group General Counsel & Company 
Secretary and the Chief People Officer. The CLT is responsible for 
ensuring the delivery of the Group’s strategy, business plans and 
financial performance. 

Board appointments
The report of the Nominations Committee on pages 79 to 80 describes 
the work of the Committee in relation to Board appointments. All 
Directors are subject to annual re-election. The Board sets out in the 
Notice of Annual General Meeting the specific reasons why each 
Director’s contribution is, and continues to be, valuable to the 
Company’s long-term sustainable success.

The Board is responsible for corporate governance, developing strategy and major policies, reviewing management performance, approving financials 
and providing entrepreneurial leadership to the Company within a framework of prudent and effective controls which enable risk to be assessed 
and managed. It is also responsible for setting the Company’s culture, values and the behaviours it wishes to promote in conducting its business. 
The Board’s role and responsibilities are reviewed against the UK Code to ensure that it is meeting all of its responsibilities.

The Board

Chair

Group Chief Executive

The Chair is responsible for the leadership and management of the 
Board. In doing so, he is responsible for promoting high ethical 
standards, ensuring the effective contribution of all Directors and, 
with support from the Group General Counsel & Company 
Secretary, ensuring best practice in corporate governance and the 
timely distribution of accurate and clear information to Directors.

The Group Chief Executive is responsible for the executive 
leadership and day-to-day management of the Company, 
to ensure the delivery of the strategy agreed by the Board.

Independent 
Non-Executive Directors

Senior Independent 
Director

Group Chief
Financial Officer

Group General Counsel 
& Company Secretary

Independent Non-Executive 
Directors are responsible for 
contributing sound judgement 
and objectivity to the Board’s 
deliberations and overall decision-
making process, providing 
constructive challenge, and 
monitoring the Executive 
Directors’ delivery of the strategy 
within the Board’s risk and 
governance structure. All of the 
Non-Executive Directors are 
considered independent.

The Senior Independent 
Director acts as a sounding 
board for the Chair and serves 
as a trusted intermediary for the 
other Directors, as well as 
shareholders, as required. 

The Group Chief Financial 
Officer is responsible for 
providing strategic financial 
leadership to the Company and 
for the day-to-day management 
of the finance function.

The Group General Counsel & 
Company Secretary advises the 
Chair on governance, together 
with updates on regulatory and 
compliance matters; supports the 
Board agenda with clear 
information flow; and acts as a 
link between the Board and its 
Committees, and between 
Independent Non-Executive 
Directors and senior 
management.

Governance | Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

65

Evaluation and effectiveness of the Board, Committees 
and the Directors
To ensure that the Board and its Committees continue to operate 
effectively, a performance evaluation of the Board and its principal 
Committees is undertaken annually with an externally facilitated 
evaluation every third year. We used the services of external advisors, 
Lintstock Limited, to support the 2023 internal evaluation process, 
which year on year has built on the priorities identified in the 
previous years. 

The 2023 evaluation, overseen by the Group General Counsel & 
Company Secretary, was conducted by way of a questionnaire which 
covered a broad range of topics, including:

¢ Board composition;
¢ Board dynamics;
¢ Stakeholder oversight;
¢ Strategic oversight;
¢ Management and focus of meetings;
¢ Risk management and internal controls;
¢ Succession planning and people oversight;
¢ Board support; and
¢ priorities.

The outcome of this year’s evaluation demonstrated that the Board 
and its Committees continue to operate effectively. 

The evaluation highlighted certain topics and actions for focus in the 
year ahead, including additional training on technological threats and 
opportunities, with a focus on green technologies and artificial 
intelligence, enhancing insights into global supply chain considerations 
and competitor strategies and performance. The Board and the 
Nominations Committee will also continue to focus on succession 
planning, both at Board and senior executive level. Creating further 
opportunities for engagement with senior leadership and management 
was also identified. 

Feedback from the 2022 evaluation related to succession planning, 
Board training and increasing the Board’s exposure to and 
understanding of certain stakeholders. During the course of 2023, 
meetings dedicated to talent and succession planning, including 
assessment of Board skills and composition, were held. The Board 
reviewed its training requirements and the 2023 and 2024 work 
programmes were updated to include training sessions on a broad 
range of topics. Stakeholder related information provided to the Board 
was enhanced, including site visits, meetings with colleagues and 
increased content on supply chain and customers as part of business 
unit deep-dive sessions. 

Independent Board Evaluation will be appointed to provide the triennial, 
in-depth, externally facilitated evaluation of the Board’s effectiveness in 
2024. Further information on the process and feedback from this 
evaluation will be reported in the 2024 Annual Report and Accounts.

Training and development for Directors 
It is important to ensure that Directors’ skills and knowledge are 
refreshed and updated regularly, given the dynamic business and 
regulatory environment in which the Company operates. The Chair, 
supported by the Group General Counsel & Company Secretary 
and Secretariat, and informed by the Nominations Committee, is 
responsible for the ongoing development of all Directors. The Chair 
discusses with each Director any individual training and development 
needs, such as formal and informal briefings, meetings with 
management and visits to the Group’s operations. During 2023, the 
Directors received deep dives including British Gas Energy, Centrica 
Energy and Centrica Energy Storage+, and training on various matters 
including, directors’ duties and hydrogen and carbon capture storage 
models (including economic regulation frameworks). In addition, the 
Directors have full access to the advice and services of the Group 
General Counsel & Company Secretary, who is responsible for advising 
the Board, on corporate governance matters. Should it prove 
necessary, Directors are also able to seek independent professional 
advice at the Company’s expense in respect of their duties.

66

Governance | Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Directors’ independence and conflicts
All our Non-Executive Directors are considered to be independent 
against the criteria in the UK Code, and free from any business interest 
which could materially interfere with the exercise of their independent 
judgement. In addition, the Board is satisfied that each Non-Executive 
Director is able to dedicate the necessary amount of time to the 
Company’s affairs. 

The Non-Executive Directors’ Letters of Appointment state that they 
must inform the Group General Counsel & Company Secretary of any 
other businesses, directorships, appointments, advisory roles, or other 
relevant commitments (including any relevant changes, and a broad 
indication of the time involved). Directors also confirm that they will 
inform the Board of any subsequent changes to their circumstances 
which may affect the time they can commit to their duties. The 
agreement of the Chair must be obtained before accepting additional 
commitments that might affect the time Non-Executive Directors are 
able to devote to their appointment.

In accordance with the Companies Act 2006 and the Company’s 
Articles of Association, Directors are required to report actual or 
potential conflicts of interest to the Board for consideration and, 
if required, authorisation. If such conflicts exist, Directors recuse 
themselves from consideration of the relevant subject matter. 
The Company maintains a schedule of authorised conflicts of 
interest which is regularly reviewed by the Board.

The Company’s Articles of Association provide how Directors are 
appointed, retired and replaced. These can be found on our website.

Directors’ induction
The Board has in place processes for the Directors’ induction and 
ongoing training. The Directors’ induction programme is led by the 
Chair and supported by the Group General Counsel & Company 
Secretary and Secretariat. It is tailored to meet the individual’s needs, 
providing all the information and support required in a structured way 
to allow them to be effective in their role. Directors are asked to provide 
input on how their induction should be tailored, in relation to both 
content and delivery, with the opportunity for periodic subsequent 
review with the Chair. For example, CP Duggal met with each of 
the business Managing Directors and their teams during the year, 
including a visit to the Stockport Call Centre and Bord Gáis Energy 
in Dublin, together with deep dive sessions with the Centrica Energy 
and British Gas Energy businesses, and some external training 
and mentoring sessions. 

DIRECTOR INDUCTION 2023 – CP DUGGAL, 
RUSSELL O’BRIEN, PHILIPPE BOISSEAU, 
JO HARLOW AND SUE WHALLEY

Following appointment, all Directors receive a comprehensive 
and tailored induction programme. This is designed through 
discussion with the Chair and the Group General Counsel & 
Company Secretary and considers existing expertise and any 
prospective Board Committee roles. 

The induction plans for CP Duggal and Russell O’Brien 
comprised a combination of in-person and virtual sessions 
with both internal functions and external advisors over an 
initial period of six months. This was structured to ensure that 
information material to their roles was delivered in the early 
stages of the programme.

These briefings provided an initial opportunity to meet senior 
leaders and were supported by site visits to provide on-the-
ground understanding of business units and working 
environments. 

The induction for Philippe Boisseau, who joined the Board 
on 1 September 2023, and for Jo Harlow and Sue Whalley, 
who joined the Board on 1 December 2023, has begun. 
An update on their respective inductions will be provided 
in the 2024 Annual Report & Accounts.

Areas covered during induction

Sessions covered by

Centrica’s purpose, strategic priorities and business unit operations

Group Chief Executive and Managing Directors of each 
Business Unit, Group Head of Strategy 

Financial position, performance, investment and funding, including 
credit ratings

Group Chief Financial Officer, Group Financial Controller and the 
Company’s brokers

Pensions, Treasury & Insurance

External assurance

Remuneration Committee advisors

Rewards & Benefits

People & Culture

Energy sector and trends, energy markets

Net zero, sustainability

Stakeholder communication and engagement

Corporate governance and Board operations

Group Head of Treasury, Pensions, & Insurance

External auditors

PwC

Group Chief People Officer, Director of Rewards & Benefits

Group Chief People Officer

Group Strategy Director, Group Regulatory Affairs Director, 
Group Head of M&A, Group Head of Investor Relations

Group Strategy Director, Group Head of Environment

Group General Counsel & Company Secretary and Group 
Corporate Affairs Director

Chair of the Board and Group General Counsel & Company 
Secretary 

Shareholder and investment perspectives

Group Head of Investor Relations and the Company’s brokers

Legal and regulatory landscape

Group General Counsel & Company Secretary, Director of 
Regulatory Affairs and Policy

Centrica’s risk profile

Chief Risk Officer

Safety, health and environment, people and culture

Group General Counsel & Company Secretary, Group Chief People 
Officer

Digital technology / Cyber security

Chief Information Officer, VP – Cyber Security

Site visits
The Directors recognise the importance of, and benefits gained by, 
visiting the Group’s operations and endeavour to visit Centrica sites 
each year. The site visits that the Board undertook in 2023 and 
the interactions at those visits are described in the Chair’s letter 
on page 58. 

Board meetings 
The Board is committed to upholding high standards of corporate 
governance and compliance, recognising their importance for the 
Company’s enduring performance and value generation. These 
standards underpin the Company’s strategic objectives and critical 
decision-making, crucial for reinforcing its financial foundation and 
navigating challenging market conditions.

The Board held eight formal meetings in 2023, which primarily occurred 
face-to-face. In addition, supplementary meetings were called for 
specific approvals. The table showing the attendance of Directors at 
Board meetings in 2023 can be found on page 68. If Directors are 
unable to attend a meeting, they have the opportunity beforehand to 
discuss any agenda items with the Chair. The agendas for Board 
meetings are agreed in advance by the Chair, Group Chief Executive 
and Group General Counsel & Company Secretary. The agenda 
typically consists of regular standing items, such as reports on financial 
performance, and in-depth examination or analysis of a topic. 

During the year, the independent Non-Executive Directors, including 
the Chair, met twice without management present. 

Governance | Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

67

Number of Board and Committee meetings attended during 2023(1):
Joined the 
Board

Name

Role

Tenure(2)

Board

Scott Wheway

Chair

01/05/2016

7 years, 8 months

Chris O’Shea

Group Chief Executive

01/11/2018

5 years, 2 months

Kate Ringrose(3)

Group Chief Financial Officer

18/01/2021

2 years, 1 month

Russell O’Brien(3) 

Group Chief Financial Officer 

01/03/2023

0 years, 10 months 

Carol Arrowsmith

Independent Non-Executive Director

11/06/2020

3 years, 6 months

Philippe Boisseau

Independent Non-Executive Director

01/09/2023

0 years, 4 months 

Nathan Bostock

Independent Non-Executive Director

09/05/2022

1 year, 7 months

CP Duggal

Jo Harlow 

Independent Non-Executive Director

16/12/2022

1 year, 1 month

Independent Non-Executive Director

01/12/2023

0 years, 1 month 

Heidi Mottram

Independent Non-Executive Director

01/01/2020

4 years, 0 months

Kevin O’Byrne

Senior Independent Non-Executive Director 13/05/2019

4 years, 7 months

Amber Rudd

Independent Non-Executive Director

10/01/2022

1 year, 11 months

Sue Whalley 

Independent Non-Executive Director

01/12/2023

0 years, 1 month

8/8

8/8

2/2

6/6

8/8

3/3

8/8

8/8

1/1

8/8

8/8

8/8

1/1

AC

N/A

N/A

N/A

N/A

4/4

1/1

4/4

4/4

N/A

N/A

4/4

N/A

N/A

NC

3/3

N/A

N/A

N/AN

3/3

1/1

3/3

3/3

N/A

3/3

3/3

3/3

N/A

RC

N/A

N/A

N/A

N/A

5/5

N/A

N/A

5/5

N/A

5/5

N/A

5/5

N/A

SC

3/3

N/A

N/A

N/A

N/A

1/1

3/3

N/A

N/A

3/3

N/A

3/3

N/A

(1) Any Director who is unable to attend a Board meeting provides feedback to the Chair on the matters to be discussed in advance of the meeting.
(2) Data as at 31 December 2023.
(3) Kate Ringrose stepped down as Group Chief Financial Officer and an Executive Director on 28 February 2023 and Russell O’Brien joined as Group Chief Financial Officer 

and an Executive Director on 1 March 2023.

Board activity including Section 172(1) considerations
The Board, as custodian of the Company, acknowledges the 
importance of understanding stakeholder needs and expectations to 
secure the Company’s long-term viability and to deliver value to all 
stakeholders and society at large. 

Throughout the year, the Board’s activities have included evaluating 
regular operational and financial reports, strategising, and approving 
various governance matters. Read more about Board discussions held 
on page 69. Moreover, they have conducted deep dives on special 
topics. The Directors ensure that their decisions are informed by the 
considerations set out in Section 172 of the Companies Act 2006.  

Feedback from key stakeholder engagements is routinely considered 
by the Board, and this report, alongside our website, contains 
additional examples and evidence of the Directors’ adherence to their 
duties as outlined in Section 172. Read more about the Section 172 
statement and the principal decision taken by the Board described on 
page 17. 

Section 172
The likely consequences of any decision in the long term

The interests of our colleagues

Evidence
Please see page 9 to 11, 14 to 17, 41 to 55 and 67 to 69

Please see page 14 to 17, 38 to 40, 42 to 43, and 67 to 71

The need to foster relationships with suppliers, customers and others

Please see page 14 to 17, 70 and 82 to 83

The impact of the Company’s operations on the community and the 
environment

Please see pages 41 to 55 and 82 to 83

The desirability of the Company maintaining a reputation for high 
standards of business conduct

Please see pages 45, 70 to 71, and 82 to 83 and visit our website 
centrica.com

The need to act fairly between members of the Company

Please see pages 15 to 17 and 69

68

Governance | Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

BOARD DISCUSSIONS HELD DURING THE YEAR INCLUDED

Strategy and business plan

Performance and risk

The Board set the delivery of the strategic direction of the Group 
and oversaw the delivery of that strategy for the benefit of relevant 
stakeholders. In particular, the Board also considered the following 
matters:

¢ Group Annual Plans for 2023 and 2024
¢ The Group’s new strategic & investment framework
¢ The Energy Supply Market – future investment strategy 
¢ The Climate Transition Plan
¢ Return of surplus capital to shareholders
¢ Energy transition investment opportunities
¢ Responsible sourcing strategy
¢ Stress testing under range of scenarios

Stakeholders considered: 

Culture and stakeholders

The Board recognises that understanding the views and interests of 
the Company’s diverse community of stakeholders, including 
customers, is important.

The views and interests of stakeholders are considered in the 
development, delivery and oversight of the Group’s business model, 
strategy and culture. During the year, the Board considered the 
following matters:

¢ Cost of living crisis and the impact on customers and colleagues
¢ Colleague engagement
¢ Pensions
¢ Company culture
¢ Investor updates and feedback
¢ Senior leadership development and succession planning
¢ Diversity, Equity & Inclusion strategy

Stakeholders considered:

Political and regulatory environment

During the year, the Board considered a range of political and 
regulatory matters relevant to the Group’s activities and strategy, 
including in particular:

¢ Macro/geopolitical developments
¢ Reform of energy markets
¢ Modern Slavery Act developments
¢ TCFD disclosure
¢ Government intervention initiatives
¢ UK and Ireland energy security
¢ FCA Consumer Duty

Financial performance and risks, as well as risk controls and 
processes are regularly reported to the Board and to the Audit and 
Risk Committee. Risks are also brought to the attention of the 
Board through reports from the Group Chief Executive, Group Chief 
Financial Officer, heads of business and functional subject matter 
experts. These reports covered a wide range of topics, including:

¢ Health and safety performance and process safety risk
¢ Group Performance Reports
¢ 2022 preliminary results statement and 2023 interim results 

statement

¢ Group credit exposure and liquidity
¢ Business reviews, including operational performance
¢ Periodic results
¢ Cyber security risk management
¢ Commodity price movements
¢ Climate Transition Plan performance
¢ People & Planet Plan performance
¢ Going concern and viability statements
¢ Audit fees
¢ Internal Audit review
¢ Internal controls
¢ Tax 
¢ Treasury risk management 
¢ Insurance
¢ Ensek migration
¢ 2022 final dividend
¢ 2023 interim dividend
¢ Technology systems roadmap

Stakeholders considered: 

Governance

The Board receives regular reports from the Group General Counsel 
& Company Secretary on governance and regulatory matters, as 
well as regular updates and insights on market trends from the 
Investor Relations function. During the year, the Board took time to 
consider or oversee the following key governance activities/matters:

¢ 2022 Annual Report and Accounts
¢ Independent Non-Executive Director recruitment
¢ Board effectiveness evaluation
¢ Succession planning for the Board
¢ Committee composition
¢ Reports from Committee Chairs
¢ Conflicts of interest reviews
¢ Terms of reference reviews
¢ Director skillset and Director training requirements
¢ Director independence
¢ Workforce engagement
¢ All-Employee Share Plan
¢ Dividend policy
¢ Company’s investigation results on warrant-based prepayment 

meter installations

Stakeholders considered: 

Stakeholders considered:

Governance | Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

69

RELATIONS WITH OUR STAKEHOLDERS
Shareholder engagement 
The Board is committed to maintaining open channels of 
communication with all of the Company’s stakeholders. An important 
part of this is providing a clear explanation of the Company’s strategy 
and objectives, and ensuring feedback is acknowledged, considered 
and, where appropriate, acted upon. 

Meetings, roadshows and conferences 
The Company reports its financial results to shareholders twice a year, 
with the publication of its annual and half-year results. The Group Chief 
Executive and Group Chief Financial Officer typically meet with our 
major institutional shareholders twice a year, following the Company’s 
preliminary and interim results, which provides an opportunity for a 
review of the Company’s strategy and performance. The results 
presentations, webcast and announcement from the 2022 preliminary 
results and 2023 interim results are available on our website, 
centrica.com. 

In addition, management and/or Investor Relations attend a number of 
investor conferences throughout the year, giving shareholders further 
opportunity to meet and receive updates directly from Company 
representatives. Senior management, the Chair, Senior Independent 
Director and Remuneration Committee Chair are also available to meet 
on an ad-hoc basis with major shareholders if requested.

Engagement themes with our institutional shareholders 
During the year, engagement themes included: 

¢ Centrica’s strategic refresh;
¢ Full year and interim results;
¢ the Rough storage facility;
¢ UK energy security; 
¢ Dividends and shareholder returns;
¢ The regulatory and political environment for UK energy;
¢ Impact of rising commodity prices;
¢ Energy transition investment opportunities;
¢ Board succession;
¢ Liquidity and result of stress tests; and
¢ ESG matters.

GENERAL MEETINGS
The Board is committed to communicating with shareholders and other 
stakeholders in a clear and open manner and seeks to ensure effective 
engagement through the Company’s regular communications, the 
AGM and other investor relations activities. During 2023, the Company 
undertook an ongoing programme of meetings with investors (in 
person and virtually). The majority of these meetings were led by the 
Group Chief Executive and Group Chief Financial Officer. 

The Company holds an Annual General Meeting (AGM) each year and 
holds General Meetings as required. At the AGM, the Chair gives his 
thoughts on governance aspects of the preceding year and the Group 
Chief Executive reviews the performance of the Group over the last 
year. In advance of each AGM, we write to our largest shareholders 
inviting discussion on any questions they might like to raise and 
making the Chairs of the Board, the Audit and Risk Committee and 
the Remuneration Committee available to meet shareholders should 
they so wish. In addition, the Company engaged with its largest 
shareholders and key governance agencies in early 2023, on 
resolutions concerning the Directors’ Remuneration Policy and our 
Climate Transition Plan. Feedback was received from major 
shareholders and governance agencies and dialogue entered into 
with a number of shareholders regarding the proposals. 

The 2023 AGM was held as a hybrid meeting, giving shareholders the 
opportunity to participate (including asking questions and voting) in 
person or virtually via an online platform (Lumi). Shareholders were 
encouraged to exercise their votes by submitting their proxy forms 
either electronically or by post. We also invited shareholders to submit 
their questions in advance of the AGM via a dedicated question facility 
on our website and, where appropriate, the answers were published 
on our website.

Our 2023 AGM was well supported with voting in favour of the 
resolutions ranging from 92% to 99% and with 65% of issued share 
capital voted.  

Information about the 2024 AGM will be provided in the Notice of 
Meeting and will be available in due course at centrica.com/agm24. 
Voting on the resolutions will generally be conducted by a poll and the 
voting results will be announced through the Regulatory News Service 
of the London Stock Exchange and also made available on the 
Company’s website.

Centrica.com
Our website, centrica.com, contains up-to-date information for 
shareholders and other interested parties including Annual Report and 
Accounts, shareholder circulars, share price information, news 
releases, presentations to the investment community and information 
on shareholder services.

WORKFORCE
Workforce engagement
Responsibility for workforce engagement is shared amongst the 
Directors of the Board, which is a well-recognised approach adopted 
by companies. Through engaging with colleagues and understanding 
what they think and feel, the Board is able to make more informed 
decisions which enable better outcomes for colleagues as well as the 
Company.

During the year, the Chair and Non-Executive Directors engaged with 
members of the workforce in various ways. This included site visits 
to Brigg, Hessle, Easington Terminal, and Park House where they met 
with colleagues to better understand the businesses. 

Quarterly engagement surveys, feedback from the Shadow Board, 
town halls, meetings with members of the Centrica Leadership Team, 
both individually and together, leader-led listening sessions and 
colleague-led network sessions provided additional mechanisms to 
better understand the views of the workforce and to foster a more 
collegial culture.

Ongoing and holistic engagements like these contributed to the 
decision-making of the Centrica Leadership Team and the 
Board throughout the course of 2023. Further information on some 
of the decision-making of the Board can be found on page 17.

Equal opportunities
The Group has, and is committed to, an active equal opportunities 
policy which includes, but is not limited to, recruitment and selection, 
training, career development, performance reviews, promotion and 
through to retirement. Our culture is to create an inclusive and safe 
environment free from discrimination, harassment and victimisation. 
Our policies are in place to ensure everyone receives equal treatment 
regardless of gender, identity, race, ethnic or national origin, disability, 
age, marital status, sexual orientation or religion or any other 
characteristic protected by applicable laws.

70

Governance | Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

We have created channels for colleagues to voice concerns 
confidentially, through a Speak Up helpline that is operated by a 
third party.

Action like this helps to ensure that decisions relating to employment 
practices are objective and based upon work criteria and individual 
merit. See pages 45 for more information. 

Colleagues with disabilities
It is our policy that current and prospective colleagues with a disability 
have the same right to access and develop their careers as anyone 
else, which is why we are actively targeting to grow disability 
representation as part of our People & Planet Plan to ensure we reflect 
the full diversity of our communities (see page 42). Colleagues with a 
disability receive full and fair consideration when applying for all 
vacancies and we interview those who meet the minimum criteria 
required, whilst making all reasonable adjustments during recruitment 
or during their employment with us. To help everyone reach their full 
potential, we provide training, career development and promotion 
opportunities that are open to anyone who works for us alongside 
tailored programmes that specifically support colleagues with 
disabilities to achieve the next steps in their career. We also endeavour 
to retain colleagues in the workforce if they become disabled during 
employment.

To support this approach, in 2017 we launched Diverse-ability, a 
network that celebrates physiological and neurological diversity among 
colleagues. Over the years, the network has grown from strength-to-
strength to become a family of networks including the neurodiversity 
network and The Fertility Sanctuary. They are a vital source of support 
and education for colleagues, whilst providing us with essential 
feedback to help us evolve our business in a more inclusive way. As 
part of our ambition to be a more inclusive business, we support The 
Valuable 500 initiative to champion disability inclusion across the 
business and beyond. We are also members of their Generation 
Valuable mentoring programme to help identify and build a community 
of disabled talent to develop their skills and share their experiences 
upwards, informing the C-suite about how to make businesses more 
inclusive. In addition to this, we are a Level 2 Disability Confident 
Employer, partner with Scope and are members of the Business 
Disability Forum, which offers support, toolkits and advice to 
businesses around disability matters. In 2024, we plan to launch our 
Great Minds programme to help normalise and better support 
neurodiversity amongst other activities.

Human rights
We are fully committed to upholding the fundamental human rights and 
freedoms of everyone who works for us, with us, or lives in the 
communities where we operate. We uphold the UN Guiding Principles 
on Business and Human Rights and are signatories of the United 
Nations Global Compact. As set out in Our Code, we take steps to 
ensure that we never knowingly cause or contribute to human rights 
abuses through activities like employment checks and supplier due 
diligence. We also aim to contribute positively to global efforts to ensure 
human rights are understood and observed. Further information about 
our efforts can be found in our People & Planet Plan on page 46, as 
well as in our Modern Slavery Statement and Our Code available on our 
website centrica.com. 

Governance | Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

71

DEAR SHAREHOLDER

The Audit and Risk Committee is pleased to present its 
report for the year ended 31 December 2023, which 
summarises the Committee’s work to ensure the accuracy 
of the Group’s published financial information and the 
effectiveness of the Group’s risk management and internal 
controls framework.

This report should be read in conjunction with the following 
sections in the Annual Report and Accounts:
¢ Principal Risks and Uncertainties, pages 28 to 34
¢ Viability Statement, pages 35 to 37
¢ UK Corporate Governance Code application, page 64

COMMITTEE OVERVIEW
The Committee has a yearly agenda which is linked to the Company’s 
financial calendar. The agenda is flexible, enabling in-depth reviews of 
topics of particular importance to the Committee.

The core responsibilities of the Committee are to:

¢ monitor and review the adequacy and effectiveness of the 

governance and oversight of the Company’s financial processing 
and reporting, internal controls and risk management, including key 
judgments and estimates;

¢ provide advice and assurance to the Board on whether it has 

discharged its duties and whether the Annual Report and Accounts, 
when taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable and 
provides all the necessary information for shareholders and other 
stakeholders to assess the Company’s position, performance, 
business model and strategy;

¢ monitor and review the operation and effectiveness of the Group’s 
Internal Audit function, including its independence, strategic focus, 
activities, plans and resources;

¢ supervise the appointments of the Group Chief Risk Officer and 

Group Head of Internal Audit;

¢ manage the relationship with the Group’s external auditors on behalf 
of the Board (including appointment, independence, effectiveness 
and remuneration);

¢ conduct a tender for the external audit contract at least every 

10 years and make appointment recommendations to the Board;
¢ review the Company’s arrangements for its workforce/stakeholders 
to raise concerns in confidence about possible improprieties in 
financial reporting or other matters; and

¢ consider and review material legal and regulatory policy compliance 
issues or risks, and maintain oversight of the arrangements in place 
for the management of statutory and regulatory compliance in areas 
such as financial crime.

AUDIT AND RISK COMMITTEE

MEMBERSHIP, MEETING ATTENDANCE 
AND KEY FOCUS

Committee members
— Nathan Bostock (Chair) (with effect from 

1 March 2023)

— Kevin O’Byrne (Chair until 28 February 

2023)

— Carol Arrowsmith
— Philippe Boisseau (with effect from 

1 September 2023)

— CP Duggal

All Committee members are independent 
Non-Executive Directors. Nathan Bostock  
and Kevin O’Byrne have recent and relevant 
financial experience and the Committee has 
sector relevant competence, as disclosed on 
pages 59 to 63.

Carol Arrowsmith is connected to Deloitte 
LLP (‘Deloitte’) as, historically, she was a 
partner there. However, she had left Deloitte 
prior to their appointment as the Group’s 
external auditors. In addition to this, Deloitte 
provides her with services in a personal 
capacity. The Committee deems that this 
does not affect the independence and 
judgement of Deloitte, nor the Committee’s 
oversight of Deloitte’s performance.

Meeting attendees by invitation
All other Non-Executive Directors, Group Chief 
Executive, Group Chief Financial Officer, Group 
General Counsel & Company Secretary, General 
Counsel, Secretariat & Corporate Services, 
Group Financial Controller, Group Head of 
Accounting, Reporting and Tax, Group Head of 
Treasury, Pensions and Insurance, Group Chief 
Risk Officer and Group Head of Internal Audit, 
and the External auditors.

Focus areas in 2023
¢ The Group’s published financial information.
¢ The effectiveness of the Group’s risk 
management and internal controls 
framework.

¢ The Enterprise Risk and Control Framework 
including risks managed by the other Board 
committees.

¢ The management of cyber risks.
¢ Ethical, legal and regulatory matters.
¢ Deep dives on Centrica Energy.
¢ Finance Systems Review and Finance 

health check.

72

Governance | Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Main activities during 2023
During the year, the Committee met four times and considered a broad 
range of topics. Our key highlights are disclosed below:

¢ Accounting judgments, especially those related to Spirit Energy and 
Centrica Energy Storage, the reversal of the onerous supply contract 
provision, the impairment of the Nuclear asset, the Electricity 
Generator Levy and the assessment of the downstream supply bad 
debt provision.

¢ Viability and Going Concern assessments and related disclosures.
¢ Review of the 2022 financial results, the Annual Report and 

Accounts, and the 2023 interim financial results, including any 
relevant communications from Deloitte.

¢ Evaluation of the effectiveness of the external audit process and the 

Internal Audit function.

¢ Continued oversight of the control environment and finance systems 
maintenance and development, particularly regarding the migration 
of British Gas Energy customers’ migration to a new technology 
platform.

¢ Assessment of credit risk exposure amidst volatile commodity prices 
and the broader impacts of high commodity price environments.
¢ Review of the Group’s pension schemes, including the forthcoming 
triennial review and the impact of changes in gilt yields (see note 22).

¢ Monitoring of sanctions compliance, information systems, cyber 

security and data security risk management, especially considering 
geopolitical developments and updating the Board accordingly.

¢ Updates on legal, regulatory, and ethical compliance, with a focus on 
energy trading and the sale and delivery of FCA-regulated products 
and services, including the operation of Our Code and the Speak Up 
helpline.

¢ Preparation for upcoming legal and regulatory changes, such as 

reforms to the UK corporate governance regime.

¢ Regular reports and recommendations from Internal Audit and the 

external auditors on risk, assurance, and controls.

¢ Regulatory compliance considerations regarding British Gas Energy, 

including in relation to the installation of prepayment meters.

¢ Bad debt provisioning in the context of the cost of living crisis and 

suspension of prepayment meter installations.

¢ In-depth reviews of the risks and controls environment across 

various divisions of the Group, including British Gas Energy, British 
Gas Services & Solutions, Centrica Business Solutions, Bord Gáis 
Energy, and Centrica Energy, as well as the Group-wide financial 
risk and definitions of capital employed.

¢ Report on the changes to the Government support schemes 

for suppliers.

¢ Evaluated risks and opportunities related to climate change 

alongside the Safety, Environment and Sustainability Committee, 
to ensure that the Annual Report and Accounts comprehensively 
outlines the actions taken to effectively address major climate-
related concerns.

RISK MANAGEMENT AND INTERNAL CONTROLS
Internal Audit
The Committee oversees the Group’s Internal Audit function, ensuring 
its efficiency, independence, and alignment with strategic objectives. 
This includes regular reviews and approval of the annual Internal Audit 
plan, which is developed in response to the Group’s evolving Principal 
Risks (details on pages 28 to 34). The Group Head of Internal Audit  
maintains direct communication with the Board Chair and Committee 
Chair and is accountable to the Committee. Throughout the year, the 
Committee is updated on Internal Audit’s findings. It also monitors the 
implementation of follow-up actions by business units.

The independence, objectivity and effectiveness of the Internal Audit 
function was reviewed by reference to the output from a combination of 
self-assessment, independent assessment conducted by survey 
involving the CLT and a broader group of senior managers, as well as 
assessment by the Committee. The review concluded that the Internal 
Audit function operated in accordance with the Institute of Internal 
Auditors’ International Professional Practices and continued to be 
independent, objective, and effective. 

Review of the system of risk management and internal controls
Our risk management and internal controls are assessed through a 
self-certification process, a Group Entity Level Controls assessment 
program, and internal reviews by Internal Audit and the Committee. 
The Committee oversees the work of Internal Audit, the functional 
support teams, and the management teams, receiving regular updates 
on Group Principal Risks and other Group frameworks. At every 
meeting, the Committee receives an update on the Group’s Enterprise 
Risk and Controls from the Chief Risk Officer and Group Head of 
Accounting, Reporting & Tax. This details the key risks the Group 
faces, the change in risk climate since the last meeting and any new 
emerging risks. The update also highlights the control environment, any 
changes in that environment as the control framework keeps pace with 
business change, and any areas of weakness identified, together with 
proposed mitigations. The Committee has confidence in its ability to 
identify issues and the business units’ ability to remediate control gaps. 
The risk management process and internal controls have been in place 
throughout the year and remain effective, with ongoing review and 
improvement. 

The Committee has received regular reports throughout the year on the 
status of the Group’s transition to the new billing system, Ensek. The 
Committee was made aware of the evolving nature of the control 
activities performed in relation to this in-development Software as a 
Service (SaaS) environment. Given the controls were still developing, 
the external auditors did not plan to place reliance on controls in this 
area and, as expected, their control design and implementation work 
led to certain control findings and observations. Notwithstanding these 
findings, management and the Committee are satisfied with the manual 
review controls that have been put in place, which include a significant 
number of validations, checks, and other broad assurance activities, 
providing financial integrity and ensuring we remain comfortable with 
the financial results. The business is committed to evolving further the 
manual and IT controls in place and the extent of automation, as the 
platform continues its development.  Alongside Ensek, the Committee 
also noted external audit findings across some of the Group’s systems 
around user access and oversight of  service organisations, leading to 
more substantive audit testing. The Committee discussed these 
challenges with management and the mitigations and improvements in 
these areas expected in 2024. 

The Committee also noted that, in line with the culture of continuous 
improvement in the business, there is an ongoing review being 
undertaken on the Group Enterprise Risk Management framework. 

Fair, balanced and understandable
In line with the UK Code, the Committee, on behalf of the Board, 
reviews the Annual Report and Accounts to ensure it is compliant 
with applicable laws and regulations and provides shareholders and 
stakeholders with the necessary information to assess the Company’s 
position, performance, culture, business model, and strategy. The 
Committee also considers the processes and controls involved in 
the production of the Annual Report and Accounts, the governance 
framework for review and the responsibilities of the Directors. 

There is a robust governance framework around the production of 
the Annual Report and Accounts to ensure they have been critically 
reviewed and verified by the key teams in the relevant businesses and 
functions. This includes review and agreement by the Fair, Balanced 
and Understandable Committee (comprising Heads of Function from 
Finance, Corporate Communications, Investor Relations, Internal Audit, 
People Function, Strategy and Corporate Legal & Secretariat) together 
with review and input from other content owners and their managers. 

Governance | Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

73

EXTERNAL AUDITORS
External auditors and Effectiveness of the external audit process
The Committee manages the relationship with the Group’s external 
auditors on behalf of the Board. The Committee considers annually the 
scope, fee, audit plan, performance, objectivity and independence of the 
external auditors. To maintain objectivity, principal members of the external 
audit team are rotated off the Company's audit. Additionally, to protect the 
independence of the external auditors and the integrity of the audit 
process, the Company prohibits hiring senior staff from its auditors for at 
least two years after they stop providing services to the Company. Jane 
Boardman was appointed as the lead audit partner after the completion of 
the 2021 audit and has been serving in this role for two years.

To assess the effectiveness of the external audit process and 
independence and objectivity of the external auditors, the Committee 
carried out an assessment, as in prior years, primarily looking at the key 
areas of:

¢ robustness of the audit process
¢ quality of people and service
¢ quality of delivery
¢ independence and objectivity
¢ value added advice

This assessment included an internal questionnaire, which was 
completed by the Chair of the Board, Committee members and senior 
members of management on their views of Deloitte's performance. The 
questionnaire covered a review of the audit partner and team, the audit 
scope and approach, audit plan execution, auditor independence and 
objectivity and robustness of challenge of management. Separately, 
Deloitte also provided an assessment, via an internal management 
questionnaire, of management's controls, judgements and 
engagement throughout the audit process. The feedback was 
reviewed by management and reported to the Committee. 

The Committee and the Board confirm that they have taken all the 
necessary steps to become aware of any relevant audit information and 
to pass that information onto Deloitte. The Committee was satisfied 
with the external auditors' commitment to audit quality, the robust and 
professional working relationship with management and demonstration 
of strong technical knowledge and professional scepticism. In addition, 
to ensure the independence of the external auditors, and in accordance 
with International Standards on Auditing (UK & Ireland) 260 and Ethical 
Standard 2019 issued by the Accounting Practices Board and as a 
matter of best practice, Deloitte has confirmed its independence as 
auditors of the Company. On the basis of Deloitte's confirmation and 
report on their approach to audit quality and transparency, the 
Committee concluded that Deloitte possesses the appropriate 
qualifications and expertise; remains independent of the Group; and, 
coupled with effective management engagement, that the audit 
process was effective. 

The re-appointment of Deloitte as auditors for the 2023 financial year 
was approved by shareholders at the AGM in June 2023 and Deloitte 
has been recommended for re-appointment again in 2024. The 
Committee confirms that this recommendation is free from influence by 
any third party and no contractual term of the kind mentioned in Article 
16(6) of the Audit Regulation has been imposed on the Company.

Deloitte has been the Company’s auditor since 2017. The Committee 
has considered the timing of a competitive tender and has decided to 
conduct the tender in early 2025. This will allow sufficient time for audit 
firms otherwise working with Centrica in any capacity to become 
independent in advance of taking on the audit in 2027. Deloitte will be 
invited to participate in the tender. 

The Company has complied with the Statutory Audit Services Order 
2014 for the financial year under review.

Non-audit fees
To safeguard the objectivity and independence of the external auditors, 
the Committee is responsible for the policy on the award of non-audit 
services to the external auditors. A copy of this policy is available on our 
website centrica.com. The Chair of the Committee must approve all 
74

Governance | Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

requests to utilise Deloitte for non-audit services. There is an annual cap 
on non-audit work during the ordinary course of business of £1 million, 
which is assessed each year for appropriateness in the context of 
external guidance and regulation.

Overall total non-audit fees incurred in 2023 were £0.7 million (2022: 
£0.9 million), including £0.5 million for the review of the interim results. 
All non-audit fees relate to assurance services (e.g. Interim review or 
local regulatory requirements). In line with the non-audit fees policy, 
approval for this expenditure was sought and received from the 
Committee in advance of the work commencing and Deloitte were best 
placed to provide these services on a timely and cost efficient basis, 
given their position as the external auditor. The amount incurred in the 
year is well below the legal cap of 70% of non-audit fees (for services 
not required by regulation) compared to the three-year average of 
statutory audit fees, amounting to approximately 9%.

In normal circumstances, all significant non-audit work is put out to 
tender and Deloitte is only appointed if their experience and knowledge 
makes them the most appropriate supplier and it is clear another firm 
could not undertake the work without adversely impacting the 
businesses. For further information, see note S9 to the accounts on 
page 220. 

Corporate Reporting Review
The Audit and Risk Committee assists the Board in fulfilling its oversight 
responsibilities by reviewing and monitoring the integrity of the financial 
information provided to shareholders and other stakeholders. The 
Committee oversees financial reporting and related risks and internal 
controls and has a role in overseeing the internal and external auditors, 
as well as interacting with other members of management and external 
stakeholders as required. 

The FRC’s Corporate Reporting Review (‘CRR’) team carried out a 
review of the Company’s Annual Report and Accounts (‘ARA’) for the 
year-ended 31 December 2022. The Committee was pleased to note 
that the CRR team did not raise any questions or queries with the 
Company in relation to compliance with reporting requirements. 
Whilst the CRR team do not benefit from a detailed knowledge of the 
business or underlying transactions and therefore their review does not 
provide an assurance that the ARA is correct in all material respects, 
it is nonetheless a positive outcome.  

In advance of the Audit, Reporting and Governance Authority being 
created, the Committee, during the year, complied with the majority of 
the FRC's Audit Committees and the External Audit: Minimum Standard.

UK Corporate Governance Code preparedness
The Board regularly receives updates from the Group General 
Counsel & Company Secretary about important developments and 
upcoming changes in UK Corporate Governance. During the year, 
the Committee, aided by the Group General Counsel & Company 
Secretary, considered the changes to the UK Corporate Governance 
Code and considered how these changes affect the roles and terms 
of reference of the Board Committees.

Committee effectiveness
The Committee reviews its terms of reference annually to ensure they 
remain appropriate in light of legal, regulatory and best practice 
changes. No material changes were made to the Committee’s terms 
of reference in the year under review (available on centrica.com). 

The effectiveness and performance of the Committee was evaluated 
as part of the overall evaluation of the Board and its Committees. 
Feedback from that process indicated that the Committee was 
performing effectively. Read page 66 for further information. Focus 
areas for the Committee in the year ahead include the review and 
update of the Group Enterprise Risk Management framework, 
alongside relevant Controls; the continued scrutiny of cyber risks, 
the rotational deep dives into material businesses and preparation 
for the audit tender in 2025. 

Nathan Bostock
on behalf of the Audit and Risk Committee
14 February 2024

Key judgements and financial reporting matters in 2023

Audit and Risk Committee reviews and conclusions

Electricity Generator Levy
The Electricity Generator Levy (EGL) applies a tax rate of 45% on 
revenues from sales exceeding a benchmark price of £75/MWh on 
electricity generated from nuclear sources. It applies from 1 January 
2023 to 31 March 2028. Because EGL is a tax on revenue and not 
profits, it falls under IFRIC 21: Levies and is not in the scope of IAS 12: 
Income Taxes. This means that EGL is not recognised in the tax line but 
instead reduces the Group’s adjusted operating profit.  

EGL is chargeable within the Group’s associate accounted 20% nuclear 
investment for its sale of electricity, as well as on off-take arrangements 
with significant minority shareholders in such generators.

During the year, the Group’s share of its Nuclear associate’s EGL 
payments amounted to £41 million (recorded within the share of profit 
after tax from associates). The Group has also made payments on 
account to HMRC of £285 million in relation to its estimated EGL 
liabilities for its minority shareholder Nuclear offtake arrangements 
during the year and this expense has been recorded within Cost of 
Sales.

The EGL legislation is new, and its interpretation and application is 
unclear in respect of the Group’s minority shareholder Nuclear offtake 
arrangements. As such, the extent of the levy that will ultimately be due 
in this regard is not yet certain, and a different amount (up to the £285 
million paid to date) may ultimately be determined. If this were the case, 
the Group would be due repayment of excess monies paid to HMRC 
and at the point at which such repayment became probable, a tax 
deposit asset would be recorded on the Group’s balance sheet, and as 
a credit within Cost of Sales in the income statement, in accordance 
with the 2019 IFRIC Agenda decision on Deposits relating to taxes other 
than income taxes. No tax deposit asset has been recorded because it 
is not deemed probable, as at the balance sheet date, that this will 
ultimately be recoverable (or used to settle another tax liability).

Determination of forecast commodity prices and
their use in valuing long-lived assets and derivative contracts
Commodity price forecasts are a key assumption in the valuation of the 
Group’s long-lived assets and derivative contracts. For short-term 
commodity prices over the next four years, observable liquid market 
prices (as at 31 December 2023) are taken as the best view of expected 
price. For the longer-term period thereafter, the Group uses a ‘P50’ 
median price curve, derived from a collection of third-party forecasts. 
This approach is deemed to align to pricing that a reasonable market 
participant would use. The Group has used these price curves in its 
asset impairment testing and contract valuations.

The Group has also obtained commodity price forecasts which are 
intended to be consistent with net zero by 2050. These are lower than 
the ‘P50’ curves the Group has adopted for NBP Gas but broadly similar 
for baseload power. The Group has shown the impact of such price 
forecasts on the gas assets and Nuclear assets in note 7 of the financial 
statements.

The Committee reviewed and discussed the complexity around the 
interpretation of the Electricity Generator Levy legislation. 

It also held discussions with the external auditors to confirm their view 
and the appropriateness of the accounting treatment adopted.

The Committee concluded that the judgement reached was appropriate 
and concurred with the accounting approach.

The Committee also noted the disclosures included in the financial 
statements to highlight the key source of estimation uncertainty in this 
area.

Further detail is provided in notes 1 and 3 on pages 132 to 133 and 136 
to 142.

The Committee noted the fall in short-term commodity prices during the 
year, with year-end prices well below 2022 levels. It also observed the 
flattening of summer/winter gas price spreads. The Committee 
understood that these outputs impact many of the other judgements 
listed below.

The Committee reconfirmed continued support for the longer-term ‘P50’ 
median curve (derived from third parties) approach. It noted that the 
‘P50’ long-term commodity price forecasts were broadly similar year-on-
year for all commodities and that these prices movements were 
insignificant compared with the near-term falls.

As a result of the above, the Committee was comfortable the curves 
were reasonable.

Sensitivities of the asset impairment tests to changes in price forecasts 
are provided in note 7 on page 152 to 156.

The Committee noted the use of a price curve intended to be consistent 
with net zero by 2050 in the impairment sensitivities and believed the 
output provided useful information to readers of the accounts. 

The Committee also noted the continued inclusion of a Climate Change 
accounting considerations section in note 3. 

Governance | Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

75

Key judgements and financial reporting matters in 2023

Audit and Risk Committee reviews and conclusions

The Committee noted that the Group’s policy and methodologies in 
classifying and valuing energy derivatives were unchanged from 
previous periods.

The Committee also reviewed and understood the breakdown by 
business of the movement in IFRS 9 energy derivative valuations in the 
Group Income Statement.

They reflected on the fact the certain re-measurement derivative net gain 
of £3.6 bn was predominantly as a result of the unwind of prior year out-
of-the money positions. Although commodity prices fell during the year, 
the timing of each business (e.g. UK supply book, Upstream/
infrastructure asset books) entering into new hedge trades was 
important, such that the net movement on unrealised trades was small in 
comparison to the unwind.

The Committee noted that following the extremely volatile prices in 
2022, all of the books had moved into more normal closing derivative 
positions, with Supply load books (buy books) being out-of-the-money 
following a period of falling prices, and Upstream/infrastructure asset 
and Centrica Energy (sell books) being in-the-money.  These closing 
positions are also at significantly lower values compared with the prior 
period, with the consequent expectation that the future 2024 certain re-
measurement unwind will also be at significantly lower levels than seen 
in 2022 and 2023.   

The Committee noted the link between the derivative certain                 
re-measurements for the UK supply books and the onerous supply 
contract provision certain re-measurements, as discussed below.
Further detail is provided in notes 2 and 7 on pages 134 to 135 and 152 
to 156.

The Committee noted and continued to concur with the specific 
judgement around LNG contract own use classifications.

The Committee reviewed the change in the underlying derivative hedge 
values of the business books and therefore the movement in the 
onerous energy supply contract provision.

The Committee noted that this movement is mainly driven by the unwind 
of the previous hedges.

The Committee observed that an onerous provision could come back 
in 2024 if derivative hedges moved back into the money but this is 
dependent on energy prices and the hedged position.

The Committee noted the disclosures included in the financial 
statements to highlight this area.

The Committee held discussions with the external auditors to re-confirm 
the appropriateness of the accounting treatment and to confirm their 
views of the assumptions used.

Further detail is provided in notes 2, 3 and 7 on pages 134 to 142 and 
152 to 156.

Energy derivatives – classification and valuation
The Group enters into numerous commodity contracts in its ordinary 
course of business. This can be to procure load for its downstream 
business, sell output from its upstream/infrastructure assets, to trade 
around its other commodity exposures or to make money from 
proprietary activities. On entering into these contracts, the business 
assesses each of the individual trades and classifies them as either:

(i) Out of scope of IFRS 9:

For ‘own use’ contracts (i.e. customer contracts, contracts to take 
delivery and meet customer demand or sell upstream/infrastructure 
output) and contracts that cannot be net settled.

(ii)

In scope of IFRS 9:

Contracts for commodities which have the ability to be and practice of 
being net settled.

Energy contracts outside the scope of IFRS 9 are accruals accounted. 
Those contracts considered to be within the scope of IFRS 9 are treated 
as derivatives and are marked-to-market (fair valued). If the derivatives 
are for proprietary energy trading, they are recorded in the business 
performance column of the Group Income Statement. If they are entered 
into to protect and optimise the value of underlying assets/contracts or 
to meet the future downstream demand needs, they are recorded as 
certain re-measurements.

The fair-value of derivatives are estimated by reference to published 
liquid price quotations for the relevant commodity. Where the derivative 
extends into illiquid periods, the valuation typically uses the ‘P50’ 
median price curves (see Determination of long-term commodity prices 
and their use valuing long-lived assets).

Judgement is required in all aspects of both the classifications and 
valuations.

One of the Group’s critical accounting judgements is that its LNG 
contracts are outside the scope of IFRS 9 because they are entered into 
for its own purchase and sale requirements (‘own use’).

Onerous energy supply contract provision
The Group’s residential and business energy supply contracts are 
accruals accounted. The Group operates and manages a hedging 
strategy to ensure that the future costs of supplying these customer 
portfolios are appropriately managed.

These hedges are generally in the scope of IFRS 9 and are measured at 
fair value (see ‘Energy Derivatives – classification and valuation’ above). 
They are recognised as certain re-measurements in the Group income 
statement until the point at which the related costs to purchase 
electricity and gas are incurred.

At the end of 2022, business supply hedges were significantly in-the-
money, following previous increases in near-term commodity prices. 
Because of this hedge value recognition, the assessment of whether the 
business supply contracts were onerous had to be calculated based on 
the cost of fulfilling these arrangements, including the reversal of 
previous mark-to-market gains.

Accordingly, the Group determined that at 31 December 2022, the future 
costs to fulfil business customer contracts including mark-to-market 
reversals would exceed the charges recovered from customers because 
the associated hedging gains had already been recognised in the 
Income Statement. The Group therefore retained an onerous supply 
contract provision of c.£1 billion at that date. 

During 2023, the business supply hedges moved to being out-of-the-
money and consequently, the costs to fulfil the customer contracts 
including mark-to-market reversals no longer exceed the charges 
expected to be recovered from the customer. Therefore no onerous 
supply contract provision is required and the previous provision has 
been unwound. 

The movement in the onerous provision has been reflected as a certain 
re-measurement in the Income Statement because these supply 
contracts are economically related to the fair value movements on the 
hedges (note that the certain re-measurement Income Statement 
movement is £0.8 billion, because a £0.2 billion onerous provision was 
acquired as part of the Avanti Gas purchase).

76

Governance | Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Key judgements and financial reporting matters in 2023

Audit and Risk Committee reviews and conclusions

Impairment of long-lived assets
The Group makes judgements and estimates in considering whether the 
carrying amounts of its assets are recoverable:

Upstream (Power assets and Gas assets (including gas storage))
For Upstream/infrastructure assets, discounted cash flows are prepared 
from projected production profiles of each field or power asset, taking 
into account forecast future commodity prices, to assess their 
recoverable amount. When deriving forecast cash flows, market prices 
are used for the period when a commodity is liquid. For the longer-term 
illiquid period, the ‘P50’ median price curve is used (see ‘Determination 
of forecast commodity prices and their use valuing long-lived assets and 
derivatives’, above).

Judgement is also required around production volumes. For Nuclear, 
individual station information and recent availability data is factored in to 
the overall asset valuation. The expected operating life of Sizewell has 
continued to be reflected to 2055 in the modelling, beyond the original 
design life. During 2023, the expected closure dates for Heysham 1 and 
Hartlepool stations were extended by two years to March 2026, with a 
plus or minus one year window either side of this date. For Gas assets, 
each field has specific reservoir and field characteristics and is modelled 
independently. For the Rough gas storage asset, in addition to the 
above process associated with its cushion gas production, an 
assessment is also made of value to be derived from cycling gas in and 
out of the reservoir (predominantly from summer/winter gas spreads). 
This assessment utilises the forward market prices noted above and is 
also used to calculate the optimum cushion gas production date to 
maximise the recoverable amount of the asset.

Consistent with previous years, taxes and levies are also included in the 
discounted cash flow modelling. For Nuclear, the Electricity Generator 
Levy (see ‘Electricity Generator Levy’ above) applies a tax rate of 45% 
on revenues exceeding a benchmark price of £75/MWh and applies from 
1 January 2023 to 31 March 2028. For Gas assets, the Energy Profits 
Levy applies a rate of 35% (bringing the headline rate on Gas asset 
profits to 75%) and also continues until 31 March 2028. 

Predominantly as a result of the year-on-year decrease in forecast 
commodity prices, an exceptional impairment of £549 million has been 
booked in relation to the Nuclear investment.

For Gas assets, the Rough gas storage field has booked an exceptional 
impairment of £82 million as a result of both the fall in forecast gas 
prices and the flattening of summer/winter gas spreads. All other gas 
fields retained impairment headroom.

Credit provisions for trade and other receivables
The IFRS 9 impairment model requires credit provisions (‘bad debt’) for 
trade and other receivables to be based on an expected credit loss 
model, as opposed to an incurred loss basis. The economic effects of 
the inflationary pressures on household income, not least energy prices, 
and the wider cost of living crisis will likely impact the ability of the 
Group’s customers to pay amounts due. Accordingly, there is significant 
judgement around the levels of forecast bad debt and the provisioning 
required at the year-end.

The Group’s residential and business energy supply customers account for 
the majority of the Group’s credit exposure (with balances associated with 
our trading business generally received within 30 days). Expected default 
rates in these areas are calculated initially on a matrix basis by considering 
recent historical loss experience, the nature of the customer, payment 
method selected and, where relevant, the sector in which they operate. 
Management has then also factored in forward-looking economic 
assumptions, taking into account inflation and affordability forecasts.

In the prior year a high-level macroeconomic provision of £125 million 
was maintained to cover inflationary concerns. During 2023, the deemed 
quality and relative ageing of the Group’s debt has declined with 
difficulties in field debt recovery following the suspension of prepayment 
meters and the fragile economic climate. Given these issues and the 
economic environment, the high level macroeconomic provisions have 
been increased by £50 million (to £175 million) to cover these concerns. 
For UK Downstream energy supply, the bad debt charge as a 
percentage of revenue increased to 2.7% (2022: 2.1%). The closing bad 
debt provision moved to 34% (2022: 26%) of UK energy supply gross 
receivables.

Due to the significant estimation uncertainty in this area, management 
continues to provide detailed analysis and sensitivities in note 17 to the 
Financial Statements.

The Committee challenged management and the external auditors on 
the key inputs to the impairment models including price, outage rates, 
assumed lives, tax and discount rates, and were comfortable with the 
conclusions reached.

The Committee reviewed the Nuclear investment impairment and noted 
that the decrease in near-term commodity prices had more than offset 
the benefit of life extensions at Heysham and Hartlepool. 

It also considered the Rough gas storage field impairment, following 
price and summer/winter spreads falls and highlighted the difficulty in 
assessing option value. 

The Committee noted that price sensitivity disclosures have been 
included in the financial statements.

Further detail on impairments and the assumptions used in determining 
the recoverable amounts is provided in notes 7 and S2 on pages152 to 
156 and 191 to 203.

The Committee reviewed management’s groupings of receivables by 
the key factors affecting recoverability (e.g. payment method, nature of 
customers) and considered the levels of provisions booked against each 
grouping, at the year-end.

The Committee discussed the approach with the external auditors.

The Committee was comfortable with the provisions booked, including 
the increase in the macroeconomic provisions, whilst noting the 
significant estimation uncertainty in this area.

The Committee noted the continued enhanced disclosure in note 17, 
setting out the judgemental nature of the provisioning and the sensitivity 
analysis to allow users of the accounts to model different outcome 
scenarios.

Governance | Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

77

Key judgements and financial reporting matters in 2023

Audit and Risk Committee reviews and conclusions

The Committee noted that the policy on certain re-measurements and 
exceptional items remains unchanged from the prior year. 

The Committee had formally reviewed and approved the Group’s policy 
on exceptional items in previous years and, in the current year, it used 
this policy to help inform the appropriateness of the proposed 
classifications. It challenged the items classified as exceptional items, 
considering their size, nature and incidence and in the context of the 
Group policy. The Committee concluded that separate disclosure of 
these items as exceptional was appropriate in the Financial Statements.

The Committee ultimately agreed that presenting certain re-measurements 
and exceptional items separately continues to allow underlying performance 
to be reflected on a consistent and comparable basis through the use of the 
adjusted alternative performance measures (e.g. adjusted operating profit).

Further detail is provided in notes 2, 3 and 7 on pages 134 to 142 and 
152 to 156.

The Committee has reviewed the level of unread revenue and unbilled 
accrual made during the year and discussed with management and the 
external auditors.

The Committee noted that the Ensek platform uses a different process 
to calculate the unbilled accrual compared with the legacy SAP system.  
Data from smart meters, industry information and from customers on the 
SAP system was utilised to finalise the Ensek revenue adjustment and 
the external auditors had independently reperformed this calculation to 
within an immaterial difference.

More details on unread energy income are provided in note 3 on pages 
136 to 142 and on unbilled energy income in note 17 on pages 168 to 
174.

The Committee noted the key pension assumptions and disclosures 
in the Financial Statements.

It noted that these assumptions were derived on a consistent basis 
to previous periods.

The Committee recognised the role of the independent actuary, who is 
consulted on the appropriateness of the assumptions, and discussions 
were also held with the external auditors.

The Committee also understood the need to continue to provide extra 
funding to the schemes to ensure they remained appropriately hedged. 

It also noted the greater proportion of unquoted assets in the scheme 
portfolio and welcomed the greater scrutiny on these valuations.

Further details on pensions are set out in note 22 on pages 178 to 182.

Classification and presentation of exceptional items and certain 
re-measurements
The Group reflects its underlying financial results in the business 
performance column of the Group Income Statement. To be able to 
provide this in a clear and consistent presentation, the effects of certain 
re-measurements of financial instruments and onerous supply contract 
provisions, and exceptional items are reported separately in a different 
column in the Group Income Statement.

The classification of items as exceptional and specific trades as certain 
re-measurements (see ‘Onerous energy supply contract provision’ and 
‘Energy Derivatives – classification and valuation’ sections above) are 
subject to defined Group policies. These policies are reviewed annually 
by management.

At the year-end, exceptional items included the Nuclear and Rough gas 
storage asset impairments noted above. Also included is a write-off of 
£14 million predominantly associated with a battery storage asset and a 
gas engine in Centrica Business Solutions. 

Certain re-measurements totalled an overall c.£4.4 billion gain – being 
£3,573 million gain from derivatives and £833 million gain from the 
onerous supply contract provision movement.

Energy supply revenue recognition
The Group’s revenue for energy supply activities includes an estimate of 
energy supplied to customers between the date of the last meter reading 
and an estimated year-end position. This is estimated through the billing 
systems, using historical consumption patterns, on a customer-by-
customer basis, taking into account weather patterns, load forecasts 
and the differences between actual meter readings being returned and 
system estimates. An assessment is also made of any factors that are 
likely to materially affect the ultimate economic benefits which will flow 
to the Group, including bill cancellation and re-bill rates. To the extent 
that the economic benefits are not expected to flow to the Group, 
revenue is not recognised.

At the year-end, unread energy income for the continuing supply 
businesses was £3.0 billion (2022: £2.9 billion).

Pensions
The assets and liabilities, and the cost associated with providing 
benefits under defined benefit schemes is determined separately for 
each of the Group’s schemes. Judgement is required in setting the key 
assumptions used for the actuarial valuation which determines the 
ultimate cost of providing post-employment benefits, especially given 
the length of the Group’s expected liabilities.

The net Group pension liability position was £117 million (2022: £40 
million asset). The UK defined benefit schemes used a nominal discount 
rate of 4.6% (2022: 4.7%) and inflation of 2.9% (2022: 3.0%)

Following the Liability Driven Investment (LDI) crisis in the pensions 
arena in late 2022, the Group continues to provide a £400 million 
interest-bearing loan to the UK Registered Pension Schemes to ensure 
the schemes can maintain a high level of interest and inflation hedging 
and meet any collateral requirements.

The Group judged that this should be accounted for as a loan (within 
Securities) in the books of the Group and as a reduction in scheme 
assets for the Pension Schemes.

As a consequence of the LDI issues, the pension scheme continue to have a 
greater proportion of unquoted assets in its asset portfolio. As a result the 
Group undertakes more detailed reviews of these valuations, whilst 
acknowledging the inherent uncertainty compared with quoted assets.

Fair, balanced and understandable
The Board is required to confirm that the Annual Report and Financial 
Statements are fair, balanced and understandable. To enable the Board 
to make this declaration, there is a year-end review process to ensure 
that the Committee and the Board have access to all relevant 
information, including management’s papers on significant issues.

The Committee reviewed the key factors considered in determining 
whether the Annual Report is fair, balanced and understandable. The 
Committee and all Board members received a draft of the Annual Report 
and Financial Statements in sufficient time to review and challenge the 
disclosures therein. In addition, the Committee took into consideration 
the external auditors’ reviews of the consistency between the reporting 
narrative of the Annual Report and the Financial Statements.

78

Governance | Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

NOMINATIONS COMMITTEE

MEMBERSHIP, MEETING ATTENDANCE 
AND KEY FOCUS

Committee members
— Scott Wheway (Chair)
— Carol Arrowsmith
— Philippe Boisseau (with effect from 

1 September 2023)

— Nathan Bostock
— CP Duggal
— Jo Harlow (with effect from 1 December 2023)
— Heidi Mottram
— Kevin O’Byrne
— Amber Rudd
— Sue Whalley (with effect from 1 December 

2023). 

Biographical details of the Committee Chair 
and members can be found on pages 59 to 
62. Meeting attendance of the Committee 
members can be found on page 68.

Meeting attendees by invitation
Group Chief Executive, Group General 
Counsel & Company Secretary, Group Chief 
People Officer and Group Chief Financial 
Officer.

Focus areas in 2023
¢ Board skills.
¢ Board diversity.
¢ Independent Non-Executive Director 

succession planning.

¢ Executive Director succession planning.
¢ Board Committee composition. 
¢ Independent Non-Executive Director 

recruitment.

¢ Approach to workforce engagement.
¢ Board training requirements. 
¢ Election and re-election of Directors at the 

2023 AGM.

¢ Approach to, and findings arising from, 

an annual Board effectiveness evaluation 
(see page 66).

¢ Oversight of Directors’ external 

appointments.

DEAR SHAREHOLDER
On behalf of the Board, I am pleased to present the 
Nominations Committee report for 2023 which explains 
the Committee’s focus and activities during the year.

COMMITTEE OVERVIEW
The Nominations Committee is responsible for ensuring that the Board 
and its Committees have the appropriate balance of skills, knowledge, 
and experience to effectively lead the Company both now and in the 
future. This is achieved through a formal procedure for the appointment 
of new Directors to the Board, an effective succession planning 
process, reviewing Board composition and Board skills, and assessing 
Board training requirements. 

MAIN ACTIVITIES DURING 2023
Board succession planning and Board skills
The Committee is responsible for leading the succession planning 
process and making recommendations to the Board. The Committee 
takes a long-term view to succession planning, regularly reviewing 
Board tenure, Board diversity (particularly diversity of gender, cultural 
background and experience) and assessing the skills required by the 
Board to best support the Company’s strategy on a multi-year look 
ahead as well as in the near term. Details of the wide range of skills, 
backgrounds and experience possessed by the Board today can be 
found in the Directors’ biographies.

The Committee’s work on succession planning directly informed 
recruitment in 2023. A focus area for the Committee in 2024 will remain 
ensuring the Company continues to have appropriate succession plans 
for different time horizons.

Independent Non-Executive Director recruitment
A primary focus area for the Committee in 2023 was independent  
Non-Executive Director recruitment that would continue to strengthen 
the Board’s existing capabilities in a way that would further support the 
delivery of the Company’s strategy.

Centrica has a thorough and robust search process for the selection 
of independent Non-Executive Directors involving the engagement of 
specialist external search firms. In identifying and nominating 
candidates to fill Board vacancies, the Committee considers 
candidates from a wide range of backgrounds, assessing them on 
merit against objective criteria and with due regard for the benefits of 
diversity on the Board. The Committee therefore takes particular 
interest in the recruitment process of its independent search firms to 
ensure that a diverse pool of candidates is considered for any vacancy.

A shortlist of candidates is shared with the Committee, meetings are 
scheduled with Directors and members of management, and then 
once the candidates have been identified, and their ability to meet the 
necessary time commitment is confirmed, a recommendation is made 
to the Board.

Governance | Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

79

The Committee therefore continues to embrace the strategic 
importance of diversity, equity and inclusion, including as part of the 
Board’s own succession planning. The Committee will report in the 
2024 Annual Report and Accounts how the updated Board diversity 
policy was implemented and the results thereof. 

As at 31 December 2023, 41.7% of the Board and 55.6% of 
independent Non-Executive Directors (excluding the Chair of the Board) 
were women, and the Board composition met, and continues to meet, 
the Listing Rules target for ethnic minority representation. As noted in 
the Governance introduction on page 57, the Board is fully aware that it 
currently does not meet the expectation that one of the following four 
roles, Chair, Group Chief Executive, Group Chief Financial Officer and 
Senior Independent Director is held by a woman. Through steps taken 
as part of its succession planning arrangements, the Board is fully 
committed to addressing this situation at the earliest possible 
opportunity. Further information on compliance with Board diversity 
targets can be found in the Governance introduction on page 57, 
and set out in the table on page 81. 

As disclosed in the table on page 81, there was a decline in the 
proportion of ethnically diverse individuals on the Board from 11% 
in 2022 to 8% in 2023. This decrease is attributed to the Board’s 
expansion from nine members in 2022 to 12 members in 2023, which 
enhanced the Board’s gender diversity whilst the number of individuals 
from an ethnically diverse background remained unchanged.

Further information on the steps that the Company is taking to create 
a diverse and inclusive workplace can be found in the Chief People 
Officer’s Report on pages 38 to 40.

Workforce engagement
The Committee reviewed the Board’s approach to workforce 
engagement pursuant to the expectations of Provision 5 of the UK 
Corporate Governance Code. The Committee supports the Board’s 
view that workforce engagement is a collective responsibility shared 
amongst the Directors of the Board and therefore ultimately decided to 
adopt a collective approach to workforce engagement involving all 
Directors and leveraging a combination of different types of 
engagement, including listening sessions with colleagues; meetings 
with senior leaders and future talent where they discuss opportunities 
for improving colleague performance and Company growth; and 
dedicated engagement sessions with the Chairs of the employee-led 
colleague networks such as the Women’s network and the Diverse-
Ability network. The Board believes this approach enables it to 
effectively fulfil its responsibility of staying engaged and informed about 
the workforce’s interest and matters.

Committee effectiveness
The Committee conducted its annual review of its terms of reference 
and concluded that no material changes were required. The 
Committee’s terms of reference are available on our website 
centrica.com.

The effectiveness and performance of the Committee was evaluated 
as part of the overall evaluation of the Board and its Committees. 
Feedback from that process indicated that the Committee was 
performing effectively. Succession planning at Board, executive and 
senior management levels and developing a talent pipeline continue 
to be key priorities for the Committee in the year ahead. Read page 66 
for further information.

Scott Wheway
on behalf of the Nominations Committee
14 February 2024

Lygon Group supported the search processes that led to the 
appointments of Philippe Boisseau in September 2023 and Jo Harlow 
and Sue Whalley in December 2023. Philippe brings significant 
experience of the energy sector, particularly energy assets, energy 
infrastructure and renewable energy transition, all of which is immensely 
valuable and relevant to Centrica. Jo has extensive knowledge on the 
use of technology and data to enhance development and drive growth 
in consumer businesses and Sue brings a blend of experience in 
people and cultural transformation, as well as strategic, technological 
and operational evolution in large, complex organisations. The collective 
experience and contribution from each of these Directors will 
undoubtedly be of great benefit to Centrica. Further information about 
Philippe, Jo and Sue can be found in their biographies. 

There are no connections between Lygon Group, the Company and its 
individual Directors.  

Executive Director succession 
As disclosed in last year’s Annual Report and Accounts, Russell 
O’Brien was appointed Group Chief Financial Officer and Executive 
Director with effect from 1 March 2023, bringing broad experience 
across the energy value chain. Following an orderly transition to Russell, 
Kate Ringrose stepped down as Chief Financial Officer and Executive 
Director on 28 February 2023. Further information about Russell can be 
found in his biography.

Board training
The Committee reviewed the training received by the Board during 
2023 as well as the training requirements for the Board in 2024. 
In doing so, the Committee sought to ensure the Board remained 
equipped with the latest knowledge and understanding to support 
effective decision-making. Board training in 2023 included sessions 
on directors’ duties and models of economic regulation for hydrogen 
production and storage as well as carbon capture and storage. The 
Committee also identified further areas of training that will inform the 
Board’s training programme in 2024. Further details of training, 
development and induction for all new Directors are on page 66.

Oversight of Director external appointments
To ensure that Directors will continue to have sufficient time to commit 
to their Centrica responsibilities, any additional external appointments 
taken up require advance consultation with the Chair and, where 
appropriate, approval by the full Board. 

The Committee considered Kevin O’Byrne’s external appointment 
to International Flavors & Fragrances, Inc. which took effect from 
10 March 2023. The Committee was satisfied that following his 
stepping down from the board of J Sainsbury plc in March 2023 that 
Kevin would continue to have sufficient time to commit to his Centrica 
responsibilities.

A focus on diversity, equity and inclusion
We operate in increasingly diverse communities and this diversity is 
evident in our workforce and our customers, suppliers, and other 
stakeholders. 

As set out in our Board diversity policy, we know that being inclusive 
of the diversity we have in our business will give us a competitive 
advantage. 

We updated our Board diversity policy in December 2023 to clarify that 
it extends to key Board Committees, and to provide for consideration 
of a wider list of diversity characteristics, including ethnicity, sexual 
orientation, disability and socio-economic background. 

The purpose of the Board diversity policy is to guarantee that both the 
Board and the Nominations Committee adopt an inclusive approach 
during the nomination and appointment processes. 

The revised Board diversity policy can be found on our website at 
centrica.com.  

80

Governance | Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

BOARD AND SENIOR 
LEADERSHIP DIVERSITY

SEX/GENDER REPRESENTATION

Men
Women
Other/not Specified
Prefer not to say

Number of
Board members 
7
5
—
—

Percentage
of the Board
 58% 
 42% 
—
—

Number of 
senior positions 
on the Board*
4
—
—
—

Percentage of 
senior positions 
on the Board*
 100% 
—
—
—

Number in
executive
management
7
3
—
—

Percentage of 
executive
management
 70% 
 30% 
—
—

*There are 4 senior positions on the Board (Group Chief Executive, CFO, SID and Chair).

ETHNICITY REPRESENTATION

White British or other White
Mixed/Multiple Ethnic Groups
Asian/Asian British
Black/African/Caribbean/Black British
Other ethnic group, including Arab
Not specified/prefer not to say

Number of
Board members 
11
—
1
—
—
—

Percentage
of the Board
 92% 
—
 8% 
—
—
—

Number of 
senior positions 
on the Board*
4
—
—
—
—
—

Percentage of 
senior positions 
on the Board*
 100% 
—
—
—
—
—

Number in
executive
management
8
—
2
—
—
—

Percentage of 
executive
management
 80% 
—
 20% 
—
—
—

*There are 4 senior positions on the Board (Group Chief Executive, CFO, SID and Chair).

READ MORE ABOUT BOARD DIVERSITY ON PAGE 80

Explanatory notes
(1) The information above is stated as at 31 December 2023.
(2) We recognise the importance of driving greater diversity across the full breadth of our business – from the Boardroom to our customer-facing colleagues and we therefore 

actively track, monitor and work towards our diversity goals to reflect the communities we serve.

(3) As at 31 December 2023, we met the Parker Review target to have at least one Director from a minority ethnic background. We also made good progress towards the 
Board diversity targets set out in Listing Rule 9.8.6(9). This included (i) at least 40% female representation on the Board (2023: 42%) and (iii) at least one Director being 
ethnically diverse (2023: 1 person) which aligns with the Parker Review. However with Kate Ringrose stepping down from being Chief Financial Officer on 28 February 
2023, and Russell O’Brien joining the Board on 1 March 2023, we did not meet target (ii) to have at least one senior position held by a woman.

(4) To grow our diversity further, we have taken positive action which includes succession planning and mandating diverse candidates for senior roles. By the end of 2030, 

it is our goal for our Board, executive management and senior leaders to be 48% women and 18% ethnically diverse. As part of our commitment to the Parker Review in 
setting a senior leader ethnic diversity target by 2027, in 2023 we decided to bring our 18% goal forward by three years.

(5) Our diversity data is collated through our HR management system. We encourage all colleagues to self-report information such as gender, gender identity, ethnicity, age, 
sexual orientation, disability and military background, whilst also including a ‘prefer not to say’ option. We continued to run our #ThisIsMe campaign to encourage more 
people to share who they are in 2023, which helps us better understand who is working for us and where we need to target action to grow greater diversity.

Governance | Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

81

SAFETY, ENVIRONMENT AND 
SUSTAINABILITY COMMITTEE

MEMBERSHIP, MEETING ATTENDANCE 
AND KEY FOCUS

Committee members
— Heidi Mottram (Chair) 
— Philippe Boisseau (with effect from 

1 September 2023)

— Nathan Bostock
— Amber Rudd
— Scott Wheway

Biographical details of the Committee Chair 
and members can be found on pages 59 to 
63. Meeting attendance of the Committee 
members can be found on page 68.

Meeting attendees by invitation
All other Non-Executive Directors, Group Chief 
Executive, Group General Counsel & Company 
Secretary, Group Chief People Officer, Group 
HSE Director, Group Head of Environment, Chief 
Procurement Officer, Head of Business Ethics 
and Compliance and Deputy Head of Secretariat.

Focus areas in 2023
¢ Health and safety risks.
¢ Environment.
¢ Emerging climate reporting requirements and 

climate matters.

¢ Responsible sourcing including human 

rights and modern slavery risk.

¢ Societal contribution.
¢ Reputation.

82

Governance | Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

DEAR SHAREHOLDER
On behalf of the Board, I present the Safety, Environment 
and Sustainability Committee (SESC) report for the year 
ended 31 December 2023.

COMMITTEE OVERVIEW 
The Committee’s role and responsibilities, on behalf of the Board, is to 
review and monitor the culture, practices, risks and performance of 
Centrica with respect to health and safety, climate, environment and 
broader responsible business matters. This is achieved through a 
rigorous review of performance data, and the Company’s goals and 
initiatives in these areas. As part of its focus, the Committee also 
provides input to, and review of, the Company’s annual climate 
reporting disclosure requirements.

MAIN ACTIVITIES DURING 2023  
The Committee considered a broad range of topics in 2023 and the 
key highlights are disclosed below.

Health and Safety 
The Committee’s standing health and safety agenda items focused on 
relevant performance metrics, assurance activity and the approach to 
HSE risk management in specific business unit reviews. During these 
discussions, taking into account the needs of customers and 
employees, the Committee considered risk identification, appropriate 
HSE controls and processes. 

At each meeting, the Committee invited management to discuss 
occupational and process safety reviews, outcomes and improvements 
derived from targeted interventions and future action plans. Examples 
included a thorough review of the British Gas Services & Solutions 
health and safety performance, a maturity assessment for Bord Gáis 
Energy and external process safety audits for Centrica Energy Storage+ 
and Spirit Energy, during which any concerns or incidents were 
considered in detail and, where appropriate, remedial actions proposed 
by management were scrutinised to assess their effectiveness. 

The Committee acknowledged the Group’s positive safety mindset 
driven by highly engaged employees throughout 2023.

Environment
The Committee provides oversight of the Company’s continued 
commitment to, and role in, the drive to net zero. During 2023, the 
Committee reviewed progress made against the Company’s People & 
Planet Plan and the Climate Transition Plan, and specifically the 
implications of recent strategic investment decisions against Climate 
Transition Plan targets and ambitions and the Company’s strategic 
framework. 

Key focus areas for the Committee in 2023 were reviewing emerging 
voluntary and mandatory climate reporting requirements, both in the 
UK and in the EU, including Task Force on Climate related Financial 
Disclosures (TCFD) and Climate-Related Financial Disclosure (CFD) 
regulations. The Committee considered the application of these 
requirements to the Company, taking into account changing 
stakeholder expectations, and assessing how the Company would 
ensure compliance and governance with impending reporting 
requirements. The Committee also received regular updates and 
training on relevant legal and policy developments and trends regarding 
climate matters. 

Responsible business
Throughout the year, the Committee considered the Company’s 
responsible sourcing approach focusing on the supply chain that carry 
potentially higher inherent risk due to the associated jurisdiction and/or 
nature of the product, in particular in relation to issues such as the 
manufacture of solar panels, batteries or garments. The Committee 
reviewed the 2023 strategy for visits to supplier sites and the results of 
supplier audits. 

During discussions, the Committee assessed on a regular basis human 
rights and the risk of modern slavery occurring in Centrica’s operations, 
taking into account the increasing expectations of stakeholders and 
enhanced modern slavery disclosures. Further details of the 
Company’s management of modern slavery risk can be found on our 
website at centrica.com/modernslavery. The Committee also received 
training on emerging responsible sourcing supply chain requirements 
and considered changes that might be required to the Company’s 
current approach. 

The Committee continued to oversee societal contribution including the 
Company’s approach to charitable partnerships, its role in local 
communities and its People Goals including, in that context, the 
Company’s performance against its diversity and inclusion targets, its 
apprenticeship and volunteering ambitions. The Committee also 
reviewed perceptions of the Company’s reputation amongst a wide 
range of stakeholders in relation to topics such as the Company’s role in 
providing energy security in the markets in which it operates as well as 
supporting customers and communities in their transition to net zero in 
an affordable and secure way. 

Governance
In addition to the above areas of focus, the Committee also reviewed 
relevant disclosures in the Annual Report and Accounts within the 
Committee’s remit, as well as the TCFD and CFD regulations. The 
Committee also considered and recommended to the Board the 
Modern Slavery Act statement, which can be found on our website.

Committee effectiveness
The Committee undertakes an annual review of its terms of reference to 
ensure that it accurately reflects the role carried out by the Committee, 
taking into account any new internal and external developments and 
responsibilities. The Committee’s terms of reference are available on 
our website, centrica.com. The Committee considers that it has 
continued to discharge its oversight role effectively in an area where 
expectations and requirements are constantly evolving with insightful 
and regular engagement and support from management. Read more 
about the Committee’s effectiveness on page 66.

Heidi Mottram
on behalf of the Safety, Environment and Sustainability Committee
14 February 2024

READ MORE ABOUT OUR PEOPLE & 
PLANET PLAN ON PAGES 41 TO 55

Governance | Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

83

REMUNERATION REPORT

MEMBERSHIP, MEETING ATTENDANCE 
AND KEY FOCUS

Committee members
— Carol Arrowsmith (Chair)
— CP Duggal
— Jo Harlow (with effect from 1 December 

2023)

— Heidi Mottram
— Amber Rudd
— Sue Whalley (with effect from 1 December 

2023)

Biographical details of the Committee Chair 
and members can be found on pages 59 to 
63. Meeting attendance of the Committee 
members can be found on page 68.

Meeting attendees by invitation
All other Non-Executive Directors, Chair of the 
Board, Group Chief Executive, Group Chief 
People Officer, People Director, Reward, 
Benefits and Wellbeing

Focus areas in 2023
¢ Executive Directors’ salary reviews
¢ Gender and ethnicity pay gap report
¢ Review of pay issues across the wider 

workforce

¢ Closure CUPS-DC pension scheme
¢ Review of total remuneration packages for 

the Centrica Leadership Team

¢ Review and approve 2023 financial and 

business targets and individual objectives.

¢ Recruitment of new senior executives
¢ Review Executive Directors shareholding
¢ Review and approve Director Expenses

84

Governance | Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

DEAR SHAREHOLDER
On behalf of the Board, I am pleased to present the 
Remuneration Report for the year ended 31 December 2023.

BUSINESS CONTEXT FOR 2023
Centrica has delivered strong financial and operational performance 
including EPS performance of 33.4 pence. Centrica was also one of 
the best performing shares in the FTSE 100 with our share price 
increasing by more than 45% in 2023. At the same time, the Company 
has supported our customers through the cost of living crisis including 
£140m committed since 2022 to help them with their energy costs.

The turnaround of the Company over the last three years is credit to 
the management team led by Chris O’Shea, the Group Chief Executive. 
The team has simplified the business, strengthened and de-risked the 
balance sheet, and improved operational performance especially in 
our Retail businesses. As a uniquely integrated energy company, 
our Optimisation and Infrastructure businesses have contributed 
significantly towards Group profitability by applying their expertise in 
trading and storing energy in turbulent markets particularly during 2022 
and 2023. The Company now has a solid foundation and clear purpose 
of energising for a greener, fairer future. This means we can invest in 
the future for the benefit of all our stakeholders, including our 
customers, colleagues, communities and shareholders. Some 
examples of these investments are:  

Customers: We have invested in supporting customers by providing 
new on-demand services to install and maintain their home heating 
systems, and improved customer service by employing an extra 700 
colleagues across customer contact centres in Stockport, Leicester, 
Leeds, Edinburgh, and Cardiff. During the year, we remained acutely 
aware of the cost of living pressures that our customers faced, and we 
have committed a total of £140m during 2022-23 to continue to help 
customers with their energy costs. This included creating an Energy 
Support Fund managed by the British Gas Energy Trust, which has so 
far helped over 25,000 customers while funding new drop-in centres 
and advisors across the UK to support people with their finances. We 
have launched new innovative tariffs, which aim to be greener and fairer 
such as ‘Peak Save’ to help our customers manage their energy usage 
through the day and save money on their bills, and our offer of free 
Electric Vehicle charging at home for a year for customers that buy 
an EV charger from British Gas. 

Colleagues: We have hired over 1,000 new colleagues. We have 
launched our “Pathway to Parenthood” benefit to support colleagues 
through fertility treatment, adoption, or surrogacy. We have rewarded 
employees with £2,640 in free shares through our profit share plan to 
recognise our performance in 2023. This means that, over the last 
three years, we have paid a total of £5,886 in profit share to each 
colleague to ensure they share in our success. We maintained our 
focus on fair reward practices – from paying at least the Real Living 
Wage in the UK and working to reduce pay gaps. The average salary 
increase across the wider workforce in the UK was 6%, with our lowest 
paid colleagues receiving an average salary increase of between 7.8% 
to 9.5%. 

Communities: We have invested in improving energy storage and 
security for the UK, including doubling the gas storage capacity at 
Rough, which now provides half the UK’s gas storage capacity or 
enough gas to heat over three million homes. As part of our People & 
Planet Plan, our colleagues gave 7,200 days volunteering to help the 
communities and causes they are passionate about.

Shareholders: The financial strength of the business has also allowed 
us to deliver value to our shareholders with a 33% increase in the 2023 
interim dividend to 1.33 pence per share, and a proposed final dividend 
of 2.67 pence per share, alongside the £450m extension of our share 
buyback programme to be completed by around July 2024.

REMUNERATION OUTCOMES FOR 2023
In deciding the remuneration outcomes for 2023, the Remuneration 
Committee has focused on balancing the views and experiences of all 
our stakeholders with our responsibility to attract and retain high-
performing executives to lead a highly complex organisation. Our 
remuneration principles for Executive Directors are consistent with the 
wider workforce and can be found on page 96.

ANNUAL INCENTIVE PLAN (AIP)
Pay-outs under the AIP for members of the Centrica Leadership Team 
are based on financial and business performance (75%) and individual 
performance against strategic objectives (25%). 

The financial and business performance element for the year was split 
equally between Earnings Per Share (EPS) and the outcome of a 
balanced scorecard of financial and operational measures critical to the 
success of the organisation in 2023. 

The EPS measure had defined threshold, target and maximum levels 
that were set at the start of the financial year. During the first half of the 
year, market conditions were materially better than expected when the 
targets were set. Therefore, when reviewing progress against the EPS 
target during the year, the Committee determined that the original 
targets were no longer appropriate and should be increased to reflect 
these improved market conditions. Reflecting the strong performance 
of the business, Centrica achieved earnings performance of 33.4pence, 
resulting in an outturn of 100% of maximum against the revised targets 
for this part of the AIP. 

Excellent performance across the Group also meant the majority of 
customer, colleague and financial targets in the balanced scorecard 
were met in full, including delivering operating profits of £2,752m and 
free cash flow of £2,207m. We were particularly pleased to see a 
reduction in rescheduled appointments for customers in Services and 
Solutions and an improvement in our customer satisfaction scores. 
Given the cost of living challenges faced by our customers, we have 
seen an increase in our bad debt charges, and we will continue to 
engage with those customers who are struggling to pay their bills using 
a variety of mechanisms including payment spreading and utilising the 
£140m we have committed so far to help the most vulnerable and in 
need. We have made significant progress against both our goal to be a 
net zero business by 2045, and our goal to help our customers be net 
zero by 2050. Performance against the balanced scorecard measures 
resulted in an outturn of 85% of maximum for this part of the AIP. This 
gave a combined financial and business performance outturn of 185% 
of target. 

In response to shareholder feedback in previous years, we have 
provided more detail on each executive’s individual objectives in the 
body of the remuneration report on page 91. Chris O’Shea achieved an 
individual performance outturn of 87.5% of maximum, and Russell 
O’Brien, Group Chief Financial Officer, achieved an individual 
performance outturn of 82.5% of maximum for this part of the AIP. 

In determining the overall AIP outcome for 2023, the Committee 
considered the impact of a national newspaper undercover 
investigation in February 2023 into the fitting of prepayment meters 
under court warrant by a third-party contractor working for British Gas. 
The Group Chief Executive was deeply concerned when he observed a 
lack of empathy and respect in some of these cases; he apologised 
unreservedly and immediately commissioned an investigation into the 
issue, overseen by external compliance consultants. We ceased all 
warrant activity with the third-party contractor immediately.

This investigation found no wide-ranging systemic issues with the 
installation of prepayment meters under warrant and noted the high 
degree of complexity involved in the assessment of each case. 
However, it did highlight that in some cases the Company had fallen 
short of the high standards of behaviour that we set for ourselves when 
engaging with customers and identified where improvements should be 
made to existing processes. 

In addition to implementing all the recommended actions identified in 
the investigation and fully endorsing Ofgem’s new Code of Practice 
on the installation of prepayment meters under warrant, Centrica has 
re-affirmed its commitment to prepayment customers in the following 
ways: 

¢ Bringing this work in-house, giving British Gas direct oversight of the 
process and ensuring our agents benefit from training at British Gas’ 
award-winning academies.

¢ Swiftly introduced the cheapest prepayment meter tariffs of any 

supplier in the country, in line with the cost of energy for direct debit 
customers.

¢ Extended our scheme of direct customer support for prepayment 
customers to £20m, offering up to £250 in free credit to those 
who are struggling with energy costs.

After considering the findings of the investigation, the Remuneration 
Committee determined that the payment under the Annual Incentive 
Plan should be reduced. Therefore, the Committee reduced the outturn 
of the financial and business performance by 10% from 185% to 175% 
of target.  This resulted in a reduced AIP payment for the Group Chief 
Executive and Group Chief Financial Officer to reflect the impact of the 
prepayment meter investigation.

Overall, after combining the outturn for financial and business 
performance with the outturn for individual performance, and after 
deducting 10% for the prepayment meter investigation, the total AIP for 
Chris O’Shea was 87.5% of the maximum opportunity, which equated 
to 175% of salary or £1,426,250. The AIP for Russell O’Brien, who 
joined part way through the year, was 86.3% of the maximum 
opportunity (pro-rated for time served), which equated to 118.6% of 
salary or £640,606. Kate Ringrose, our previous Group Chief Financial 
Officer who served for part of the year, received an AIP of 78.1% of 
maximum (pro-rated for time served), which equated to 19.5% of salary 
or £90,088. The Committee was satisfied that the overall AIP outcome 
was fair and reasonable given the strong shareholder experience and 
financial performance, and that the outcome also reflected the wider 
stakeholder experience. Half of the AIP was paid in cash and half of the 
AIP was deferred into shares for a further three years.

LONG-TERM INCENTIVE PLAN
In line with our previous Remuneration Policy, a Long-Term Incentive 
Plan (LTIP) award was granted in 2021 to Chris O’Shea and Kate 
Ringrose, our former Chief Financial Officer. The maximum award 
granted was 300% of salary in Centrica shares for Chris O’Shea and 
175% of salary for Kate Ringrose. The LTIP awards were subject to the 
achievement of performance conditions over three financial years 
ending 31 December 2023. The performance targets for the LTIP 
award included relative Total Shareholder Return (TSR), cumulative 
EPS, cash conversion (conversion of EBITDA into Operating Cash 
Flows), and key non-financial performance indicators (KPIs) focused on 
safety, customer and colleague engagement.

TSR performance over the three-year period was outstanding with 
Centrica having the highest TSR in the FTSE 100 comparator group. 
Centrica’s TSR was 267.4%, which compared to 47.1% for the upper 
quartile TSR of the FTSE 100. Performance against the financial 
measures was near maximum vesting and performance against the 
non-financial KPIs was around target vesting. 

The overall formulaic outcome was therefore 85% of the maximum. 
Kate Ringrose’s award was also pro-rated to reflect time served.

As a matter of course, the Committee reviews the formulaic vesting 
outcome against the overall underlying performance of the Group and 
considers whether there have been any windfall gains. The 2021 LTIP 
was granted to the Centrica Leadership Team at a share price of 
52.46p, compared to the 2020 LTIP award, which was granted at 
55.0p. As there was no significant reduction in the share price between 
grants, the Committee concluded it was not necessary to make an 
adjustment for windfall gains. 

Governance | Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

85

Additionally, as highlighted above, management has delivered excellent 
performance over the period, not only in respect of key underlying 
financial metrics but also in our share price, with Centrica significantly 
outperforming the market over the period. The Committee therefore 
concluded that the formulaic outturn was appropriate, and no 
adjustment was necessary. 

We have simplified some of our legacy reward arrangements and, 
with effect from 31 December 2023, we have closed the Centrica 
Unapproved Pension Scheme Defined Contribution Section (CUPS DC) 
to future contributions. Chris O’Shea was a member of CUPS DC, and 
because of the scheme closing, he has elected to receive his 10% of 
salary as a cash allowance in lieu of pension. 

There are no changes to the AIP or RSP awards to be granted in 2024. 
The maximum AIP will be 200% of salary for the Group Chief Executive 
(and 150% of salary for the Chief Financial Officer). The maximum RSP 
award will be 150% of salary for the Group Chief Executive (and 125% 
of salary for the Group Chief Financial Officer). 

NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR FEES
In the year, the Board welcomed Philippe Boisseau, Jo Harlow, and 
Sue Whalley as new Non-Executive Directors. They bring excellent skills 
and experiences, and I very much look forward to working with them.

The Committee undertook an annual review of the fees payable to 
Scott Wheway, Chair of the Board. With effect from 1 April 2024, 
Scott’s fees will increase to £440,000, which is a 4.6% increase and 
lower than the average increase payable to the wider workforce of 6%. 

The Chair of the Board, the Executive Directors, and the Chief People 
Officer conducted an annual review of non-executive director fees and 
concluded there should be no change in 2024. The review recognised 
that the role of a non-executive director is becoming more complex, 
and the time commitment is becoming increasingly demanding. 
However, it was decided that Non-Executive fees would be reviewed 
again as part of the next Remuneration Policy review during 2024.

CONCLUSION
In 2024, the Committee will conduct a comprehensive review of our 
Remuneration Policy in preparation for shareholder approval at the 
AGM in 2025. As part of this review, we will continue to have an open 
and transparent dialogue with our shareholders on our remuneration 
arrangements and any future changes.

We try to make our Remuneration Report comprehensive and 
transparent and have provided additional information in support of this, 
including details on how the Committee benchmarks executive 
remuneration, insights into Centrica’s remuneration policies across the 
wider workforce, as well as enhanced information on each Executive 
Director’s individual objectives. We hope shareholders will find this 
additional information useful. 

Centrica’s performance and the executive team’s leadership in 
challenging conditions are reflected in the remuneration outcomes and 
the decisions the Committee has made in 2023. It is also consistent 
with the objectives of our Remuneration Policy to deliver remuneration 
that attracts and retains high calibre executives in a competitive global 
business environment in return for the achievement of our strategic 
objectives and the delivery of sustainable long-term shareholder value 
and returns. I hope you will give us your support.

Carol Arrowsmith
on behalf of the Remuneration Committee
14 February 2024

The value of the LTIP award for the Group Chief Executive was £5.9m 
as at the end of the performance period, 31 December 2023, and this 
has been included in the single figure for total remuneration table on 
page 89. Of this amount, share price growth accounted for £3.9m 
(or 66% of the total value). The vested shares are subject to an 
additional two-year holding period.

OVERALL SINGLE FIGURE OF TOTAL REMUNERATION 
FOR OUR GROUP CHIEF EXECUTIVE
Having determined that the LTIP outcome was a fair reflection of 
business performance, the Committee also felt it appropriate to review 
the overall single figure of total remuneration earned by the Group Chief 
Executive in respect of 2023. The Group Chief Executive’s single figure 
in 2023 was £8.23m, which compares to £4.49m in 2022. The year-
on-year increase is due to continued improvements in underlying 
performance and substantial share price growth. Since his appointment 
as Group Chief Executive, Chris O’Shea has helped create significant 
value for shareholders with Centrica’s TSR outperforming the FTSE100; 
his cumulative single figure of total remuneration over the same period 
is broadly in line with the median cumulative single figure for CEOs in 
the FTSE 100. The Committee believes that the single figure 
appropriately reflects the performance of both Chris O’Shea and the 
business over the relevant period. It is worth noting that the single figure 
of total remuneration for the Group Chief Executive over the next two 
years is likely to be lower to reflect outcomes of long-term incentive 
awards made under our Restricted Share Plan (RSP), where the 
maximum awards were discounted by 50% compared to previous 
LTIP awards.

REMUNERATION FOR 2024
For Executive Directors, we benchmark salaries and total 
compensation against companies in the FTSE 100. We use this 
comparator group as it provides a broad group of organisations where 
we compete for talented executives. Centrica is a uniquely integrated 
energy company, with over 21,000 employees operating in a highly 
regulated and highly unionised environment. The FTSE 100 includes 
companies that operate in similar sectors and are of comparable size 
and complexity (e.g. the energy sectors, retail & consumer companies, 
support services, utilities, insurance and commodity trading 
companies). In terms of size, Centrica is also a constituent of the FTSE 
100 index and is currently positioned around the median of the FTSE in 
terms of market capitalisation. The ‘At a Glance’ section on page 88 
shows how our Executive Director salaries and target total direct 
compensation (salary plus target annual bonus plus expected value of 
long-term incentives plus pensions) compares to the median FTSE 100 
benchmark. 

In determining salary increases for the Executive Directors for 2024, the 
Committee considered both the average salary increases awarded to 
the wider workforce and the performance and development of the 
executives in their roles throughout the year. 

With effect from 1 April 2024, Chris O’Shea’s salary will increase 
by 4.9% to £855,000. Given this year’s overall single figure of 
remuneration for the Group Chief Executive, the Committee decided to 
increase Chris’ salary at a rate that was below the average for the wider 
workforce of 6%. Russell O’Brien’s salary will increase by 9.3% to 
£590,000. The Committee awarded a higher salary increase to Russell 
to recognise his performance and development in the role since joining 
Centrica. Even after these increases, the salary and target total direct 
compensation for Chris and Russell are below the median benchmarks 
for similar roles in the FTSE 100. The Committee will keep the 
competitiveness of the remuneration packages for Executive Directors 
under review to ensure we can continue to attract and retain the talent 
we need to deliver the business strategy.

86

Governance | Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

REMUNERATION AT A GLANCE

HOW WE’VE SUPPORTED OUR STAKEHOLDERS IN 2023

£140m

Support given to help customers with 
their energy costs since 2022

25,000

Customers supported through the British 
Gas Energy Trust since the start of the 
energy crisis  

700

Extra colleagues hired across our 
customer contact centres

£100k

Contributions to colleagues via the 
Colleague Support Foundation

1,000

Professional colleagues joined our 
business

3ppt

Increase in colleague engagement

4.0p

Full year dividend per share

£613m

Shares repurchased in 2023

45%

Increase in share price over 
the financial year

SINGLE FIGURE OF TOTAL REMUNERATION IN FY 2023

GROUP CHIEF EXECUTIVE

GROUP CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER

790 1,422

2,262

4,490

810

1,426

0

2,500

5,902

8,231

5,000
£,000

7,500

459

498

0

500

576

1,084

640

1,196

1,000
£,000

1,500

Further details on page 89   |   ¢ Salary   ¢ Pension and Benefits   ¢ AIP   ¢ LTIP

Kate Ringrose stepped down from the Board on 28 February 2023. Russell O’Brien was 
appointed to the Board on the 1 March 2023.

FY2023 AIP PERFORMANCE

2021 LTIP OUTCOMES

The table below sets out details of the relevant measures in the Annual 
Incentive Plan and their link to our group priorities, and the resulting outcome 

The table below sets out details of the relevant measures in the Long-Term 
Incentive Plan and their link to our group priorities, and the resulting outcome. 

MEASURE

EPS

BG Cost to Serve

Customers to Ensek

BG complaints

BG reschedules

BG complaints

Centrica cost/income

CBS order intake

Bord Gáis Cost to Serve

Unique customer numbers

Colleague engagement

Climate transition plan progress

Adjusted operating Profit

Free Cash Flow

Net debt/cash

Individual measures

Group Chief Executive

Group Chief Financial Officer

Deduction for prepayment meter 
investigation 

OVERALL OUTCOME (% MAXIMUM)

Group Chief Executive

Group Chief Financial Officer

Weighting 

Outcome

37.5%

 100 %

37.5%

 85 %

25%

 87.5 %

 82.5 %

 (10) %

 87.5 %

 86.3 %

MEASURE

Relative TSR

Cumulative EPS

Cash conversion

Employee engagement

Aggregate Brand NPS

Complaints

Total Recordable Injury Frequency 
Rate (TRIFR)
Overall outcome

Weighting

33%

22%

22%

Vesting Outcome 
(% of max)
 100 %

 100 %

 75 %

22%

 57 %

 85 %

Governance | Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

87

FYE 2022FYE 2023FYE 2022 (Kate Ringrose)FYE 2023(Russell O’Brien)MARKET COMPETITIVE BENCHMARKS

When we set the remuneration levels, one of the factors we consider is the competitiveness of the total compensation package for the role in the relevant market.  
For the Group Chief Executive and Group Chief Financial Officer, we benchmark their roles against companies in the FTSE 100. The table below shows the 
competitiveness of salary and total compensation for target performance versus the median of the FTSE 100. 

GROUP CHIEF EXECUTIVE

GROUP CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER

Salary
Target Total Compensation(1)

Chris O'Shea

£815,000

£2,934,000

Median FTSE 100 
benchmark

£935,000

£3,533,000

Salary
Target Total Compensation(1)

Russell O'Brien

£540,000

£1,674,000

Median FTSE 100 
benchmark

£596,000

£2,097,000

(1) Salary + target annual bonus + expected value of long-term incentives + pension

EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR SHAREHOLDINGS % OF BASE SALARY

The chart below sets out the minimum shareholding requirements and the shareholdings of the Executive Directors. The shareholding requirement must be 
built up over five years and then subsequently maintained. For unvested shares with no performance conditions, we have assumed shares net of tax.

      FURTHER DETAIL REGARDING THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS’ OUTSTANDING SHARE AWARDS CAN BE FOUND ON PAGE 94

GROUP CHIEF EXECUTIVE
¢ Vested and owned shares   ¢ Unvested shares with no performance conditions

GROUP CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER
¢ Vested and owned shares   ¢ Unvested shares with no performance conditions

300

200

224

222

446

48

82

130

69

83

152

0%

100%

200%

300%

400%

500%

0%

50%

100%

150%

200%

250%

300%

Shareholding as % of salary

Shareholding as % of salary

2024 REMUNERATION

The table below sets out a summary of the implementation of the Policy for 2024. 

      FURTHER DETAILS CAN BE FOUND ON PAGE 101

Base Salary

Benefits

Pension

Short-term incentive

Long-term incentive

CEO: £855,000 (+4.9%)

CFO: £590,000 (+9.3%)

The average increases for the 
wider workforce in the UK was 
6%.

No change and remains in line 
with the wider workforce

10% of salary in line with the 
wider workforce

With effect from 31 December 
2023, we have closed the 
Centrica Unapproved Pension 
Scheme Defined Contribution 
Section (CUPS DC) to future 
contributions. Chris O'Shea will 
no longer be eligible contribute 
his 10% of salary pension 
contribution to CUPS DC. 
Instead, he has elected to receive 
10% of salary as a cash 
allowance in lieu of pension.

CEO: 200% of salary at max 

         100% of salary at target

CFO: 150% of salary at max 

          75% of salary at target

Measured 75% against financial 
and business measures and with 
25% against individual objectives.

50% of any bonus earned is 
deferred into shares that vest 
after three years.

Restricted Share Plan award 
subject to underpin framework.

CEO: 150%of salary

CFO: 125% of salary

Awards vest after three years and 
plus a two year additional holding 
period.

88

Governance | Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

GoalActual31/12/2023Actual31/12/2022GoalActual31/12/2023Actual31/12/2022DIRECTORS’ ANNUAL REMUNERATION REPORT

DIRECTORS’ REMUNERATION IN 2023 
This report sets out information on the remuneration of the Directors for the financial year ended 31 December 2023.

Single figure for total remuneration (audited)

Executives

£000

2023

Chris O’Shea
Russell O’Brien(5)
Kate Ringrose(6)

Total

2022

Chris O’Shea
Kate Ringrose(6)

Total

Salary/
fees

Bonus
(cash)

Bonus 
(deferred)(1)

Benefits(2)

LTIPs(3)

Pension(4)

Total

Total fixed 
remuneration

Total variable 
remuneration

810

498

77

713

320

45

713

320

45

1,385

1,078

1,078

790

459

1,249

711

288

999

711

288

999

16

13

3

32

16

16

32

5,902

—

1,833

7,735

2,262

—

2,262

77

45

—

122

—

33

33

8,231

1,196

2,003

11,418

4,490

1,084

5,574

903

556

80

1,527

806

508

1,314

7,328

640

1,923

9,891

3,684

576

4,260

(1) In accordance with the Remuneration Policy, 50% of the bonus is deferred into shares and will vest after three years.
(2) Taxable benefits include car allowance, health and medical benefits. Non-taxable benefits include matching shares received under the Share Incentive Plan (SIP). 

Both taxable and non-taxable benefits are included in the table.

(3) The estimated value of the LTIP award that was granted in respect of the 2021-23 performance period is included in the table above, based on a share price of 150 pence 
(the 3 month average share price for the period ending 31 December 2022). Of the £5.9m for Chris O’Shea, £3.9m (or 66% of the value) was due to share price growth. 
The award will vest in June 2024 and the shares will then be subject to an additional two-year holding period. Further details of the performance outcomes are set out on 
page 90. Dividend equivalents of £230K and £71K have been included.

(4) Notional contributions to the Centrica Unapproved Pension Scheme defined contribution section (CUPS DC) for Chris O’Shea and Kate Ringrose have been included in 
this table as if CUPS DC was a cash balance scheme. This includes a deduction in respect of an allowance for CPI inflation on the opening balance of 11.1% in 2023 
(4.1% in 2022).  CUPS DC was closed on 31 December 2023 and Chris O’Shea will receive his pension contribution as cash in lieu. 

(5) Russell O’Brien was appointed to the Board on 1 March 2023.
(6) Kate Ringrose stepped down from the Board on 28 February 2023.

Single figure for total remuneration (audited)

Non-Executives

£000

Scott Wheway

Carol Arrowsmith
Nathan Bostock(1)
CP Duggal(2)

Heidi Mottram

Kevin O’Byrne
Amber Rudd(3)
Philippe Boisseau(4)
Jo Harlow(5)
Sue Whalley(6)
Total

(1) Nathan Bostock joined the Board on 9 May 2022
(2) CP Duggal joined the Board on 16 December 2022
(3) Amber Rudd joined the Board on 10 January 2022
(4) Philippe Boisseau joined the Board on 1 September 2023
(5) Jo Harlow joined the board on 1 December 2023
(6) Sue Whalley joined the board on 1 December 2023

Salary/fees

Total

2023

418

96

97

76

96

100

76

25

6
6

996

2022

410

93

47

3

93

109

71

N/A

N/A
N/A

826

2023

418

96

97

76

96

100

76

25

6
6

996

2022

410

93

47

3

93

109

71

N/A

N/A
N/A

826

Governance | Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

89

BASE SALARY / FEES
With effect from 1 April 2024, the Group Chief Executive’s salary will increase by 4.9% to £855,000 per annum. The increase is below the average 
salary increase for the wider workforce in the UK of 6%. Please see page 96 for further details on Reward Across the Wider Workforce. The rate of 
increase was set lower than the wider workforce to reflect the increase in single figure for total remuneration in 2023. The salary for the Group Chief 
Financial Officer will increase by 9.3% to £590,000 per annum. A higher than average workforce increase was given to the Group Chief Financial 
Officer to reflect his performance and development in role since joining Centrica.  Both the salaries of the Group Chief Executive and the Group 
Chief Financial Officer remain below the median benchmarks for similar roles in the FTSE 100. 

The fees for the Chair of the Board were reviewed by the Remuneration Committee and increased by 4.6% to £440,000 per annum with effect 
from 1 April 2024. The increase is below the increase for the wider workforce in the UK. Non-Executive Director fees were also reviewed but there 
will be no increase in 2024. The Non-Executive Director fees will be reviewed again as part of the next Remuneration Policy review to ensure 
Centrica is able to continue to attract and retain Non-Executive Directors with the right skills, knowledge and experience, and to reflect the 
increasing time commitment and complexity of the role. 

FY23 ANNUAL INCENTIVE PLAN (AIP)
In line with the Remuneration Policy, 75% of the award was based on a mix of financial and business measures based on Centrica’s priorities for 
2023 and 25% was based on individual objectives. 

The financial and business performance element for 2023 was split equally between Earnings Per Share (EPS) and the outcome of a balanced 
scorecard of financial and operational measures critical to the success of the organisation in 2023.

The EPS measure had defined threshold, target and maximum levels that were set at the start of the financial year. During the first half of the year, 
market conditions were materially better than expected when the targets were set. Therefore, when reviewing progress against the EPS target 
during the year, the Committee determined that the original targets were no longer appropriate and should be increased to reflect these improved 
market conditions. This resulted in EPS targets for the FY23 AIP as follows:

Adjusted EPS

Threshold

17.6p

Target

22.0p

Max

26.4p

Outcome

33.4p

Reflecting the strong performance of the business in the year against these revised targets, Centrica achieved earnings performance above the 
maximum with an EPS of 33.4 pence, resulting in an outturn of 100% for this part of the AIP.  

In addition, the Committee determined a balanced scorecard for the remaining financial and business elements of the AIP. It was agreed that there 
would be no formula to translate the scorecard to a bonus outcome and no formal weighting of individual measures. The Committee monitored 
performance against the scorecard at regular points during the year. At the end of the year, the Committee took a holistic assessment of overall 
performance to determine an outturn. The balanced scorecard of measures, targets and outcomes are noted below.

Group

Measure

Adjusted Operating Profit

British Gas Energy

British Gas Services & Solutions

British Gas Services & Solutions

Bord Gáis

British Gas Energy

Centrica Business Solutions

Centrica Energy

Free Cash Flow

Net (Debt)/Cash

Complaints

Complaints

Reschedules

Cost to serve
Cost to serve(1)

Order Intake

Opex: Gross Margin Ratio

Target

£1,878m

£672m

£1,089m

 11.5% 

 10.8% 

 5.0% 

€212 per customer

£127 per customer

£264m

 33.5% 

Outcome

£2,752m

£2,207m

£2,744m

 13.3% 

 8.5% 

 3.1% 

€187 per customer

£142 per customer

£225m

 33.3% 

Customer numbers

10,228,00 unique customers

10,264,000 unique customers

Colleague engagement

7.7

7.7

On target for emissions reduction in 
line with the long-term glidepath but 
mixed performance against customer 
reduction ambitions. See page 47 for 
further details.

Progress towards climate transition plan 
– see People and Planet plan for further 
details. See page 47.

Goal 4 – helping our customers be net 
zero by 2050 

Goal 5 – be a net zero business by 2045

Make good progress against the 
interim climate targets including; 

Centrica carbon emissions

 Low carbon and transition 
assets

Electric vehicles in fleet

Reduction in property emissions

CAPEX allocated to green 
activities

Hive active heating units sold

SMART meters installed

EV charger points installed

Heat pumps installed

(1) British Gas Energy cost to serve per customer excluding bad debt was £84, against a target of £83.

Customers on Ensek

5m

5.4m

90

Governance | Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Excellent performance across the Group also meant the majority of customer, colleague and financial targets in the balanced scorecard were met 
in full, including delivering operating profits of £2,752m and free cash flow of £2,207m. We were particularly pleased to see a reduction in 
rescheduled appointments for customers in Services and Solutions and an improvement in our customer satisfaction scores. Given the cost 
of living challenges faced by our customers, we have seen an increase in our bad debt charges, and we will continue to engage with those 
customers who are struggling to pay their bills using a variety of mechanisms including payment spreading and utilising the £140m we have 
committed so far to help the most vulnerable and in need. We have made significant progress against both our goal to be a net zero business by 
2045, and our goal to help our customers be net zero by 2050. Performance against the balanced scorecard measures resulted in an outturn 
of 85% for this part of the AIP. The Committee is satisfied that the current incentive structure for senior executives does not drive unintended risks 
or ESG concerns.

The Committee carefully considered the outcomes against the EPS target and the balanced scorecard measures, determining an outcome of 
100% against the EPS target and 85% against the balanced scorecard. Achievement against the overall financial and business performance 
element of the AIP was 185% of target. However, as outlined in the Remuneration Committee Chair’s statement, the Remuneration Committee 
determined that the financial and business performance part of the AIP should be reduced by 10% to 175% of target to reflect the findings of the 
prepayment meter investigation.

Individual Objectives 
Each Executive Director had a set of stretching individual objectives which included key non-financial and strategic performance indicators (KPIs) 
that were important to the success of the business in 2023. The KPIs were cascaded to business and functional leaders to ensure a strong line 
of sight to key priorities throughout the organisation. The Committee assessed that the majority of individual objectives were met in full and good 
progress was made against others. Based on an assessment of performance against Chris O’Shea’s individual objectives, the Committee 
determined an outcome of 87.5% of maximum was appropriate. The Committee determined for Russell O’Brien an outcome of 82.5% of 
maximum under the individual objectives part of the Annual Incentive Plan. For Kate Ringrose, who served for two months of the financial year 
as CFO, the Committee determined an outcome of 50% of maximum of the individual objectives part of the AIP. 

The table below summarises the key individual objectives for Executive Directors during the year:

Chris O’Shea

Key objectives
Chris delivered further improvements in capability, culture, and operational delivery, including the launch of 
our new corporate purpose, established a new business operating model to support strategic plans for 
commercial and customer growth, investment in infrastructure and net zero, and a step change in our 
approach to health & safety. Achieved objective to return Services and Solutions to profitability and 
operational improvements continue to be delivered. With the team, Chris developed a compelling strategic 
plan and investment case to deliver shareholder returns including dividends and share buy backs. Launched 
new customer propositions in the year, including PeakSave and continued to provide customer support 
with over £140m of committed funds to help customers during the energy crisis since 2022.

Personal objectives 
Outturn (as % of 
maximum)

 87.5% 

Russell O’Brien

Smooth transition from former CFO. Refreshed capital allocation and investment framework and new risk 
capital framework. Developed new strategic plan and investment narrative, which was well received by 
investors at interim results in 2023. Reviewed the finance function with a focus on improving the efficiency 
and effectiveness of the function. 

Kate Ringrose

Kate’s focus was to complete the financial year-end reporting process for FY2022 and to provide an 
effective handover to Russell O’Brien, the incoming CFO.

 82.5% 

 50% 

Governance | Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

91

Overall AIP outcome
Overall, after combining the outturn for financial and business performance with the outturn for individual performance, and after deducting 10% 
for the prepayment meter investigation, the total AIP for Chris O’Shea was 87.5% of maximum, which equated to 175% of salary or £1,426,250. 
The table below summarises the outcomes under the AIP for all Executive Directors: 

Measure

EPS

Balanced scorecard

Deduction for prepayment meter 
investigation

Individual objectives

Total AIP (as % of maximum)

Total AIP (£)

(1) Prorata for the employment period.
(2) Prorata for the employment period.

Chris O’Shea

Russell O’Brien

Kate Ringrose

 100% 

 85 %

 (10%) 

 87.5% 

 87.5% 

£1,426,250

 100% 

 85% 

 (10%) 

 82.5% 

 86.3% 
£640,406(1)

 100% 

 85% 

 (10%) 

 50% 

 78.1% 
£90,088(2)

Half of the AIP earned was paid in cash and half of the AIP was deferred into shares, vesting in three years.  

LONG-TERM INCENTIVE AWARDS RELATING TO THE PERFORMANCE PERIOD 2021-23
The performance conditions relating to the three-year period ending in 2023 are set out below, together with the achievement against these 
performance conditions. Vesting between stated points is on a straight-line basis.

Financial targets and 
outcomes

Measures

Relative Total Shareholder Return 
(TSR)

Cumulative EPS

Cash conversion

Non-financial KPI improvement

Overall

(1) 3-year cumulative EPS

Weightings

 33.3% 

 22.2% 

 22.2% 

 22.2% 

 100% 

Targets

Threshold (25%)

Maximum (100%)

FTSE 100
median

7.5p

EBITDA to 
OCF of 85%

See below

FTSE 100
upper quartile
10.5p(1)
EBITDA to 
OCF of 100%

See below

Outcomes

Ranked first 
at 267.4%

72.4p

 95.0% 

Vesting

 100% 

 100% 

 75.5% 

 57.3% 

 85% 

Centrica’s TSR was outstanding over the three-year performance period being ranked in first position relative to the FTSE 100. Our TSR was 
267.4% compared to 47.1% for the upper quartile of the FTSE 100, therefore the TSR portion of the LTIP will vest at 100%.

Financial performance across the three-year performance period was strong, resulting in above maximum outcome against the Cumulative EPS 
target (vesting at 100%) and above target performance for cash conversion (vesting at 75.5%).

92

Governance | Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Non-financial KPI targets and outcomes
The KPI measures, targets and outcomes for the 2021-23 cycle were:

Safety
Total recordable injury frequency rate (TRIFR)(1)
Customer satisfaction

Aggregate brand NPS across our customer businesses weighted by customer 
numbers

Complaints per 100,000 customers across our customer businesses weighted 
by customer accounts

Targets

Threshold

Maximum

Outcomes

Vesting

0.85

0.65

0.84

 29% 

+10.52

+12.35

+18.3

 100% 

2,820

2,600

6,010

 0% 

Colleague engagement (percentage favourable)

 45% 

 54% 

 77% 

 100% 

(1) Per 200,000 hours worked.

Performance against the non-financial KPIs across the performance period was mixed with not all measures meeting threshold. The Committee 
determined that the outcome for this portion of the award would vest at 57.25%.

Overall performance outcome
The LTIP award was granted in June 2021 and will vest in June 2024, after which the shares are then subject to a mandatory holding period of 
two years. Taking into account the achievement against the financial performance targets, and the agreed outcome against the non-financial 
targets, the Committee approved the overall vesting outcome of 85% of the maximum award. 

The estimated value of the shares that will vest in respect of the three-year performance period, which ended in December 2023, has been 
included in the single figure for total remuneration on page 89. The shares will be released at the end of the holding period, in June 2026.

As stated in the Remuneration Committee Chair’s statement, as a matter of course, the Committee reviews the formulaic vesting outcome against 
the overall underlying performance of the group. The Committee considered whether there have been any windfall gains and determined there 
were none, and no adjustment was made.

Pension
In 2020, it was agreed that the pension contributions for the new and existing Executive Directors would be 10% of base salary to align them with 
the wider UK workforce. In 2023 the pension contribution rate across the UK workforce was 10-14%, depending on the pension scheme.

Chris O’Shea and Kate Ringrose participated in the Centrica Unapproved Pension Scheme Defined Contribution section (CUPS DC), until 
31 December 2023 when we closed the scheme to future contributions. For the period to 31 December 2023, notional contributions to the CUPS 
DC scheme have been included in the single figure for total remuneration table as if it was a cash balance scheme and therefore notional 
investment returns for the year have also been included. The notional pension fund balances for each Executive are disclosed below:

CUPS DC Scheme(1)
Chris O’Shea(1)
Kate Ringrose(1)

(1) The retirement age for the CUPS DC scheme is 62.

Total notional 
pension fund as at 
31 December 2023
£

431,775   

79,500   

Total notional 
pension fund as at 
31 December 2022 
£

319,407 

78,761 

Governance | Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

93

 
 
Following 31 December 2023 when the CUPS DC scheme closed to future contributions Chris O’Shea chose to take his pension contribution of 
10% of salary as cash in lieu of pension. Upon appointment Russell O’Brien similarly received his pension contribution of 10% of salary as cash in 
lieu of pension.

Chris O’Shea

Russell O’Brien

% of salary

10% cash in lieu of pension 

10% cash in lieu of pension

Taxable benefits
Taxable benefits include car allowance, health and medical benefits. Non-taxable benefits include matching shares received under the Share 
Incentive Plan (SIP) on the same terms as all employees. Both taxable and non-taxable benefits are included in the table of single figure for total 
remuneration. 

DIRECTORS’ INTERESTS IN SHARES (NUMBER OF SHARES) (AUDITED)
The table below shows the interests in the ordinary shares of the Company for all Directors who served on the Board during 2023.

For the Group Chief Executive the minimum shareholding requirement is 300% of base salary and for the Chief Financial Officer the minimum 
shareholding requirement is 200% of base salary. The achievement against the requirement is shown below.

Executive Directors have a period of five years from appointment to the Board, or from any material change in the minimum shareholding 
requirement, to build up the required shareholding.  A post-cessation shareholding requirement of 100% of the in-employment shareholding 
requirement (or full actual holding if lower) is applicable for two years post-cessation of employment. The Committee continues to keep both the 
shareholding requirement, and achievement against the shareholding requirement, under review and will take appropriate action should they feel 
it necessary. 

Executives
Chris O’Shea(5)
Russell O’Brien(5)
Kate Ringrose(4)
Non-Executives

Carol Arrowsmith
Phillippe Boisseau(7)

Nathan Bostock

CP Duggal

Jo Harlow

Heidi Mottram

Kevin O'Byrne
Amber Rudd(6)

Sue Whalley

Scott Wheway

Beneficially 
owned(1)

Shares subject to 
performance 
conditions

Shares vested but 
unexercised

Shares subject to 
continued service 
only(2)

Shares
exercised
in the year 

Shareholding 
requirement
(% of salary)

Current 
shareholding
(% of salary)(3)

1,295,884   

7,954,419   

185,511   

—   

550,940   

1,501,143   

49,286   

2,669   

27,000   

15,000   

—   

10,000   

40,000   

42,559   

13,868   

110,187   

—   

—   

—   

—   

—   

—   

—   

—   

—   

—   

—   

—   

—   

—   

—   

—   

—   

—   

—   

—   

—   

—   

—   

1,289,274   

314,566   

348,139   

—   

—   

—   

—   

—   

—   

—   

—   

—   

—   

—   

—   

—   

—   

—   

—   

—   

—   

—   

—   

—   

—   

—   

300   

200   

200   

—   

—   

—   

—   

—   

—   

—   

—   

—   

—   

224 

48 

126 

— 

— 

— 

— 

— 

— 

— 

— 

— 

— 

(1) These shares are owned by the Director or a connected person and they are not, save for exceptional circumstances, subject to continued service or the achievement of 
performance conditions. They include shares purchased by the Executive Director in March with deferred AIP funds which have mandatory holding periods of three years 
and which will be subject to tax at the end of the holding periods.

(2) Shares owned subject to continued service include RSP shares awarded and SIP free and matching shares that have not yet been held for the three-year holding period.  

The values are net of tax.

(3) The share price used to calculate the achievement against the guideline was 1.4065 pence, the price on 31 December 2023.
(4) Kate Ringrose stepped down from the Board on the 28 February 2023 and the number reflects her holding on this date.
(5) During the period 1 January 2024 to 15 February 2024 both Chris O’Shea and Russell O’Brien acquired 264 shares through the SIP.
(6) During the period 1 January 2024 to 15 February 2024 Amber Rudd acquired 1,580 shares through the NED Share Purchase Agreement.
(7) During the period 1 January 2024 to 15 February 2024 Phillippe Boisseau acquired 1,459 shares through the NED Share Purchase Agreement.

94

Governance | Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
SHARE AWARDS GRANTED IN 2023 (AUDITED)
Set out below are details of share awards granted in 2023 to Executive Directors.

2023 RSP

Chris O’Shea

Russell O’Brien

Plan

RSP

RSP

Award Type

Conditional 

Conditional 

Number 
of shares(1)

1,186,547

655,148

Basis of 
award 
% of salary

 150%   

 125%   

Face value 
of award 
£

Vesting 
date

Release 
date

1,222,500 

March 2026

March 2028

675,000 

March 2026

March 2028

(1) The number of shares awarded under the RSP was calculated by reference to a price of 103.03 pence, being the average of the Company’s share price over the five 

trading days immediately preceding the date of grant of 21 March 2023.

The RSP award is subject to an underpin. If the Committee is not satisfied the underpin has been met, the Committee may scale back the awards 
(including to zero). In assessing the underpin, the Committee will consider the following: 

¢ a review of overall financial performance over the three-year vesting period; 
¢ whether there have been any sanctions or fines issued by a Regulatory Body (participant responsibility may be allocated collectively or 

individually);

¢ whether a major safety incident has occurred which may or may not have consequences for shareholders;
¢ whether there has been material damage to the reputation of the Company (participant responsibility may be allocated collectively or 

individually);

¢ whether there has been failure to make appropriate progress against our Climate Transition Plan which sets out our ambition to be a net zero 

business by 2045 and help our customers be net zero by 2050;

¢ return on capital with reference to the cost of capital;
¢ TSR performance over the vesting period, including with reference to the wider energy sector; 
¢ management of customer numbers over the vesting period; and
¢ progress against broader ESG commitments.

2023 DEFERRED AIP
The 2023 AIP award was delivered 50% in cash and 50% in deferred shares, which were awarded on 21 March 2023. The face value of the 
award is based on the share price on the date of award, which was 102.30 pence. Deferred shares are not subject to further performance 
conditions and vest in three years.

Chris O’Shea

Kate Ringrose

Plan

Award Type

AIP Deferred shares

AIP Deferred shares

Number 
of shares

694,925  

281,073  

Face value 
of award 
£000

710,965 

287,561 

Vesting 
date

March 2026

March 2026

Governance | Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

95

2023 CASH FLOW DISTRIBUTION TO STAKEHOLDERS
The Committee monitors the relationship between the Directors’ total remuneration and cash outflows to other stakeholders. As demonstrated by 
the chart, the Directors’ aggregate total remuneration for the year equates to 0.0004% (2022: 0.04%) of the Group’s operating cash flow. 

2023

20%
0%
32%
4%
44%

2022

27%
0.04%
23%
1%
48%

Reward Across The Wider Workforce
Centrica comprises 21,000 diverse colleagues with different roles in different business units across different countries. Our approach to reward 
aims to unify us as a team working with a common purpose and values. To achieve this, we have established some key reward principles across 
the workforce that balance the needs of our colleagues with the needs of the business and our customers. The same principles apply to Executive 
Directors and members of the Centrica Leadership Team:

For our colleagues, we aim to provide reward that is:

For our business, we aim to provide reward that is:

Market competitive

Fair and consistent

Simple

Supports wellbeing

Sustainable

Agile

Flexible

Compliant

Total reward at Centrica consists of more than just salary. All colleagues receive fixed pay comprising a salary plus a wide range of pensions & 
benefits (see table below for more detail). In addition, all colleagues are eligible to earn variable pay subject to performance (such as annual 
bonuses, recognition awards, and Profit Share). For frontline colleagues in the organisation, they can expect a higher proportion of their total 
reward to be fixed pay. The variable pay element is often based on individual performance and is typically paid in cash quarterly or annually. 
At senior executive levels, colleagues have a higher proportion of variable pay linked to the financial and business performance of the Company. 
This variable pay is often paid in shares that vest over multiple years. Therefore, our approach to total reward is to vary the fixed pay and variable 
pay mix depending on the individual’s role, responsibilities, and performance compared to competitive market practice for comparable roles. 

96

Governance | Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

To staffTo DirectorsTo governmentTo shareholdersInvesting activitiesTo staffTo DirectorsTo governmentTo shareholdersInvesting activitiesPerformance measures applying to Executive Directors and the Centrica Leadership Team are cascaded through the organisation to ensure a 
clear line-of-sight and alignment around performance in categories of ‘Colleagues’, ‘Customers’ and ‘Cash’.

The table below summarises some key highlights of wider workforce reward in the UK. Executive Directors and the Centrica Leadership Team 
participate in the same benefits and on the same terms as the wider workforce. 

Fair pay

Centrica is an accredited member of the Real Living Wage Foundation, and we pay at least the Real Living Wage in the UK.
During the cost of living crisis, we have focused on improving the pay of our lowest paid colleagues, through salary increases 
and one-off payments. The average salary increase across the wider workforce in the UK is 6%, with our lowest paid 
colleagues receiving an average salary increase of between 7.8% to 9.5%.
Salary levels for the wider workforce are negotiated with our recognised trade union partners to ensure fair living standards. 
Salary levels for management reflect the individual’s role, experience and performance compared to competitive market rates.

Looking after colleagues 
and their loved ones

All employees in the UK receive comprehensive health and medical cover and can purchase additional cover for their 
dependants. This includes 24-hour access to a GP, eye care; support for parents with fertility, adoption, and surrogacy; life 
assurance; and personal accident insurance.

Saving for the future

The Company has various legacy pension arrangements. While our Defined Benefit pension is closed to new members it is still 
open to future accrual for existing members. Our Defined Contribution Scheme provides a generous employer contribution of 
10% of salary or cash in lieu of pension. Our Lifestyle Savings offer discounts from everyday shopping to one-off big 
purchases.

Recognising colleague 
contribution

In 2023, we recognised colleagues over 258,000 times through our Recognition platform. This allows anyone in the Company 
to recognise the performance or values of a colleague or team, or simply say “thank you”.

Sharing in our success

We operate a number of performance-related incentives plans across the Group. 5,500 employees participate in an annual 
bonus plan aligned to the bonus for executives and senior management. All of our field engineers and customer facing teams 
participate in incentives aligned to their individual performance.

All employees in the UK are eligible to participate in our Share Incentive Plan, where they can purchase shares in the Company 
and receive free matching shares, provided they hold them for at least three years. In addition, all colleagues are eligible to an 
award of free shares every year via our Profit Share plan depending on our performance over the prior year. Field and 
Customer Support colleagues participate in quarterly and annual incentives linked to their performance. Senior managers are 
eligible to receive annual bonuses and long-term restricted share awards aligned to the performance of the business.

Being an Ambassador for 
Centrica products & services

We provide discounts on colleagues’ energy bills if they are a Centrica customer, as well as discounts on new boilers, 
HomeCare cover, and our new energy efficient products for example, Electric Car charging points, solar & battery storage, 
and home insulation.

Making a difference in the 
world

Colleagues are given time off to volunteer for local communities and causes they are passionate about. We also operate a 
Give As Your Earn scheme, where colleagues can donate in a tax-efficient way. The Colleague Support Foundation aims to 
provide additional support for those experiencing extreme financial difficulties, where existing financial support mechanicians 
have been explored and exhausted.

Governance | Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

97

ANNUAL PERCENTAGE CHANGE IN REMUNERATION OF DIRECTORS AND COLLEAGUES 
The table below shows the percentage changes (on a full-time equivalent basis) in the Executive and Non-Executive Directors’ remuneration over 
the last three financial years compared to the amounts for full-time colleagues of the Group for each of the following elements of pay: 

Percentage change from 
2019 to 2020

Percentage change from 
2020 to 2021

Percentage change from 
2021 to 2022

Percentage change from 
2022 to 2023

Salary/fees

Benefits

Bonus

Salary/fees

Benefits

Bonus

Salary/fees

Benefits

Bonus

Salary/fees

Benefits

Bonus

Executive Directors
Chris O’Shea(1)
Russell O’Brien(2)
Kate Ringrose(11)

6.3

—

Non-Executive Directors

Scott Wheway

268.8

Carol Arrowsmith
Nathan Bostock(3)
CP Duggal(4)

Heidi Mottram
Kevin O’Byrne(5)
Amber Rudd(6)
Philippe Boisseau(7)
Jo Harlow(8)
Sue Whalley(9)

Average per 
colleague (excluding 
Directors)(10)

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

27.8

—

—

—

—

—

-28.0

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

2.5

—

2.5

-11.1

—

6.7

100

—

18.7

2.6

—

—

—

0.3

—

-83.3

-81.2

-84.4

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

2.6

3.8

32.9

—

3.8

-20.7

—

—

—

—

4.4

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

42.3

1.1

236.4

1.8

-10.3

16.3

1.9

(1) Chris O’Shea was appointed to the Centrica Board as Group Chief Financial Officer on 1 November 2018 and became interim Group Chief Executive with effect from 
17 March 2020. He was appointed as Group Chief Executive on 14 April 2020. From 17 March until 31 December 2020, he elected to waive £100,000 of his salary.

(2) Russell O’Brien was appointed to the Board on 1 March 2023.
(3) Nathan Bostock was appointed to the Board on 9 May 2022.
(4) CP Duggal was appointed to the Board on 16 December 2022.
(5) Kevin O’Byrne took on the role of Senior Independent Director from 1 June 2022.
(6) Amber Rudd was appointed to the Board on 10 January 2022.
(7) Philippe Boisseau joined the Board on 1 September 2023.
(8)
(9) Sue Whalley joined the board on 1 December 2023.
(10) The comparator group includes all management and technical or specialist colleagues based in the UK in Level 2 to Level 6 (where Level 1 is the Executive and Non- 

Jo Harlow joined the board on 1 December 2023.

Executive Directors). There are insufficient colleagues in the Centrica plc employing entity to provide a meaningful comparison. The colleagues selected have been 
employed in their role for full years to give meaningful comparison. This group has been chosen because the colleagues have a remuneration package with a similar 
structure to the Executive Directors, including base salary, benefits and annual bonus. 

(11) Kate Ringrose stepped down from the Board on the 28 February 2023. 

98

Governance | Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

The chart below shows the ratio of remuneration of the CEO to the 
average UK colleague of the Group.

CEO pay ratio
2023

2022

2021

2020

2019

2018

25th 
percentile

198:1

128:1

29:1

32:1

34:1

72:1

50th 
percentile

142:1

75th 
percentile

120:1

77:1

24:1

15:1

29:1

59:1

70:1

15:1

14:1

22:1

44:1

Option B

Option B

Option B

Option B

Option B

Option B

For 2020,the CEO total remuneration figure includes the single figure chart combined 
earnings of both Iain Conn and Chris O’Shea for the period that they were in the 
CEO role during 2020.

2023

CEO remuneration

Colleague 25th percentile

Colleague 50th percentile

Colleague 75th percentile

Salary

Total pay and benefits

810,000

26,484

41,415

47,970

8,231,007

41,514

58,029

68,439

2020

2019

2018

2017

2016

2015

Chris O’Shea

2023

2022

2021

2020

Iain Conn

Sam Laidlaw

2014

The Company has used its gender pay gap data (Option B in the 
Directors’ Reporting Regulations) to determine the colleagues whose 
remuneration packages sit at the lower, median and upper quartile 
positions across the UK workforce. This is deemed the most 
appropriate methodology for Centrica given the different pension and 
benefit arrangements across the diverse UK workforce. To ensure this 
data accurately reflects individuals at each quartile position, a sensitivity 
analysis has been performed. The approach has been to review the 
total pay and benefits for a number of colleagues immediately above 
and below the identified employee at each quartile within the gender 
pay gap analysis.  We have determined our 25th, 50th, and 75th 
percentile individual using data from our gender pay gap as of the 
5 April 2023.

The annual remuneration for the three identified colleagues has been 
calculated on the same basis as the CEO’s total remuneration for the 
same period in the single figure table on page 89 to produce the ratios.

The ratio of CEO pay compared with the pay for the average colleague 
has increased in the last two years due to the strong vesting of the LTIP 
awards that were granted in 2021 and will be released in shares in 
2026. As a large proportion of CEO remuneration was delivered 
through the LTIP which was measured over a three-year performance 
period, from 2021-2023 the CEO ratio will be impacted by any long 
term incentive outcomes. Under the current Remuneration policy, long-
term incentives will be delivered to the CEO through the Restricted 
Share Plan which has a lower overall quantum, at 50% of the previous 
LTIP. The Company believes the ratios are appropriate given financial 
and business performance outcomes in 2023, and the size and 
complexity of the business.

Pay for performance
The table below shows the CEO’s total remuneration over the last 
10 years and the achieved annual short-term and long-term incentive 
pay awards as a percentage of the plan maximum.

Chief Executive 
single figure for 
total remuneration 
£000

Annual short-term 
incentive payout 
against max 
opportunity 
%

Long-term incentive 
vesting against max 
opportunity 
%

8,231 

4,490 

875 

765 

239 

1,186 

2,335 

1,678 

4,040 

3,025 

3,272 

87.5

89.5

0

0

0

0

41

0

82

63

34

85

76

0

0

0

0

18

26

0

0

35

For 2020 the single figure for total remuneration for both Iain Conn and Chris O’Shea 
are shown. The total remuneration figure for Chris O’Shea includes his earnings 
during 2020 as CFO and CEO. 

The performance graph below shows Centrica’s TSR performance 
against the performance of the FTSE 100 Index over the 10-year period 
to 31 December 2023. The FTSE 100 Index has been chosen as it is 
an index of similar-sized companies and Centrica has been a 
constituent member for the majority of the period.

Total return indices – Centrica and FTSE 100

FEES RECEIVED FOR EXTERNAL APPOINTMENTS 
OF EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
There were no fees received for external appointments. Kate Ringrose 
represented Centrica as a non-executive director of EDF Energy 
Nuclear Generation Group Limited and Lake Acquisitions Limited. 
She received no fees or remuneration relating to these external 
appointments in 2023.

Governance | Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

99

Centrica Total Return IndexFTSE 100 Total Return Index20132014201520162017201820192020202120222023050100150200 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
RELATIVE IMPORTANCE OF SPEND ON PAY
The table below shows the percentage change in total remuneration paid to all colleagues compared to expenditure on dividends and share 
buyback for the years ended 31 December 2022 and 2023.

Share repurchase(1)
Dividends
Staff and employee costs(2)

(1) 510,787,195 shares were purchased during 2023 as part of the share buyback arrangement
(2) Staff and employee costs are as per note 5(b) in the notes to the Financial Statements.

2023
£m

613

186

2022
£m

43  

59

1,400   

1,440   

% 
Change

1,326 

215

(3) 

PAYMENTS TO PAST DIRECTORS (AUDITED)
During 2023, no payments were made to past Directors with the exception of the payments disclosed in the single figure for total remuneration 
table on page 89.

PAYMENTS FOR LOSS OF OFFICE (AUDITED)
Kate Ringrose stepped down from the Board as Chief Financial Officer on 28 February 2023 and she left employment with Centrica on 1 October 
2023. Other than the treatment set out below, no further payments for loss of office will be made to Kate. Payments for loss of office to Kate 
Ringrose were consistent with the Policy and her contract of employment.

Fixed remuneration 
Kate Ringrose was paid salary and benefits for the duration of her employment to a total of £279,163.

Annual Incentive Plan (AIP) 
Kate Ringrose was eligible for an AIP award for the period worked as Chief Financial Officer during the 2023 financial year, details in respect of the 
achievement of which can be found on page 91. Kate’s FY2023 bonus was paid 50% in cash and 50% in shares deferred for a further three 
years. Kate’s deferred bonus of £243k from FY2021 and £288k from FY2022 will be subject to the three year deferral period in line with the usual 
policy. The Remuneration Committee considers that ‘good leaver’ treatment is appropriate in recognition of Kate’s contribution to the business. 

Long-term Incentive Awards 
The Remuneration Committee determined Kate Ringrose was a ‘good leaver’ in respect of her 2021 LTIP and 2022 RSP awards. Awards will be 
pro-rated based on the performance period that has elapsed at the point Kate ceased employment and will vest on the normal vesting dates, 
subject to relevant performance conditions and underpins. Holding periods of two years will apply to any vested shares. Kate did not participate in 
the FY2023 RSP award.

Post-employment shareholding requirement
Kate Ringrose is subject to a two-year post-employment shareholding requirement. On cessation of employment, Kate had a shareholding in 
excess of 200% of salary. Therefore, Kate is required to maintain a shareholding of 200% of salary for a period of two years post-employment. 

ADVICE TO THE REMUNERATION COMMITTEE
Following a competitive tender process, PwC was appointed as independent external advisor to the Committee in May 2017.

PwC also provided advice to Centrica globally during 2023 in the areas of employment taxes, regulatory risk and compliance issues and additional 
consultancy services.

PwC’s fees for advice to the Committee during 2023 amounted to £134,450 which included the preparation for and attendance at Committee 
meetings. The fees were charged on a time spent basis in delivering advice that materially assisted the Committee in its consideration of matters 
relating to executive remuneration.

The Committee takes into account the Remuneration Consultants Group’s (RCG) Code of Conduct when dealing with its advisors. PwC is a 
member of the RCG and the Committee is satisfied that the advice it received during the year was objective and independent and that the 
provision of any other services by PwC in no way compromises their independence.

STATEMENT OF VOTING
Shareholder voting on the resolutions to approve the Directors’ Remuneration Policy put to the 2022 AGM, and the Directors’ Remuneration 
Report, put to the 2023 AGM, was as follows:

Resolution

Directors’ Remuneration Policy

Directors’ Remuneration Report

AGM

2022

2023

Votes 
for

Votes for
%

Votes 
against

Votes against 
%

3,132,342,144

3,463,208,517

 83.48%   

619,903,528 

 93.19%   

252,986,960 

16.52%

6.81%

Votes 
withheld

1,275,033

1,244,130

100

Governance | Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

 
IMPLEMENTATION IN THE NEXT FINANCIAL YEAR
The table below sets out details of how we implemented our remuneration policy in 2023, and how we intend to implement the policy in 2024. 

Remuneration element

Implementation in 2023

Base salary

With effect from 1 April 2023, salaries for Executive Directors were:
¢ Group Chief Executive: £815,000
¢ Group Chief Financial Officer: £540,000

Annual Incentive 
Plan (AIP)

Restricted Share 
Plan (RSP)

Maximum opportunity:
¢ Group Chief Executive: 200% of salary  (100% of salary at target)
¢ Group Chief Financial Officer: 150% of salary (75% of salary at target)
The performance measures and their weighting as a percentage of maximum opportunity were
¢ EPS: 37.5%
¢ Balanced Scorecard: 37.5%
¢ Individual objectives: 25%
EPS payout ranges were as follows (as a percentage of maximum opportunity):
¢ Threshold performance: 25%
¢ On-target performance: 50%
¢ Maximum performance: 100% 

RSP awards were granted at the following levels:
¢ Group Chief Executive: 150% of salary
¢ Group Chief Financial Officer: 125% of salary
For the 2023 award, the underpin factors that the Committee will consider include, but are not limited to the 
following:
¢ a review of overall financial performance over the three-year vesting period;
¢ whether there have been any sanctions or fines issued by a Regulatory Body (participant responsibility may 

be allocated collectively or individually);

¢ whether a major safety incident has occurred which may or may not have consequences for shareholders;
¢ whether there has been material damage to the reputation of the Company (participant responsibility may 

be allocated collectively or individually);

¢ whether there has been failure to make appropriate progress against our Climate Transition Plan which sets 

out our ambition to be a net zero business by 2045 and help our customers be net zero by 2050;

¢ return on capital with reference to the cost of capital;
¢ TSR performance over the vesting period, including with reference to the wider energy sector;
¢ management of customer numbers over the vesting period;
¢ progress against broader ESG commitments including customer service, colleague engagement and our 

transition to net zero. 

Pensions

The maximum benefit for Executives is 10% of base salary earned during the financial year. This compares 
with the average pension benefit across the wider UK workforce, currently 10-14% of salary.

Benefits

Benefits to be provided in line with the Policy

All-employee 
share plan

Shareholding 
requirements

NED Fees

Executives were entitled to participate in all-employee share plans on the same terms as all other eligible 
employees.

Group Chief Executive: 300% of salary
Group Chief Financial Officer: 200% of salary
Post-employment, Executive Directors will continue to be expected to retain the lower of the shares held at 
cessation of employment and shares to the value of 300% of base salary for the CEO and 200% of base 
salary for the CFO for a period of two years.

Implementation in 2024

With effect from 1 April 2024, 
salaries for Executive Directors 
are: 
¢ CEO: £855,000 (+4.9%)
¢ CFO: £590,000 (+9.3%)
The average increase across 
with wider workforce in the UK 
is 6%.  A lower increase was 
given to the CEO to reflect his 
single figure remuneration.  
A higher increase was given 
to the CFO to reflect his 
performance and development 
in role since joining Centrica

No change

No change

No change

No change

No change

No change

Chair of the Board

Basic fee for Non-Executives

Additional fees

Chair of Audit and Risk Committee

Chair of Remuneration Committee

Chair of Safety, Environment and Sustainability Committee

Senior Independent Director

Employee Champion

With effect from 
1 April 2023

With effect from 1 April 2024

£420,500

£76,000

£440,000 (+4.6%)

No change

£25,000

£20,000

£20,000

£20,000

£20,000

No change

No change

No change

No change

No change

The Remuneration Report has been approved by the Board of Directors and signed on its behalf by:

Raj Roy
Group General Counsel & Company Secretary
14 February 2024

Governance | Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

101

DIRECTORS’ REMUNERATION POLICY
The Remuneration Policy was approved by shareholders at the AGM 
on 7 June 2022.

This section contains a summary of Centrica’s Directors’ Remuneration 
Policy (Policy) that will govern and guide the Group’s future 
remuneration payments. The full version can be found on our website 
at centrica.com.

The Policy operated as intended in 2023.

OBJECTIVES OF THE POLICY
The Policy aims to deliver remuneration arrangements that:

¢ attract and retain high-calibre Executives in a challenging and 

competitive global business environment;

¢ place strong emphasis on both short-term and long-term 

performance;

¢ are strongly aligned to the achievement of strategic objectives and 
the delivery of sustainable long-term shareholder value through 
returns and growth; and

¢ seek to avoid creating excessive risks in the achievement of 

performance targets.

Summary of Policy design

Fixed remuneration

Annual Incentive Plan (AIP)

Restricted Share Plan (RSP)

Pension

Base 
pay

Benefits

Mix of financial, business and strategic measures

Underpin aligned to strategic priorities

50% of award deferred into 
shares for three years

Three-year performance period followed 
by two-year holding period

Malus and clawback

HOW THE POLICY LINKS TO OUR STRATEGY 
Our strategy is driven by our Purpose “energising a greener, fairer 
future”, and our enduring values at Centrica underpin our culture. 
Further information on our Purpose and values is set out on page 9. 
We need to engage our leadership team to fulfil our Purpose and to 
ensure Centrica is focused on delivery and positioned for growth.

The AIP focuses the Executives on the delivery of our near-term 
objectives, with at least 75% of the award based on a mix of financial 
and business measures based on Centrica’s priorities for the 
forthcoming year and up to 25% based on individual strategic and 
personal objectives for the year. All targets align with the Group 
Annual Plan.

At the time of the last remuneration policy review, the Remuneration 
Committee identified the RSP as the appropriate long term incentive 
vehicle for our Executive Directors as it reduces the upper limit of 
payment and is aligned with our goal to simplify all aspects of our 
business. Potential payouts from restricted shares are far less variable 
than conventional long-term incentives.

The RSP has a three-year vesting period and the Committee will 
consider the Company’s overall financial and non-financial performance 
during this period. Consideration will be given to elements such as 
revenue, profitability, shareholder experience and Centrica’s progress 
towards a net zero future.

As we continue to restore shareholder value, the RSP will ensure a 
large proportion of our Executives’ pay is based on direct and 
uninhibited share price movement. 

We operate an RSP for leaders below the most senior management 
and this approach therefore creates alignment between our Executives 
and our senior colleagues.

102

Governance | Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

REMUNERATION POLICY TABLE FOR EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
The following table summarises each element of the Remuneration Policy for the Executive Directors, explaining how each element operates and 
the link to the corporate strategy. 

Purpose and 
link to strategy

Operation and 
clawback

Maximum 
opportunity

Performance 
measures

Base pay/salary

Reflects the scope and 
responsibility of the role 
and the skills and 
experience of the 
individual. 

Salaries are set at a level 
sufficient for the Group to 
compete for international 
talent and to attract and 
retain Executives of the 
calibre required to 
develop and deliver our 
strategy.

Base salaries are reviewed annually 
taking into account individual and 
business performance, market 
conditions and pay in the Group as 
a whole.

When determining base salary levels, 
the Committee will consider factors 
including:

¢ remuneration practices within the 

Group; 

¢ change in scope, role and 

responsibilities; 

¢ the performance of the Group; 

¢ experience of the Executive Director; 

¢ the economic environment; and

¢ when the Committee determines a 

benchmarking exercise is 
appropriate, salaries within the ranges 
paid by the companies which the 
Committee believe are appropriate 
comparators for the Group.

Annual Incentive Plan (AIP)

Designed to incentivise 
and reward the 
performance of individuals 
and teams in the delivery 
of short-term financial and 
non-financial metrics. 

Performance measures 
are linked to the delivery 
of the Group’s long-term 
financial goals and key 
Group priorities. 

In line with the Group’s annual 
performance management process, 
each Executive has an agreed set of 
stretching individual objectives for each 
financial year. 

Following the end of the financial year, 
to the extent that performance criteria 
have been met, up to half of the AIP 
award is paid in cash.

To further align the interests of 
Executives with the long-term interests 
of shareholders, the remainder is paid in 
deferred shares which are held for three 
years. No further performance 
conditions will apply to the deferred 
element of the AIP award.

Dividend equivalents may be paid as 
additional shares or cash. 

Malus and clawback apply to the cash 
and share awards.

Not applicable.

Usually, base salary increases in 
percentage terms will be within the 
range of increases awarded to other 
employees of the Group. 

Increases may be made above this level 
to take account of individual 
circumstances such as a change in 
responsibility, progression/development 
in the role or a significant increase in the 
scale or size of the role. 

Maximum of 200% of base salary 
earned during the financial year. 
For threshold performance, up to 25% 
of the maximum opportunity will pay 
out. For on-target performance, 50% of 
the maximum opportunity will pay out. 

At least 75% based on a mix 
of financial performance and 
business measures aligned to 
Centrica’s priorities for the 
forthcoming financial year and 
up to 25% based on individual 
objectives aligned to the 
Group’s priorities and 
strategy.

Performance is assessed over 
one financial year.

Governance | Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

103

Purpose and 
link to strategy

Operation and 
clawback

Maximum 
opportunity

Performance 
measures

The maximum opportunity for RSP 
awards will be 150% of salary earned 
during the financial year for Executive 
Directors.

Restricted Share Plan (RSP)

Designed to reward and 
incentivise the delivery of 
long-term performance 
and shareholder value 
creation.

RSP awards granted to Executive 
Directors will normally vest after three 
years subject to the achievement of an 
underpin, and are subject to a two-year 
post-vesting holding period during 
which the Executive Directors may not 
normally dispose of their vested shares 
except as is necessary to pay tax and 
social security contributions arising in 
respect of their RSP awards.
Dividend equivalents are accrued during 
the vesting period and calculated on 
vesting on any RSP share awards. 
Dividend equivalents are paid as 
additional shares or as cash.
Malus and clawback apply to the 
awards.

The RSP will be subject to an 
underpin framework. In 
assessing the underpin, the 
Committee will consider the 
Company’s overall 
performance, including 
financial and non-financial 
performance measures over 
the course of the vesting 
period as well as any material 
risk or regulatory failures 
identified.

Financial performance can 
include elements such as 
revenue, profitability, 
shareholder experience and 
return on capital. Non-
financial performance can 
include a range of operational 
and strategic measures critical 
to the Company’s long-term 
sustainable success.

The Committee may scale 
back the awards (including to 
zero) if it is not satisfied the 
underpin has been met.

Pensions

Positioned to provide a 
market competitive post-
retirement benefit, in a 
way that manages the 
overall cost to the 
Company.

Benefits

Positioned to support 
health and wellbeing and 
to provide a competitive 
package of benefits that is 
aligned with market 
practice.

The maximum benefit for Executives is 
10% of base salary earned during the 
financial year. This compares with the 
average pension benefit across the 
wider UK workforce, currently 10-14% 
of salary.

Not applicable.

Executives are entitled to participate in a 
Company money purchase pension 
arrangement or to take a fixed salary 
supplement (calculated as a percentage 
of base salary, which is excluded from 
any AIP calculation) in lieu of pension 
entitlement. 

The Group’s policy is not to offer 
defined benefit arrangements to new 
employees at any level, unless this is 
specifically required by applicable 
legislation or an existing contractual 
agreement.

The Group offers Executives a range of 
benefits including (but not limited to): 

Cash allowance in lieu of company car – 
currently £15,120 per annum. 

Not applicable.

¢ a company-provided car and fuel, or 

a cash allowance in lieu; 

¢ life assurance and personal accident 

The benefit in kind value of other 
benefits will not exceed 5% of base 
salary. 

insurance; 

¢ health and medical insurance for the 
Executive and their dependants; and

¢ health screening and wellbeing 

services.

All-employee share plans

Provides an opportunity 
for employees to 
voluntarily invest in the 
Company.

Executives are entitled to participate in 
all-employee share plans on the same 
terms as all other eligible employees.

Maximum contribution limits are set by 
legislation or by the rules of each plan. 
Levels of participation apply equally to 
all participants.

Not applicable.

104

Governance | Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Purpose and 
link to strategy

Operation and 
clawback

Maximum 
opportunity

Performance 
measures

Shareholding requirements 

To align the interests of 
Executive Directors with 
shareholders over a long-
term period including after 
departure from the Group.

Not applicable. 

In-employment requirement 
During employment, the Group Chief 
Executive and Group Chief Financial 
Officer are required to build and 
maintain a minimum shareholding of 
300% and 200% of their base salary 
respectively.

Executives must also hold 100% of 
vested incentive shares (net of tax) until 
the shareholding requirement is met. 

Post-employment requirement 
Executive Directors are required to hold 
shares after cessation of employment to 
the full value of the shareholding 
requirement (or the existing shareholding if 
lower at the time) for a period of two years. 
Shares purchased by Executives with their 
own monies are excluded from the post-
employment requirement. 

In-employment requirement 
The current shareholding requirement is 
maintained at 300% of base salary for 
the Group Chief Executive and 200% of 
base salary for the Group Chief Financial 
Officer. 

Post-employment requirement 
Executive Directors will be expected to 
retain the lower of the shares held at 
cessation of employment and shares to 
the value of 300% of base salary for the 
Group Chief Executive and 200% of 
base salary for the Group Chief Financial 
Officer for a period of two years. 

Only shares earned from vested 
incentives will be included within the 
post-employment shareholding 
requirement.

Notes to the Remuneration Policy Table
The Committee reserves the right to make any remuneration payments 
and payments for loss of office, notwithstanding that they are not in line 
with the Policy set out above, where the terms of the payment were 
agreed before the Policy came into effect, at a time when the relevant 
individual was not an Executive Director of the Company and, in the 
opinion of the Committee, the payment was not in consideration for 
the individual becoming a Director of the Company. For these purposes 
payments include the amounts paid in order to satisfy awards of 
variable remuneration and, in relation to an award over shares, the 
terms of the payment are agreed at the time the award is granted. The 
Committee may make minor amendments to the Policy (for regulatory, 
exchange control, tax or administrative purposes or to take account 
of a change in legislation) without obtaining shareholder approval for 
that amendment.

Malus and clawback
In line with UK corporate governance best practice, the Committee 
can apply malus (that is reduce the number of shares in respect of 
which an award vests) or delay the vesting of awards. In addition, 
where an award has vested, the resulting shares will generally be held 
for a period during which they may be subject to clawback. The 
following provisions apply:
¢ AIP – cash awards: malus will apply up to the payment of the cash 
AIP award and clawback will apply for a period of 3 years after the 
cash AIP payment.

¢ AIP – deferred shares: clawback will apply during the period of three 
years following the payment of the cash AIP award the deferred 
share relates to.

¢ historic LTIP awards: malus will apply during the vesting period and 
up to the date of vesting and clawback will apply for a period of two 
years post-vesting.

¢ RSP awards: malus will apply during the vesting period and up to the 

date of vesting and clawback will apply for a period of two years 
post-vesting.

Legacy awards are governed by the malus and clawback provisions 
within the respective policy and plan rules. For awards granted under 
the proposed policy malus and clawback provisions may be applied 
in the following circumstances: 

¢ material financial misstatement; 
¢ where an award was granted, or performance was assessed, based 

on an error or inaccurate or misleading information; 

¢ action or conduct of a participant amounts to fraud or gross 

misconduct; 

¢ events or the behaviour of a participant have led to censure of the 
Company or Group by a regulatory authority or cause significant 
detrimental reputational damage; 

¢ material failure of risk management; or 
¢ corporate failure.

During the year, the Remuneration Committee has not needed to apply 
clawback or malus to any payments to Executive Directors or other 
members of the Centrica Leadership Team. 

Pension arrangements applying to Executives
All registered scheme benefits are subject to HMRC guidelines and the 
Lifetime Allowance. 

The Centrica Unapproved Pension Scheme (CUPS) defined 
contribution (DC) section provides benefits for individuals not eligible 
to join the CUPS defined benefit (DB) section and for whom registered 
scheme benefits are expected to exceed the Lifetime Allowance. 
The CUPS DC section is offered as a direct alternative to a cash 
salary supplement. 

CUPS is unfunded but the benefits are secured by a charge over 
certain Centrica assets. An appropriate provision in respect of the 
accrued value of these benefits has been made in the Company’s 
balance sheet. CUPS was closed to future contributions from 31 
December 2023.

Governance | Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

105

Discretion and judgement
It is important that the Committee maintains the flexibility to apply discretion and judgement to achieve fair outcomes as no remuneration policy 
and framework, however carefully designed and implemented, can pre-empt every possible scenario. The Committee needs to be able to exercise 
appropriate discretion to determine whether mechanistic or formulaic outcomes are fair, in context and can be applied in an upward or downward 
manner when required.

Judgement is applied appropriately by the Committee, for example when considering the political and social pressures on the business, the impact 
of significant movements in external factors such as commodity prices, in setting and evaluating delivery against individual and non-financial 
performance targets to ensure they are considered sufficiently stretching and that the maximum and minimum levels are appropriate and fair.

The Committee has absolute discretion to decide who receives awards, the level of the awards under the incentive plans and the timing, within the 
parameters set in the rules and the limits in the Policy table.

Recruitment Policy
The Committee will apply the same remuneration policy during the policy period as that which applies to existing Executives when considering the 
recruitment of a new Executive in respect of all elements of remuneration as set out in the Remuneration Policy table. 

Whilst the maximum level of remuneration which may be granted would be within plan rules and ordinarily subject to the maximum opportunity 
set out in the Remuneration Policy table, in certain circumstances, an arrangement may be established specifically to facilitate recruitment of a 
particular individual up to 25% above the maximum opportunity, albeit that any such arrangement would be made within the context of minimising 
the cost to the Company. 

The policy for the recruitment of Executives during the policy period includes the opportunity to provide a level of compensation for forfeiture of AIP 
entitlements and/or unvested long-term incentive awards (at an expected value no greater than what is forfeit) from an existing employer, if any, 
and the additional provision of benefits in kind, pensions and other allowances, as may be required in order to achieve a successful recruitment.  
The Company has a clear preference to use shares wherever possible and will apply timescales at least as long as previous awards.

Details of the relocation and expatriate assistance that may be available as part of the recruitment process can be found in the table below.

Relocation and expatriate assistance 

Purpose and link to strategy

Operation and clawback

Maximum opportunity

Performance measures

Changes

Enables the Group to recruit or promote the appropriate individual into a 
role, to retain key skills and to provide career opportunities.

Assistance may include (but is not limited to) removal and other 
relocation costs, housing or temporary accommodation, education, home 
leave, repatriation and tax equalisation.

Maximum of 100% of base salary. 

Not applicable. 

No changes.

Service Contracts
Service contracts provide that either the Executive or the Company may terminate the employment by giving one year’s written notice. The 
Committee retains a level of flexibility, as permitted by the UK Corporate Governance Code 2018, in order to attract and retain suitable candidates. 
It reserves the right to offer contracts which contain an initial notice period in excess of one year, provided that at the end of the first such period 
the notice period reduces to one year. All Executive and Non-Executive Directors are required to be re-elected at each AGM.

Executive Director

Chris O’Shea

Russell O’Brien

Date of appointment to role

Date of current contract

Notice from the Group

Notice from the individual

1 November 2018

10 December 2020

30 January 2023

30 January 2023

12 months

 12 months

12 months

12 months

106

Governance | Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Termination policy 
The Committee carefully considers compensation commitments in the event of an Executive Director’s termination. The aim is to avoid rewarding 
poor performance and to reduce compensation to reflect the departing Executive’s obligations and to mitigate losses. 

Remuneration 
element

Base salary, pension 
and other benefits

Scenario

Payment

Dismissal with cause

No further payments made except those that an individual may be contractually entitled to. 

All other scenarios

Either continue to provide base salary, pension and other benefits for any unworked 
period of notice or, at the option of the Company, to make a payment in lieu of notice 
comprising base salary only. 

Typically any payment in lieu of notice will be made in monthly instalments and reduce, 
or cease completely, in the event. 

AIP

Dismissal with cause

AIP award and any deferred awards will be forfeit. 

Resignation

Change of control

Exceptions*

LTIP and RSP

Dismissal with cause or 
resignation

Change of control

Executives leaving as a result of resignation will forfeit any potential AIP award for the 
performance year in which the resignation occurs. 

The AIP award will be prorated for time (based on the proportion of the AIP period elapsed 
at the date of change of control). 

The Committee has discretion to determine that the AIP does not pay out on change of 
control and will continue under the terms of the acquiring entity. 

The Committee has discretion to dis-apply prorating in exceptional circumstances. 

Deferred awards may vest immediately or be exchanged for new equivalent awards in the 
acquirer where appropriate. 

An AIP award for the year in which the termination occurs may be made following the 
normal year end assessment process, subject to achievement of the agreed performance 
measures and time apportioned for the period worked.

Any award would normally be payable at the normal time with a 50% deferral vesting in 
line with the normal time-frame.

The Committee has discretion to accelerate the vesting of deferred awards.

All unvested awards will lapse. 

Existing awards will be exchanged on similar terms or vest to the extent that the 
performance conditions have been met at the date of the event and be time-apportioned 
to the date of the event or the vesting date, subject to the overriding discretion of the 
Committee.

Exceptions*

Any outstanding awards will normally be prorated for time based on the proportion of the 
performance and/or vesting period elapsed. 

Performance will be measured at the end of the performance period. 

On death in service, awards may vest earlier than the normal date.

The Committee has the discretion to dis-apply prorating or accelerate testing of 
performance conditions in exceptional circumstances.

*

“Exceptions” are defined by the plan rules and include those leaving due to the following reasons: ill health, disability, redundancy, retirement (with agreement from 
the Company), death, or any other reason that the Committee determines appropriate. 

Following termination, awards continue to be subject to malus and clawback provisions in line with those set out in the rules and the policy. 

Pay fairness across the Group
The Group operates in a number of different environments and has many employees who carry out a range of diverse roles across a number of 
countries. In consideration of pay fairness across the Group, the Committee believes that ratios related to market competitive pay for each role 
profile in each distinct geography are the most helpful. 

The ratios of salary to the relevant market median are compared for all permanent employees across the Group and are updated using salary 
survey benchmarking data on an annual basis. 

Unlike the significant majority of the workforce who receive largely fixed remuneration, mainly in the form of salary, the most significant component 
of Executive compensation is variable and dependent on performance. As such, the Committee reviews total compensation for Executives against 
benchmarks rather than salary alone. 

A number of performance-related incentive schemes are operated across the Group which differ in terms of structure and metrics from those 
applying to Executives. 

The Group also offers a number of all-employee share schemes in the UK, Ireland, Europe and North America and Executives participate on the 
same basis as other eligible employees. 

Performance measures applying to Executives are cascaded down through the organisation and Group employment conditions include high 
standards of health and safety and employee wellbeing initiatives. 

No consultation in respect of the development of the Director's Remuneration Policy place with employees occurred.

Governance | Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

107

External appointments of Executives
It is the Company’s policy to allow each Executive to accept one non-executive directorship of another company, although the Board retains the 
discretion to vary this policy. Fees received in respect of external appointments are retained by the individual Executive and are set out in the 
Directors’ Annual Remuneration Report each year.

Consideration of the UK Corporate Governance Code
As part of its review of the Policy, the Committee has considered the factors set out in provision 40 and provision 41 of the UK Corporate 
Governance Code (the ‘Code’). In the Committee’s view, the proposed Policy addresses those factors as set out below:

Principles of the Code

Clarity 

Remuneration arrangements should be transparent and promote effective 
engagement with shareholders and the workforce

Simplicity

Remuneration structures should avoid complexity and their rationale and operation 
should be easy to understand

Risk

Remuneration arrangements should ensure reputational and other risks from 
excessive rewards, and behavioural risks that can arise from target-based incentive 
plans, are identified and mitigated

Predictability

The range of possible values of rewards to individual Directors and any other limits 
or discretions should be identified and explained at the time of approving the Policy

Proportionality

The link between individual awards, the delivery of strategy and the long-term 
performance of the Group should be clear. Outcomes should not reward poor 
performance

Alignment to culture

Incentive schemes should drive behaviours consistent with the Group’s purpose, 
values and strategy

How the Policy aligns

The Policy is simple and designed to support long-term, sustainable performance. 
Shareholders were extensively consulted on the design of the Policy, and the key 
rationale for the changes that were made. The Policy received shareholder approval 
at the AGM in June 2022. The Committee proactively seeks engagement with 
shareholders on remuneration matters on an ongoing basis. 

During the year, consultation took place with recognised trade unions on pay 
across the wider workforce. No direct engagement with the workforce occurred 
on executive remuneration.  

In order to enhance the level of engagement with our employees, a Shadow Board, 
comprising colleagues across the business and in different locations, was launched 
in 2021. In 2023 a new Shadow Board was established and through the Shadow 
Board, colleagues are able to share views with the Board on executive pay, wider 
workforce terms & conditions, and people-related policies. 

The Shadow Board will be our primary forum for engaging on executive pay. The 
Remuneration Committee is actively exploring ways to enhance engagement across 
all groups in 2024.

The latest Policy results in a clear simplification of remuneration arrangements 
through the replacement of a performance share plan, with a simpler restricted 
share plan. 

We further operate an annual incentive (the AIP) with a straightforward deferral 
structure to allow it to be easily understood.

The performance conditions for variable elements are clearly communicated to, 
and understood by, participants and aligned with the Group strategy.

The majority of the Executive Directors’ total remuneration is weighted towards 
variable pay (and provided in shares).

The changes result in a reduced risk of excessive reward, through lower quantum for 
the Executive team alongside an increased discouragement of excessive risk-taking 
behaviour through the use of a post-employment shareholding requirement.

The Committee also retains discretion to override formulaic outcomes for incentive 
plans. Malus and clawback provisions mitigate behavioural risks by enabling 
payments to be reduced or reclaimed in specific circumstances.

The Policy sets out the maximum potential value for each element of remuneration 
subject to the achievement of performance conditions.

The potential total remuneration outcomes are easily quantifiable and are set out in 
the illustrations provided in the Policy.

As highlighted in Risk, the Committee has discretion to override formulaic outcomes 
if they were deemed to be inappropriate. 

Remuneration is appropriately balanced between fixed and variable pay. 

Short-term performance targets are linked to the Group’s strategy and the use of 
deferral in the AIP ensures a link to long-term performance through this element.

The introduction of an RSP ensures a strong link to long-term performance as 
executive reward is directly linked to the share price of the Company.

The short-term incentive plans are measured against performance measures which 
underpin the Group’s culture and strategy. 

The incentive structure is cascaded through the top six levels of the organisation 
ensuring that it drives the same behaviours across the Group. 

108

Governance | Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS’ REMUNERATION
Centrica’s policy on Non-Executive Directors’ (‘Non-Executives’) fees takes into account the need to attract the high-calibre individuals required to 
support the delivery of our strategy.

Purpose and 
link to strategy

Operation and 
clawback

Maximum 
opportunity

Performance 
measures

The maximum level of fees payable to 
Non-Executives, in aggregate, is set out 
in the Articles of Association.

Not applicable. 

Chair and Non-Executive Director Fees 

Sufficient level to secure 
the services of 
individuals possessing 
the skills, knowledge and 
experience to support 
and oversee the 
Executive Directors in 
their execution of the 
Board’s approved 
strategies and 
operational plans.

Fees reflect market 
practice as well as the 
responsibilities and time 
commitment required by 
our Non-Executives.

The fee levels for the Chair are reviewed  
by the Remuneration Committee. 

The fee levels of the Non-Executives are 
reviewed by the Chair of the Board, 
Executive Directors and the Chief People 
Officer. 

Non-Executives are paid a base fee for 
their services. Where individuals serve as 
Chair of a Committee of the Board, 
additional fees are payable. The Senior 
Independent Director also receives an 
additional fee. 

The Company reserves the right to pay a 
Committee membership fee in addition to 
the base fees. 

Recruitment policy
The policy on the recruitment of new Non-Executives during the policy period would be to apply the same remuneration elements as for the 
existing Non-Executives. It is not intended that variable pay, day rates or benefits in kind be offered, although in exceptional circumstances such 
remuneration may be required in currently unforeseen circumstances. The Committee will include in future Remuneration Reports details of the 
implementation of the policy as utilised during the policy period in respect of any such recruitment to the Board.

Terms of appointment 
Non-Executives, including the Chair, do not have service contracts. Their appointments are subject to Letters of Appointment and the Articles of 
Association. All Non-Executives are required to be re-elected at each AGM. The date of appointment and the most recent re-appointment and the 
length of service for each NED are shown in the table below:

Non Executive Director

Scott Wheway

Carol Arrowsmith

Amber Rudd

Nathan Bostock

CP Duggal

Heidi Mottram

Kevin O’Byrne

Phillippe Boisseau

Jo Harlow

Sue Whalley

Date of appointment to role

Date of current contract

Notice from the Group

Notice from the individual

1 May 2016

11 June 2020

10 January 2022

9 May 2022

16 December 2022

1 January 2020

13 May 2019

13 June 2023

13 June 2023

13 June 2023

13 June 2023

13 June 2023

13 June 2023

13 June 2023

1 September 2023

1 September 2023

1 December 2023

1 December 2023

1 December 2023

1 December 2023

6 months

3 months

3 months

3 months

3 months

3 months

3 months

3 months

3 months

3 months

6 months

3 months

3 months

3 months

3 months

3 months

3 months

3 months

3 months

3 months

Governance | Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

109

The Directors submit the Annual Report and Accounts for Centrica plc, 
together with the consolidated Financial Statements of the Centrica 
group of companies, for the year ended 31 December 2023. The 
Directors’ Report required under the Companies Act 2006 (the ‘Act’) 
comprises this Directors’ and Corporate Governance Report (pages 57 
to 112) including the TCFD section for disclosure of our greenhouse 
gas (GHG) emissions in the Strategic Report (pages 47 to 55) and note 
26 (page 189) to the Financial Statements. The index on this page 
includes matters contained in the Strategic Report that would otherwise 
be required in the Directors’ Report. The management report required 
under Disclosure Guidance and Transparency Rule 4.1.5 R comprises 
the Strategic Report (pages 2 to 55) (which includes the risks relating to 
our business), Shareholder Information (page 243) and details of 
acquisitions and disposals made by the Group during the year in note 
12 (page 161). The Strategic Report on pages 2 to 55 fulfils the 
requirements set out in Section 414 of the Act. This Directors’ and 
Corporate Governance Report fulfils the requirements of the corporate 
governance statement required under Disclosure Guidance and 
Transparency Rule 7.2.1.

ARTICLES OF ASSOCIATION (‘ARTICLES’)
The Company’s Articles were adopted at the 2023 Annual General 
Meeting (AGM) and may only be amended by a special resolution of the 
shareholders. The Articles include various rules outlining the running 
and governing of the Company, for example rules relating to the 
appointment and removal of the Directors and how the Directors can 
use all of the Company’s powers (except where the Articles or 
legislation says otherwise), for example in relation to issuing and buying 
back shares. The Articles can be found on our website centrica.com.

CENTRICA SHARES
Significant shareholdings
At 31 December 2023, Centrica had received notification of the 
following interests in voting rights pursuant to the Disclosure and 
Transparency Rules:

BlackRock, Inc.

Date 
notified

08.04.2022

Schroders Investment Management Limited

27.04.2023

Bank of America Corporation

02.06.2023

% of share
 capital(1)

5.25%

<5%

<5%

(1) Percentages are shown as a percentage of the Company’s issued share capital 
when the Company was notified of the change in holding. As at 14 February 
2024, the Company had received no further notifications. Copies of historic 
notifications and any notifications received since 14 February 2024, can be found 
on our website at centrica.com/rnsannouncements.

OTHER STATUTORY 
INFORMATION

Index to Directors’ Report and other disclosures

70

110

114 to 126

59 to 63

10 to 11

66

111
109

94
111

Annual General Meeting (AGM)

Articles of Association

Audit Information

Board of Directors

Business Model

Conflicts of Interest

Directors’ indemnities and insurance

Directors’ service contracts and letters of 
appointment

Directors’ share interests

Disclosure required under Listing Rule 
9.8.4 R

42, 57, 81 and 249 Diversity
Note 11
Page 160

Dividends

Note 26
Page 189

Note 19 on page 
175, note S2 on 
pages 191 to 203, 
and note S6 on 
pages 215 to 217

2 to 55

53 and 251

71

73

110

38 to 43

111
Note S8
Page 219

12 to 45

1

28 to 34

Events after the balance sheet date

Financial instruments

Future developments

Greenhouse Gas (GHG) Emissions

Human rights

Internal control over financial reporting

Material shareholdings

People

Political donations and expenditure
Related party transactions

Research and development activities

Results

Risk management

17 and 68 to 69

Section 172(1) Statement (Director’s Duty)

111

45
14 to 15

41 to 44

47 to 55

15, 38 to 40, 45, 46, 
58, 70 to 71, 90, 96, 
107 and 111

Share capital

Speak Up

Stakeholder engagement (including 
employees, suppliers and customers)

Sustainability

TCFD and CFD
The Company’s approach to investing in 
and rewarding its workforce

110

Governance | Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Share capital
The Company has a single share class which is divided into ordinary 
shares of 6 14/81 pence each. The Company was authorised at the 
2023 AGM to allot up to 1,895,391,323 ordinary shares as permitted 
by the Act. A renewal of a similar authority will be proposed at the 2024 
AGM. The Company’s issued share capital as at 31 December 2023, 
together with details of shares issued during the year, is set out in note 
25 to the Financial Statements on page 189.

Rights attaching to shares
Each ordinary share of the Company carries one vote. Further 
information on the voting and other rights of shareholders is set out 
in the Articles and in explanatory notes which accompany notices 
of general meetings, all of which are available on our website 
centrica.com. There are no shareholder agreements or restrictions 
in 2023.

Purchase of shares
As permitted by the Articles, the Company obtained shareholder 
authority at the 2023 AGM to purchase its own shares up to a 
maximum of 568,617,397 ordinary shares of 6 14/81 pence each 
(‘shares’). The 2022-23 repurchase programme completed on 
29 March 2023 having purchased 250,483,802 shares. The 2023 
programme commenced on 5 April 2023 and completed on 9 October 
2023 with 235,455,079 shares purchased.

As announced in the Company’s Interim Results on 27 July 2023, 
the Company intends to repurchase a further £450m of shares to 
return surplus capital to shareholders. The 2023-2024 programme 
commenced on 10 October 2023. From 10 October 2023 to 
31 December 2023, 72,049,447 shares were purchased (of which 
70,465,051 shares had settled and were held as treasury shares). 
The shares purchased during this period represent approximately 
1.2% of the issued ordinary share capital at an aggregate cost of 
approximately £108m (£106m in respect of settled shares).

The total number of shares purchased during the financial year was 
512,273,445, which represents approximately 8.7% of the Company’s 
issued share capital, at an aggregate cost of approximately £615m. 
Of the total number of shares purchased during the year, 66,123,754 
were used for share schemes with the rest held as treasury shares. 
As at 31 December 2023, there were 490,250,737 shares held in 
the treasury shares account representing approximately 8.3% of the 
Company’s issued share capital. Dividends are waived in respect of 
shares held in the treasury share account. Further details are set out 
in note S4 to the Financial Statements on page 212.

Shares held in employee benefit trusts
The Centrica plc Employee Benefit Trust (EBT) is used to purchase 
shares on behalf of the Company for the benefit of employees, in 
connection with the Restricted Share Scheme. The Centrica plc Share 
Incentive Plan Trust (SIP Trust) is used to purchase shares on behalf of 
the Company for the benefit of employees, in connection with the SIP. 
Both the Trustees of the EBT and the SIP Trust, in accordance with 
best practice, have agreed not to vote any unallocated shares held in 
the EBT or SIP Trust at any general meeting and dividends are waived 
in respect of these shares. In respect of allocated shares in both the 
EBT and the SIP Trust, the Trustees shall vote in accordance with 
participants’ instructions. In the absence of any instruction, the Trustees 
shall not vote.

EMPLOYEE PARTICIPATION IN SHARE SCHEMES
The Company’s all-employee share schemes are a long-established 
and successful part of our total reward package, encouraging the 
involvement of UK employees in the Company’s performance through 
employee share ownership. We offer a Share Incentive Plan (SIP) in the 
UK, with a take-up of 28%. In 2023, all eligible employees globally were 
awarded a Profit Share award under the SIP.

OTHER INFORMATION
Directors’ indemnities and insurance
In accordance with the Articles, the Company has granted a deed 
of indemnity, to the extent permitted by law, to the Directors of the 
Company. Qualifying third-party indemnity provisions (as defined 
by Section 234 of the Act) were in force during the year ended 
31 December 2023 and remain in force. The Company also maintains 
directors’ and officers’ liability insurance for its Directors and officers. 
The Company has granted qualifying pension scheme indemnities 
in the form permitted by the Companies Act 2006 to the directors of 
Centrica Pension Plan Trustees Limited, Centrica Engineers Pension 
Trustees Limited and Centrica Pension Trustees Limited, that act as 
trustees of the Company’s UK pension schemes.

Political donations
The Company operates on a politically neutral basis. No political 
donations were made by the Group for political purposes during 
the year.

Payments policy
We recognise the importance of good supplier relationships to the 
overall success of our business. We manage dealings with suppliers 
in a fair, consistent and transparent manner.

Significant agreements – change of control 
There are a number of agreements to which the Company is party that 
take effect, alter or terminate upon a change of control of the Company 
following a takeover bid.

The significant agreements of this kind include:

¢ Those that relate to 2009, when the Company entered into certain 
transactions with EDF Group in relation to an investment in the 
former British Energy Group, which owned and operated a fleet 
of nuclear power stations in the UK. The transactions include rights 
for EDF Group and the Company to offtake power from these 
nuclear power stations. As part of the arrangements, on a change 
of control of the Company, the Group loses its right to participate on 
the boards of the companies in which it has invested. Furthermore, 
where the acquirer is not located in certain specified countries, 
EDF Group is able to require Centrica to sell out its investments 
to EDF Group; and

¢ Committed facility agreements, subordinated fixed rate notes 
and bonds issued under the Company’s medium-term note 
programme.

The Remuneration Policy sets out on page 107 details on the treatment 
of the Executive Directors’ pay arrangements, including the treatment 
of share schemes in the event of a change of control.

Disclosures required under Listing Rule 9.8.4 R
The Company is required to disclose certain information under Listing 
Rule 9.8.4 R in the Directors’ Report or advise where such relevant 
information is contained. All such disclosures are included in this 
Directors’ and Corporate Governance Report, other than the following 
sections of the 2023 Annual Report and Accounts:

Information

Location in Annual Report

Page(s)

Capitalised interest 
(borrowing costs)

Details of long-term 
incentive schemes

Financial Statements

156, note 8

Remuneration Report

85 and 92

Governance | Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

111

DIRECTORS’ STATEMENTS
Accounting standards require that Directors satisfy themselves that it is 
reasonable for them to conclude whether it is appropriate to prepare 
the Financial Statements on a going concern basis. The Group’s 
business activities, together with factors that are likely to affect its future 
development and position, are set out in the Group Chief Executive’s 
Statement on pages 6 to 8 and the Business Reviews on pages 23 to 
25. After making enquiries, the Board has a reasonable expectation 
that Centrica and the Group as a whole have adequate resources to 
continue in operational existence and meet their liabilities as they fall 
due, for the foreseeable future.

For this reason, the Board continues to adopt the going concern basis 
in preparing the Financial Statements.

Additionally, the Directors’ Viability Disclosure, which assesses the 
prospects for the Group over a longer period than the 12 months 
required for the going concern assessment, is set out on pages 35 to 
37. Further details of the Group’s liquidity position are provided in notes 
24 and S3 to the Financial Statements on pages 185 to 188 and 204 
to 210.

Directors’ responsibilities
The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and the 
financial statements in accordance with applicable law and regulations.

Company law requires the Directors to prepare financial statements for 
each financial year. Under that law, the Directors are required to 
prepare the Group financial statements in accordance with international 
accounting standards, in conformity with the requirements of the 
Companies Act 2006. The Directors have also chosen to prepare the 
parent company financial statements in accordance with Financial 
Reporting Standard 101 ‘Reduced Disclosure Framework’.

Under company law, the Directors must not approve the financial 
statements unless they are satisfied that they give a true and fair view of 
the state of affairs of the Company and of the profit or loss of the 
Company for that period.

In preparing the parent company financial statements, the Directors are 
required to:

¢ Select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently;
¢ Make judgements and accounting estimates that are reasonable and 

prudent;

¢ State whether Financial Reporting Standard 101 ‘Reduced 

Disclosure Framework’ has been followed, subject to any material 
departures disclosed and explained in the Financial Statements; and

¢ Prepare the Financial Statements on the going concern basis 
unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Company will 
continue in business.

In preparing the Group Financial Statements, International Accounting 
Standard 1 requires that Directors:

¢ Properly select and apply accounting policies;
¢ Present information, including accounting policies, in a manner that 

provides relevant, reliable, comparable and understandable 
information;

¢ Provide additional disclosures when compliance with the specific 
requirements in IFRS Standards are insufficient to enable users to 
understand the impact of particular transactions, other events and 
conditions on the entity’s financial position and financial performance; 
and

¢ Make an assessment of the Company’s ability to continue as a 

going concern.

The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records 
that are sufficient to show and explain the Company’s transactions and 
disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of 
the Company and enable them to ensure that the Financial Statements 
comply with the Companies Act 2006.

They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company 
and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection 
of fraud and other irregularities.

The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the 
corporate and financial information included on the Company’s 
website. Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation 
and dissemination of Financial Statements may differ from legislation in 
other jurisdictions.

DIRECTORS’ RESPONSIBILITY STATEMENT 
Each of the Directors confirm that to the best of their knowledge:

¢ The Financial Statements, prepared in accordance with the relevant 
financial reporting framework, give a true and fair view of the assets, 
liabilities, financial position and profit or loss of the Company and the 
undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole;

¢ The Strategic Report includes a fair review of the development and 
performance of the business and the position of the Company and 
the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole, 
together with a description of the Principal Risks and Uncertainties 
that they face; and

¢ The Annual Report and Financial Statements, taken as a whole, 

are fair, balanced and understandable and provide the 
information necessary for shareholders to assess the Company’s 
position and performance, business model and strategy.

The names of the Directors and their functions are listed on pages 59 
to 62.

Information to the independent auditors
The Directors who held office at the date of this Report confirm that:

¢ There is no relevant audit information of which Deloitte LLP are 

unaware; and

¢ They have taken all the steps that they ought to have taken as a 
Director in order to make themselves aware of any relevant audit 
information and to establish that the Company’s auditors are 
aware of that information.

This confirmation is given and should be interpreted in accordance with 
the provisions of Section 418 of the Companies Act 2006.

Deloitte LLP have expressed their willingness to continue in office as 
auditors and a resolution to re-appoint them will be proposed at the 
forthcoming AGM.

This report, including the Directors’ Responsibility Statement, was 
approved by the Board of Directors on 14 February 2024 and is signed 
on its behalf by:

By order of the Board

Raj Roy
Group General Counsel & Company Secretary
14 February 2024

112

Governance | Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Financial 
Statements

114

Independent Auditor’s Report

127 Group Income Statement
128 Group Statement of Comprehensive Income

129 Group Statement of Changes in Equity

130 Group Balance Sheet

131 Group Cash Flow Statement

132 Notes to the Financial Statements

229 Company Financial Statements

241 Gas and Liquids Reserves (Unaudited)

242

Five Year Summary (Unaudited)

Financial Statements | Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

113

INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT

REPORT ON THE AUDIT OF THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

1. Opinion
In our opinion:

¢ the financial statements of Centrica plc (the ‘Company’) and its subsidiaries (the ‘Group’) give a true and fair view of the state of the 

Group’s and of the Company’s affairs as at 31 December 2023 and of the Group’s profit for the year then ended;

¢ the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom adopted international accounting 

standards;

¢ the Company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting 

Practice, including Financial Reporting Standard 101 ‘Reduced Disclosure Framework’; and

¢ the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006.

We have audited the financial statements which comprise:

¢ the Group Income Statement;
¢ the Group Statement of Comprehensive Income;
¢ the Group Statement of Changes in Equity;
¢ the Group Balance Sheet;
¢ the Group Cash Flow Statement;
¢ the related notes to the Group financial statements 1 to 26;
¢ the supplementary notes S1 to S11 of the Group financial statements;
¢ the Company Statement of Changes in Equity;
¢ the Company Balance Sheet; and
¢ the notes I to XVI to the Company financial statements.

The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the Group financial statements is applicable law and United 
Kingdom adopted international accounting standards. The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the 
Company financial statements is applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting Standards, including FRS 101 ‘Reduced Disclosure 
Framework’ (United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice).

2. Basis for opinion
We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing (UK) (ISAs (UK)) and applicable law. Our responsibilities 
under those standards are further described in the auditor’s responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements section of our report. 

We are independent of the Group and the Company in accordance with the ethical requirements that are relevant to our audit of the 
financial statements in the UK, including the Financial Reporting Council’s (the ‘FRC’s’) Ethical Standard as applied to listed public interest 
entities, and we have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with these requirements. The non-audit services provided to 
the Group for the year are disclosed in note S9 to the financial statements. We confirm that we have not provided any non-audit services 
prohibited by the FRC’s Ethical Standard to the Group or the Company.

We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion.

114

Financial Statements | Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

3. Summary of our audit approach

Key audit matters

The key audit matters identified in the current year were:
¢ the valuation of residential energy supply billed debt provisions within British Gas;
¢ the accuracy and completeness of revenue arising from British Gas’s new billing platform, ENSEK, including manual adjustments 

made in respect of revenue recognised through this platform; 

¢ impairment considerations in respect of the Group’s investment in its Nuclear associate; 
¢ accounting for the Electricity Generator Levy (“EGL”); and
¢ the valuation of complex energy derivative contracts.
Other than as explained below, these key audit matters are consistent with those identified in the prior year:
¢ In the prior year, we noted a key audit matter in respect of energy supply arrangements, which covered a number of judgements 
associated with the supply of energy including the billed debt provision, accounting for customer support schemes and ENSEK 
revenue. This year the judgement in respect of government support schemes has reduced following the wind-down of those 
schemes, leading to this area no longer being considered a key audit matter, and the other two areas have been reported on as 
separate key audit matters this year. The Group has continued to migrate customers onto ENSEK and ENSEK is now a bigger 
proportion of overall Group revenue which has led to increased risk.

¢ A new key audit matter in the year relates to accounting for the Electricity Generator Levy (“EGL”). At the end of 2022, the 

Government announced the implementation of the temporary levy applicable to receipts that the Group has realised from electricity 
generation in the UK from nuclear and renewable sources in the period from 1 January 2023 to 31 March 2028. 
There is significant uncertainty in how the legislation should be interpreted in relation to the Group’s significant minority shareholder 
off-take arrangement with its Nuclear associate. Payment has been made on account to HMRC for the maximum potential cost 
however the Group has also made considerations as to whether this could constitute a tax deposit asset. Given the complexity of the 
legislation, the impact on the Group and the estimation uncertainty in relation to the amount of levy the Group owes for 2023 and 
whether a tax deposit asset should be recorded for the recovery of payments on account made to HMRC, we identified a key audit 
matter in respect of the accounting for the EGL.

Whilst the commodity price environment has remained volatile in 2023, commodity prices are lower than in 2022. Centrica’s higher 
liquidity headroom, reduced volatility and management’s active liquidity risk management has reduced margin call risk significantly. 
Hence the audit of the going concern assumption is no longer identified as a key audit matter. Section 4 of our report describes the 
specific procedures performed to reach our conclusions related to the going concern basis of accounting in the preparation of the 
Group financial statements.  

Within this report, key audit matters are identified as follows:

! Newly identified

r Increased level of risk

vw Similar level of risk

s Decreased level of risk

Materiality

Scoping

The materiality used for the audit of the Group financial statements is £135m (2022: £158m), determined based on adjusted profit 
before tax. Adjusted profit before tax is the pre-tax profit adjusted for the impact of exceptional items and certain remeasurements. The 
decrease in materiality in 2023 reflects the decrease in commodity prices contributing to lower adjusted profit in the Upstream and 
Trading segments, partially offset by profit in the Energy Supply segments which is higher than in prior year. 

All components of the Group were subject to a full-scope audit other than New Energy Services (within the Centrica Business Solutions 
segment) which continues to be subject to review procedures and the components presented below which were subject to specified 
audit procedures:
¢ Centrica Business Solutions Energy Supply;
¢ Bord Gáis;
¢ British Gas Services and Solutions segment; and
¢ Centrica Energy Storage+ (within the Upstream segment). 
Component materiality levels were set based on the size and audit risk associated with each component on a range of applicable 
metrics. Our risk assessment procedures resulted in a reduction in the group reporting scope for Centrica Business Solutions Energy 
Supply from a full-scope audit in the prior year to an audit of specified account balances in the current year. 

In the current year the audit team has defined Head office as a separate component of the Group. The business activities of the Head 
office component are materially in line with those of the Company and this component has been subject to a full-scope audit in line with 
the audit of the Company.

Significant changes 
in our approach

Other than the changes in key audit matters and scope discussed above, there were no other significant changes in our audit approach 
when compared to 2022. 

Financial Statements | Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

115

4. Conclusions relating to going concern
In auditing the financial statements, we have concluded that the directors’ use of the going concern basis of accounting in the preparation 
of the financial statements is appropriate. Our evaluation of the directors’ assessment of the Group’s and Company’s ability to continue to 
adopt the going concern basis of accounting included:

¢ Assessing the Group’s future cash flow forecasts, by considering actual cash flow performance in 2023, the current commodity price 

environment, historical accuracy of the Group forecasts and key assumptions underpinning management’s going concern assessment;
¢ Agreeing the level of committed undrawn facilities of £3.8bn (2022: £4.0bn) to signed facility agreements, along with support from our 

treasury specialists, where relevant, to review the key terms of new facility agreements;

¢ We obtained an understanding of the relevant controls over the going concern and viability assessment.
¢ Testing the clerical accuracy of the model used to prepare the cash flow forecasts and assessing the sophistication of the model used 

to prepare the forecasts;

¢ Assessing whether management’s cash flows consider the impact of Group’s planned investment strategy announced in July 2023;
¢ Assessing the sensitivities run by the directors and the linkage of these sensitivities to the Group’s principal risks disclosed on pages 30 
to 34 of the Annual Report & Accounts. These sensitivities include the impact of margin cash volatility, a reduction in the Group’s credit 
rating, a reduction in commodity prices and Upstream asset underperformance, a reduction in commodity trading performance, or the 
risk of adverse weather and worsening macroeconomic factors and the resultant impact on cashflows;

¢ Assessing the mitigating actions that could be taken by the directors to maximise liquidity headroom including a reduction in capital 

expenditure and a reduction in discretionary spend; and

¢ Assessing the appropriateness of management’s going concern disclosures in light of the above assessment.

Based on the work we have performed, we have not identified any material uncertainties relating to events or conditions that, individually 
or collectively, may cast significant doubt on the Group’s and Company’s ability to continue as a going concern for a period of at least 
twelve months from when the financial statements are authorised for issue.

In relation to the reporting on how the Group has applied the UK Corporate Governance Code, we have nothing material to add or draw 
attention to in relation to the directors’ statement in the financial statements about whether the directors considered it appropriate to 
adopt the going concern basis of accounting.

Our responsibilities and the responsibilities of the directors with respect to going concern are described in the relevant sections of 
this report.

116

Financial Statements | Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

5. Key audit matters
Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional judgement, were of most significance in our audit of the financial statements 
of the current period and include the most significant assessed risks of material misstatement (whether or not due to fraud) that we 
identified. These matters included those which had the greatest effect on the overall audit strategy, the allocation of resources in the audit 
and directing the efforts of the engagement team.

These matters were addressed in the context of our audit of the financial statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, and 
we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters.

5.1 The valuation of residential energy supply billed debt provisions within British Gas vw

Key audit matter 
description

The Group supplies gas and power to residential customers in the UK through its British Gas Energy segment. Of the Group total of 
£2,991 million (2022: £2,207 million) billed trade receivables, the British Gas Energy reporting segment contributes £2,380 million 
(2022: £1,531 million). British Gas Energy includes residential and small business customers. 

How the scope of 
our audit responded 
to the key audit 
matter

The Group’s energy supply business has seen changes as a result of current macroeconomic factors, restrictions on debt recovery 
actions and reduced continued pressure on customer finances throughout 2023. As a result, there continues to be increased judgement 
in determining the recoverability of customer debt, which raises the risk of material misstatement in determining the billed debt provision 
at 31 December 2023. Credit losses of £1,240m (2022: £822m) have been recognised on billed trade receivables of which £764m 
(2022: £501m) relate to UK residential customers, including additional provisions to reflect changes in the macroeconomic environment 
as a result of the cost-of-living crisis. Further details on billed debt provisions relating to trade receivables can be found in notes 3(b) and 
17. These matters are also considered by the Audit and Risk Committee in its report on pages 75 to 78.

To determine the billed debt provision, certain key assumptions are made. These include the methodology used to assess the impact of 
macroeconomic factors on future cash collection. The need to make significant additional provisions (“additional macroeconomic” 
provision) beyond those provisions that are indicated by past collection performance (“business-as-usual” provision) increases the level 
of judgement and accordingly risk of material misstatement. We have therefore also identified this as a fraud risk. 

In the current year the “business-as-usual” provision has increased as a result of declines in actual cash collection rates during 2023, 
triggered by   the ongoing cost-of living crisis now being reflected in the backwards looking calculation. Consequently, the “additional 
macroeconomic” provision for residential customers has reduced as a percentage of billed debt in the current year from 3.9% to 3.8%. 

¢ We tested and relied upon controls relevant to the calculation of billed debt provisions, where applicable.
¢ With involvement of our IT and data analytics specialists, we tested the accuracy of the underlying debt books, including the age of 

debt, and recalculated management’s provision rates based on historical cash collection.

¢ We assessed how amounts receivable at 31 December 2022 were collected over 2023 in order to estimate an expected profile of the 
recovery of 31 December 2023 balances, on a “business as usual” basis. We applied this profile to 31 December 2023 debt and 
then assessed:
– the impact and sensitivity of this profile based on external forecasts such as household disposable income and inflation forecasts 

and the impact on billed debt provisions as the economic situation changes; and 

– management’s accounting for the impact of these changes in the billed debt provision estimate. 

¢ We considered the extent to which the provision on a ”business as usual” basis factors in the continuing uncertainty in the current 

macroeconomic environment.

¢ We obtained an understanding of the relevant controls and challenged the methodology over the determination and recording of the 

“additional macroeconomic” provision, with reference to available third party analysis. 

¢ We performed procedures to challenge the completeness and the appropriateness of the “additional macroeconomic” provision by 
evaluating the reasonableness of management’s assumptions and economic data (both forecast and historical) used to derive this.
¢ We assessed the appropriateness of the disclosures provided relating to this key source of estimation uncertainty, and the range of 

sensitivities disclosed.

Key observations

We are satisfied that the billed debt provisions including the additional provisions to reflect macroeconomic uncertainty on residential 
customers, and the associated methodology to calculate this adjustment, are appropriate. We consider the “additional macroeconomic” 
provision recognised beyond “business-as-usual” provisions to be appropriate and close to the mid-point of a calculated reasonable 
range, which is consistent with the prior year. 

Financial Statements | Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

117

 
5.2. The accuracy and completeness of revenue arising from British Gas’s new billing platform, ENSEK, including manual 
adjustments made in respect of revenue recognised through this platform r

Key audit matter 
description

In 2023, British Gas Energy generated revenues of £17.7bn (2022: £13.0bn)  with 5.4m (2022: 2m) customers having been migrated to 
the new ENSEK platform by the year end, as seen on page 90. As at 31 December 2023 a significant proportion of this revenue was 
therefore  recognised from customers on this platform. Revenue from customers on the ENSEK platform is presented within the overall 
revenue figure for British Gas Energy in note 4. 

These matters are also considered by the Audit and Risk Committee in its report on pages 75 to 78.

ENSEK was adopted in order to improve customer service and reduce cost to serve, hence the consumption mechanism is deliberately 
more simplistic in ENSEK when compared to the one in the legacy SAP system. Whilst SAP applies sophisticated bias correction 
factors, reflecting machine learning as a result of comparing estimated to actual consumption, when it comes to the estimation of 
unbilled revenue, ENSEK relies more on industry data flows which is a more common approach taken by other suppliers in the market. 
Industry data flows are based on historical information however and experience delays from data collection to publication. Judgemental 
manual adjustments to estimated unbilled revenue are therefore required in ENSEK to allow for the most recent consumption trends 
experienced.

ENSEK is a Software-as-a-Service (“SaaS”) arrangement and the system is controlled by, and continues to be developed by a third 
party. British Gas Energy Supply is therefore dependent on the efficacy of the general IT controls, application controls, and other 
controls that the third party operates on its behalf. As highlighted in the Audit and Risk Committee’s report on page 73, the ENSEK 
system is still in development and evolving alongside the migration process and hence these controls are evolving and developing and 
cannot be tested directly by British Gas due to the nature of the SaaS arrangement. Given the significant quantum of revenue, as well as 
the developing ENSEK control environments and the differences in the process between the unbilled revenue recognition for customers 
on the legacy SAP system and the ENSEK system, there remains a reliance on manual adjustments to appropriately record ENSEK-
driven unbilled revenue. This increases the risk of material misstatement, and we have additionally identified this as a potential fraud risk 
given the extent of judgement applied in determining the appropriate manual adjustments.

¢ We obtained an understanding of the relevant controls over the recognition of revenue from customers within the ENSEK system, 

both in the Centrica and ENSEK environment, including those regarding the completeness and accuracy of consumption data within 
the ENSEK environment and the manual adjustment to ENSEK estimated revenue. We did not plan to place reliance on these 
controls due to the maturity of the control environment, as detailed by the Audit and Risk Committee in its report on pages 75 to 78. 

¢ Considering the developing control environment, we performed test of details over the billed energy supply volume and pricing 
revenue data in the ENSEK platform, agreeing amounts back to contractual tariffs and actual or estimated meter readings.
¢ We calculated an expectation of the billed energy supply revenue recognised through the ENSEK environment, comparing 
differences to predetermined thresholds and tested the completeness and accuracy of the key inputs to the expectation.

¢ We worked with our data analytics specialists to recalculate the unbilled revenue recognised through the ENSEK platform and to test 
the accuracy and completeness of the source data used in the recalculation, including that migrated from the legacy SAP systems.
¢ We challenged the methodology and key inputs used to calculate the manual adjustment to billed and unbilled revenue in ENSEK. 

We have also tested the arithmetical accuracy of the model computing the revenue derecognition adjustment.

Given we did not rely on ENSEK controls due to their developing nature, we increased the level of substantive testing performed to 
respond to the increased level of risk. Through the performance of our fully substantive procedures, we are satisfied that the accuracy 
and completeness of the Group’s energy supply revenue recognised through the ENSEK platform, including the methodology to 
generate unbilled revenue and manual derecognition adjustment is appropriate. 

Management has had in place throughout the year a Finance Systems Roadmap, which includes plans in relation to the development of 
an established control environment in ENSEK. Progress against these plans is reported to the Audit and Risk Committee at regular 
intervals. We have provided feedback to management to further enhance these plans, including: negotiating the right to perform, directly 
or indirectly, testing of the ENSEK system to gain assurance over the system controls; and formalising management’s review controls to 
provide sufficient evidence of effective operation. 

How the scope of 
our audit responded 
to the key audit 
matter

Key observations

118

Financial Statements | Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

5.3. Impairment considerations in respect of the Group’s investment in its Nuclear associate vw

Key audit matter 
description

How the scope of 
our audit responded 
to the key audit 
matter

Power prices have continued to reduce from the high levels in 2022, resulting in a significant decrease in the expected cash flows from 
the Nuclear investment. The decrease in future forecast cashflows in the assessment of the value of the investment in Nuclear was 
offset by the extension of station lives pertaining to Heysham 1 and Hartlepool, both which have been extended to operate to March 
2026, which represents a two year extension. The total pre-impairment book value of the investment in Nuclear was £1,452m (2022: 
£1,560m) with a pre-tax impairment of £549m (2022: pre-tax impairment reversal of £195m) recorded at 31 December 2023.

The details on the key sources of estimation uncertainty underpinning the impairment for these assets can be found in note 3(b). Details 
on the sensitivity of the above impairment reviews to changes in key assumptions such as power prices are disclosed in note 7(c). This 
includes sensitivities associated with the Group’s commodity price curves if these curves were aligned with the Net Zero scenario (‘Net 
Zero curve’) which assumes governmental policies are put in place to achieve the temperature and net zero goals by 2050. The matter 
is also considered by the Audit and Risk Committee in its report on page 77.

Given the significant impairment in the investment in Nuclear in the current year, we identified a key audit matter around the valuation of 
these assets for impairment testing purposes. The underlying impairment cost has been recorded within the exceptional items and 
certain re-measurements column of the Group income statement.

The key assumptions and judgements underpinning the impairment testing of the investment in Nuclear include:
¢ forecast future commodity prices, including the likely impact of climate change and international governmental intervention to reduce 

CO2 emissions on those prices;

¢ forecast future generation profiles of the assets;
¢ forecast future cash flows for the assets;
¢ useful life estimates; 
¢ impact of the Electricity Generator Levy on the future forecast of cashflows; and 
¢ the discount rate.

Procedures on the overall impairment review:
¢ We understood management’s process for identifying indicators of impairment and impairment costs and for performing their 

impairment assessment.

¢ We obtained an understanding of the relevant controls relating to the asset impairment models, the underlying forecasting process 

and the impairment reviews performed.

¢ We evaluated and challenged the key assumptions and inputs into the impairment models, which included performing sensitivity 
analysis, to evaluate the impact of selecting alternative assumptions. We evaluated changes in key assumptions and assessed 
retrospectively whether prior year assumptions were appropriate.

¢ We involved our valuation specialists to evaluate management’s discount rates, which involved benchmarking against available 

market views and analysis.

¢ We tested the arithmetical accuracy of the impairment models. 
¢ We assessed the appropriateness of management’s disclosures of the key assumptions and sensitivities including the presentation of 

the impairment cost within the exceptional items and certain re-measurements column of the Group income statement.

Procedures relating to forecast future cash flows:
¢ We assessed whether forecast cash flows were consistent with the operator approved forecasts, where relevant, and analysed 

reasonably possible downside sensitivities. 

¢ We assessed the reasonableness of the plants’ forecast outage rates by looking at recent historical outage rates and sensitised the 

impact of a change in assumptions on the overall impairment model.

¢ We assessed the reasonableness of the life extension at Heysham 1 and Hartlepool by assessing management's intention and 

rationale for the extension. We further inspected evidence from the station operators, EDF, as well as information available in the 
public domain.

¢ We evaluated the Group’s estimation of future commodity prices, benchmarked against externally available future commodity price 
estimates and performed sensitivity analysis with alternative future prices. This includes a scenario which assumes governmental 
policies are put in place to achieve the temperature and net zero goals by 2050. We recalculated management’s disclosures relating 
to the sensitivity of the Group’s impairment tests to reduced commodity prices, including the Net Zero curves.

¢ We worked with our tax specialist to conclude on the reasonableness of implementation of the Electricity Generator Levy and as a 

result, aid our subsequent impact assessment on the forecast future cash outflows. 

Key observations

We are satisfied that the key assumptions used to determine the value in use of the Group's investment in Nuclear, including production 
and availability forecasts, are appropriate. We are also satisfied that the Group's discount rate assumptions are based on acceptable 
valuation methodologies.

The Group's future commodity price estimates fall within the middle of the acceptable range of external sources, which is consistent 
with the prior year. We observed that the baseload price forecasts from acceptable external sources were generally higher than the 
assumed prices in the net zero scenario. We consider the sensitivity disclosures related to the impact of future commodity price 
estimates arising from climate change on the Group's impairment reviews to be acceptable.

We are satisfied that the impairment cost recognised by the Group for the year is appropriate and we found the presentation of this cost 
under the exceptional items and certain re-measurements column of the Group income statement to be consistent with Group policy. 

Financial Statements | Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

119

5.4. Accounting for the Electricity Generator Levy (“EGL”) ! 

Key audit matter 
description

At the end of 2022, the UK Government announced the implementation of the EGL, a new, temporary levy applicable to receipts that 
the Group has realised from electricity generation in the UK from nuclear and renewable sources in the period from 1 January 2023 to 
31 March 2028. The levy applies a 45% charge on receipts generated from the production of wholesale electricity sold at an average 
price in excess of £75/Mwh, exceeding an annual threshold of £10m. It applies to generators whose generation exceeds 50GWh 
annually, as well as off-take arrangements with significant minority shareholders in such generators. 

During the year, the Group’s share of its Nuclear associate’s EGL payments amounted to £41m (recorded within the share of profit after 
tax from associates). The Group has also made payments on account to HMRC of £285m in relation to its estimated EGL liabilities for 
its minority shareholder Nuclear offtake arrangements during the December 2023 financial year and this expense has been recorded 
within the income statement, as part of Cost of Sales.

The EGL legislation is new and its interpretation and application is unclear in respect of the Group’s minority shareholder Nuclear offtake 
arrangements.  While the Group has made payments on account to HMRC totalling £285m, were it considered probable that these 
payments on account are recoverable, then (up to) the £285m could be recognised as a tax deposit asset on the balance sheet rather 
than as a cost within the income statement, in accordance with the 2019 IFRIC Agenda decision on Deposits relating to taxes other 
than income taxes. However, no tax deposit asset has been recorded because it is not deemed probable, as at the balance sheet date, 
that this will ultimately be recoverable (or used to settle another tax liability).

Given the complexity of the legislation and the impact on the Group, we identified a key audit matter in respect of the accounting for the 
EGL, principally whether the amounts due should be recorded within the income statement or as a tax deposit on the balance sheet. 
The Group has recognised the full charge in the income statement. Further detail can be found in note 3(b). The Audit & Risk Committee 
also consider this matter on page 75. 

¢ We gained an understanding of the Group’s process and judgements applied in accounting for and recognising EGL within the 
financial statements and evaluated the objectivity and competence of management’s experts and the appropriateness of the 
underlying source documents relied upon.

¢ We gained an understanding of the relevant controls in relation to review of the judgements formed by management.
¢ We tested EGL payments on account to HMRC in the year to supporting third party evidence. 
¢ We worked with our tax specialists to assess the appropriate interpretation of the EGL legislation in addition to reviewing legal advice 
received by the Group. We assessed the accounting for the EGL with a particular focus on whether any of the amount of £285m paid 
in December 2023 should be recorded in the income statement or on the balance sheet as a tax asset. We evaluated the 
appropriateness of management's conclusions, considering the identified sources of estimation uncertainty, the opinions of 
management’s experts and the evaluation of reasonability performed by our tax specialists.

¢ We considered the appropriateness of the disclosures within the financial statements on the accounting position adopted and the 

judgements involved.

¢ We considered the nature and impact of the contradictory audit evidence on management’s assessment.

How the scope of 
our audit responded 
to the key audit 
matter

Key observations

We are satisfied that that the EGL expenditure has been appropriately presented within the Group income statement, that the non-
recognition of a tax deposit asset at this stage is appropriate and that the disclosures within the financial statements relating to EGL are 
appropriate. 

120

Financial Statements | Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

5.5. The valuation of complex energy derivative contracts vw

Key audit matter 
description

How the scope of 
our audit responded 
to the key audit 
matter

Note 7 of the financial statements discloses a re-measurements profit of £3,573m for the year (2022: loss of £5,160m) on energy 
derivative contracts. Details on the Group’s energy contracts can be found in note 19 and note S3(a). The key sources of estimation 
uncertainty associated with energy contracts can be found in note 3(b) with further details on the presentation of certain re-
measurement arising on derivatives disclosed in note 2(b). The matter is also considered by the Audit and Risk Committee in its report 
on page 76. 

The Group undertakes proprietary trading activities and enters into forward commodity contracts to optimise the value of its production 
and generation assets, as well as to meet the future needs of its customers. Certain of these arrangements are accounted for as 
derivative financial instruments and are recorded at fair value. We identified a key audit matter related to the valuation of complex 
derivative trades performed internally by management's valuation specialists. Valuing complex energy derivative contracts requires 
judgement, particularly where there is modelling complexity and bespoke contractual terms (level 3 in accordance with IFRS 13 'Fair 
Value Measurement'). Given the judgement involved and the potential for management bias in the modelling, we identified a potential 
risk of fraud.

Level 3 complex energy derivative financial assets of £156m (2022: £592m) were recognised at 31 December 2023 and £272m (2022: 
£850m) level 3 complex energy derivative financial liabilities. Although the value of complex energy derivative contracts decreased during 
the year due to the continued reduction in commodity prices, these continue to be a significant balance within the financial statements. 
Given the continued complexity and heightened level of risk, the valuation of these contracts is a key audit matter. 

¢ We obtained an understanding of the Group’s processes, including the user access and segregation of duties controls, for 

authorising and recording commodity trades. 

¢ We obtained an understanding of management’s process and the relevant controls relating to the valuation of complex energy 

derivatives within the Group’s Centrica Energy business. We were unable to place reliance on these controls due to findings relating 
to user access and the oversight of service organisations, as set out in the Audit and Risk Committee report on page 73. 
We increased the extent of our substantive work to sample further valuations to mitigate the risk.

¢ We assessed the competence, capability and objectivity of management’s own internal valuation specialists.
¢ We worked with our financial instrument specialists to assess the value of material complex trades, either by creating an independent 

valuation or by testing how management developed their estimate. Particular emphasis was made to assess any new material 
models and material changes to relevant models including additional procedures to assess the reasonableness and appropriateness 
of these.

¢ We assessed the movement in the fair values based on the change in significant inputs, while testing these inputs, where relevant. 
¢ We considered the appropriateness of the relevant complex derivative energy contracts disclosures, including the key source of 

estimation uncertainty disclosures.

Key observations

We are satisfied that complex derivative energy contracts are valued on an appropriate basis.

We have provided feedback to management with respect to control improvements in respect of user access and oversight of service 
organisations. 

Financial Statements | Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

121

6. Our application of materiality

6.1 Materiality
We define materiality as the magnitude of misstatement in the financial statements that makes it probable that the economic decisions of a 
reasonably knowledgeable person would be changed or influenced. We use materiality both in planning the scope of our audit work and in 
evaluating the results of our work.

Based on our professional judgement, we determined the materiality of the financial statements as a whole as follows:

Materiality

Basis for 
determining 
materiality

Rationale for the 
benchmark applied

Group financial statements

Company financial statements

£135 million (2022: £158 million)

£54 million (2022: £150 million)

We determined materiality on the basis of 5% (2022: 5%) of 
adjusted profit before tax. Adjusted profit before tax is the pre-tax 
profit adjusted for the impact of exceptional items and certain 
remeasurements.

We determined materiality based on 3.0% (2022: 3.0%) of net 
assets but capped materiality at 40% (2022: 95%) of the Group 
materiality. Our final materiality constituted 0.7% of net assets 
(2022: 2.8% of net assets). 

We considered net assets to be the most appropriate benchmark 
given the primary purpose of the Company is a holding company. 
We reduced the cap on Group materiality percentage in the current 
year to align to the group audit strategy more clearly.

We considered adjusted profit before tax to be the most 
appropriate benchmark to measure the performance of the Group. 
We consider it appropriate to adjust for exceptional items and 
remeasurements as these items are volatile and not reflective of 
the underlying performance of the Group. 

In determining materiality, we also considered a range of alternative 
benchmarks. The materiality of £135m represents 0.4% (2022: 
0.5%) of business performance revenue, 0.6% (2022: 0.5%) of 
total assets, and 6.1% (2022: 6.4%) of free cash flow. Given that 
the determined materiality was within the range of those alternative 
benchmarks, we have concluded it to be appropriate. 

We considered our established materiality against the final audit 
results and considered that it remained appropriate in the context 
of the financial statements as a whole.

6.2. Performance materiality
We set performance materiality at a level lower than materiality to reduce the probability that, in aggregate, uncorrected and undetected 
misstatements exceed the materiality for the financial statements as a whole. 

Performance 
materiality

Basis and rationale 
for determining 
performance 
materiality

Group financial statements

Company financial statements

70% (2022: 70%) of Group materiality 

70% (2022: 70%) of Company materiality 

The factors we considered in setting performance materiality at 70% of Group and Company materiality included:
¢ The overall quality of the control environment and that we were able to rely on controls in certain of the Group’s businesses.
¢ The nature, size and number of uncorrected misstatements identified in previous audits and management’s willingness to correct 

those adjustments. 

6.3. Error reporting threshold
The decrease in materiality has led to a decrease in the error reporting threshold, which stands at £6.8m (2022: £7.9m). We have 
however, at the Audit and Risk Committee’s request continued to report individual audit differences in excess of £5m (2022: £5m), as well 
as differences below that threshold that, in our view, warranted reporting on qualitative grounds. We also reported to the Audit and Risk 
Committee on disclosure matters that we identified when assessing the overall presentation of the financial statements.

122

Financial Statements | Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

7. An overview of the scope of our audit

7.1 Identification and scoping of components
The Group is organised into segments as outlined in note 4. These segments contain a number of individual businesses, and we use these 
businesses as the basis for identifying and scoping components. In the current year, the Head Office was identified as a component of the 
Group given the significant contribution to the Group’s adjusted profit before tax. Other changes in scoping have been outlined in section 
3 above. 

Our audit was scoped by obtaining an understanding of the Group and its environment, including Group-wide controls, and assessing the 
risks of material misstatement at the Group level. Having performed this assessment, we established the following audit scope for each of 
the Group’s businesses. 

Segment

British Gas Energy

Business

British Gas Energy

Audit scope

Full scope audit

British Gas Services and Solutions

British Gas Services and Solutions

Audit of specified account balances

Bord Gáis Energy

Centrica Energy (formerly EM&T)

Bord Gáis Energy

Centrica Energy (London)
(formerly EM&T (London))

Audit of specified account balances

Full scope audit

Centrica Business Solutions

New Energy Services

Review procedures

Centrica Energy (Aalborg) (formerly EM&T (Aalborg))

Full scope audit

Upstream

Head office

Energy supply

Nuclear

Spirit Energy

Centrica Energy Storage+
(formerly Centrica Storage)

Central functions

Audit of specified account balances

Full scope audit

Full scope audit

Audit of specified account balances

Full scope audit

This scoping resulted in 99% of Group revenue, 98% of Group adjusted profit before tax and 88% of Group shareholders’ equity being 
subject to audit excluding those where we performed review procedures. The equivalent figures in 2022 were 99% of Group revenue, 
100% of the adjusted profit before tax and 89% of shareholders’ equity.

7.2 Our consideration of the control environment
Our audit strategy is to rely on controls over certain processes within the more established businesses of the Group. These included revenue within 
British Gas Services and Solutions, Bord Gáis and within the legacy SAP system in British Gas Energy and Centrica Business Solutions Energy 
supply; billed debt provision in British Gas Energy; and the Group’s central expenditure processes. The use of data analytics in Centrica Energy 
(London) means the need for controls reliance is reduced as we are able to test close to 100% of all trades. 

Given the importance of IT to the recording of financial information and transactions, we tested the general IT controls, and placed reliance 
on them in certain areas. The key IT systems we included in scope include the Group’s SAP general ledger and consolidation financial 
reporting systems, the SAP and ENSEK revenue reporting systems in British Gas Energy and CBS Energy, the SAP reporting system in 
Bord Gáis Energy, the Endur trading system in Centrica Energy, and Workday which is used to manage the Group’s payroll processes.

The control environment within the more established processes is regarded as mature and we are generally able to place reliance on these 
controls. The control environment for the ENSEK platform has continued to evolve in 2023, and therefore as described in section 5.2, we 
did not plan to place reliance on these controls this year.

Across some of Group’s systems we had findings in relation to the Group’s approach to the oversight of service organisations and user 
access controls, including in respect of the Centrica Energy complex valuations (section 5.5) and the Group’s central payroll system. As a 
result, we performed mitigating procedures and extended our substantive testing. We have provided feedback to management in relation 
to their improvement of the oversight of service organisations and to enhance the robustness of user access controls.

7.3 Our consideration of climate-related risks 
Management performed an assessment of the resilience of their annual strategic and financial planning process in the face of climate-
related issues. This included assessing the potential impact of the material risks and opportunities and its Climate Transition Plan on both 
the current balance sheet position and its accounting policies.

Management identified higher risks of material misstatement on the impact of the Net Zero price scenario on the non-current long-life 
asset Upstream impairment tests. In response, management performed further sensitivities based on forecast prices aligned to net zero 
price curves. The net zero price curves for E&P and Nuclear consider prices from third party experts in forecast curves.

We reviewed management’s climate change risk assessment and evaluated the completeness of the identified risks and impact on the 
financial statements. We also considered climate change within our audit risk assessment process in conjunction with our assessment of 
the balances.

To mitigate the Net Zero price scenario risk for the Exploration and Production (E&P) assets and the Group’s investment in Nuclear, we 
performed the following procedures:

¢ Assessed the reasonableness of management‘s net zero prices by comparing these to credible third-party net zero price curves. 
¢ Evaluated the price providers data utilised by the Group to assess whether net zero price curves are appropriate.
¢ Verified the mathematical accuracy of the conversion to Nominal 2023 prices by adjusting the raw external price forecast data for inflation.

With the involvement of our climate specialists, we: 

¢ evaluated the financial statement disclosures to assess whether climate risk assumptions underpinning specific account balances were 

appropriately disclosed; and

¢ read the climate change-related statements (as disclosed in the ‘People and Planet’ section in the Strategic Report) and considered 
whether the information included in the narrative reporting is materially consistent with the financial statements and our knowledge 
obtained in the audit.

Financial Statements | Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

123

 
7.4 Working with other auditors
All components except for Bord Gáis Energy and Aalborg are audited from the UK and we oversee all component audits through regular meetings 
and direct supervision. Whilst we visited Aalborg during the year, the oversight procedures on Bord Gáis were performed virtually.

The Group audit team was directly involved in overseeing the component audit planning and execution, through frequent conversations, 
virtual and in person meetings, debate, challenge and review of reporting and underlying work papers. We held a two-day planning 
meeting with all component teams and specialists to discuss audit execution and our risk assessment, including risks of material 
misstatement due to fraud. In addition to our direct interactions and detailed instructions to our component audit teams, Jane Boardman, 
as lead audit partner, is also the lead Audit Partner for the British Gas segment. This enables direct Group supervision on one of the most 
significant components of the Group.

We are satisfied that the level of involvement of the lead audit partner and Group audit team in the component audits has been extensive 
and has enabled us to conclude that sufficient appropriate audit evidence has been obtained in support of our opinion on the Group 
financial statements as a whole.

8. Other information
The other information comprises the information included in the annual report other than the financial statements and our auditor’s report 
thereon. This information comprises the Strategic report, the Directors’ and Corporate Governance report, the Committee reports, the 
Remuneration Report and the Other Statutory Information. The directors are responsible for the other information contained within the 
annual report. 

Our opinion on the financial statements does not cover the other information and, except to the extent otherwise explicitly stated in our 
report, we do not express any form of assurance conclusion thereon.

Our responsibility is to read the other information and, in doing so, consider whether the other information is materially inconsistent with 
the financial statements or our knowledge obtained in the course of the audit, or otherwise appears to be materially misstated.

If we identify such material inconsistencies or apparent material misstatements, we are required to determine whether this gives rise to a 
material misstatement in the financial statements themselves. If, based on the work we have performed, we conclude that there is a 
material misstatement of this other information, we are required to report that fact.

We have nothing to report in this regard.
9. Responsibilities of directors
As explained more fully in the Directors’ responsibilities statement, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial 
statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view, and for such internal control as the directors determine is necessary 
to enable the preparation of financial statements that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error.

In preparing the financial statements, the directors are responsible for assessing the Group’s and the Company’s ability to continue as a 
going concern, disclosing as applicable, matters related to going concern and using the going concern basis of accounting unless the 
directors either intend to liquidate the Group or the Company or to cease operations, or have no realistic alternative but to do so.
10. Auditor’s responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements
Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements as a whole are free from material misstatement, 
whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an auditor’s report that includes our opinion. Reasonable assurance is a high level of 
assurance, but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with ISAs (UK) will always detect a material misstatement when it 
exists. Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are considered material if, individually or in the aggregate, they could reasonably 
be expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of these financial statements.

A further description of our responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements is located on the FRC’s website at: www.frc.org.uk/
auditorsresponsibilities. This description forms part of our auditor’s report.

124

Financial Statements | Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

11. Extent to which the audit was considered capable of detecting irregularities, including fraud
Irregularities, including fraud, are instances of non-compliance with laws and regulations. We design procedures in line with our 
responsibilities, outlined above, to detect material misstatements in respect of irregularities, including fraud. The extent to which our 
procedures are capable of detecting irregularities, including fraud is detailed below. 

11.1 Identifying and assessing potential risks related to irregularities
In identifying and assessing risks of material misstatement in respect of irregularities, including fraud and non-compliance with laws and 
regulations, we considered the following:

¢ the nature of the industry and sector, control environment and business performance including the design of the Group’s remuneration 

policies, key drivers for directors’ remuneration, bonus levels and performance targets;

¢ the Group’s own assessment of the risks that irregularities may occur either as a result of fraud or error including the Group’s fraud risk 

programme; 

¢ results of our enquiries of management, internal audit and the Audit and Risk Committee about their own identification and assessment 

of the risks of irregularities, including those that are specific to the group’s sector; 

¢ any matters we identified having obtained and reviewed the Group’s documentation of their policies and procedures relating to:

– identifying, evaluating and complying with laws and regulations and whether they were aware of any instances of non-compliance;

– detecting and responding to the risks of fraud and whether they have knowledge of any actual, suspected or alleged fraud; and

– the internal controls established to mitigate risks of fraud or non-compliance with laws and regulations. 

¢ the matters discussed among the audit engagement team including the component audit teams and relevant internal specialists, 
including tax, valuations, pensions, climate change, treasury and IT, regarding how and where fraud might occur in the financial 
statements and any potential indicators of fraud.

As a result of these procedures, we considered the opportunities and incentives that may exist within the organisation for fraud and 
identified the greatest potential for fraud in the following areas: 

¢ The valuation of residential energy supply billed debt provisions within British Gas;
¢ The accuracy and completeness of revenue arising from British Gas’s new billing platform, ENSEK, including manual adjustments made 

in respect of revenue recognised through this platform;
¢ The valuation of complex energy derivative contracts; and
¢ The valuation of decommissioning provisions. 

In common with all audits under ISAs (UK), we are also required to perform specific procedures to respond to the risk of management 
override.

We also obtained an understanding of the legal and regulatory framework that the Group operates in, focusing on provisions of those laws 
and regulations that:

¢ had a direct effect on the determination of material amounts and disclosures in the financial statements. The key laws and regulations 
we considered in this context included the UK Companies Act, the UK Listing Rules, the Electricity Generator Levy, pensions and tax 
legislation; and 

¢ do not have a direct effect on the financial statements but compliance with which may be fundamental to the Group’s ability to operate 
or to avoid a material penalty. These included the regulations set by the Office of Gas and Electricity Markets (Ofgem) and Regulations 
levied by the UK Financial Conduct Authority and Prudential Regulatory Authority.

11.2. Audit response to risks identified
As a result of performing the above, we identified the following as key audit matters related to the potential risk of fraud: (1) the valuation of 
residential energy supply billed debt provisions within British Gas; (2) the accuracy and completeness of revenue arising from British Gas’s 
new billing platform, ENSEK, including manual adjustments made in respect of revenue recognised through this platform and (3) the 
valuation of complex energy derivative contracts. The key audit matters section of our report explains the matters in more detail and also 
describes the specific procedures we performed in response to those key audit matters. 

Our procedures to respond to risks identified included the following:

¢ reviewing the financial statement disclosures and testing to supporting documentation to assess compliance with provisions of relevant 

laws and regulations described as having a direct effect on the financial statements; 

¢ enquiring of management, the Audit and Risk Committee, in-house legal counsel and the Group’s ethics team concerning actual and 

potential litigation and claims;

¢ reviewing the reporting to the Audit and Risk Committee, on matters relating to fraud and potential non-compliance with laws and 

regulations including the Group’s whistleblowing programme;

¢ performing analytical procedures to identify any unusual or unexpected relationships that may indicate risks of material misstatement 

due to fraud;

¢ reading minutes of meetings of those charged with governance, reviewing internal audit reports and reviewing correspondence with 

HMRC, Ofgem, the FCA and the PRA; 

¢ in addressing the risk of fraud associated with decommissioning provisions, we used data analytics to identify the assumptions to which 
the decommissioning model is most sensitive and performed audit procedures, including benchmarking these inputs to independent 
documentation (such as project management cost, wells cost and norms and rates) and external industry reports; and

¢ in addressing the risk of fraud through management override of controls, testing the appropriateness of journal entries and other 

adjustments; assessing whether the judgements made in making accounting estimates are indicative of a potential bias; and evaluating 
the business rationale of any significant transactions that are unusual or outside the normal course of business.

We also communicated relevant identified laws and regulations and potential fraud risks to all engagement team members including 
internal specialists and component audit teams, and remained alert to any indications of fraud or non-compliance with laws and 
regulations throughout the audit.

Financial Statements | Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

125

REPORT ON OTHER LEGAL AND REGULATORY REQUIREMENTS

12. Opinions on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006
In our opinion the part of the Directors’ Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the 
Companies Act 2006.

In our opinion, based on the work undertaken in the course of the audit:

¢ the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors’ Report for the financial year for which the financial statements are 

prepared is consistent with the financial statements; and

¢ the Strategic report and the Directors’ Report have been prepared in accordance with applicable legal requirements.

In the light of the knowledge and understanding of the Group and the Company and their environment obtained in the course of the audit, 
we have not identified any material misstatements in the Strategic Report or the Directors’ Report.
13. Corporate Governance Statement
The Listing Rules require us to review the directors' statement in relation to going concern, longer-term viability and that part of the 
Corporate Governance Statement relating to the Group’s compliance with the provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code specified 
for our review.

Based on the work undertaken as part of our audit, we have concluded that each of the following elements of the Corporate Governance 
Statement is materially consistent with the financial statements and our knowledge obtained during the audit: 

¢ the directors’ statement with regards to the appropriateness of adopting the going concern basis of accounting and any material 

uncertainties identified set out on page 112;

¢ the directors’ explanation as to its assessment of the Group’s prospects, the period this assessment covers and why the period is 

appropriate set out on pages 35 to 37; 

¢ the directors' statement on fair, balanced and understandable set out on page 73;
¢ the Board’s confirmation that it has carried out a robust assessment of the emerging and principal risks set out on page 29;
¢ the section of the annual report that describes the review of effectiveness of risk management and internal control systems set out on 

page 73; and

¢ the section describing the work of the Audit and Risk Committee set out on pages 72 to 78.

14. Matters on which we are required to report by exception

14.1 Adequacy of explanations received and accounting records
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion:

¢ we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit; or
¢ adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from 

branches not visited by us; or

¢ the Company financial statements are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.

We have nothing to report in respect of these matters.

14.2. Directors’ remuneration
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are also required to report if in our opinion certain disclosures of directors’ remuneration have not 
been made or the part of the Directors’ Remuneration Report to be audited is not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.

We have nothing to report in respect of these matters.
15. Other matters which we are required to address

15.1. Auditor tenure
Following the recommendation of the Audit and Risk Committee, we were reappointed by the shareholders on 13 June 2023 to audit the 
financial statements for the year ending 31 December 2023 and subsequent financial periods. The period of total uninterrupted 
engagement including previous renewals and reappointments of the firm is 7 years, covering the years ending 31 December 2017 to 31 
December 2023.
15.2. Consistency of the audit report with the additional report to the Audit & Risk Committee
Our audit opinion is consistent with the additional report to the Audit and Risk Committee we are required to provide in accordance with 
ISAs (UK).
16. Use of our report
This report is made solely to the Company’s members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006. 
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Company’s members those matters we are required to state to them in 
an auditor’s report and for no other purpose. To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone 
other than the Company and the Company’s members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed. 

As required by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) Disclosure Guidance and Transparency Rule (DTR) 4.1.15R – DTR 4.1.18R, these 
financial statements form part of the Electronic Format Annual Financial Report filed on the National Storage Mechanism of the FCA in 
accordance with DTR 4.1.15R – DTR 4.1.18R. This auditor’s report provides no assurance over whether the Electronic Format Annual 
Financial Report has been prepared in compliance with DTR 4.1.15R – DTR 4.1.18R. This auditor’s report provides no assurance over 
whether the annual financial report has been prepared in compliance with DTR 4.1.15R – DTR 4.1.18R. 

Jane Boardman FCA (Senior statutory auditor)
For and on behalf of Deloitte LLP
Statutory Auditor
London, United Kingdom
14 February 2024

126

Financial Statements | Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

GROUP INCOME STATEMENT

Year ended 31 December 

Group revenue

2023

Business 
performance
£m

Exceptional items 
and certain re-
measurements
£m

Notes

Results for the 
year
£m

Business 
performance
£m

2022

Exceptional items 
and certain re-
measurements
£m

Results for the 
year
£m

4,7  

32,561   

(6,916)   

25,645 

32,785   

(9,896)   

22,889 

Insurance services revenue

4, S7  

813   

—   

813 

Total Group revenue
Cost of sales (i)

33,374   

(6,916)   

26,458 

5,7  

(27,682)   

17,497   

(10,185) 

Insurance services cost of sales

5,S7  

(475)   

—   

(475) 

852   

33,637   

(27,616)   

(582)   

—   

852 

(9,896)   

23,741 

14,986   

(12,630) 

—   

(582) 

Re-measurement and settlement of derivative 
energy contracts

Gross profit

Operating costs before insurances services 
operating costs, exceptional items and credit 
losses on financial assets

Insurance services operating costs

Credit losses on financial assets 

Exceptional items – (impairment)/write-back of 
power assets

Exceptional items – impairment of gas storage 
asset

Exceptional items – net loss on significant 
disposals

Operating costs

Share of profits/(losses) of joint ventures and 
associates, net of interest and taxation

Group operating profit/(loss)

Financing costs

Investment income

Net finance cost

Profit/(loss) before taxation

Taxation on profit/(loss) 

Profit/(loss) for the period

Attributable to:

Owners of the parent

Non-controlling interests

Earnings per ordinary share

Basic

Diluted

Interim dividend paid per ordinary share

Final dividend proposed per ordinary share

7  

7  

7  

5  

6  

4  

8  

8  

8  

7,9  

10

10

11

11

7  

4,7  

—   

5,217   

(6,175)   

(6,175) 

4,406   

9,623 

—   

5,439   

(8,484)   

(3,394)   

(8,484) 

2,045 

5  

(1,778)   

5,S7  

5,17  

(294)   

(602)   

—   

—   

—   

(1,778) 

(1,608)   

(294) 

(602) 

(264)   

(351)   

—   

—   

—   

(563)   

(563) 

(82)   

(82) 

—   

— 

—   

—   

—   

(2,674)   

(645)   

(3,319) 

(2,223)   

—   

—   

—   

(1,608) 

(264) 

(351) 

207   

207 

—   

— 

(362)   

(155)   

(362) 

(2,378) 

209   

2,752   

(308)   

269   

(39)   

2,713   

(838)   

1,875   

1,859   

16   

(1)   

3,760   

—   

—   

—   

208 

6,512 

(308) 

269 

(39) 

3,760   

6,473 

(1,595)   

(2,433) 

2,165   

4,040 

2,070   

95   

3,929 

111 

92   

3,308   

(220)   

77   

(143)   

3,165   

(1,046)   

2,119   

2,050   

69   

1   

(3,548)   

—   

—   

—   

(3,548)   

793   

(2,755)   

(2,832)   

77   

Pence

70.6 

69.4 

1.33 

2.67 

93 

(240) 

(220) 

77 

(143) 

(383) 

(253) 

(636) 

(782) 

146 

Pence

(13.3) 

(13.3) 

1.00 

2.00 

(i) Cost of sales includes an £833 million credit (2022: £1,766 million credit) relating to the unwind of the onerous energy supply contract provision within the certain 

re-measurements column. See note 7.

The notes on pages 132 to 228 form part of these Financial Statements.

Financial Statements | Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

127

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
GROUP STATEMENT OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME

Year ended 31 December 

Profit/(loss) for the period

Other comprehensive income

Items that will be or have been reclassified to the Group Income Statement:

Impact of cash flow hedging, net of taxation
Exchange differences on translation of foreign operations (i)

Exchange differences reclassified to the Group Income Statement on disposal

Items that will not be reclassified to the Group Income Statement:

Net actuarial losses on defined benefit pension schemes, net of taxation

Gains on revaluation of equity instruments measured at fair value through other comprehensive
income, net of taxation

Share of other comprehensive loss of associates, net of taxation

Other comprehensive loss, net of taxation

Total comprehensive income/(loss) for the period

Attributable to:

Owners of the parent

Non-controlling interests

Notes

S4  

S4  

S4  

S4  

S4

14,S4  

S11  

2023
£m

4,040 

(2) 

(44) 

— 

(288) 

3 

(95) 

(426) 

3,614 

3,504 

110 

2022
£m

(636) 

(20) 

(90) 

272 

(124) 

— 

(293) 

(255) 

(891) 

(1,042) 

151 

(i) Exchange differences on translation of foreign operations includes £43 million (2022: £95 million) of losses attributable to the equity holders of the parent, and £1 million of 

losses (2022: £5 million of gains) attributable to non-controlling interests. 

The notes on pages 132 to 228 form part of these Financial Statements.

128

Financial Statements | Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
GROUP STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN EQUITY

1 January 2022

(Loss)/profit for the year

Other comprehensive (loss)/income

Total comprehensive (loss)/income

Employee share schemes and other 
share transactions

Share buyback programme (note S4)

Dividends paid to equity holders (note 11)

Distributions to non-controlling interests

31 December 2022

Profit for the year

Other comprehensive loss

Total comprehensive income/(loss)

Employee share schemes and other share 
transactions

Share buyback programme (note S4)

Dividends paid to equity holders (note 11)

Distributions to non-controlling interests (note 12)

Share 
capital
£m

Share 
premium
£m

Retained 
earnings
£m

363   

2,377   

—   

—   

—   

2   

—   

—   

—   

—   

—   

—   

17   

—   

—   

—   

377   

(782)   

—   

(782)   

(2)   

—   

(59)   

—   

Other 
equity
£m

(752)   

—   

(260)   

(260)   

(14)   

(250)   

—   

—   

365   

2,394   

(466)   

(1,276)   

—   

—   

—   

—   

—   

—   

—   

—   

—   

—   

—   

—   

—   

—   

3,929   

—   

3,929   

(3)   

—   

(186)   

—   

—   

(425)   

(425)   

45   

(500)   

—   

—   

2,365   

(782)   

(260)   

(1,042)   

3   

(250)   

(59)   

—   

1,017   

3,929   

(425)   

3,504   

42   

(500)   

(186)   

—   

31 December 2023

365   

2,394   

3,274   

(2,156)   

3,877   

The notes on pages 132 to 228 form part of these Financial Statements.

Non-controlling 
interests
£m

Total
£m

Total 
equity
£m

2,750 

(636) 

(255) 

(891) 

3 

(250) 

(59) 

(273) 

1,280 

4,040 

(426) 

3,614 

42 

(500) 

(186) 

(17) 

4,233 

385   

146   

5   

151   

—   

—   

—   

(273)   

263   

111   

(1)   

110   

—   

—   

—   

(17)   

356   

Financial Statements | Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

129

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
GROUP BALANCE SHEET

Non-current assets

Property, plant and equipment

Interests in joint ventures and associates

Other intangible assets

Goodwill

Deferred tax assets

Trade and other receivables, and contract-related assets

Derivative financial instruments

Retirement benefit assets

Other investments

Securities

Current assets

Trade and other receivables, and contract-related assets

Other intangible assets

Inventories

Derivative financial instruments

Current tax assets

Securities

Cash and cash equivalents

Total assets

Current liabilities

Derivative financial instruments

Trade and other payables, and contract-related liabilities

Insurance contract liabilities

Current tax liabilities

Provisions for other liabilities and charges

Bank overdrafts, loans and other borrowings

Non-current liabilities

Deferred tax liabilities

Derivative financial instruments

Trade and other payables, and contract-related liabilities

Provisions for other liabilities and charges

Retirement benefit obligations

Bank loans and other borrowings

Total liabilities

Net assets

Share capital

Share premium

Retained earnings

Other equity

Total shareholders’ equity

Non-controlling interests

Total shareholders’ equity and non-controlling interests

31 December 
2023
£m

31 December 
2022
£m

Notes

1,846   

903   

340   

405   

456   

210   

899   

64   

61   

116   

1,748 

1,580 

707 

409 

1,709 

129 

1,393 

150 

— 

525 

5,300   

8,350 

5,409   

8,450 

293   

1,079   

2,373   

64   

405   

6,443   

16,066   

21,366   

— 

1,269 

6,034 

93 

— 

4,842 

20,688 

29,038 

(2,391)   

(8,841) 

(7,000)   

(10,016) 

(165)   

(299)   

(279)   

(1,002)   

(160) 

(472) 

(1,213) 

(1,009) 

(11,136)   

(21,711) 

(424)   

(615)   

(207)   

(8) 

(1,310) 

(165) 

(1,469)   

(1,446) 

(181)   

(3,101)   

(5,997)   

(110) 

(3,008) 

(6,047) 

(17,133)   

(27,758) 

13  

14  

15  

15  

16  

17  

19  

22  

24  

17  

15  

18  

19  

24  

24  

19  

20  

S7  

21  

24  

16  

19  

20  

21  

22  

24  

25  

4,233   

365   

2,394   

3,274   

S4  

(2,156)   

S11  

3,877   

356   

4,233   

1,280 

365 

2,394 

(466) 

(1,276) 

1,017 

263 

1,280 

The Financial Statements on pages 127 to 228, of which the notes on pages 132 to 228 form part, were approved and authorised for 
issue by the Board of Directors on 14 February 2024 and were signed below on its behalf by:

Chris O’Shea 
Group Chief Executive 

Russell O’Brien
Group Chief Financial Officer

Centrica plc Registered No: 03033654

130

Financial Statements | Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
GROUP CASH FLOW STATEMENT

Year ended 31 December 

Group operating profit/(loss) including share of results of joint ventures and associates

Deduct share of profits of joint ventures and associates, net of interest and taxation

Group operating profit/(loss) before share of results of joint ventures and associates

Add back/(deduct):

Depreciation and amortisation

Write-downs, impairments and write-backs

Loss on disposals

Decrease in provisions

Cash contributions to defined benefit schemes in excess of service cost income statement charge

Employee share scheme costs

Unrealised (gains)/losses arising from re-measurement of energy contracts

Operating cash flows before movements in working capital relating to business performance and payments 
relating to taxes, exceptional charges and operating interest

Decrease/(increase) in inventories

Decrease/(increase) in trade and other receivables and contract-related assets relating to business performance

(Decrease)/increase in trade and other payables and contract-related liabilities relating to business performance

Operating cash flows before payments relating to taxes, exceptional charges and operating interest

Taxes paid
Operating interest paid

Payments relating to exceptional charges in operating costs

Net cash flow from operating activities

Purchase of businesses, net of cash acquired

Sale of businesses, including receipt of deferred consideration

Purchase of property, plant and equipment and intangible assets

Sale of property, plant and equipment and intangible assets

Investments in joint ventures and associates

Dividends received from joint ventures and associates

Interest received

Net purchase of other investments

Settlement of securities

Purchase of securities

Net cash flow from investing activities

Proceeds from exercise of share options

Payments for own shares

Share buyback programme

Cash inflow from borrowings

Distributions to non-controlling interests

Financing interest paid

Cash outflow from repayment of borrowings and capital element of leases

Equity dividends paid

Net cash flow from financing activities
Net increase/(decrease) in cash and cash equivalents

Cash and cash equivalents including overdrafts, and cash classified as held for sale at 1 January

Effect of foreign exchange rate changes

Cash and cash equivalents including overdrafts at 31 December

Included in the following line of the Group Balance Sheet:

Cash and cash equivalents

Overdrafts included within current bank overdrafts, loans and other borrowings

The notes on pages 132 to 228 form part of these Financial Statements.

Notes

6  

13,15  

4,7  

9  
8  

7  

12  

12  

4  

14  

14  

24  

24  

S4  

S4  

S4  

24  

12  

24  

24  

11  

24  

24  

24  

24  

2023
£m

6,512   

(208)   

6,304   

518   

669   

—   

2022
£m

(240) 

(93) 

(333) 

669 

(99) 

343 

(1,021)   

(1,903) 

(215)   

31   

(2,949)   

3,337   

186   

2,911   

(2,853)   

3,581   

(803)   
(20)   

(6)   

(184) 

10 

4,095 

2,598 

(593) 

(2,302) 

2,239 

1,942 

(574) 
(30) 

(24) 

2,752   

1,314 

(34)   

55   

(335)   

—   

(9)   

220   

267   

(37)   

—   

(12)   

115   

6   

—   

(613)   

930   

(17)   

(286)   

12 

92 

(371) 

11 

(18) 

60 

46 

— 

150 

(548) 

(566) 

— 

(5) 

(43) 

1,220 

(273) 

(172) 

(1,248)   

(1,585) 

(186)   

(1,414)   
1,453   

4,242   

(66)   

5,629   

6,443   

(814)   

(59) 

(917) 
(169) 

4,328 

83 

4,242 

4,842 

(600) 

Financial Statements | Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

131

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL 
STATEMENTS

Notes to the Financial Statements provide additional 
information required by statute, accounting standards 
or Listing Rules to explain a particular feature of the 
consolidated Financial Statements.

The notes to these Financial Statements focus on areas 
that are key to understanding our business. Additional 
information that we are required to disclose by 
accounting standards or regulation is disclosed in the 
Supplementary Information (notes S1 to S11).

In addition, for clarity, notes begin with a simple 
introduction outlining its purpose.

1. BASIS OF PREPARATION AND SUMMARY 
OF SIGNIFICANT NEW ACCOUNTING 
POLICIES AND REPORTING CHANGES

This section details new accounting standards, 
amendments to standards and interpretations, whether 
these are effective in 2023 or later years, and if and how 
these are expected to impact the financial position and 
performance of the Group.

The material accounting policies applied in the preparation of these 
consolidated Financial Statements are set out below and in the 
Supplementary Information (note S2). Unless otherwise stated, 
these policies have been consistently applied to the years 
presented.
(a) Basis of preparation
The consolidated Financial Statements have been prepared in 
accordance with United Kingdom adopted International Accounting 
Standards and in conformity with the requirements of the 
Companies Act 2006.

The consolidated Financial Statements have been prepared on the 
historical cost basis except for: certain gas inventory, derivative 
financial instruments, financial instruments required to be measured 
at fair value through profit or loss or other comprehensive income, 
and those financial instruments so designated at initial recognition, 
and the assets of the Group’s defined benefit pension schemes 
that have been measured at fair value; the liabilities of the Group’s 
defined benefit pension schemes that have been measured using 
the projected unit credit valuation method; and the carrying values 
of recognised assets and liabilities qualifying as hedged items in fair 
value hedges that have been adjusted from cost by the changes in 
the fair values attributable to the risks that are being hedged.

The Directors have, at the time of approving the financial 
statements, a reasonable expectation that the Company and 
Group have adequate resources to continue in operational 
existence for the foreseeable future, which reflects a period of 
twelve months from the date of approval of the accounts, with 
modelled analysis extending to 31 December 2026. The scenarios 
considered as part of the going concern assessment are consistent 
with those used in the longer-term viability statement. In particular, 
cash forecasts for the Group have been stress-tested for different 
scenarios including reasonably possible increases/decreases in 
commodity prices and the risk scenarios described in the viability 
statement, assessing reasonably possible combinations of risks, 
the largest of which is the increased margin outflows in our trading 
and upstream businesses. Risks considered also include the 
impact of significant adverse weather events, increased bad debt 
charges due to the cost of living crisis, the risk of financial loss due 

to counterparty default, underperformance of the trading business 
and production falls in the Group’s upstream business. The 
persistent volatility of the external risk environment in recent years 
underscores the significance of securing ample financial facilities, 
placing a heightened emphasis on trading entities to maintain 
sufficient collateral for mark-to-market positions. The Group 
continues to manage the Group’s financing profile through 
accessing a diverse source of term funding and maintaining access 
to carefully assessed levels of standby liquidity which support the 
Group’s planned financial commitments. The level of undrawn 
committed bank facilities and available cash resources has enabled 
the Directors to conclude that there are no material uncertainties 
relating to going concern. As a result, the Group continues to adopt 
the going concern basis of accounting in preparing the financial 
statements. Further information on the Group’s strong liquidity 
position, including its indebtedness and available committed 
facilities, is provided in note 24.

The preparation of financial statements in conformity with IFRS 
requires the use of certain critical accounting estimates. It requires 
management to exercise its judgement in the process of applying 
the Group’s accounting policies. The areas involving a higher 
degree of judgement or complexity and areas where assumptions 
and estimates are significant to the consolidated Financial 
Statements are described in notes 2 and 3.
(b) New accounting policies, standards, amendments 
and interpretations effective or adopted in 2023
From 1 January 2023, the following standards and amendments 
are effective in the Group’s consolidated Financial Statements:

¢ IFRS 17 ‘Insurance Contracts’;

¢ Amendments to IAS 8 ‘Accounting policies, Changes in 

Accounting Estimates and Errors’, distinguishing changes in 
accounting estimates from changes in accounting policies;

¢ Amendments to IAS 1 ‘Presentation of Financial Statements’, 

disclosure of accounting policies and materiality judgements; and

¢ Amendments to IAS 12 ‘Income Taxes’:

– Deferred tax related to assets and liabilities arising from a 

single transaction; and 

– International tax reform, pillar 2 model rules.

There has been no material impact on the consolidated Financial 
Statements from any amendments effective during the year.

IFRS 17 ‘Insurance Contracts’
IFRS 17 became effective on 1 January 2023. The Group has fixed-
fee service contracts that it previously accounted for as insurance 
contracts under IFRS 4 ‘Insurance Contracts’. These contracts fall 
within the scope of IFRS 17 where the Group reflects an 
assessment of the risk associated with an individual customer in 
setting the price of the contract. The Group is applying the 
simplified ‘Premium Allocation Approach’ to its fixed-fee service 
contracts on the basis that the coverage period of the Group’s 
insurance contracts is not greater than one year. No material 
change in accounting has arisen from the application of IFRS 17 
and therefore there has been no impact on the opening balance 
sheet. Revenue arising from the Group’s insurance contracts within 
the scope of IFRS 17 amounts to £813 million (2022: £852 million). 
The Group has presented both current and prior year revenue and 
costs from insurance contracts on the Group Income Statement 
and net insurance liabilities on the Group Balance Sheet in 
accordance with IFRS 17. Further detail regarding the Group’s 
fixed fee insurance contracts is provided in note S7.

132

Financial Statements | Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

(c) Standards and amendments that are issued but 

not yet applied by the Group

At the date of authorisation of these consolidated Financial 
Statements, the Group has not applied the following new and 
revised standards and amendments that have been issued but are 
not yet effective:

¢ Amendments to IAS 1 ‘Presentation of Financial Statements’:

– Classification of liabilities as current or non-current, effective 

from 1 January 2024; and

– Non-current liabilities with covenants, effective from 1 January 

2024; 

¢ Amendments to IFRS 16 ‘Leases’; effective from 1 January 

2024:
– Lease liability in a sale and leaseback; 

¢ Amendments to IAS 7 ‘Statement of Cash Flows’ and IFRS 7 
‘Financial Instruments: Disclosures’, effective from 1 January 
2024:
– Supplier finance arrangements; 

¢ Amendments to IAS 21 ‘The Effects of Changes in Foreign 

Exchange Rates’, effective from 1 January 2025; and

¢ Amendments to IFRS 10 ‘Consolidated Financial Statements and 
IAS 28 ‘Investments in Associates and Joint Ventures’; effective 
date deferred but available for early adoption.

Management does not expect other issued but not effective 
amendments or standards, or standards not discussed above to 
have a material impact on the consolidated Financial Statements.

1. BASIS OF PREPARATION AND SUMMARY 
OF SIGNIFICANT NEW ACCOUNTING 
POLICIES AND REPORTING CHANGES

Electricity Generator Levy
At the end of 2022, the Government announced the 
implementation of the Electricity Generator Levy (EGL), a new, 
temporary levy applicable to receipts that the Group realises from 
electricity generation in the UK from nuclear and renewable sources 
in the period from 1 January 2023 to 31 March 2028. It was 
legislated in the Finance (No 2) Act 2023. The levy applies a 45% 
charge on receipts generated from the production of wholesale 
electricity sold at an average price in excess of £75/MWh, 
exceeding an annual threshold of £10 million. It applies to 
generators whose generation exceeds 50GWh annually, as well as 
off-take arrangements with significant minority shareholders in such 
generators (e.g. generation within our Nuclear associate and 
potentially our off-take from that associate).  

The Group has determined that the accounting for the levy falls 
within the scope of IAS 37 ‘Provisions, contingent liabilities, and 
contingent assets’ and IFRIC 21 ‘Levies’ on the basis that the levy 
represents a legislative liability imposed by the Government, 
calculated with reference to revenue generated. The Group 
recognises the levy progressively over time, as the related electricity 
is sold. The Group also considered the applicability of IAS 12 
‘Income Taxes’, however the EGL is based on revenue generated, 
and not taxable profit and is therefore outside the scope of IAS 12. 
During the year an amount of £285 million has been reflected within 
cost of sales as a result of this levy. A further £41 million is 
recorded within the share of profit after tax from the Nuclear 
associate.

Whilst the legislation was substantively enacted on 20 June 2023 
and received Royal Assent on 11 July 2023, there remain some 
uncertainties in how it should be interpreted in relation to significant 
minority shareholder off-take arrangements. It is currently expected 
to remain in effect until 31 March 2028. As payment has been 
made on account to HMRC, the Group also considered whether 
this tax deposit could constitute an asset. In accordance with the 
2019 IFRIC agenda decision on Deposits relating to taxes other 
than income taxes, the Group’s policy is to recognise an asset 
where it is probable that the EGL payment on account will 
ultimately be due back from HMRC (or used to settle another tax 
liability). The Group’s current view is that it is not probable and 
accordingly no asset has been recorded. Further details are 
included in the Key Sources of Estimation Uncertainty, note 3(b).

Renewables certificates
The Group purchases both renewable certificates and carbon 
dioxide emissions allowances in order to comply with, and meet its 
obligations under a number of UK and EU renewable energy 
schemes. These items are initially recognised at cost and are 
presented within other intangible assets. The certificates are 
classified as current or non-current based on the Group’s 
expectations, at the end of each reporting period, of when it 
expects to realise those assets. Where the renewable certificates 
are expected to be surrendered within a year of purchase they are 
presented as current assets, otherwise they are presented as non-
current. At 31 December 2022, the portfolio of certificates of £280 
million was classified as non-current. At 31 December 2023, the 
portfolio of renewable certificates of £293 million was classified as 
current based on the Group’s assessment of the expected 
submission dates of the certificates within the portfolio. 

Financial Statements | Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

133

2. CENTRICA SPECIFIC ACCOUNTING 

MEASURES

This section sets out the Group’s specific accounting 
measures applied in the preparation of the consolidated 
Financial Statements. These measures enable the users 
of the accounts to understand the Group’s underlying 
and statutory business performance separately.

(a) Use of adjusted performance measures
The Directors believe that reporting adjusted measures (revenue, 
margin, profit, earnings per share and cash flow) provides 
additional useful information on business performance and 
underlying trends. These measures are used for internal 
performance purposes, are not defined terms under IFRS and may 
not be comparable with similarly titled measures reported by other 
companies.

Management uses adjusted revenue, adjusted gross margin and 
adjusted operating profit to evaluate segment performance. They 
are defined as revenue/gross margin/operating profit before:

¢ Exceptional items; and

¢ Certain re-measurements.

Exceptional items and certain re-measurements are excluded 
because these items are considered by the Directors to distort the 
Group’s underlying business performance. See section (b) of this 
note for further details. Similarly, for Segmental adjusted operating 
profit, the impact of the colleague profit share is excluded because 
management considers it unrelated to Segmental business 
performance.

Adjusted earnings is defined as earnings before:

¢ Exceptional items net of taxation; and

¢ Certain re-measurements net of taxation.

A reconciliation of adjusted earnings and adjusted earnings per 
share is provided in note 10.

Free cash flow is used by management to assess the cash 
generating performance of each segment. Segmental free cash 
flow is defined as net cash flow from operating and investing 
activities before:

¢ Deficit reduction payments made to the UK defined benefit 

pension schemes;

¢ Movements in variation margin and collateral;

¢ Interest received;

¢ Sale, settlement and purchase of securities; and

¢ Taxes paid and refunded.

Segmental free cash flow as assessed by management excludes 
cash flows relating to tax. This is because the effect of Group relief 
and similar reliefs could distort the measure of segment 
performance. As a Group-wide measure, free cash flow includes 
taxes paid and refunded.

Free cash flow gives a measure of the cash generation 
performance of the business after taking account of the need to 
maintain its capital asset base. By excluding deficit reduction 
payments and movements in variation margin and collateral, which 
are predominantly triggered by wider market factors and, in the 
case of collateral and margin movements, represent timing 
differences, free cash flow gives a measure of the underlying 
performance of the Group.

Interest received and cash flows from the sale, settlement and 
purchase of securities are excluded from free cash flow as these 
items are included in the Group’s adjusted net cash/(debt) measure 
and are therefore viewed by the Directors as related to the manner 
in which the Group finances its operations.

Adjusted net cash/(debt) is used by management to assess the 
underlying indebtedness of the business. Adjusted net cash/(debt) 
is defined as cash and cash equivalents, net of bank overdrafts, 
borrowings, leases, interest accruals and related derivatives. This is 
adjusted for:

¢ Securities; and
¢ Sub-lease assets.

(b) Exceptional items and certain re-measurements

The Group reflects its underlying financial results in the business 
performance column of the Group Income Statement. To be able 
to provide users with this clear and consistent presentation, the 
effects of ‘certain re-measurements’ of financial instruments, and 
‘exceptional items’, are reported in a different column in the Group 
Income Statement.

The Group is an integrated energy business. This means that it 
utilises its knowledge and experience across the gas and power 
(and related commodity) value chains to make profits across the 
core markets in which it operates. As part of this strategy, the 
Group enters into a number of forward energy trades to protect 
and optimise the value of its underlying production, generation, 
storage and transportation assets and contracts (and similar 
capacity or off-take arrangements), as well as to meet the future 
needs of its customers (downstream demand). These trades are 
designed to reduce the risk of holding such assets, contracts or 
downstream demand and are subject to strict risk limits and 
controls.

Primarily because some of these trades include terms that permit 
net settlement, they are prohibited from being designated as ‘own 
use’ and so IFRS 9 ‘Financial Instruments’ requires them to be 
individually fair valued.

Fair value movements on these commodity derivative trades do not 
reflect the underlying performance of the business because they 
are economically related to our upstream assets, capacity/off-take 
contracts or downstream demand, which are typically not fair 
valued. Similarly, where our downstream customer supply 
contracts have become onerous as a result of significant market 
price movements (and the fact any associated commodity hedges 
have separately been recognised at fair value under IFRS 9 and 
therefore the onerous supply contract assessment must reflect the 
reversal of those gains in subsequent periods), movements in the 
required provision are also reflected as a certain re-measurement in 
the ‘Cost of sales’ line item and separately disclosed in note 7.

Movements in this provision do not reflect the underlying 
performance of the business because they are economically related 
to both the hedges and forecast future profitability of the supply 
contracts. Therefore, these certain re-measurements are reported 
separately and are subsequently reflected in business performance 
when the underlying transaction or asset impacts profit or loss.

The effects of these certain re-measurements are presented within 
either revenue or cost of sales when recognised in business 
performance depending on the nature of the contract. They are 
managed separately from proprietary energy trading activities 
where trades are entered into speculatively for the purpose of 
making profits in their own right. These proprietary trades are 
included in revenue in the business performance column of the 
Group Income Statement.

134

Financial Statements | Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

2. CENTRICA SPECIFIC ACCOUNTING 

MEASURES

The Group’s result for the year presents both realised and 
unrealised fair value movements on all derivative energy contracts 
within the ‘Re-measurement and settlement of derivative energy 
contracts’ line item. The Group’s result for the year presents the 
unrealised onerous supply contract provision movements within the 
‘Cost of sales’ line item.

Exceptional items are those items that, in the judgement of the 
Directors, need to be disclosed separately by virtue of their nature, 
size or incidence. Again, to ensure the business performance 
column reflects the underlying results of the Group, these 
exceptional items are also reported in the separate column in the 
Group Income Statement. Items that may be considered 
exceptional in nature include disposals of businesses or significant 
assets, business restructurings, debt repurchase costs, certain 
pension past service credits/costs, asset impairments/write-backs, 
and the tax effects of these items.

The Group distinguishes between business performance asset 
impairments/write-backs and exceptional impairments/write-backs 
on the basis of the underlying driver of the impairment, as well as 
the magnitude of the impairment. Drivers that are deemed to be 
outside of the control of the Group (e.g. commodity price changes) 
give rise to exceptional impairments. Additionally, impairment 
charges that are of a one-off nature (e.g. reserve downgrades or 
one-time change in intended use of an asset) and significant 
enough value to distort the underlying results of the business are 
considered to be exceptional. Other impairments that would be 
expected in the normal course of business, such as unsuccessful 
exploration activity (dry holes), are reflected in business 
performance.

Financial Statements | Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

135

3. CRITICAL ACCOUNTING JUDGEMENTS 
AND KEY SOURCES OF ESTIMATION 
UNCERTAINTY

This section sets out the key areas of judgement and 
estimation that have the most significant effect on the 
amounts recognised in the consolidated Financial 
Statements.

(a) Critical judgements in applying the Group’s 

accounting policies

Management has made the following key judgements in applying 
the Group’s accounting policies that have the most significant 
effect on the consolidated Group Financial Statements.

Share buyback programme
On 10 November 2022, the Group announced an intention to 
undertake a share buyback of £250 million and the Group entered 
into contracts with third parties to undertake this repurchase 
programme which has now completed. During 2023, the Group 
firstly increased the share buyback by an additional £300 million 
which completed during the second half of the year. 

Subsequently, in July 2023, the Group announced a further £450 
million extension to the share buyback programme and as a result, 
the Group signed an agreement with a third party to undertake the 
repurchase of £200 million of shares which is expected to complete 
by March 2024. The repurchase of the remaining £250 million of 
shares is expected to commence in the first half of 2024. 

The Group judges that the terms and conditions of the contracts 
mean that, at 31 December 2023, it was unable to cancel the 
obligation arising under the contract signed in the second half of 
2023. Accordingly, the Group has recorded a financial liability at 31 
December 2023 of £94 million (31 December 2022: £207 million) 
for this obligation in accordance with IAS 32 ‘Financial instruments: 
Presentation’ that is subsequently measured in accordance with 
IFRS 9 ‘Financial instruments’. This liability is included within other 
payables, with the corresponding debit presented in the other 
equity reserve. 

The Group has not recognised a liability relating to the further £250 
million announced during 2023, as no contract has been signed 
and therefore no financial liability has yet arisen. The monthly 
breakdown of all shares purchased and the average price paid 
(excluding expenses) in relation to the financial liability recognised at 
31 December 2023 are detailed in note S4.

Spirit Energy consolidation
During 2017, the Group acquired Bayerngas Norge’s exploration 
and production business and combined this with the Group’s 
existing exploration and production business to form the Spirit 
Energy business. The Group holds a 69% interest in Spirit Energy. 
While Spirit Energy has a 31% non-controlling interest, the Group, 
through its Board majority, can control decisions that represent 
Board Reserved Matters and the Directors consider that these 
rights provide control over the relevant activities that most 
significantly influence the variable returns of the Spirit Energy 
business. The Group has concluded that it controls Spirit Energy 
and consequently Spirit Energy is fully consolidated with a non-
controlling interest of 31%.

Metering contracts
As part of the ongoing smart meter roll-out, the Group periodically 
renews meter rental arrangements with third parties. The last 
renegotiation took place in 2021. The Group assessed that these 
were not leases under IAS 17 and IFRIC 4 because at inception of 
the contract there were no specified assets, the Group did not have 
the right to physically or operationally control the smart meters and 
other parties took more than an insignificant amount of the output 
from the assets. This assessment was grandfathered on adoption 
of IFRS 16.

A reassessment of the contracts was performed in accordance 
with IFRS 16, following renegotiations of the meter rental 
arrangements. On the basis that the asset has a predetermined use 
and the Group neither has the right to operate the asset, nor was 
involved in its design, the conclusion that these arrangements are 
not leases continues to be appropriate.

LNG contracts
The Group is active in the Liquified Natural Gas (LNG) market, both 
procuring long-term LNG supply arrangements and transacting in 
shorter-term LNG cargoes. As part of its operations in the market, 
the Group optimises its contractual positions in order to meet 
customer demand for physical commodity. In response to the 
continuing development of the global LNG market which, 
consistent with prior years, is not considered to be active, the 
Group has reviewed its portfolio of LNG transactions and contracts. 
It has judged that its activities are carried out for the purpose of 
receipt or delivery of physical commodity in accordance with its 
expected purchase and sale requirements. As a result, the Group’s 
contracts to buy and sell LNG are outside the scope of IFRS 9 and 
are accounted for on an accruals basis.

Assets held for sale and discontinued operations
On 8 December 2021 the Group announced that it had agreed to 
sell Spirit Energy’s entire Norwegian portfolio plus the Statfjord field 
to Sval Energi and Equinor. The transaction completed in the first 
half of 2022. See note 12.

The Group assessed whether the disposal group constituted a 
discontinued operation. Key considerations included the effect of 
the disposal on the Upstream business and whether the disposal 
group represented a separate major line of business or 
geographical operation. Following the disposal, because the 
Upstream segment retained other European producing fields, the 
Group judged that it was neither exiting a geographical area nor a 
separate major line of business, and hence concluded the disposal 
group did not constitute a discontinued operation.

Supplier of Last Resort (SoLR)
During 2021, the Group was appointed as the Supplier of Last 
Resort (SoLR) to eight suppliers who ceased trading during the 
year; one further appointment was made in January 2022. Under 
Ofgem’s licence conditions, the Group was entitled to make a Last 
Resort Supplier Payment (LRSP) claim for the shortfall between 
costs reasonably incurred in supplying gas and electricity to 
premises under the Last Resort Supply Direction, and the charges 
recovered from customers. 

The Group submitted an initial claim in 2021 and a second claim in 
2022, both of which were accepted by Ofgem. The claims covered 
both incremental commodity costs, incurred as a result of 
procuring gas and electricity to supply affected customers, and the 
cost of recovering customer credit balances, where the Group had 
not waived the right to do so. The initial claim was settled between 
April 2022 and April 2023 and the second claim is being settled 
over the current twelve month period ending in April 2024. 

The value recognised for the SoLR receivable at 31 December 
2023 is £48 million (31 December 2022: £275 million). This includes 
residual balances for which the Group has submitted a third claim 
to be settled between April 2024 and April 2025, but no significant 
incremental costs have been incurred during the year (31 
December 2022: £299 million).

The Group has concluded that the LRSP process represents an 
Ofgem support mechanism, enabling energy suppliers to provide 
stability to the customers of failed suppliers. The Group determines 
that the LRSP is within the scope of IAS 20 ‘Government Grants’ 
and amounts receivable under the mechanism are recognised as 
a credit within cost of sales and operating costs, as the related 
expenses are incurred. 

136

Financial Statements | Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

3. CRITICAL ACCOUNTING JUDGEMENTS 
AND KEY SOURCES OF ESTIMATION 
UNCERTAINTY

(b) Key sources of estimation uncertainty
The sections below detail the assumptions the Group makes about 
the future and other major sources of estimation uncertainty when 
measuring its assets and liabilities at the reporting date. The 
information given relates to the sources of estimation uncertainty 
that have a significant risk of resulting in a material adjustment to 
those assets and liabilities in the next financial year.

Estimates and associated assumptions are based on historical 
experience and various other factors that are believed to be 
reasonable under the circumstances, including current and 
expected economic conditions, and, in some cases, actuarial 
techniques. Although these estimates and associated assumptions 
are based on management’s best knowledge of current events and 
circumstances, actual results may differ.

Electricity Generator Levy
As detailed in note 1(b), the Electricity Generator Levy (EGL) is 
applicable from 1 January 2023. During the year, the Group’s share 
of its Nuclear associate’s EGL payments amounted to £41 million 
(recorded within the share of profit after tax from associates). The 
Group has also made payments on account to HMRC of £285 
million in relation to its estimated EGL liabilities for its minority 
shareholder Nuclear offtake arrangements during the December 
2023 financial year and this expense has been recorded within the 
income statement, as part of Cost of Sales.

Similar to other relevant businesses, the Group is reviewing the 
EGL legislation and its application. The EGL legislation is new, and 
its interpretation and application is unclear in respect of the 
Group’s minority shareholder Nuclear offtake arrangements. As 
such, the extent of the levy that will ultimately be due in this regard 
is not yet certain, and a different amount may eventually be 
determined. If this were the case, a tax deposit asset would be 
recorded on the Group Balance Sheet, and as a credit within Cost 
of Sales in the income statement, when it became probable, in 
accordance with the 2019 IFRIC Agenda decision on Deposits 
relating to taxes other than income taxes. No tax deposit asset has 
been recorded because it is not deemed probable, as at the 
balance sheet date, that this will ultimately be recoverable (or used 
to settle another tax liability). 

We have determined there is a key source of estimation uncertainty 
in relation to the amount of levy the Group owes for 2023 and 
whether a tax deposit asset should be recorded for the recovery of 
payments on account made to HMRC of up to £285 million. Whilst 
a material change in the accounting could occur in the next 
financial period, ultimate resolution of this uncertainty may take a 
number of years.

Credit provisions for trade and other receivables
The macroeconomic environment continues to be challenging with 
continued higher interest rates, high inflation and low growth all 
contributing to cost of living pressures which may impact the ability 
of the Group’s customers to pay amounts due. Leading debt 
indicators, including the number of customers going into debt and 
direct debit cancellation rates in the Group’s residential portfolio 
have continued to deteriorate in 2023. The Group also suspended 
all debt recovery field activity throughout the majority of the year, 
and this has resulted in a deterioration of debt performance for 
affected cohorts of customers during the period. Customer support 
schemes, implemented by the Government in 2022 to provide 
discounts to energy customers, largely ended on 30 June 2023 
and despite declining commodity prices during the year, prices are 
still significantly higher than in previous years.

These factors all result in the assessment and adequacy of credit 
provisions for trade and other receivables to continue to be a key 
source of estimation uncertainty. See note 17 for further 
information.

The Group utilises a range of factors, including both internal and 
external, historic and forward-looking, to assess the adequacy of 
the Group’s credit provisions. Whilst the Group utilises a matrix 
output model to record provision coverage, management 
recognises that the model does not adequately capture scenarios 
where there is a delayed impact on customer payments, such as 
the ending of Government support schemes, and forward-looking 
macroeconomic challenges. The Group has therefore recorded a 
macroeconomic credit provision of £175 million (31 December 
2022: £125 million) which results in a total credit provision for trade 
and other receivables at 31 December 2023 of £1,309 million (31 
December 2022: £872 million).

British Gas Energy and Centrica Business Solutions Onerous 
Supply Contracts
The Group operates and manages a hedging strategy to ensure 
that the future costs of supplying customers of the British Gas 
Energy and Centrica Business Solutions portfolios are appropriately 
managed.

Hedges are measured at fair value under IFRS 9 and are 
recognised as certain re-measurements in the Group’s Income 
Statement until the point at which the related costs to purchase 
electricity and gas are incurred. Fair value movements on energy 
purchase contracts entered to meet the future needs of customers 
are economically related to customer demand; the supply contracts 
for which are measured on an accrual basis.

Gains and losses arising from hedges have been recognised in the 
income statement (within certain re-measurements) in accordance 
with the requirements of IFRS 9. Because of this hedge value 
recognition, the assessment of whether the supply contracts are 
onerous must include the contracted energy purchase costs and 
those mark-to-market reversals. As a result, the Group recognised 
an onerous supply contract provision of £999 million in the 
consolidated Group Financial Statements for the year ended 31 
December 2022.

During 2023, commodity costs have declined and as a result, fair 
value movements on energy purchase contracts entered to meet 
the future needs of both British Gas Energy residential customers 
and the Group's non-domestic customers have resulted in losses 
rather than gains being recognised as certain re-measurements in 
the Group’s Income Statement. As a result, the Group determined 
that at the reporting date, the future costs to fulfil both British Gas 
residential and the Group's non-domestic customer contracts fell 
below charges recoverable from customers and the onerous supply 
contract provision previously recognised in relation to the fulfilment 
of the Group's customer contracts has been either utilised, or 
reversed, in full. £833 million of this movement has been reflected 
in certain re-measurements, where it was originally recorded. The 
remainder, which was recognised on the balance sheet as part of 
the Avanti Gas acquisition in 2022, has been presented in the 
business performance column to match the unwind of the related 
derivatives also acquired.

Note that cumulatively, over time, the onerous contract provision 
certain re-measurements movement in the Group's Income 
Statement will total £nil.

The key sources of estimation uncertainty previously related to the 
expected future tenure of the Group’s customer portfolio, and the 
estimated gross margin attributable to them. Due to the fair value 
losses recognised on energy purchase contracts at 31 December 
2023, no onerous supply contract arises and the estimation of 
tenure and gross margin is no longer required. Therefore, there is 
no longer a key source of estimation uncertainty. If commodity 
prices increase, a provision may be required in the future. Further 
disclosures relating to movements in certain re-measurements are 
provided in note 7.

Financial Statements | Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

137

3. CRITICAL ACCOUNTING JUDGEMENTS 
AND KEY SOURCES OF ESTIMATION 
UNCERTAINTY

Impairment and impairment reversals of long-lived assets
The Group makes judgements in considering whether the carrying 
amounts of its long-lived assets (principally Upstream gas assets, 
Nuclear investment (20% economic interest accounted for as an 
investment in associate) and goodwill) or cash-generating units 
(CGUs) are recoverable and estimates their recoverable amounts. 

Forward commodity prices have declined during 2023, both in 
terms of observable market prices and forecast forward prices. This 
follows significant year-on-year increases in both 2021 and 2022. 
Predominantly as a result of the declining prices the recoverable 
amounts of certain assets have been affected and an impairment of 
£645 million has been recorded. See note 7(b) for details.

Upstream gas assets
Forward prices for gas are a key input in the determination of the 
recoverable amount of the Group’s gas assets (including storage 
asset). 2023 has seen declines in the prices of this commodity, 
both in terms of observable market prices and forecast forward 
prices. As a result of both price declines and increased operating 
costs, the Group assesses that the net recoverable value of the 
Rough storage asset has fallen below its carrying value and an 
impairment of £82 million has been recognised at the year-end. 
Impairment headroom remains for the Group’s other significant 
fields at the year-end. As at 31 December 2023, this remains a key 
source of estimation uncertainty due to potential future price 
decreases. As a sensitivity, were gas prices in the liquid period 
(2024-28) to fall by 50% a post-tax impairment of £269 million 
would arise. Potential future price increases give rise to less 
estimation uncertainty, as the recoverable amounts of the Group’s 
gas assets are capped at depreciated historic cost.

Further details of the assumptions used in determining the 
recoverable amounts and sensitivities to the assumptions are 
provided in note 7.

Nuclear investment
The recoverable amount of the Nuclear investment is based on 
the value of the existing UK nuclear fleet operated by EDF. The 
existing fleet value is calculated by discounting pre-tax cash flows 
derived from the stations based on forecast power generation and 
power prices, whilst taking account of outages and the likely 
operational lives of the stations. During the year, the recoverable 
amount has decreased, predominantly due to falling forecast 
commodity prices. This has resulted in an impairment of 
£549 million.

The key source of estimation uncertainty is commodity price 
forecasts, other input assumptions include production levels, 
application of the Electricity Generator Levy and station lives. 
Further details of these uncertainties, together with the 
methodology, assumptions and impairment booked during the year 
are provided in note 7, together with related sensitivities.

Revenue recognition – unread gas and electricity meters 
Revenue for energy supply activities includes an assessment of 
energy supplied to customers between the date of the last meter 
reading and the year-end (known as unread revenue). Unread gas 
and electricity comprises both billed and unbilled revenue. It is 
estimated through the billing systems, using historical consumption 
patterns, on a customer-by-customer basis, taking into account 
weather patterns, load forecasts and the differences between 
actual meter readings being returned and system estimates. 
Actual meter readings continue to be compared to system 
estimates between the balance sheet date and the finalisation 
of the accounts.

An assessment is also made of any factors that are likely to 
materially affect the ultimate economic benefits that will flow to 
the Group, including bill cancellation and re-bill rates. Estimated 
revenue is restricted to the amount the Group expects to be 

entitled to in exchange for energy supplied. The judgements 
applied, and the assumptions underpinning these judgements, 
are considered to be appropriate. However, a change in these 
assumptions would have an impact on the amount of revenue 
recognised. The primary source of estimation uncertainty relating 
to unread revenue arises in the respect of gas and electricity sales 
to UK downstream customers in British Gas Energy and Centrica 
Business Solutions, including where changes in customer 
behaviour in response to elevated prices, affects estimated 
consumption. At 31 December 2023 unread revenue arising from 
these customers amounted to £2,992 million (2022: £2,893 million). 
A change in these assumptions of 2% would impact revenue and 
profit by £60 million.

Decommissioning costs
The estimated cost of decommissioning at the end of the 
producing lives of gas fields is reviewed periodically and is based 
on reserves, price levels and technology at the balance sheet date. 
Provision is made for the estimated cost of decommissioning at the 
balance sheet date. The payment dates of total expected future 
decommissioning costs are uncertain and dependent on the lives 
of the facilities, but are currently anticipated to be predominantly 
incurred by 2035.

The level of provision held is sensitive to the discount rate used to 
discount the estimated decommissioning costs. The real discount 
rate used to discount the decommissioning liabilities at 31 
December 2023 is 1% (2022: 1%). There are a number of variable 
inputs into the calculation of discount rates including risk-free 
interest rates and debt and equity risk premium. A 1% change in 
this discount rate would change the decommissioning liability by 
approximately £85 million. 

Gas and liquids reserves
The volume of proven and probable (2P) gas and liquids reserves is 
an estimate that affects the unit of production method of 
depreciating producing gas and liquids property, plant and 
equipment (PP&E) as well as being a significant estimate affecting 
decommissioning and impairment calculations.

The impact of a change in estimated 2P reserves is dealt with 
prospectively by depreciating the remaining book value of 
producing assets over the expected future production. If 2P 
reserves estimates are revised downwards, earnings could be 
affected by higher depreciation expense or an immediate write-
down (impairment) of the asset’s book value. A change in reserves 
estimates could also change the timing of decommissioning 
activity, which could change the carrying value of the Group’s 
provisions. The complex interaction of field-specific factors means 
that it is not possible to give a meaningful sensitivity of the Group’s 
financial position or performance to gas and liquids reserves 
estimates. The factors impacting gas and liquids estimates, the 
process for estimating reserve quantities and reserve recognition 
and details of the Group’s 2P reserves are given on page 241. 
Details of impairments of exploration and production fields and 
goodwill, along with associated sensitivities, are given in note 7.

Determination of fair values – energy derivatives
The fair values of energy derivatives classified as Level 3 in 
accordance with IFRS 13 ‘Fair Value Measurement’ are determined 
to be a key source of estimation uncertainty as they are not actively 
traded and their values are estimated by reference in part to 
published price quotations in active markets and in part by using 
complex valuation techniques. The key source of estimation 
uncertainty is future commodity prices and their inclusion in the 
reliable estimation of the unobservable components of the Group’s 
Level 3 derivatives in an elevated and volatile commodity price 
environment. More detail on the assumptions used in determining 
fair valuations of energy derivatives is provided in note S6 and on 
the sensitivities to these assumptions in note S3.

138

Financial Statements | Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

3. CRITICAL ACCOUNTING JUDGEMENTS 
AND KEY SOURCES OF ESTIMATION 
UNCERTAINTY

Climate change
In preparing the financial statements, the Directors have considered 
the impact of climate change in the context of the risks and 
opportunities identified in the Task Force on Climate-related 
Financial Disclosures (TCFD) disclosures on pages 47 to 55. There 
has been no material impact identified on the financial reporting 
judgements and estimates. The Directors specifically considered 
the impact of climate change in the following areas:

¢ Cash flow forecasts used in the impairment assessment of non-

current assets, including goodwill;

¢ Carrying value and useful economic lives of property, plant and 

equipment;

¢ Recoverability of deferred tax assets; and
¢ Going concern and viability of the Group over the next 

three years.

Whilst there is no short-term impact expected from climate change, 
the Directors are aware of the risks and regularly assess these risks 
against judgements and estimates made in preparation of the 
Group’s financial statements.

Further detail is provided in the ‘Climate change’ note below.

Financial Statements | Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

139

3. CRITICAL ACCOUNTING JUDGEMENTS AND KEY SOURCES OF ESTIMATION UNCERTAINTY
(c) Climate change
The Group’s assessment of how climate-related issues might affect the business has been integrated into its annual strategic and financial 
planning process. At the same time, the Group reviews the potential impact of the material risks and opportunities and its Climate 
Transition Plan on both the current balance sheet position and its accounting policies (including the useful economic lives of its assets). 

Summary of our most material risks and opportunities

TCFD category

Climate-related trend

Potential impact

Transition: Policy, Markets and 
Technology

Transition away from fossil fuelled 
heating

Transition: Policy, Markets and 
Technology

Growth in low carbon heating market

Risk: Reduced GM from the sale and servicing of natural gas residential 
boilers and commercial Combined, Heat and Power (CHP) units at 
British Gas Services & Solutions (BG S&S), Centrica Business Solutions 
(CBS) and Bord Gáis Energy (Bord Gáis)

Opportunity: Increased sales and servicing of electric and hydrogen 
fuelled heating systems, and associated opportunities in energy 
efficiency at BG S&S, CBS and Bord Gáis 

Risk: Reduced GM from the sale of natural gas from fuel switching and 
energy efficiency at British Gas Energy (BGE), CBS and Bord Gáis 

Transition: Policy, Markets and 
Technology

Transition: Policy, Markets and 
Technology

Transition away from natural gas

Growth in low carbon heating market

Opportunity: Increased sales of electricity and green/low carbon 
hydrogen at BGE, CBS and Bord Gáis 

Transition: Markets

Growth of EV transport market

Opportunity: Access to new and growing value pools related to EV 
charging installs, operation and maintenance (O&M), and energy supply 
at  BG S&S and Bord Gáis 

Transition: Energy Source

Growth in demand for renewable energy Opportunity: Strong growth in solar and battery markets driven by 

Physical Chronic

Rising mean temperatures

decarbonisation at CBS, Bord Gáis and BG S&S

Risk: Reduced sales of natural gas and electricity for heat at BGE, CBS 
and Bord Gáis 

IFRS dictates how each asset or liability should be accounted for (e.g. cost, fair value or other measurement criteria) and accordingly, 
there is a fundamental difference between the holistic forward-looking risk and opportunities business analysis (see TCFD disclosure on 
pages 47 to 55), and the possible sensitivity of current accounting carrying values to these risks and opportunities.

For example, whilst the activity of supplying gas to customers or servicing/installing gas boilers is clearly subject to climate-related risks 
(and opportunities), the balance sheet does not reflect an overall value of those businesses (aside from an element of goodwill). Instead, 
accounting balances related to these businesses generally manifest themselves in short-term working capital assets and liabilities 
associated with procuring and selling gas or servicing/installing boilers; with those balances generally settled within six months and so 
specifically less exposed to climate risks. 

In a similar vein, Upstream assets are tested for impairment in accordance with relevant IFRS accounting standards. These generally 
require the recoverable amount of the asset to be calculated based on a best estimate of long-term forecast commodity prices, which 
the Group estimates based on current market prices and the consensus of reputable commodity pricing consultants forecasts. However, 
these estimates are not consistent with net zero scenarios from the consultants (as they do not factor in any prospective, yet to be 
announced legislative or market changes that would be required to meet temperature targets) and hence impairment reviews are not 
based on net zero scenario forward prices. The Group instead discloses the impact on the carrying value of Upstream assets by way of 
sensitivity analysis (see note 7(c)).

140

Financial Statements | Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

3. CRITICAL ACCOUNTING JUDGEMENTS AND KEY SOURCES OF ESTIMATION UNCERTAINTY
Accordingly, the Group is mindful of these dynamics when it considers which areas of the balance sheet are exposed to key estimation 
uncertainty from climate-related issues. The Group considers which assets are most exposed to impairment from climate risks and 
similarly whether there are any liabilities that are either currently unrecognised or might increase as a result of those risks. 

The Group’s assets/liabilities have been segmented into three tranches, grading each balance’s exposure to climate risks/opportunities:

(i) Higher risk – As the consumption of gas and power is intrinsically linked to carbon emissions, their pricing is consequently exposed to 
climate and legislative risk. Accordingly, where assets or contract values have a key dependency on commodity price assumptions, 
those assets (or contracts) are deemed higher risk. 

(ii) Medium risk – Gross margin energy transition considerations and their potential impact on forward-looking balances (e.g. Supply and 

Services and Energy Trading goodwill) and decommissioning balances in E&P.

(iii) Lower risk – No significant risk identified on the basis that positions are short-term in nature or are specifically linked to the energy 

transition or are immaterial. 

The key non-current asset (and decommissioning provision) balance sheet items have been presented in more granular detail below, 
together with the groupings into the above risks and with rationale set out below the table:

As at 31 December 2023 related to (£m):

Goodwill

Intangibles

Investment in 
associates 

Property, plant & 
equipment

Deferred tax 
assets

Decommissioning 
provision

Energy Supply

Customer relationships

Application software

Energy Services

Customer relationships

Brand (mainly Dyno)

Application software

Battery storage

Electric vehicles (vans/cars)

Non-electric vehicles (vans/cars)

Energy Trading

Customer relationships

Application software

LNG vessel leases

Gas Assets (E&P and Storage)

E&P fields (Spirit)

E&P tax losses (Spirit)

Gas storage facility (Rough)

Power Assets

Nuclear investment

Gas-fired power stations/engines

Combined heat power (CHP)/other power assets

Solar

Group/Other

Application software
Land & buildings (i)
Derivatives deferred tax (i)
Other (i)

Total (notes 13-16 and 21)

197 

63 

145 

14 

117 

6 

57 

107 

2 

27 

10 

903 

405   

340   

903   

66 

55 

50 

100 

1,015   

8   

233 

53 

39 

145 

82   

1,846   

(69)   

94 

145   

(1,191) 

(319) 

(17) 

343 

(57) 

456   

(1,527) 

(i) Land & buildings, Derivatives deferred tax and Other Property, plant & equipment/Deferred tax have not been allocated out across business type.

Higher

Medium

Lower

Financial Statements | Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

141

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
3. CRITICAL ACCOUNTING JUDGEMENTS AND KEY SOURCES OF ESTIMATION UNCERTAINTY
All items noted above may be impacted by climate-related risks but are not currently considered to be key areas of judgement or sources 
of estimation uncertainty in the current financial year.

Higher risk
E&P field valuations are dependent on forecast commodity prices. Climate change risk means that there is uncertainty over gas demand 
and forecast prices. This is not currently a key source of estimation uncertainty because current liquid commodity prices mean that there is 
impairment headroom over current carrying values. Nonetheless, valuation sensitivity information based on a net zero price forecast has 
been provided in note 7(c) to show field values can move significantly. (Note that the Group’s intention is to run-off remaining fields with 
most production forecast in the next five years. Decommissioning obligations will be substantively met by the early 2030s, whilst further 
investment in exploring for new gas fields has ceased.) Recoverability of E&P deferred tax assets associated with historic losses is 
dependent on future field profitability and so is subject to climate change risk. 

The valuation of the investment in Nuclear is also highly dependent on forecast commodity prices. Climate change risks and opportunities 
means there is uncertainty over electricity demand and forecast prices. The underlying Nuclear stations, which produce electricity with no 
carbon emissions, have different useful economic lives, with the last station forecast to cease operating in 2055. Valuation sensitivity 
information based on a net zero price forecast has been provided in note 7(c).

Medium risk
The Group’s small number of gas-fired power stations and engines are exposed to climate change risk, with valuations dependent on 
forecast gas and electricity prices and electricity demand. However, they are deemed medium risk as they do not have a significant 
carrying value in the context of the Group.

Similarly the Group’s investment in CHP and other power assets are also exposed to climate risk. They have useful economic lives of up to 
15 years but they do not, individually or in total, have material carrying values. 

LNG Vessels on the balance sheet are exposed to risk from climate change, but as they are leased assets with the current term remaining 
less than five years, this risk is reduced to medium.

The Group is in the process of transitioning to an electrified vehicle fleet. Non-electric vehicles are deemed medium risk because their 
remaining useful economic lives are generally quite short.

Decommissioning provisions are generally longer-term but this could be brought forward for E&P assets if the energy transition 
accelerates. However, as the decommissioning discount rate is only 1% (real), the balance sheet and income statement impact of earlier 
decommissioning would not be material.

Deferred tax associated with field accelerated capital allowances and decommissioning in E&P and Storage is not considered high risk 
due to the length of carry-back rules for decommissioning and the mechanical unwind of other temporary differences. Deferred tax assets 
associated with derivatives are considered medium risk as the derivatives generally realise within two years. 

Energy Supply, Energy Services and Energy Trading Goodwill and Application Software are categorised as medium risk because the 
businesses are exposed to energy transition risk as a result of climate change. However, there are also significant opportunities for these 
businesses and the carrying values are not material. 

Lower risk
All other assets denoted in the table above are considered lower risk because they are either specifically related to the energy transition 
(e.g. electric vehicles, battery storage) or are immaterial.

Other contracts
The Group also has long-term LNG supply contracts with Cheniere, Delfin and Mozambique. These are not reflected on the balance sheet 
but the Group has certain purchase commitments (see note 23). The contracts currently have significant value because of gas price 
locational spreads but are exposed to climate-change risk and therefore could ultimately become onerous in net zero scenarios. The 
commitments note provides detail of the length of the contracts and commodity purchase commitments. 

142

Financial Statements | Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

4. SEGMENTAL ANALYSIS

The Group’s reporting segments are those used internally by management to run the business and make decisions. The 
Group’s segments are based on products and services as well as the major factors that influence the performance of 
these products and services across the geographical locations in which the Group operates.

(a)  Segmental structure

The types of products and services from which each reportable segment derived its income during the year are detailed below. All 
reportable segments are operating segments. Income sources are reflected in total Group revenue unless otherwise stated:

Segment

Description

British Gas Services & 
Solutions

British Gas Energy

Bord Gáis Energy

Centrica Business Solutions

Centrica Energy

Upstream

¢ The installation, repair and maintenance of domestic central heating and related appliances, and the provision of 

fixed-fee maintenance/breakdown service and insurance contracts in the UK; and

¢ the supply of new technologies and energy efficiency solutions in the UK.

¢ The supply of gas and electricity to residential and small business customers in the UK.

¢ The supply of gas and electricity to residential, commercial and industrial customers in the Republic of Ireland; 
¢ the installation, repair and maintenance of domestic central heating and related appliances in the Republic of 

Ireland; 

¢ the procurement, trading and optimisation of energy in the Republic of Ireland (i); and
¢ power generation in the Republic of Ireland.

¢ The supply of gas and electricity to business customers in the UK (i); 
¢ the supply of energy services and solutions to large organisations in the UK, Europe and North America; and
¢ the development and operation of large-scale power assets in the UK and Europe.
¢ The procurement, trading and optimisation of energy in the UK and Europe (i); and
¢ the global procurement and sale of LNG.
¢ The production and processing of gas and liquids principally within Spirit Energy (i); 
¢ the sale of power generated from nuclear assets in the UK; and
¢ gas storage in the UK.

(i) Where income is generated from contracts in the scope of IFRS 9, this is included in re-measurement and settlement of derivative energy contracts.

Financial Statements | Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

143

4. SEGMENTAL ANALYSIS
(b) Revenue

Gross segment revenue includes revenue generated from the sale of products and services to other reportable 
segments of the Group. Total Group revenue reflects only the sale of products and services to third parties. Sales 
between reportable segments are conducted on an arm’s length basis.

Year ended 31 December 

British Gas Services & Solutions

British Gas Energy

Bord Gáis Energy

Centrica Business Solutions

Centrica Energy

Upstream

Total Group revenue included in business 
performance

Less: revenue arising on contracts in scope of IFRS 9 
included in business performance

Total Group revenue

Gross 
segment 
revenue
£m 

1,597   

17,742   

1,815   

3,522   

7,732   

2,935   

2023

Less inter-
segment 
revenue
£m

(57)   

—   

—   

(6)   

(476)   

(1,430)   

Total
Group
revenue
£m

1,540 

17,742 

1,815 

3,516 

7,256 

1,505 

Gross 
segment 
revenue
£m 

1,527   

13,096   

1,771   

3,000   

14,441   

2022

Less inter-
segment 
revenue
£m

(50)   

—   

—   

(19)   

(219)   

3,351   

(3,261)   

Total
Group 
revenue
£m

1,477 

13,096 

1,771 

2,981 

14,222 

90 

35,343   

(1,969)   

33,374 

37,186   

(3,549)   

33,637 

(6,916) 

26,458 

(9,896) 

23,741 

The table below shows the total Group revenue arising from contracts with customers, and therefore in the scope of IFRS 15, and revenue 
arising from contracts in the scope of other standards. The key economic factors impacting the nature, timing and uncertainty of revenue 
and cash flows are considered to be driven by the type and broad geographical location of the customer. The analysis of IFRS 15 revenue 
below reflects these factors.

Year ended 31 December 

Energy services and solutions

British Gas Services & Solutions

Energy supply – UK

British Gas Energy

Energy supply – Republic of Ireland

Bord Gáis Energy

Energy supply – UK

Energy services

Centrica Business Solutions

Energy sales to trading and energy procurement counterparties  

Centrica Energy

Gas and liquid production

Upstream

2023

Revenue from 
fixed-fee service 
and insurance 
contracts in 
scope of IFRS 
17, and leasing 
contracts in 
scope of IFRS 16
£m

Revenue from 
contracts with 
customers in 
scope of IFRS 15 (i)
£m

Revenue in 
business 
performance 
arising from 
contracts in 
scope of IFRS 9
£m

Total Group 
revenue included 
in business 
performance
£m

Total Group 
revenue
£m

727 

727   

17,742 

17,742   

1,438 

1,438   

2,232 

208 

2,440   

3,132 

3,132   

133 

133   

25,612   

813   

1,540   

—   

1,540 

—   

17,742   

—   

17,742 

—   

1,438   

377   

1,815 

4   

2,444   

1,072   

3,516 

29   

3,161   

4,095   

7,256 

—   

846   

133   

26,458   

1,372   

6,916   

1,505 

33,374 

(i) The Group has recognised £3,698 million (2022: £1,539 million) of revenue from the Government in relation to the Energy Price Guarantee scheme for domestic customers 
in the British Gas Energy segment. A further £448 million (2022: £219 million) of revenue has been recognised in respect of the Energy Bill Relief Scheme. £320 million 
(2022: £175 million) of this total relates to Centrica Business Solutions customers and £128 million (2022: £44 million) relates to non-domestic customers in the British Gas 
Energy segment. 

144

Financial Statements | Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
4. SEGMENTAL ANALYSIS

Year ended 31 December 

Energy services and solutions

British Gas Services & Solutions

Energy supply – UK

British Gas Energy

Energy supply – Republic of Ireland

Bord Gáis Energy

Energy supply – UK

Energy services

Centrica Business Solutions

Energy sales to trading and energy procurement counterparties

Centrica Energy

Gas and liquid production

Upstream

2022

Revenue from 
fixed-fee service 
and insurance 
contracts in 
scope of IFRS 17, 
and leasing 
contracts in 
scope of IFRS 16
£m

Revenue from 
contracts with 
customers in 
scope of IFRS 15
£m

Revenue in 
business 
performance 
arising from 
contracts in 
scope of IFRS 9
£m

Total Group 
revenue included 
in business 
performance
£m

Total Group 
revenue
£m

625 

625   

13,096 

13,096   

1,323 

1,323   

1,465 

249 

1,714   

5,639 

5,639   

462 

462   

22,859   

852   

1,477   

—   

1,477 

—   

13,096   

—   

13,096 

—   

1,323   

448   

1,771 

14   

1,728   

1,253   

2,981 

16   

5,655   

8,567   

14,222 

—   

882   

462   

23,741   

(372)   

9,896   

90 

33,637 

Geographical analysis of revenue and non-current assets
The Group monitors and manages performance by reference to its operating segments and not solely on a geographical basis. However, 
provided below is an analysis of revenue and certain non-current assets by geography.

Year ended 31 December 

UK

Republic of Ireland

Scandinavia (including Denmark)

North America

Rest of the world

Total Group revenue
(based on location of customer)

Non-current assets
(based on location of assets) (i)

2023
£m
22,207   

1,438   

919   

390   

1,504   

2022
£m
17,480 

1,323 

1,473 

867 

2,598 

2023
£m
2,875   

229   

170   

12   

314   

2022
£m
3,827 

152 

181 

14 

353 

26,458   

23,741 

3,600   

4,527 

(i) Non-current assets comprise goodwill, other intangible assets, PP&E, interests in joint ventures and associates and non-financial assets within trade and other 

receivables, and contract-related assets. 

Financial Statements | Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

145

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
4. SEGMENTAL ANALYSIS
(c) Adjusted gross margin and adjusted operating profit/(loss)

The measure of profit used by the Group is adjusted operating profit. Adjusted operating profit is operating profit 
before exceptional items and certain re-measurements. This includes business performance results of equity-
accounted interests.

This note also details adjusted gross margin. Both measures are reconciled to their statutory equivalents.

Year ended 31 December 

British Gas Services & Solutions
British Gas Energy (i)

Bord Gáis Energy

Centrica Business Solutions

Centrica Energy

Upstream

Segmental adjusted gross margin/adjusted operating profit

Reconciling items to Group Income Statement:

Colleague profit share (ii)

Total Group adjusted gross margin/adjusted operating profit

Certain re-measurements:

Onerous energy supply contract provision movement

Derivative contracts

Share of re-measurement of certain associates’ energy contracts (net of taxation)

Gross profit

Exceptional items in operating profit

Operating profit/(loss) after exceptional items and certain re-measurements

Adjusted gross margin

Adjusted operating profit/(loss)

2023
£m

616   

2,141   

139   

309   

1,016   

999   

5,220   

2022
£m

504 

1,114 

160 

238 

1,558 

1,874 

5,448 

(3)   

(9) 

5,217   

5,439 

833   

3,573   

—   

9,623   

1,766 

(5,160) 

— 

2,045 

2023
£m

47   

751   

1   

104   

774   

1,083   

2,760   

(8)   

2,752   

833   

3,573   

(1)   

(645)   

6,512   

2022
£m

(9) 

72 

31 

44 

1,400 

1,793 

3,331 

(23) 

3,308 

1,766 

(5,160) 

1 

(155) 

(240) 

(i)

Included within British Gas Energy adjusted operating profit in 2023 is a £84 million (2022: £50 million) charge relating to increases in the British Gas Energy Support 
Fund, supporting downstream customers. £62 million of this charge is booked as a revenue deduction and £22 million within operating costs.

(ii) The impact of the colleague profit share is excluded because management considers it unrelated to segmental business performance.

146

Financial Statements | Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
4. SEGMENTAL ANALYSIS
(d)

Included within adjusted operating profit

Presented below are certain items included within adjusted operating profit, including a summary of impairments of 
property, plant and equipment and write-downs relating to exploration and evaluation assets.

Year ended 31 December 

British Gas Services & Solutions

British Gas Energy

Bord Gáis Energy

Centrica Business Solutions

Centrica Energy

Upstream
Other (i)

Depreciation and impairments of 
property, plant and equipment

Amortisation, write-downs and 
impairments of intangibles

2023
£m

(42)   

(3)   

(9)   

(11)   

(30)   

(281)   

(28)   

(404)   

2022
£m

(31) 

(3) 

(8) 

(13) 

(31) 

(481) 

(31) 

(598) 

2023
£m

(12)   

(54)   

(11)   

(26)   

(18)   

—   

(17)   

2022
£m

(16) 

(79) 

(13) 

(32) 

(15) 

— 

(24) 

(138)   

(179) 

(i) The Other segment includes corporate functions, subsequently recharged.

Impairments and write-downs of PP&E
During 2023, £9 million of impairments of PP&E (2022: £88 million) were recognised within business performance.  

Impairments and write-downs of intangible assets
During 2023, £15 million of impairments of other intangible assets (2022: £20 million) were recognised within business performance. 

Financial Statements | Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

147

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
4. SEGMENTAL ANALYSIS
(e) Capital expenditure

Capital expenditure represents additions, other than assets acquired as part of business combinations or asset 
purchase agreements, to property, plant and equipment and intangible assets. Capital expenditure has been reconciled 
to the related cash outflow.

Year ended 31 December 

British Gas Services & Solutions

British Gas Energy

Bord Gáis Energy

Centrica Business Solutions

Centrica Energy

Upstream

Other

Capital expenditure

Capitalised borrowing costs (note 8)

Inception of new leases and movements in payables and prepayments related to 
capital expenditure

Capital expenditure cash outflow subsequent to transfer to held for sale
Purchases of emissions allowances and renewable obligation certificates (note 15) (i)

Net cash outflow

Capital expenditure on property, 
plant and equipment

Capital expenditure on intangible 
assets other than goodwill

2023
£m

45   

—   

69   

80   

5   

95   

79   

373   

(2)   

(89)   

—   

—   

282   

2022
£m

52 

— 

3 

47 

— 

124 

26 

252 

— 

(49) 

109 

— 

312 

2023
£m

32   

565   

7   

193   

14   

18   

—   

829   

—   

4   

—   

(780)   

53   

2022
£m

25 

582 

4 

205 

14 

13 

— 

843 

— 

5 

10 

(799) 

59 

(i) Purchases of emissions allowances and renewable obligation certificates of £565 million (2022: £578 million) in British Gas Energy, £193 million (2022: £203 million) in 

Centrica Business Solutions, £18 million (2022: £13 million) in Upstream, and £4 million (2022: £5 million) in Centrica Energy.

148

Financial Statements | Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
4. SEGMENTAL ANALYSIS
(f) Free cash flow

Free cash flow is used by management to assess the cash-generating performance of each segment, after taking 
account of the need to maintain its capital asset base. By excluding deficit reduction payments and movements in 
collateral and margin cash, which are predominantly triggered by wider market factors, and in the case of collateral and 
margin movements, represent timing movements, free cash flow is used by management as an adjusted measure of the 
cash generation of the business. Free cash flow excludes investing cash flows that are related to adjusted net cash/
debt. This measure is reconciled to the net cash flow from operating and investing activities.

Year ended 31 December 

British Gas Services & Solutions
British Gas Energy (i)

Bord Gáis Energy

Centrica Business Solutions
Centrica Energy (ii)
Upstream (iii)
Other (iv)

Segmental free cash flow excluding tax

Taxes paid

Total free cash flow

UK pension deficit payments (note 22)

Movements in variation margin and collateral (note 24)

Interest received

Purchase and settlement of securities (note 24)

Net cash flow from operating activities

Net cash flow from investing activities

Total cash flow from operating and investing activities

2023
£m

64 

302 

(146) 

220 

1,354 

1,236 

(20) 

3,010 

(803) 

2,207 

(180) 

585 

267 

(12) 

2,867 

2,752 

115 

2,867 

2022
£m

(19) 

1,283 

81 

(48) 

199 

1,539 

26 

3,061 

(574) 

2,487 

(214) 

(1,173) 

46 

(398) 

748 

1,314 

(566) 

748 

(i) British Gas Energy free cash flow in 2023 includes significant working capital outflows of approximately £500 million largely related to the impact of falling commodity 
prices. British Gas Energy free cash flow in 2022 includes £440 million received under the Energy Bill Support Scheme, which was disclosed as restricted cash, and 
accelerated cash flows of approximately £700 million under the Energy Price Guarantee. 

(ii) Centrica Energy free cash flow in 2023 includes operating cash inflows of around £580 million driven by profit on 2022 derivative positions cash settling during the year. 
Centrica Energy free cash flow in 2022 includes cash outflows associated with increased gas in storage, and working capital movements of approximately £500 million. 
Centrica Energy adjusted operating profit in 2022 included a significant portion of unrealised derivative positions.

(iii) Upstream free cash flow in 2023 includes inflows of £55 million relating to deferred consideration received from the 2022 Spirit Norway disposal, and realised hedge cash 
outflows of £34 million (2022: £161 million) have been incurred relating to the Norwegian assets, but were held outside the disposal groups. £630 million of free cash flow 
excluding tax in 2022 relates to the Norwegian disposal groups, including its disposal cash flows. £300 million of taxes paid in 2022 relate to the Norway disposal group. 

(iv) The Other segment includes corporate functions.

Financial Statements | Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

149

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
5. COSTS

This section details the types of costs the Group incurs and the number of employees in each of our operations.

(a) Analysis of costs by nature

Year ended 31 December 

Transportation, distribution, capacity market and metering 
costs
Commodity costs (i)

Depreciation, amortisation, impairments and write-downs

Employee costs
Other direct costs (i)

Costs included within business performance before 
credit losses on financial assets

Credit losses on financial assets (net of recovered amounts) 
(note 17) 

2023

2022

 Cost of sales 
and settlement 
of certain 
energy 
contracts
£m

 Operating 
costs
£m

 Total 
costs
£m

Cost of sales 
and settlement 
of certain 
energy 
contracts
£m

(4,813)   

(20,258)   

(324)   

(608)   

—   

—   

(218)   

(777)   

(2,154)   

(1,077)   

(4,813) 

(20,258) 

(542) 

(1,385) 

(3,231) 

(4,694)   

(20,748)   

(441)   

(704)   

(1,611)   

Operating 
costs
£m

—   

—   

(336)   

(753)   

(783)   

Total 
costs
£m

(4,694) 

(20,748) 

(777) 

(1,457) 

(2,394) 

(28,157)   

(2,072)   

(30,229) 

(28,198)   

(1,872)   

(30,070) 

—   

(602)   

(602) 

—   

(351)   

(351) 

Total costs included within business performance

(28,157)   

(2,674)   

(30,831) 

(28,198)   

(2,223)   

(30,421) 

Adjustment for gross cost of settled energy contracts in the 
scope of IFRS 9 and onerous energy supply contract 
provision

Exceptional items and re-measurement and settlement of 
derivative energy contracts (note 7)

17,497   

—   

17,497 

14,986   

—   

14,986 

(6,175)   

(645)   

(6,820) 

(8,484)   

(155)   

(8,639) 

Total costs within Group operating profit

(16,835)   

(3,319)   

(20,154) 

(21,696)   

(2,378)   

(24,074) 

(i) Commodity costs include £nil recoverable under the Last Resort Supplier Payment claim (2022: £241 million credit), a further credit of £5 million is included in other direct 
operating costs (2022: £nil). These credits offset costs incurred as a result of the Group’s appointment as Supplier of Last Resort to customers of energy suppliers who 
have ceased trading. See note 3.

(b) Employee costs

The below employee costs exclude the costs of redundancy and similar termination benefits.

Year ended 31 December 

Wages and salaries

Social security costs

Pension and other post-employment benefits costs

Share scheme costs (note S4)

Capitalised employee costs

Repayment of Coronavirus government support programmes

Employee costs recognised in business performance in the Group Income Statement

2023
£m

2022
£m

(1,105) 

(1,159) 

(146) 

(118) 

(31) 

(100) 

(171) 

(10) 

(1,400) 

(1,440) 

15 

— 

10 

(27) 

(1,385) 

(1,457) 

150

Financial Statements | Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
5. COSTS

(c) Average number of employees during the year

Year ended 31 December 

British Gas Services & Solutions

British Gas Energy

Bord Gáis Energy

Centrica Business Solutions

Centrica Energy

Upstream

Group Functions

2023
Number
12,309   

3,979   

395   

1,334   

780   

699   

1,518   

21,014   

2022
Number
12,470 

3,257 

320 

1,444 

573 

670 

1,220 

19,954 

6. SHARE OF RESULTS OF JOINT VENTURES AND ASSOCIATES

Share of results of joint ventures and associates represents the results of businesses where we exercise joint control or 
significant influence and generally have an equity holding of up to 50%.

Share of results of joint ventures and associates
The Group’s share of results of joint ventures and associates principally arises from its interest in Nuclear – Lake Acquisitions Limited, an 
associate, reported in the Upstream segment.

Year ended 31 December 

Income

Expenses before exceptional items and certain re-
measurements

Exceptional items and re-measurement of certain contracts

Operating profit/(loss)

Financing gain

Taxation on profit/(loss)

2023

Share of 
exceptional 
items and 
certain re-
measurements
£m

Share of 
business 
performance
£m

680   

(397)   

—   

283   

—   

(74)   

—   

—   

(1)   

(1)   

—   

—   

Share of 
results for the 
year
£m

Share of 
business 
performance
£m

680 

592   

(397) 

(1) 

282 

— 

(74) 

(472)   

—   

120   

3   

(31)   

Share of post-taxation results of joint ventures and 
associates

209   

(1)   

208 

92   

Further information on the Group’s investments in joint ventures and associates is provided in notes 14 and S10.

2022

Share of 
exceptional 
items and 
certain re-
measurements
£m

Share of  
results for the 
year
£m

—   

—   

1   

1   

—   

—   

1   

592 

(472) 

1 

121 

3 

(31) 

93 

Financial Statements | Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

151

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
7. EXCEPTIONAL ITEMS AND CERTAIN RE-MEASUREMENTS

(a)  Certain re-measurements

Certain re-measurements are the fair value movements on energy contracts entered into to meet the future needs of 
our customers or to sell the energy produced from our upstream assets. These contracts are economically related to 
our upstream assets, capacity/off-take contracts or downstream demand, which are typically not fair valued, and are 
therefore separately identified in the current period and reflected in business performance in future periods when the 
underlying transaction or asset impacts the Group Income Statement.

If the future costs to fulfil customer supply contracts, including the mark-to-market reversal of any energy hedging 
contracts entered into to meet this demand, exceed the charges recoverable from customers, an onerous contract 
provision will be recognised. Because the associated hedging gains or losses will be recognised in certain 
re-measurements, the movements in the onerous provision will also be recognised in certain re-measurements.

Year ended 31 December 

Certain re-measurements recognised in relation to energy contracts:

Net gains/(losses) arising on delivery of contracts

Net gains/(losses) arising on market price movements and new contracts

Net re-measurements included within gross profit before onerous supply contract provision
Onerous energy supply contract provision movement (i)

Net re-measurements included within gross profit

Net (loss)/gain arising on re-measurement of certain associates’ contracts (net of taxation)

Net re-measurements included within Group operating profit
Taxation on certain re-measurements (note 9) (ii)

Certain re-measurements after taxation 

2023
£m

2022
£m

3,529   

44   

3,573   

833   

4,406   

(1)   

4,405   

(1,649)   

2,756   

(1,403) 

(3,757) 

(5,160) 

1,766 

(3,394) 

1 

(3,393) 

1,000 

(2,393) 

(i) The onerous supply contract provision represents the future costs to fulfil customer contracts on a current market price basis. During the period, this provision has been 
fully unwound. The associated hedging gains or losses are separately recognised within the gains/losses arising on market price movements and new contracts. The 
movement in the onerous provision is detailed in note 3(b). 

(ii) Taxation on onerous energy supply contracts amounted to a £196 million debit (2022: £295 million debit) and taxation on other certain re-measurements amounted to 

£1,453 million debit (2022: £1,295 million credit).

Year ended 31 December 

Total re-measurement and settlement of derivative energy contracts excluding:

IFRS 9 business performance revenue

IFRS 9 business performance cost of sales

Unrealised certain re-measurements recognised in relation to energy contracts included in gross profit

Onerous contract provision movement (cost of sales)

Total certain re-measurements

The table below reflects the certain re-measurement derivative movements by business segment:

Year ended 31 December 

UK Energy Supply (British Gas Energy and Centrica Business Solutions)

Upstream/Centrica Energy/Bord Gáis

Unrealised certain re-measurements recognised in relation to energy contracts included in gross profit

2023
£m

(6,175)   

(6,916)   

2022
£m

(8,484) 

(9,896) 

16,664   

13,220 

3,573   

833   

4,406   

(5,160) 

1,766 

(3,394) 

2023
£m

506   

3,067   

3,573   

2022
£m

(6,364) 

1,204 

(5,160) 

152

Financial Statements | Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
7. EXCEPTIONAL ITEMS AND CERTAIN RE-MEASUREMENTS

(b)

 Exceptional items

Exceptional items are those items that, in the judgement of the Directors, need to be disclosed separately by virtue of 
their nature, size or incidence. Items which may be considered exceptional in nature include disposals of businesses or 
significant assets, business restructurings, pension change costs or credits, significant debt repurchase costs and 
asset write-downs/impairments and write-backs.

Year ended 31 December 

Loss on disposal of E&P Norway
Impairment of gas storage asset (i)
(Impairment)/write-back of power assets (ii)

Exceptional items included within Group operating profit (iii)
Net exceptional item taxation (note 9) (iv)

Total exceptional items recognised after taxation

2023
£m

—   

(82)   

(563)   

(645)   

54   

(591)   

2022
£m

(362) 

— 

207 

(155) 

(207) 

(362) 

(i)

(ii)

In the Upstream segment, an impairment of the Rough gas storage asset of £82 million (post-tax £59 million) has been recorded as a result of a reduction in both forecast 
gas prices and forecast summer/winter gas price spreads.
In the Upstream segment, an impairment of the Nuclear investment of £549 million (post-tax £549 million) (2022: write-back of £195 million (post-tax £195 million)) has 
been recorded predominantly as a result of the decrease in forecast power prices offset by the positive effect of life extensions at Heysham and Hartlepool. In the 
Centrica Business Solutions segment, an impairment of £14 million (post-tax £11 million) (2022: write-back of £12 million (post-tax £9 million)) has been recorded, 
predominantly related to a battery storage asset and a gas engine, also following lower forecast commodity prices. See note 7(c).

(iii) Exceptional items for 2023 are non-cash. The cash flows recorded as payments relating to exceptional charges of £6 million (2022: £24 million) in the Group Cash Flow 

Statement relate to previous year exceptional restructuring costs.

(iv) Exceptional item taxation includes a credit of £28 million associated with net deferred tax asset recognition predominantly related to exploration and production PRT 
carry-back, offset by a reduction in the expected recovery of tax losses and investment allowance, due to the reduction in forecast commodity prices. This item is 
unrelated to the other exceptional items. 

Financial Statements | Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

153

 
 
 
 
 
 
7. EXCEPTIONAL ITEMS AND CERTAIN RE-MEASUREMENTS

(c)

Impairment accounting policy, process and sensitivities

The information provided below relates to the assets and CGUs (or groups of CGUs) that have been subject to impairment during the year.
Exceptional impairment assessments of assets measured on a value-in-use (VIU) basis

Segment

Upstream

Asset/CGU 
Nuclear (i)

Basis for impairment assessment

The decrease in short-term baseload power prices has more than offset 
the impact of life extensions at Heysham 1 and Hartlepool stations

Recoverable 
amount
£m 

Impairment
£m

903   

549 

(i) During the year ended 31 December 2022, an impairment write-back of £195 million was booked in relation to the Nuclear investment. The recoverable amount at the end 
of 2022 was £1,560 million.

Nuclear
A VIU calculation has been used to determine the recoverable amount of the Group’s investment in Nuclear. The cash flows incorporated 
in the valuation are based on detailed business forecasts in the short term, extrapolated to future years to account for the expected 
generation profile of the fleet for its remaining life. Assumptions include forward commodity prices, capacity rates, fuel and network costs, 
and operating and capital expenditure requirements. Price assumptions are based on liquid market prices for 2024 to 2027 which are then 
blended over a one-year period to long-term price forecasts. Long-term price assumptions derived from third-party market comparator 
median curves are used due to alignment with pricing that a reasonable market participant would use.

The Electricity Generator Levy, applying a 45% tax rate to revenues generated over £75/MWh until 31 March 2028, based on the above 
price assumptions, has also been included in the assessment. See notes 1 and 3.

In March 2023, the Nuclear business announced that estimated operating lifetimes at the Heysham 1 and Hartlepool stations would be 
extended by two years to March 2026, with a range of plus or minus one year. Based on prices at 31 December 2023, the lifetime 
extensions increase the value of the Group’s investment in Nuclear by £131 million. The plus/minus one-year range would impact value by 
an increase of £48 million or a decrease of £53 million.

The VIU calculation assumes that the Sizewell plant operates until 2055, reflecting a 20-year extension beyond its original design life. In the 
absence of this extension, the carrying value of the Group’s investment in Nuclear would be reduced by £98 million. All other stations’ life 
assumptions are aligned to lifetime closure dates announced by the operator (being between March 2026 and March 2028). 

The VIU calculation is also sensitive to changes in outage assumptions, and the base level generation volumes assumed for the fleet were 
decreased during the period based on a review of planned and unplanned outages. A reduction of 5% in the unplanned outage rate 
applied to volumes across the Nuclear fleet would lead to a write-back movement of £125 million.

The future pre-tax cash flows generated by the investment in the associate are discounted using a pre-tax nominal discount rate of 17.3% 
(2022: 24.8%). This equated to a post-tax rate of 8.5% (2022: 8.0%). The post-tax discount rate is initially derived from the Group 
weighted average cost of capital as adjusted for the risks associated with the asset and with reference to comparator companies. The 
pre-tax rate is then back-calculated by removing tax cash flows and assessing the rate that would give the same result as the post-tax 
rate. As baseload power prices for the liquid period remain higher than longer-term forecast prices, the near-term cash flows are elevated, 
which caused the pre-tax discount rate to remain high. A 2% increase in the post-tax discount rate would lead to an impairment of £56 
million (when compared with the closing year-end carrying value). Similarly, a 2% reduction in the post-tax discount rate would lead to a 
write-back of £73 million.
The asset is particularly sensitive to changes in commodity price and the table below details average prices for the first 5- and 10-year 
periods and associated sensitivities. Note that the asset is valued for its entire economic life and not just this 15-year period.

Five-year liquid and blended-
period price (i)

Ten-year long-term 
average price (i)

2024-2028

2023-2027

2029-2038

2028-2037

Change in pre/post-tax write-back/(impairment) (ii)

+10%

-10%

31 December 
2023

31 December 
2022

31 December 
2023

31 December 
2022

31 December 
2023

31 December 
2022

31 December 
2023

31 December 
2022

Baseload power

£/MWh

71   

£/MWh

164 

£/MWh

£/MWh

56   

68   

£m

148   

+50%
Five-year liquid 
and blended-
period only 

325 

£m

(198) 

£m

£m

198   

(191)   
-50%
Five-year liquid 
and blended-
period only

(672) 

(i) Prices are shown in 2022 real terms.
(ii) A 10% change was historically deemed to represent a reasonably possible variation across the entire period covered by the liquid market and comparator curves used in 
the nuclear impairment test. Given the volatility in commodity prices during recent years, a further sensitivity has been included based on a 50% change in liquid and 
blend-period commodity prices only. 31 December 2023 sensitivities are impacted by the effect of the Electricity Generator Levy threshold of £75/MWh. 

Furthermore, there is also uncertainty due to climate change and international governmental intervention to reduce CO2 emissions and the 
likely impact this will have on both power demand and forecast prices. As a result, a further sensitivity is disclosed below based on the 
average forecast prices aligned to the net zero price curves issued by Aurora and Baringa (power analytics providers), which assumes 
governmental policies are put in place to achieve the temperature and net zero goals by 2050. This sensitivity retains the prices for the 
liquid period (four years) but replaces the longer term thereafter with the average of Aurora and Baringa’s forecast prices for net zero.

154

Financial Statements | Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

 
 
 
 
 
7. EXCEPTIONAL ITEMS AND CERTAIN RE-MEASUREMENTS

Baseload power (£/MWh)

Ten-year
long-term 
average price (i)

Change in
 pre/post-tax 
impairment (ii)

2029-2038

2023

56  

£m
(15) 

(i) Prices shown in 2022 real terms. The ten-year long-term average net zero price is the same as the Group’s base case but the annual price profiles differ.  
(ii) Change would lead to a small further write-off of the carrying value.

Exceptional impairment assessments of assets measured on a FVLCD basis

Segment

Upstream

Asset/CGU (or group of CGUs) Basis for impairment assessment

Rough gas storage asset

The reduction in both forecast NBP gas prices and 
forecast summer/winter NBP gas price spreads

Recoverable 
amount (i)
£m 

FV hierarchy

Impairment
£m

(183) 

L3  

82 

(i)  Recoverable amount includes the decommissioning costs associated with the gas field, together with related tax impacts.  The decommissioning provision for Rough at 
the year-end is £319 million. 

Fair value less costs of disposal (FVLCD) is determined by discounting the post-tax cash flows expected to be generated by the assets 
or CGU, net of associated selling costs, taking into account those assumptions that market participants would use in estimating fair value. 
Post-tax cash flows used in the FVLCD calculation are based on the Group’s Board-approved business plans and strategic shape 
assumptions, together with, where relevant, long-term production and cash flow forecasts.

An exceptional impairment has been recorded in 2023 for the Rough gas storage asset measured on a FVLCD basis. No other Upstream 
gas assets have been impaired during the year but they still have a significant carrying value on the balance sheet and accordingly further 
sensitivities (including for the Rough gas storage asset) are provided in the paragraph below:

Upstream gas assets (including Rough gas storage asset)
For Upstream gas assets post-tax cash flows are derived from projected production profiles of each field, taking into account forward 
prices for gas and liquids over the relevant period. Where forward market prices are not available (i.e. outside the active period for each 
commodity), prices are determined based on the median of third-party market comparator curves. The date of cessation of production 
depends on the interaction of a number of variables, such as the recoverable quantities of hydrocarbons, production costs, the 
contractual duration of the licence area and the selling price of the gas and liquids produced. As each field has specific reservoir 
characteristics and economic circumstances, the post-tax cash flows for each field are computed using individual economic models. 
Price assumptions are critical and use liquid market prices for 2024 to 2027, blended over a one-year period to long-term price forecasts. 
Long-term price assumptions derived from third-party market comparator median curves are deemed best aligned with pricing that a 
reasonable market participant would use. Following the implementation of the Energy Profits Levy, the increased tax rates have been 
included in the FVLCD calculations until the sunset date of 31 March 2028. For the Rough gas storage asset, in addition to the above 
process associated with its cushion gas production, an assessment is also made of value to be derived from cycling gas in and out of the 
reservoir (predominantly from summer/winter NBP gas spreads). This assessment utilises the forward market prices noted above and is 
also used to calculate the optimum cushion gas production date to maximise the recoverable amount of the asset.        

The future post-tax cash flows are discounted using a post-tax nominal discount rate of 11.0% (2022: 10.5%).

As forward commodity prices are a key assumption in these valuations, average prices and associated impairment sensitivities for the 
Group’s upstream gas assets are shown below. Note that the fields are valued over their respective economic lives and the 5- and 
10-year pricing information shown below is just to provide context. Note that the asset portfolio reserves are predominantly gas (rather 
than liquids) and therefore only NBP figures have been shown below.

Five-year liquid and blended-
period price (i)

Ten-year long-term 
average price (i)

2024-2028

2023-2027

2029-2038

2028-2037

Change in post-tax write-back/(impairment) (ii) 

+10%

-10%

31 December 
2023

31 December 
2022

31 December 
2023

31 December 
2022

31 December 
2023

31 December 
2022

31 December 
2023

31 December 
2022

NBP (p/th)

71   

155 

61   

75   

£m

6   

£m

—   

£m

(5)   

£m

— 

+50% 
Five-year liquid 
and blended-
period only 
32 

-50% 
Five-year liquid 
and blended-
period only

(269) 

(i) Prices are shown in 2022 real terms.
(ii) Sensitivity relates to Upstream exploration and production assets and CGUs (including gas storage assets). A 10% change was historically deemed to represent a 

reasonably possible variation across the entire period covered by both the liquid market and longer-term comparator curves used in upstream gas impairment tests. 
Given the significant movements in commodity prices during the last few years, a further sensitivity has been included based on a 50% change in liquid and blend-period 
commodity prices only. The changes shown relate to further write-backs or impairments and are restricted because the most material fields have already been written 
back to their depreciated historic cost and have excess impairment headroom.  

Financial Statements | Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

155

 
 
 
 
 
7. EXCEPTIONAL ITEMS AND CERTAIN RE-MEASUREMENTS
Furthermore, there is also uncertainty due to climate change and international governmental intervention to reduce CO2 emissions and the 
likely impact this will have on gas demand and forecast prices. As a result, a further sensitivity is disclosed below based on forecast prices 
aligned to an average of the International Energy Agency’s (IEA), Aurora and Baringa’s net zero emissions by 2050, which assumes 
governmental policies are put in place to achieve the temperature and net zero goals by 2050. This sensitivity retains the prices for the 
liquid period (four years) but replaces the longer term thereafter with the average of these forecast prices for net zero emissions by 2050.

NBP (p/th)

Ten-year
long-term 
average price (i)

2029-2038

Change in
 post-tax 
write-back/
(impairment) (ii)

2023

57   

£m

— 

(i) Prices shown in 2022 real terms.
(ii) Change in impairment restricted due to the most material fields having already been written back to their depreciated historic cost and having excess impairment 

headroom, as well as most hydrocarbon production being in the liquid period and hence unaffected by net zero pricing.

8. NET FINANCE COST

Financing costs mainly comprise interest on bonds and bank debt, the results of hedging activities used to manage 
foreign exchange and interest rate movements on the Group’s borrowings and notional interest arising from the 
discounting of decommissioning provisions and pensions. An element of financing cost is capitalised on qualifying 
projects. 

Investment income predominantly includes interest received from short-term investments in money market funds, bank 
deposits and government bonds.

Year ended 31 December 

Cost of servicing net debt:

Interest income

Interest cost on bonds, bank loans and 
overdrafts

Interest cost on lease liabilities

Net (losses)/gains on revaluation

Notional interest arising from discounting 

Other interest charges (i)
Capitalised borrowing costs (ii)
Financing (cost)/income (iii)

Financing 
costs
£m

2023

Investment 
income
£m

— 

(262) 

(12) 

(274) 

(2) 

(14) 

(290) 

(20) 

2 

(308) 

269 

— 

— 

269 

— 

— 

269 

— 

— 

269 

Financing 
costs
£m

2022

Investment 
income
£m

— 

(184) 

(6) 

(190) 

— 

(3) 

(193) 

(31) 

4 

(220) 

52 

— 

— 

52 

22 

3 

77 

— 

— 

77 

Total
£m

269 

(262) 

(12) 

(5) 

(2) 

(14) 

(21) 

(20) 

2 

(39) 

Total
£m

52 

(184) 

(6) 

(138) 

22 

— 

(116) 

(31) 

4 

(143) 

(i) Other interest charges includes interest charged on cash collateral, and fees for letters of credit. The cash flow associated is £20 million (2022: £30 million).
(ii) Borrowing costs have been capitalised using an average rate of 8.39% (2022: 5.57%). The capitalised borrowing costs in 2022 relate entirely to the Norwegian assets 

(iii)

held for sale, and subsequently disposed of.
Investment income has increased significantly during 2023, and as a result we have amended our Group Income Statement presentation to disclose investment income 
and financing costs separately.

156

Financial Statements | Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
9. TAXATION

The taxation note details the different tax charges and rates, including current and deferred tax arising in the Group. 
The current tax charge is the tax payable on this year’s taxable profits together with amendments in respect of tax 
provisions made in earlier years. This tax charge excludes the Group’s share of taxation on the results of joint ventures 
and associates. Deferred tax represents the tax on differences between the accounting carrying values of assets and 
liabilities and their tax bases. These differences are temporary and are expected to unwind in the future.

(a)  Analysis of tax charge

Year ended 31 December 

Current tax

UK corporation tax

UK energy profits levy

UK petroleum revenue tax

Non-UK tax

Adjustments in respect of prior years – UK 

Adjustments in respect of prior years – non-UK 

Total current tax

Deferred tax

Origination and reversal of temporary differences – UK

UK energy profits levy

Change in UK tax rate

UK petroleum revenue tax

Origination and reversal of temporary differences – non-UK

Adjustments in respect of prior years – UK 

Adjustments in respect of prior years – non-UK

Total deferred tax

Total UK tax

Total non-UK tax
Total taxation on profit/(loss) for the year (i)

2023

Exceptional 
items and 
certain re-
measurements
£m

Business 
performance
£m

Results for 
the year
£m

Business 
performance
£m

2022

Exceptional
 items and 
certain re-
measurements
£m

Results for
the year
£m

(535)   

(160)   

1   

(100)   

3   

2   

(789)   

(92)   

34   

(2)   

—   

4   

7   

—   

(49)   

(744)   

(94)   

(838)   

105   

11   

—   

—   

(26)   

—   

90   

(430) 

(149) 

1 

(100) 

(23) 

2 

(699) 

(331)   

(54)   

2   

(477)   

(47)   

(8)   

(915)   

(262)   

21   

—   

32   

24   

—   

(593) 

(33) 

2 

(445) 

(23) 

(8) 

(185)   

(1,100) 

(1,312)   

(1,404) 

(128)   

(376)   

(342) 

(3)   

52   

(20)   

(26)   

—   

(5) 

52 

(16) 

(19) 

— 

(1,685)   

(1,575)   

(20)   

(1,734) 

(2,319) 

(114) 

23   

(7)   

6   

(89)   

49   

15   

(131)   

(487)   

(559)   

(1,595)   

(2,433) 

(1,046)   

840   

(85)   

242   

(19)   

32   

(27)   

(5)   

978   

734   

59   

793   

712 

(62) 

235 

(13) 

(57) 

22 

10 

847 

247 

(500) 

(253) 

(i) Total taxation on profit/(loss) excludes taxation on the Group’s share of profits of joint ventures and associates.

UK tax rates
Most activities in the UK are subject to the standard rate for UK corporation tax of 23.5% (2022: 19%). Upstream gas production activities 
are taxed at a rate of 30% (2022: 30%), a supplementary charge of 10% (2022: 10%), plus the energy profits levy of 35% (2022: 25%) to 
give an overall tax rate of 75% (2022: 65%). Certain upstream gas production assets in the UK are subject to the UK petroleum revenue 
tax (PRT) regime at the current tax rate of 0% (2022: 0%).

The UK corporation tax rate increased to 25% effective 1 April 2023, giving an overall rate of 23.5% for the year (being the average of 19% 
in the period to 31 March 2023 and 25% thereafter).

Non-UK tax rates
Taxation in non-UK jurisdictions, where the Group has a substantial presence, is calculated at the rate prevailing in those respective 
jurisdictions.

The main non-UK rates of corporation tax are 12.5% (2022: 12.5%) in the Republic of Ireland, 22% (2022: 22%) in Denmark and 17% 
(2022: 17%) in Singapore.

Prior year adjustments reflect changes made to estimates or to judgements when further information becomes available.

Movements in deferred tax liabilities and assets are disclosed in note 16. Tax on items taken directly to equity is disclosed in note S4.

Financial Statements | Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

157

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
9. TAXATION

(b) Factors affecting the tax charge

The Group is expected to continue carrying out most of its business activities in the UK and accordingly considers the standard UK rate to 
be the appropriate reference rate. 

The differences between the total taxation shown above and the amount calculated by applying the standard rate of UK corporation tax to 
the profit/(loss) before taxation are as follows:

Year ended 31 December 

Profit/(loss) before taxation

(Deduct)/add back share of (profits)/losses of joint ventures 
and associates, net of interest and taxation

Tax on profit/(loss) at standard UK corporation tax rate of 
23.5% (2022: 19%)

Effects of:

Depreciation/impairment on non-qualifying assets

Other permanent differences

Electricity Generator Levy

Higher rates applicable to Upstream profits/losses

Energy profits levy charge for the year

Energy profits levy re-measurement of deferred tax 
balances

Upstream investment incentives

Petroleum revenue tax

Non-UK tax rates (excluding Upstream)

Movements in uncertain tax provisions

(Impairment)/write-back of deferred tax assets relating to 
Upstream losses and decommissioning

Changes in UK tax rate

Disposal of Norway business

Prior year adjustment 

Other (non-tax deductible)/non-taxable items

Taxation on profit/(loss)

Less: movement in deferred tax

Total current tax

2023

Exceptional 
items 
and certain 
re-measurements
£m

Business 
performance
£m

Results for 
the year
£m

Business 
performance
£m

2022

Exceptional 
items 
and certain 
re-measurements
£m

Results for 
the year
£m

2,713   

3,760   

6,473 

3,165   

(3,548)   

(383) 

(209)   

2,504   

1   

(208) 

3,761   

6,265 

(92)   

3,073   

(1)   

(3,549)   

(93) 

(476) 

(588)   

(884)   

(1,472) 

(584)   

674   

(1)   

(16)   

(67)   

(44)   

(133)   

7   

—   

—   

6   

(1)   

—   

(2)   

—   

12   

(11)   

(838)   

49   

(789)   

(129)   

1   

—   

(180)   

(395)   

30   

—   

52   

17   

—   

(55)   

(3)   

—   

(52)   

3   

(130) 

(15) 

(67) 

(224) 

(528) 

37 

— 

52 

23 

(1) 

(55) 

(5) 

— 

(40) 

(8) 

1   

—   

—   

(429)   

(31)   

—   

32   

1   

(28)   

(13)   

(1)   

(7)   

—   

9   

4   

(1,595)   

(2,433) 

(1,046)   

1,685   

1,734 

90   

(699) 

131   

(915)   

37   

—   

—   

(112)   

(212)   

148   

—   

—   

(32)   

—   

121   

242   

(69)   

(8)   

4   

793   

(978)   

(185)   

90 

38 

— 

— 

(541) 

(243) 

148 

32 

1 

(60) 

(13) 

120 

235 

(69) 

1 

8 

(253) 

(847) 

(1,100) 

The Group is subject to taxation in a number of jurisdictions. The complexity of applicable rules may result in legitimate differences of 
interpretation between the Group and taxing authorities (or between different taxing authorities) especially where an economic judgement 
or valuation is involved. Resolution of these differences typically takes many years. The uncertain tax provisions represent multiple layers of 
estimation for different time periods and different jurisdictions. 

The Group has applied IFRIC 23 ‘Uncertainty over Income Tax Treatments’. The interpretation requires consideration of the likelihood that 
the relevant taxing authority will accept an uncertain tax treatment in order to determine the measurement basis. The value is calculated in 
accordance with the rules of the relevant tax authority when acceptance is deemed probable. 

The Group’s uncertain tax provision relates to differences in the interpretation of tax legislation in the UK and Canada. Due to the 
uncertainty associated with such tax items, there is a possibility that, on conclusion of open tax matters at a future date, the final outcome 
may differ. The uncertain tax provision represents management’s assessment of the likely outcome of each issue.

At 31 December 2023 the provision for uncertain tax items was £43 million (2022: £42 million). The Group provided an indemnity to Sval 
Energi following the sale of Spirit Energy’s Norwegian business and the transfer of the legal liabilities in respect of open tax disputes. Any 
movement in the underlying indemnity (excluding movements attributable to foreign exchange rates) will be recorded through the profit 
before tax of the Group. As at 31 December 2023 the indemnity in respect of the tax disputes was £123 million (2022: £129 million). 

158

Financial Statements | Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
9. TAXATION

(c) Factors that may affect future tax charges

The Group’s effective tax rates are impacted by changes to the mix of activities and profitability across the territories in which it operates. 
Effective tax rates may also fluctuate where profits and losses cannot be offset for tax purposes. For example, losses arising in one 
territory cannot be offset against profits in another. 

The Group’s effective tax rate is dependent on the proportion of Group profits and losses arising from its UK upstream and nuclear 
activities relative to lower taxed UK and other jurisdictions’ profits and losses. 

The headline rate of tax on ring fence profits from gas production in the UK was 75% (consisting of ring fence corporation tax of 30%, 
supplementary charge of 10%, and the Energy Profits Levy of 35%) versus 23.5% UK statutory corporation tax rate. 

The Energy Profits Levy is a temporary measure and will apply to gas production profits until 31 March 2028. However, on 9 June 2023 
the UK Government announced the Energy Security Investment Mechanism. As a result, the Energy Profits Levy will cease to apply if 
average oil and gas prices fall to historically normal levels for two consecutive quarters. Based on 20-year averages, normal levels would 
be achieved where both average oil and gas prices fall to, or below, US$71.40 per barrel for oil and £0.54 per therm for gas. If the Energy 
Profits Levy ceases to apply, the headline rate on ring fence profits will reduce to 40%. Based on the independent Office for Budget 
Responsibility’s forecast, the Energy Security Investment Mechanism is not expected to be triggered before the planned end date for 
Energy Profits Levy of 31 March 2028.

PRT is set at 0% but may still give rise to historic refunds from the carry-back of excess reliefs (for example, from decommissioning). 

The Electricity Generator Levy applies from 1 January 2023 to 31 March 2028 at the tax rate of 45% to electricity generation revenues, 
which will be determined by reference to revenue from sales exceeding a benchmark price of £75/MWh. The benchmark price is indexed 
on 1 April each year by reference to Consumer Price Index for the previous December.

The Electricity Generator Levy is not an income tax for accounting purposes and therefore is included in the Group’s cost of sales and our 
share of the results of joint ventures and associates operating profits and is not deductible for the purposes of UK corporation tax. The 
Electricity Generator Levy is a wholly new type of levy and there remains some uncertainty over how the provisions are to be applied and 
consequently the amount of levy payable. See note 1(b) for details of the uncertainties regarding the application of the Electricity Generator 
Levy to the Group’s revenues. 

The Group monitors income tax developments in all the jurisdictions in which the Group operates, including the OECD Base Erosion and 
Profit Shifting (BEPS) initiative (Pillar 2), which may affect the Group’s tax liabilities. On 8 October 2022, more than 135 countries of the 
OECD Inclusive Framework on BEPS committed to fundamental changes to the international corporate tax system. This includes a 
proposed global minimum corporation tax rate set at 15% for financial years beginning in 2024. Steps to introduce a global minimum 
corporation tax have been enacted in 2023 in the jurisdictions in which the Group operates.

The Group does not expect its tax liabilities to be materially increased as a result of the implementation of the Pillar 2 rules. The Group is 
currently assessing their detailed impact, but the Republic of Ireland is the only jurisdiction that is likely to be affected. The Republic of 
Ireland has enacted a minimum corporate tax rate of 15% with effect from 1 January 2024, increasing the rate from its current 12.5%. The 
impact on the Group’s effective tax rate based on 2023 profits is less than 1%.

(d) Relationship between current tax charge and taxes paid

Year ended 31 December 

Current tax charge/(credit):

Corporation tax

Petroleum revenue tax

Total tax on results for the year (per note 9(b))
Current tax included in other comprehensive income (i)

Total tax charge

Taxes paid/(refunded):

Corporation tax

Petroleum revenue tax

2023

2022

UK
£m 

Non-UK
£m 

Total 
£m

UK
£m 

Non-UK
£m 

Total
£m 

602   

(1)   

601   

(29)   

572   

690   

(3)   

687   

98   

—   

98   

—   

98   

116   

—   

116   

700 

(1) 

699 

(29) 

670 

806 

(3) 

803 

803 

649   

(2)   

647   

(29)   

618   

261   

(18)   

243   

453   

—   

453   

—   

453   

331   

—   

331   

1,102 

(2) 

1,100 

(29) 

1,071 

592 

(18) 

574 

574 

Included in the following lines of the Group Cash Flow Statement:

Taxes paid in net cash flows

(i) Current tax movements relating to pension deficit payments are reported in other comprehensive income. 

Differences between current tax charged and taxes paid arose principally due to the following factors:

¢ Corporation tax payments are generally made by instalment, based on estimated taxable profits, or the prior period’s profits. 
Fluctuations in profits from year to year, one-off items and mark-to-market movements within the year may therefore give rise 
to divergence between the charge for the year and the taxes paid. In certain jurisdictions advance tax payments are required (based on 
estimated tax liabilities) which can result in overpayments. These are included as tax assets, to be refunded in a subsequent period; and

¢ PRT refunds are based on results in the preceding six-monthly PRT period, therefore PRT cash movements will reflect refunds on a 

six-month delay.

Financial Statements | Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

159

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
10. EARNINGS PER ORDINARY SHARE

Earnings per share (EPS) is the amount of profit or loss attributable to each share. Basic EPS is the amount of profit or 
loss for the year divided by the weighted average number of shares in issue during the year. Diluted EPS includes the 
impact of outstanding share options.

Basic earnings per ordinary share has been calculated by dividing the profit attributable to equity holders of the Company for the year of 
£3,929 million (2022: loss of £782 million) by the weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue during the year of 5,569 million 
(2022: 5,869 million). The number of shares excludes 339 million ordinary shares (2022: 32 million), being the weighted average number of 
the Company’s own shares held in the employee share trust and treasury shares repurchased during the year by the Group as part of the 
share buyback programme. These 339 million shares do not include shares expected to be repurchased as part of the Group’s share 
buyback programme during 2024. See note S4.

The Directors believe that the presentation of adjusted basic earnings per ordinary share, being the basic earnings per ordinary share 
adjusted for certain re-measurements and exceptional items, assists with understanding the underlying performance of the Group, as 
explained in note 2. 

Information presented for diluted and adjusted diluted earnings per ordinary share uses the weighted average number of ordinary shares 
as adjusted for 91 million (2022: 68 million) potentially dilutive ordinary shares as the denominator, unless it has the effect of increasing the 
profit or decreasing the loss attributable to each ordinary share. 

Basic to basic adjusted earnings per ordinary share reconciliation

Year ended 31 December 

Earnings – basic
Net exceptional items after taxation (notes 2 and 7) (i)
Certain re-measurement (gains)/losses after taxation (notes 2 and 7) (i)

Earnings – adjusted basic

Earnings – diluted (ii)

Earnings – adjusted diluted

2023

Pence per 
ordinary share

£m

3,929   

600   

(2,670)   

1,859   

70.6 

10.8 

(48.0) 

33.4 

2022

£m

(782)   

279   

2,553 

2,050 

Pence per
 ordinary share

(13.3) 

4.8 

43.4

34.9

3,929   

69.4 

(782)   

(13.3) 

1,859   

32.8 

2,050   

34.5 

(i) Net exceptional items after taxation and certain re-measurement losses after taxation are adjusted to reflect the share attributable to non-controlling interests. 
(ii) Potential ordinary shares are not treated as dilutive when they would decrease a loss per share. 

11. DIVIDENDS

Dividends represent the return of profits to shareholders. Dividends are paid as an amount per ordinary share held. The 
Group retains part of the profits generated to meet future investment plans or to fund share buyback programmes.

Prior year final dividend

Interim dividend

2023

Pence per 
 ordinary share

£m

Date of 
payment

113   

73   

186 

2.00  20 Jul 2023

1.33  16 Nov 2023

2022

Pence per
 ordinary share

—   

Date of 
payment

— 

1.00  17 Nov 2022

£m

—   

59   

59 

The Directors propose a final dividend of 2.67 pence per ordinary share for the year ended 31 December 2023 (which would total £144 
million based on shareholding at that date). The dividend will be paid on 11 July 2024 to those shareholders registered on 31 May 2024.

The Company has sufficient distributable reserves to pay dividends to its ultimate shareholders. Distributable reserves are calculated on an 
individual legal entity basis and the ultimate parent company, Centrica plc, currently has adequate levels of realised profits within its 
retained earnings to support dividend payments. Refer to the Centrica plc Company Balance Sheet on page 230. At 31 December 2023, 
Centrica plc’s Company-only distributable reserves were c.£4.5 billion (2022: c.£2.9 billion). On an annual basis, the distributable reserve 
levels of the Group’s subsidiary undertakings are reviewed and dividends paid up to Centrica plc as appropriate to replenish its reserves.

160

Financial Statements | Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
12. ACQUISITIONS AND DISPOSALS

This section details business combinations, asset acquisitions and disposals made by the Group. 

During the year, Centrica Business Solutions acquired a number of companies with existing grid connections for the purpose of building 
power assets in line with the Group’s strategy of being a flexible energy provider. The total consideration was £34 million with one 
transaction being accounted for as a business combination and the remainder as asset acquisitions. There have been no other material 
acquisitions or disposals either individually or in aggregate. There have been no material updates to the fair value of assets and liabilities 
recognised for businesses acquired in 2022.

During the year, the Group increased its equity holding in Greener Ideas Limited from 50% to 80% for consideration of £nil at which point it 
obtained control and started acquisition accounting. Property, plant and equipment of £44 million was acquired as part of this acquisition 
alongside debt which meant that no goodwill arose.

During the period, deferred consideration of £55 million was received in respect of the Spirit Norway disposal in 2022 and £17 million was 
distributed to SWM Bayerische E&P Beteiligungsgesellschaft mbH.

Financial Statements | Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

161

13. PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT 

PP&E includes significant investment in power generating assets, storage assets and gas and liquid production assets. 
Once operational, all assets are depreciated over their useful lives.

(a)  Carrying amounts

Cost

1 January 
Acquisitions (i)

Additions and capitalised 
borrowing costs

Disposals/retirements 

Write-downs

Decommissioning liability and 
dilapidations revisions and 
additions (note 21)

Lease modifications and 
re-measurements

Exchange adjustments

31 December 

Accumulated depreciation and 
impairment

1 January 
Charge for the year (ii)

Impairments/(write-backs)

Disposals/retirements 

Exchange adjustments

31 December 

NBV at 31 December

2023

Plant, 
equipment 
and 
vehicles
£m

Land and 
buildings
£m

Gas 
production 
and 
storage
£m

Power 
generation
£m

Plant, 
equipment 
and 
vehicles
£m

2022

Power 
generation
£m

Gas 
production 
and 
storage
£m

Total
£m

Total
£m

Land and 
buildings
£m

235   

691   

199    11,517    12,642 

1   

7   

70   

—   

78 

259   

—   

575   

—   

205    11,339    12,378 

—   

—   

— 

53   

123   

108   

89   

373 

—   

117   

12   

123   

252 

(8)   

—   

(33)   

—   

(3)   

—   

—   

—   

(44) 

— 

(33)   

—   

(21)   

—   

(27)   

—   

(29)   

(64)   

(110) 

(64) 

4   

—   

2   

92   

98 

1   

—   

—   

67   

68 

12   

50   

(3)   

294   

(13)   

825   

—   

(4)   

8   

70 

—   

(7)   

(32)   

(52) 

372    11,674    13,165 

8   

235   

27   

691   

—   

9   

—   

(7) 

81   

125 

199    11,517    12,642 

131   

24   

3   

(8)   

(1)   

149   

145   

396   

45    10,322    10,894 

131   

329   

85   

18   

(32)   

(3)   

464   

361   

12   

274   

2   

(3)   

(1)   

82   

—   

(27)   

395 

105 

(43) 

(32) 

55    10,651    11,319 

317   

1,023   

1,846 

22   

4   

(28)   

2   

131   

104   

81   

(2)   

(19)   

7   

396   

295   

63   

15   

(10)   

(25)   

2   

9,870    10,393 

392   

20   

(29)   

69   

510 

12 

(101) 

80 

45    10,322    10,894 

154   

1,195   

1,748 

(i) Acquisitions includes £44 million relating to the step-up of the investment in Greener Ideas Limited from joint venture to subsidiary during the year. See note 12 for further 

details.

(ii) Depreciation of £324 million (2022: £441 million) has been recognised in cost of sales, and £71 million (2022: £69 million) in operating costs before exceptional items.

162

Financial Statements | Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
13. PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT 

(b)  Assets in the course of construction included in above carrying amounts

31 December 

Plant, equipment and vehicles

Gas production and storage

Power generation

2023
£m

99   

29   

166   

(c)  Additional information relating to right-of-use assets included in the above

2023

2022

Plant,
equipment 
and 
vehicles
£m

Land and 
buildings
£m

Power
generation
£m 

Gas 
production
and 
storage
£m 

47   

(23)   

41   

(65)   

123   

223   

—   

—   

—   

—   

(10)   

14   

Plant,
equipment 
and 
vehicles
£m

Land and 
buildings
£m

Power
generation
£m 

Gas 
production
and 
storage
£m 

—   

(21)   

86   

54   

(66)   

207   

—   

—   

—   

—   

(12)   

16   

Total
£m

88 

(98) 

360 

Additions

Depreciation charge for the year

NBV at 31 December

Further information on the Group’s leasing arrangements is provided in note 23. 

2022
£m

33 

61 

27 

Total
£m

54 

(99) 

309 

Financial Statements | Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

163

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
14. INTERESTS IN JOINT VENTURES AND ASSOCIATES

Investments in joint ventures and associates represent businesses where we exercise joint control or significant 
influence and generally have an equity holding of up to 50%. These include the investment in Lake Acquisitions Limited, 
which owns the existing UK nuclear power station fleet.

(a)

Interests in joint ventures and associates

2023

2022

Investments in 
joint ventures 
and associates
£m 

Investments in 
joint ventures 
and associates 
£m

1,580 

1,628 

9 

(549) 

208 

(95) 

(220) 

(28) 

(2) 

903 

Total
£m

3,888 

780 

4,668 

(270) 

(2,449) 

(2,719) 

(1,046) 

903 

18

195

93 

(293) 

(60) 

— 

(1) 

1,580 

2022

Total
£m

4,196 

842 

5,038 

(348) 

(2,613) 

(2,961) 

(497) 

1,580 

1 January 
Additions (i)
(Impairments)/write-backs (ii)

Share of profit for the year
Share of other comprehensive loss (iii)

Dividends
Disposals (iv)

Other movements

31 December 

(i) The £9 million in 2023 relates to cash injections into Greener Ideas Limited.
(ii) The £549 million in 2023 relates to nuclear investment impairment (2022: £195 million write-back). See note 7 for further details.
(iii) Share of other comprehensive loss mainly relates to actuarial changes on pension schemes within the nuclear investment.
(iv) In 2023, the Group increased its equity interest in Greener Ideas Limited and obtained control of the entity from that point.

(b) Share of joint ventures’ and associates’ assets and liabilities

31 December 

Share of non-current assets

Share of current assets

Share of current liabilities

Share of non-current liabilities

Cumulative impairment

Interests in joint ventures and associates

Associates
Nuclear
£m

2023

Other
£m

3,888   

780   

4,668   

(270)   

(2,449)   

(2,719)   

(1,046)   

903   

—   

—   

—   

—   

—   

—   

—   

—   

Net cash included in share of net assets

99   

—   

99 

112 

Further information on the Group’s investments in joint ventures and associates is provided in notes 6 and S10.

164

Financial Statements | Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
15. OTHER INTANGIBLE ASSETS AND GOODWILL

The Group Balance Sheet contains significant intangible assets. Goodwill, customer relationships and brands usually 
arise when we acquire a business. Goodwill is attributable to enhanced geographical presence, cost savings, synergies, 
growth opportunities, the assembled workforce and also arises from items such as deferred tax. Goodwill is not 
amortised but is assessed for recoverability each year.

The Group uses European Union Allowances (EUAs) and Renewable Obligation Certificates/Renewable Energy 
Certificates (ROCs/RECs) to satisfy its related obligations.

Upstream exploration and evaluation expenditure is capitalised as an intangible asset until development of the asset 
commences, at which point it is transferred to PP&E or is deemed not commercially viable and is written down.

(a) Carrying amounts

2023

Customer 
relationships 
and brands
£m

Application 
software 
(i)(ii)

£m

EUA/
ROC/
REC (iii)
£m

Exploration 
and 
evaluation 
expenditure
£m

Goodwill
£m

Total
£m

Customer 
relationships 
and brands
£m

Application 
software 
(i)(ii)

£m

2022

Exploration 
and 
evaluation 
expenditure
£m

EUA/
ROC/
REC
£m

Goodwill
£m

Total
£m

208   

1,510   

280   

121   

680    2,799 

201   

1,584   

213   

121   

665    2,784 

—   

4   

49   

780   

—   

—    829 

—    —   

—   

—   

4 

—   

11   

44   

799   

—    —   

843 

—   

—   

—    —   

11 

(46)   

(38)   

(767)   

(121)   

—   

(972) 

(9)   

(129)   

(732)   

—    —   

(870) 

Cost

1 January 

Additions and capitalised 
borrowing costs

Acquisitions

Disposals/retirements 
and surrenders

Exchange adjustments

(2)   

(6)    —   

31 December 

164   

1,515   

293   

—   

—   

(7)   

(15) 

5   

11   

—   

—   

15   

31 

673    2,645 

208   

1,510   

280   

121   

680    2,799 

Accumulated 
amortisation and 
impairment

1 January 
Amortisation (iv)

Disposals/retirements 
and surrenders

Impairments

Exchange adjustments

31 December 

NBV at 31 December 

111   

1,180    —   

121   

271    1,683 

16   

107    —   

—   

—    123 

95   

17   

1,143   

142   

—   

—   

121   

264    1,623 

—    —   

159 

(46)   

(38)    —   

(121)   

—   

(205) 

(9)   

(129)   

—   

—    —   

(138) 

5   

(2)   

84   

80   

10    —   

(4)    —   

1,255    —   

260   

293   

—   

—   

—   

—   

—   

(3)   

15 

(9) 

268    1,607 

405    1,038 

5   

3   

15   

9   

111   

1,180   

—   

—   

—   

—    —   

—   

7   

20 

19 

121   

271    1,683 

97   

330   

280   

—   

409    1,116 

(i) Application software includes assets under construction with a cost of £110 million (2022: £83 million).
(ii) The remaining amortisation period of individually material application software assets, which had a carrying value of £65 million (2022: £100 million), is between 0 and 

5 years. Additionally, there is £82 million (2022: £61 million) of individually material software assets under construction.

(iii) The Group has assessed the expected submission dates of EUA/ROC/RECs currently held and where they are expected to be surrendered within a year of purchase, they 

are presented within current assets, otherwise as non-current. At 31 December 2023, £293 million is presented within current assets. See note 1 for further details.

(iv) Amortisation of £123 million (2022: £159 million) has been recognised in operating costs before exceptional items.

Financial Statements | Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

165

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
15. OTHER INTANGIBLE ASSETS AND GOODWILL
(b) Carrying amount of goodwill and intangible assets with indefinite useful lives allocated to CGUs

Goodwill acquired through business combinations, and indefinite-lived intangible assets, have been allocated for impairment testing 
purposes to individual CGUs or groups of CGUs, each representing the lowest level within the Group at which the goodwill or indefinite-
lived intangible asset is monitored for internal management purposes. See note S2 for further details on impairment assumptions.

Principal acquisitions to which 
goodwill and intangibles with 
indefinite useful lives relate

Carrying 
amount of 
goodwill
£m

Carrying amount of 
indefinite-lived
 intangible assets (i)
£m

Carrying 
amount of 
goodwill
£m

Carrying amount of 
indefinite-lived 
intangible assets (i)
£m

Total
£m

2023

2022

31 December 

CGUs

British Gas Services & Solutions AlertMe/Dyno-Rod

British Gas Energy

Enron Direct/Electricity Direct

Centrica Business Solutions

   – Energy supply

Bord Gáis Energy

Centrica Energy

Enron Direct/Electricity Direct

Bord Gáis Energy

Neas Energy

63   

121   

60   

16   

145   

405   

57   

—   

—   

—   

—   

57   

120   

121   

60   

16   

145   

462   

63   

121   

60   

16   

149   

409   

57   

—   

—   

—   

—   

57   

(i) The indefinite-lived intangible assets relate mainly to the Dyno-Rod brand.

The Group has considered the impact of climate change on the carrying value of goodwill, including the impact of the risks and 
opportunities. See note 3(c).

Total
£m

120 

121 

60 

16 

149 

466 

166

Financial Statements | Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

 
 
 
 
 
 
16. DEFERRED TAX LIABILITIES AND ASSETS

Deferred tax is an accounting adjustment to provide for tax that is expected to arise in the future as a result of 
differences in the accounting and tax bases of assets and liabilities. The principal deferred tax assets and liabilities 
recognised by the Group relate to capital investments, decommissioning assets and provisions, tax losses, fair value 
movements on derivative financial instruments, PRT and pensions.

Accelerated tax 
depreciation 
(corporation tax)
£m

Net 
decommissioning (i)
£m

Losses 
carried 
forward (ii)
£m

Other timing 
differences
£m

Marked-to-
market 
positions
£m

Net deferred  
PRT (iii) 
£m

Retirement 
benefit
 obligation and 
other 
provisions
£m

1 January 2022

(Charge)/credit to income

Credit/(charge) to equity

Transferred within held for sale

Exchange and other adjustments

31 December 2022

Credit/(charge) to income

Credit to equity

Exchange and other adjustments

31 December 2023

(458)   

(136)   

—   

—   

(1)   

(595)   

115   

—   

—   

(480)   

556   

(101)   

—   

—   

—   

455   

(13)   

—   

—   

442   

187   

29   

—   

—   

—   

216   

(122)   

—   

—   

94   

31   

(93)   

—   

70   

(4)   

4   

(6)   

6   

(5)   

(1)   

545   

1,160   

8   

—   

—   

1,713   

(1,738)   

—   

—   

(25)   

42   

(13)   

—   

—   

—   

29   

52   

—   

—   

81   

Total 
£m

787 

847 

2 

70 

(5) 

(116)   

1   

(6)   

—   

—   

(121)   

1,701 

(22)   

(1,734) 

64   

—   

(79)   

70 

(5) 

32 

(i) Net decommissioning includes deferred tax assets of £617 million (2022: £596 million) in respect of decommissioning provisions.
(ii) The losses arise principally from accelerated allowances for upstream investment expenditure, for which equivalent deferred tax liabilities are included under accelerated 

tax depreciation.

(iii) The deferred PRT amounts include the effect of deferred corporation tax as PRT is chargeable to corporation tax.

Certain deferred tax assets and liabilities have been offset where there is a legally enforceable right to offset current tax assets against 
current tax liabilities and when the deferred income taxes relate to the same fiscal authority. 

31 December 

Gross deferred tax balances

Offsetting deferred tax balances

Net deferred tax balances (after offsetting for financial reporting purposes)

2023

Assets 
£m

1,007   

(551)   

456   

Liabilities 
£m

(975) 

551 

(424) 

2022

Assets 
£m

2,481   

(772)   

1,709   

Liabilities 
£m

(780) 

772 

(8) 

Deferred tax assets arise typically on decommissioning provisions, trading losses carried forward, retirement benefit obligations and 
marked-to-market positions. Forecasts indicate that there will be suitable taxable profits to utilise those deferred tax assets not offset 
against deferred tax liabilities. Specific legislative provisions applicable to gas production provide assurance that deferred tax assets 
relating to decommissioning costs and certain trading losses will be utilised.

The UK upstream deferred tax assets and liabilities were measured at the headline rate of tax of 75% applicable to the UK gas profits, 
consisting of 30% ring fence corporation tax, 10% supplementary charge and 35% energy profits levy. 

At the balance sheet date, the Group had £1,402 million (2022 revised: £939 million) unrecognised deductible temporary differences 
related to carried forward tax losses and other temporary differences available for utilisation against future taxable profits.

At the balance sheet date, no taxable temporary differences existed in respect of the Group’s overseas investments (2022: £nil).

We have applied the mandatory exception to recognising and disclosing information about the deferred tax assets and liabilities related to 
Pillar 2 income taxes in accordance with the amendments to IAS 12 adopted by the UK Endorsement Board on 19 July 2023.

Financial Statements | Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

167

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
17. TRADE AND OTHER RECEIVABLES AND CONTRACT-RELATED ASSETS

Trade and other receivables include accrued income, and are amounts owed by our customers for goods we have 
delivered or services we have provided. These balances are valued net of expected credit losses. Other receivables 
include payments made in advance to our suppliers. Contract-related assets are balances arising as a result of the 
Group’s contracts with customers in the scope of IFRS 15.

31 December 

Financial assets:

Trade receivables 

Unbilled downstream energy income
Trading and energy procurement accrued income (i)

Other accrued income

Cash collateral posted

Supplier of Last Resort receivables

Government scheme receivables

Other receivables (including contract assets)

Less: provision for credit losses

Non-financial assets: prepayments, other receivables and costs to obtain a contract with a 
customer (ii)

2023

2022

Current
£m

Non-current
£m

Current
£m

Non-current
£m

2,991   

1,065   

1,782   

76   

260   

45   

—   

176   

6,395   

(1,309)   

5,086   

323   

5,409   

— 

— 

— 

— 

— 

3 

— 

101 

104 

— 

104 

106 

210 

2,207  

1,281   

3,179   

324  

1,154   

253  

284  

346

9,028

(872)   

8,156

294

8,450

— 

— 

— 

— 

— 

22 

— 

24

46

— 

46

83

129

(i) Trading and energy procurement counterparty receivables are typically with customers with external, published credit ratings. Such receivables have typically much lower 

(ii)

credit risk than downstream counterparties, are settled in a short period of time and expected credit losses are not significant.
Includes costs of £10 million (2022: £14 million) incurred to obtain contracts with customers in the British Gas Energy and British Gas Services & Solutions segments.  
Costs are amortised over the expected tenure of the customer contract. See note S2.

The amounts above include gross amounts receivable arising from the Group’s IFRS 15 contracts with customers of £2,782 million 
(2022: £2,325 million). Additionally, accrued income of £1,115 million (2022: £1,371 million) arising under IFRS 15 contracts is included.

Trade and other receivables include financial assets representing the contractual right to receive cash or other financial assets from 
residential customers, business customers and treasury, trading and energy procurement counterparties as follows: 

31 December 

Financial assets by business type:

Residential customers (i)

Business customers

Treasury, trading and energy procurement counterparties

Less: provision for credit losses

2023

2022

Current
£m

Non-current 
£m

Current
£m

Non-current 
£m

2,725   

1,516   

2,154   

6,395   

(1,309)   

5,086   

3 

98 

3 

104 

— 

104 

2,755   

1,750   

4,523   

9,028   

(872)   

8,156   

22 

22 

2 

46 

— 

46 

(i) Residential customers include current other receivables of £45 million (2022: £253 million) and non-current other receivables of £3 million (2022: £22 million) in relation to 

SoLR claims, see note 3(a) for further details.

168

Financial Statements | Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
17. TRADE AND OTHER RECEIVABLES AND CONTRACT-RELATED ASSETS
Credit loss charge for trade and other receivables
The impairment charge in trade receivables is stated net of credits for the release of specific provisions made in previous years, which are 
no longer required. These relate primarily to residential and business customers in the UK. Movements in the provision for credit losses by 
business type are as follows: 

2023

2022

Residential
customers
£m

Business
customers
£m

Treasury, 
trading
and energy
procurement
counterparties
£m

Total
£m

Residential
customers
£m

Business
customers
£m

Treasury, 
trading
and energy
procurement
counterparties
£m

Total
£m

1 January 

(567)   

(305)   

—   

(872) 

(426)   

(207)   

—   

(633) 

Increase in impairment of trade receivables 
(predominantly related to credit impaired trade 
receivables) (i) (ii) (iii)
Receivables written off (iv)

31 December 

(396)   

113   

(850)   

(198)   

60   

(443)   

(16)   

—   

(610) 

173 

(234)   

(124)   

93   

26   

(16)   

(1,309) 

(567)   

(305)   

—   

—   

—   

(358) 

119 

(872) 

Includes £587 million (2022: £348 million) of credit losses related to trade receivables resulting from contracts in the scope of IFRS 15.

(i)
(ii) All loss allowances reflect the lifetime expected credit losses on trade receivables and contract assets.
(iii) Excludes recovery of previously written-off receivables of £8 million (2022: £7 million). Due to the large number of individual receivables and the matrix approach 

employed, any reduction in provision is reflected in a reduced charge for the relevant period, rather than in separately identifiable reversals of previous provisions. 
(iv) Materially all write-offs relate to trade receivables where enforcement activity is ongoing. The gross carrying value of write-offs related to trade receivables where 

enforcement activity is ongoing was £142 million (2022: £105 million).

Year ended 31 December 

Increase in impairment provision for trade receivables (per above)

Less recovery of previously written-off receivables

Credit losses on financial assets (per Group Income Statement)

2023
£m

(610)   

8   

(602)   

2022
£m

(358) 

7 

(351) 

Enforcement activity continues in respect of balances that have been written off unless there are specific known circumstances (such as 
bankruptcy) that render further action futile. 

Financial Statements | Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

169

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
17. TRADE AND OTHER RECEIVABLES AND CONTRACT-RELATED ASSETS
Credit loss charge for trade and other receivables
Receivables from residential and business customers are generally considered to be credit impaired when the payment is past the 
contractual due date. The Group applies different definitions of default for different groups of customers, ranging from sixty days past 
the due date to six to twelve months from the issuance of a final bill. Receivables are generally written off only once a period of time has 
elapsed since the final bill. Contractual due dates range from falling due upon receipt to falling due in thirty days from receipt. 

The table below shows credit impaired balances in gross receivables (those that are past due) and those that are not yet due and 
therefore not considered to be credit impaired.

Gross trade and other receivables

31 December 

Balances that are not past due
Balances that are past due (i)

2023
£m

4,403   

1,992   

6,395   

2022
£m 

7,414 

1,614 

9,028 

(i) The majority of balances that are past due relate to residential and business customers, ageing of these receivables is included in the credit risk tables in the 

sections below.

The IFRS 9 impairment model is applicable to the Group’s financial assets including trade receivables, contract assets and other financial 
assets using the simplified approach as described in note S3. As the majority of the relevant balances are trade receivables and contract 
assets to which the simplified model applies, this disclosure focuses on these balances. 

The provision for credit losses for trade receivables and contract assets is based on an expected credit loss model that calculates the 
expected loss applicable to the receivable balance over its lifetime. Expected credit losses on receivables due from treasury, trading and 
energy procurement counterparties are not significant (see note S3 for further analysis of this determination). For residential and business 
customers default rates are calculated initially by considering historical loss experience and applied to trade receivables within a provision 
matrix. The matrix approach allows application of different default rates to different groups of customers with similar characteristics. These 
groups are determined by a number of factors including: the nature of the customer, the payment method selected and, where relevant, 
the sector in which they operate. The characteristics used to determine the groupings of receivables are the factors that have the greatest 
impact on the likelihood of default. The rate of default increases once the balance is thirty days past due. 

Concentration of credit risk in trade and other receivables
Treasury, trading and energy procurement counterparty receivables are typically with customers with external, published credit ratings. 
Such receivables have typically much lower credit risk than downstream counterparties, and that risk is assessed primarily by reference to 
the credit ratings rather than to the ageing of the relevant balance. Counterparty credit rating information is given in note S3.

The Group continues to recover amounts receivable under the Last Resort Supplier Payment mechanism which was triggered when the 
Group was appointed as a Supplier of Last Resort to a number of energy suppliers who ceased to trade during 2021 and 2022. In 
accordance with Ofgem licence conditions, the Group submitted two claims for incremental costs reasonably incurred to supply affected 
customers. The first of these claims has now been settled, and the second is being settled in twelve monthly payments ending in April 
2024. A further smaller claim is in process and expected to be settled by April 2025. The receivable outstanding at 31 December 2023 is 
£48 million (31 December 2022: £275 million). The claims are settled by network operators, to whom the Group separately pays 
transmission and distribution charges. The risk of default is considered low. In addition, Ofgem has the power under licensing conditions 
to take enforcement action against default in accordance with its statutory duties and its enforcement guidelines.

The Group’s cash collateral balance has decreased to £260 million in 2023 (2022: £1,154 million) as a result of lower commodity prices. 
Collateral counterparties typically have strong credit ratings and accordingly have low credit risk; the Group does not expect credit losses 
to arise on these balances. See note S3.

The majority of the Group’s credit exposure arises in the British Gas Energy and Centrica Business Solutions segments and relates to 
residential and business energy customers. The credit risk associated with these customers is assessed as described above, using a 
combination of the age of the receivable in question, internal ratings based on a customer’s payment history, and external data from credit 
rating agencies and wider macroeconomic information. The disclosures below reflect the information that is reported internally for credit 
risk management purposes in these segments.

170

Financial Statements | Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

 
 
 
17. TRADE AND OTHER RECEIVABLES AND CONTRACT-RELATED ASSETS
British Gas Energy credit risk
Of the Group total of £2,991 million (2022: £2,207 million) billed trade receivables, the British Gas Energy reporting segment contributes 
£2,380 million (2022: £1,531 million). British Gas Energy includes small business customers on the basis that their profile closely matches 
those of residential customers. As described above, credit risk is concentrated in receivables from energy customers who pay in arrears. 
Gross receivables from British Gas Energy residential customers amount to £1,651 million (2022: £992 million) and are analysed below.

Trade receivables due 
from British Gas 
residential energy 
customers as at 
31 December (i)

Days beyond invoice date (ii)

Risk profile
Direct debits (iii)

Gross receivables

Provision

Net

Payment on receipt of bill (iii)

Gross receivables

Provision

Net
Final bills (iv)

Gross receivables

Provision

Net

Total net British Gas 
residential energy 
customers trade 
receivables

<30 days 
£m

30-90 days
£m

2023

>90 days
£m

Total
£m

Percentage 
of credit risk

<30 days 
£m

30-90 days
£m

2022

>90 days
£m

Total
£m

Percentage 
of credit risk

310   

—   

310

114   

(4)   

110

21   

(4)   

17

55   

—   

55

71   

(9)   

62

27   

(12)   

15

171   

(7)   

164

650   

(412)   

238

232   

(199)   

33

536 

(7) 

529

835 

(425) 

410

280 

(215) 

65

 1% 

 51% 

 77% 

216   

—   

216

118   

(4)   

114

12   

(3)   

9

51   

—   

51

54   

(7)   

47

13   

(6)   

7

66   

(23)   

43

286   

(180)   

106

176   

(140)   

36

333 

(23) 

310

458 

(191) 

267

201 

(149) 

52

 7% 

 42% 

 74% 

437   

132   

435   

1,004 

 39% 

339   

105   

185   

629 

 37% 

(i) The receivables information presented in this table relates to downstream customers who pay energy bills using the methods presented. It excludes low residual credit 
risk amounts, such as balances in the process of recovery through pay-as-you-go energy (PAYGE) arrangements and amounts receivable from PAYGE energy vendors. 
Gross amounts in the process of recovery through PAYGE arrangements at 31 December 2023 are £154 million (2022: £203 million), against which a provision of 
£117 million is held (2022: £138 million). 

(ii) This ageing analysis is presented relative to invoicing date and presents receivables according to the oldest invoice outstanding with the customer. There are a range of 
payment terms extended to residential energy customers. Amounts paid on receipt of a bill (PORB), which are settled using bank transfers, cash or cheques are typically 
due within fourteen days of invoicing. Direct debit customers typically pay in equal instalments over a twelve-month period.

(iii) Receivables settled by direct debit are deemed to present a lower credit risk than PORB amounts. This is reflected in the relative level of provision held for these types of 

receivables. 

(iv) Final bill customers are those who are no longer customers of the Group and have switched energy supplier. These balances are deemed to have the highest credit risk.

Financial Statements | Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

171

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
17. TRADE AND OTHER RECEIVABLES AND CONTRACT-RELATED ASSETS
Gross receivables from British Gas Energy small business customers amount to £575 million (2022: £336 million) and are analysed below. 

Trade receivables due 
from British Gas small 
business energy 
customers as at 
31 December

Days beyond invoice date (i)

Risk profile

Small businesses

Gross receivables

Provision

Total net British Gas 
small business energy 
customers trade 
receivables

<30 days
£m

30-90 days
£m

2023

>90 days
£m

Total
£m

Percentage 
of credit risk

<30 days
£m

30-90 days
£m

2022

>90 days
£m

Total
£m

Percentage 
of credit risk

115

(3)   

53

407

(8)   

(302)   

575

(313) 

64

(1)   

21

251

(2)   

(191)   

336

(194) 

112

45

105

262

 54% 

63

19

60

142

 58% 

(i) This ageing analysis is presented relative to invoicing date and presents receivables according to the oldest invoice outstanding with the customer. There are a range of 

payment terms extended to business energy customers. Standard credit terms for small business customers are ten working days.

Unbilled downstream energy income at 31 December 2023 includes gross balances of £693 million in respect of British Gas energy 
customers (2022: £880 million), against which a provision of £56 million is held (2022: £36 million).

Centrica Business Solutions energy credit risk
Of the Group total of £2,991 million (2022: £2,207 million) billed trade receivables, the Centrica Business Solutions reporting segment 
contributes £313 million (2022: £390 million). As described above, credit risk is concentrated in receivables from business energy 
customers who pay in arrears, the remaining balances being immaterial in disaggregation. Gross receivables from these customers 
amount to £269 million (2022: £346 million) and are analysed below.

Trade receivables due 
from Centrica Business 
Solutions business energy 
customers as at 
31 December

Days beyond invoice date (i)

Risk profile
Commercial and industrial (ii)

Gross receivables

Provision

Net

Medium-sized entities

Gross receivables

Provision

Net

Total net Centrica 
Business Solutions 
business energy 
customers trade 
receivables

<30 days
£m

30-90 days
£m

2023

>90 days
£m

Total
£m

Percentage 
of credit risk

<30 days
£m

30-90 days
£m

2022

>90 days
£m

Total
£m

Percentage 
of credit risk

75

—   

75

50

—   

50

9

—   

9

19

(1)   

18

26

(13)   

13

90

(57)   

33

110

(13) 

97

159

(58) 

101

 12% 

 36% 

170

—   

170

47

—   

47

9

—   

9

15

—   

15

31

(15)   

16

74

(49)   

25

210

(15) 

195

136

(49) 

87

 7% 

 36% 

125

27

46

198

 26% 

217

24

41

282

 18% 

(i) This ageing analysis is presented relative to invoicing date and presents receivables according to the oldest invoice outstanding with the customer. There are a range of 

payment terms extended to business energy customers. Standard credit terms for medium-sized entity customers are ten working days. Credit terms for Commercial and 
Industrial customers are bespoke and are set based on the commercial agreement with each customer.

(ii) This category includes low credit risk receivables, including those from public sector and customers with high turnover (greater than £100 million).

Unbilled downstream energy income at 31 December 2023 includes gross balances of £239 million in respect of Centrica Business 
Solutions business energy customers (2022: £349 million), against which a provision of £14 million is held (2022: £14 million).

The remaining reporting segments which are not shown above are not considered to have material credit risk.

172

Financial Statements | Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

 
 
 
 
 
 
17. TRADE AND OTHER RECEIVABLES AND CONTRACT-RELATED ASSETS
Sensitivity to changes in assumptions
Typically, the most significant assumption included within the expected credit loss provisioning model that gives rise to estimation 
uncertainty is that future performance will be reflective of past performance and that there will be no significant change in the payment 
profile or recovery rates within each identified group of receivables. To address this risk, the Group reviews and updates default rates, 
by group, on a regular basis to ensure they incorporate the most up to date assumptions along with forward-looking information where 
available and relevant. The Group also considers regulatory changes and customer segment specific factors that may have an impact, 
now or in the future, on the recoverability of the balance. 

The specific consideration of forward-looking information in the impairment model does not usually give rise to significant changes in the 
levels of credit losses. However, inflationary pressures and high wholesale gas and electricity costs continue to cause uncertainty in 
economic outlook. The economic recovery remains vulnerable and there remains a level of estimation uncertainty inherent in determining 
credit loss provisions for the Group’s trade receivables. 

Where customers experience difficulties in settling balances, the increased ageing of these amounts results in an increase in provisions 
held in respect of them under the provision matrix approach employed. The Group has also considered changes in customer payment 
patterns, the specific circumstances of the customers and the economic impacts of the factors identified above, on the sectors in which 
they operate. Whilst economic recovery is expected, a level of unpredictability remains apparent. 

Customers are facing increases in their cost of living, including increased energy bills, higher inflation and higher interest rates. The Group 
has considered macroeconomic forecasts and sensitivities, as well as disposable income analysis from a credit rating agency, to model 
and determine the level of provisions for credit losses. 

During 2023 the Group recognised credit losses of £602 million (2022: £351 million) in respect of financial assets, representing 2.3% 
of total Group revenue (2022: 1.5%) and 1.8% of total Group revenue from business performance (2022: 1.0%). As described above, the 
majority of the Group’s credit exposure arises in respect of downstream energy receivables in British Gas Energy and Centrica Business 
Solutions. Credit losses in respect of these assets amounted to £554 million (2022: £331 million). This represents 2.6% (2022: 2.1%) 
of total UK downstream energy supply revenue from these segments of £21,046 million (2022: £15,814 million). Further details of 
segmental revenue are provided in note 4. 

Due to the different level of risks presented by billed and unbilled receivables, these asset groups are considered separately in the 
analysis below.

Billed trade receivables

Trade receivables (i)

Provision

Net balance

Provision coverage

Sensitivity
Impact on billed receivables/operating profit from 1 percentage point (increase)/decrease in provision coverage (ii)

31 December 
2023
£m

31 December 
2022
£m

2,991   

(1,240)   

1,751   

2,207 

(822) 

1,385 

31 December 
2023
%

31 December 
2022
%

41

£m

37

£m

(30)/30

(22)/22

(i) Excludes the Government receivables under the Energy Price Guarantee (EPG) and Energy Bill Relief Scheme (EBRS) schemes of £nil (2022: £284 million) which are not 

provided for.

(ii) Credit risk in the Group is impacted by a large number of interacting factors.

Financial Statements | Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

173

 
 
 
17. TRADE AND OTHER RECEIVABLES AND CONTRACT-RELATED ASSETS
Overall billed debt levels have increased significantly. Credit provisions have accordingly increased, primarily caused by the declining levels 
of cash collection performance. This has resulted in decreased recovery rates and increased provision rates for customers in the Group’s 
downstream operations. Within this portfolio, the continued deterioration seen in the payment on receipt of bill collections performance, 
coupled with a change in the mix of debt within the portfolio, has particularly driven the increase in provision rates.

The macroeconomic environment remains challenging with higher inflation, higher interest rates, lower growth projections and more limited 
government support measures. The collection performance in relation to customers who pay on receipt of bill has declined steadily, with 
more customers being unable to pay their energy bills due to the cost of living crisis. The impact has been further exacerbated by the 
suspension of all field activity since January 2023, following the investigation into certain prepayment meter installation activity.

There remains significant uncertainty around the persistent impact of these factors on bad debt. Leading debt indicators including the 
number of customers going into debt, insolvency volumes in business and direct debit cancellation rates in residential have continued to 
deteriorate during 2023. High commodity prices and the delayed impact on customer payments have not yet been fully reflected in the 
underlying matrix output model used to record provision coverage, partly due to the continued inclusion of Government support measures 
which only ended in June 2023. Therefore, as part of management’s assessment of adequacy of bad debt provisions, a £50 million 
increase to the macroeconomic provision has been recorded, the provision now totals £175 million across billed and unbilled debt and is 
included in the tables both above and below (2022: £125 million). Management considers the impact of specific cohorts of customers 
referenced in the previous tables when making this assessment, recognising the different credit terms and different risk profiles that exist. 
This assessment also utilises a range of factors, both internal and external, historic and forward-looking, and considers the sensitivities of 
these to help management estimate the likely recovery of debt.

It remains uncertain as to when and how these factors will reduce the collectability of debt and at what scale. The impact of future 
changes in commodity prices may also impact this. The table above and the unbilled section below provide details of the sensitivity of 
moving the debt provision by a further 1%.

The Group’s services, upstream and trading operations are less susceptible to credit risk. No significant deterioration of credit risk has 
been experienced or is expected in the relevant segments in respect of billed trade receivables recognised at 31 December 2023, taking 
into account cash collection cycles in those areas of the Group and credit rating information (see note S3).
Unbilled downstream energy income
The table below shows the IFRS 15 unbilled downstream energy income for the Group as a whole. 

Gross unbilled receivables

Provision

Net balance

Provision coverage

Sensitivity
Impact on unbilled receivables/operating profit from 1 percentage point (increase)/decrease in provision coverage (i) 

(i) Credit risk in the Group is impacted by a large number of interacting factors.

31 December 
2023
£m

31 December 
2022
£m

1,065   

1,281 

(69)   

996   

(50) 

1,231 

31 December 
2023
%

31 December 
2022
%

6

£m

4

£m

(11)/11

(13)/13

Unbilled downstream energy income is typically provided at a significantly lower rate than billed debt. This is because a large proportion of 
this debt once billed will be subject to the very short cash collection cycles of the Group’s downstream energy supply businesses.

18. INVENTORIES

Inventories represent assets that we intend to use in future periods, either by selling the asset itself (for example gas in 
storage) or by using it to provide a service to a customer.

31 December 
Gas in storage and transportation (i)

Other raw materials and consumables

Finished goods and goods for resale

2023
£m

824   

120   

135   

2022
£m

1,076 

114 

79 

1,079   

1,269 

(i) Includes gas in storage held at fair value of £263 million (2022: £539 million).

The Group consumed £1,912 million of inventories (2022: £3,508 million) during the year. Write-downs amounting to £5 million 
(2022: £6 million) were charged to the Group Income Statement in the year. Reversals of write-downs amounted to £nil (2022: £9 million) 
during the year.

174

Financial Statements | Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
19. DERIVATIVE FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS

The Group generally uses derivative financial instruments to manage the risk arising from fluctuations in the value of 
certain assets or liabilities associated with treasury management and energy sales and procurement, and for proprietary 
energy trading purposes. The Group also uses derivatives to hedge exchange risk.
For accounting purposes, derivatives are either classified as held for trading, in which case changes in their fair value are 
recognised in the Group Income Statement, or they are designated in hedging relationships. Where derivatives are in 
hedging relationships, the treatment of changes in their fair value depends on the nature of that relationship, and whether 
it represents a fair value hedge or a cash flow hedge. Note S5 provides further detail on the Group’s hedge accounting. 
The table below gives a high-level summary of the Group’s accounting for its derivative contracts.

Purpose

Classification

Accounting treatment

Proprietary energy trading and 
treasury management.

Held for trading and fair 
value hedges.

Changes in fair value recognised in the Group’s business performance results for the 
year.

Treasury management.

Cash flow hedges.

Effective portion of hedge initially recognised in the Group Statement of Other 
Comprehensive Income. Gains and losses are recycled to the Group Income Statement 
when the hedged item impacts profit or loss. Ineffective portions of the hedge are 
recognised immediately in the Group’s business performance results for the year.

Energy procurement and 
optimisation.

Held for trading.

Changes in fair value recognised in the Group’s exceptional items and certain 
re-measurements results for the year.

The carrying values of derivative financial instruments by product type for accounting purposes are as follows:

31 December 

Derivative financial instruments – held for trading under IFRS 9:

Energy derivatives – for procurement/optimisation

Energy derivatives – for proprietary trading

Foreign exchange derivatives

Derivative financial instruments in hedge accounting relationships:

Interest rate derivatives

Foreign exchange derivatives

Total derivative financial instruments

Included within:

Derivative financial instruments – current

Derivative financial instruments – non-current

2023

2022

Assets
£m

Liabilities
£m

Assets
£m

Liabilities
£m

1,733   

1,418   

85   

(1,715) 

(993) 

(144) 

1,723   

5,355   

275   

(5,400) 

(4,256) 

(268) 

—   

36   

(136) 

(18) 

37   

37   

(221) 

(6) 

3,272   

(3,006) 

7,427   

(10,151) 

2,373   

(2,391) 

899   

(615) 

6,034   

1,393   

(8,841) 

(1,310) 

The contracts included within energy derivatives are subject to a wide range of detailed specific terms, but comprise the following general 
components, analysed on a net carrying value basis: 

31 December 

Short-term forward market purchases and sales of gas and electricity:

UK and Europe

Other derivative contracts including structured gas sale and purchase arrangements

Net total

Net gains/(losses) on derivative financial instruments due to change in fair value

31 December 

Financial assets and liabilities measured at fair value:

Derivative financial instruments – held for trading

Derivative financial instruments in hedge accounting relationships

2023
£m

2022
£m

1,163   

(720)   

443   

(214) 

(2,364) 

(2,578) 

2023

Income 
Statement
£m

3,024   

48   

3,072   

Equity
£m

— 

(13) 

(13) 

2022

Income 
Statement
£m

(4,568)   

(228)   

(4,796)   

Equity
£m

— 

(10) 

(10) 

Financial Statements | Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

175

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
20. TRADE AND OTHER PAYABLES AND CONTRACT LIABILITIES

Trade and other payables include accruals and are principally amounts we owe to our suppliers. Financial deferred 
income represents monies received from customers in advance of the delivery of goods or services that may be 
returned to the customer if future delivery does not occur. For example, downstream customers with a credit balance 
may request repayment of the outstanding amount in cash, rather than taking delivery of commodity. By contrast, 
contract liabilities and non-financial deferred income arise when the Group receives consideration from a customer in 
advance of performance, and has a non-financial liability to deliver future goods or services in return.

31 December 

Financial liabilities:

Trade payables
Deferred income (i)

Capital payables

Cash collateral received
Other payables (ii)

Accruals:

Commodity costs

Transportation, distribution and metering costs

Operating and other accruals

Non-financial liabilities:

Other payables and accruals (iii)

Contract liabilities
Deferred income (iv)

2023

2022

Current
£m

Non-current
£m

Current
£m

Non-current
£m

(474) 

(1,178) 

(152) 

(184) 

(389) 

(2,464) 

(319) 

(942) 

(3,725) 

(6,102) 

(761) 

(30) 

(107) 

(4) 

— 

— 

— 

(197) 

— 

— 

— 

— 

(201) 

— 

(3) 

(3) 

(481) 

(538) 

(158) 

(601) 

(479) 

(5,371) 

(377) 

(765) 

(6,513) 

(8,770) 

(701) 

(37) 

(508) 

(4) 

— 

— 

— 

(150) 

— 

— 

— 

— 

(154) 

(1) 

(7) 

(3) 

(7,000) 

(207) 

(10,016) 

(165) 

(i)

Includes downstream customer credit balances for amounts billed in advance of energy supply. The amount naturally peaks over summer as customers consume less 
and will unwind as consumption of gas and electricity increases over winter.

(ii) Other payables includes share buyback liability of £94 million (2022: £207 million). See note S4 for further details.
(iii) Other non-financial payables and accruals includes ROCs creditors of £600 million (2022: £588 million).
(iv) Deferred income includes £nil (2022: £440 million) from the Energy Bill Support Scheme which finished in 2023. 

Maturity profile of financial liabilities within current trade and other payables

31 December 

Less than 90 days

90 to 182 days

183 to 365 days

2023
£m

2022
£m

(5,653)   

(8,383) 

(194)   

(255)   

(217) 

(170) 

(6,102)   

(8,770) 

176

Financial Statements | Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
21. PROVISIONS FOR LIABILITIES AND CHARGES

Provisions are recognised when an obligation exists that can be reliably measured, but where there is uncertainty over 
the timing and/or amount of the payment. The main provisions relate to decommissioning costs for upstream assets we 
own, or have owned, which require restoration or remediation, along with onerous supply contracts. Further provisions 
relate to restructuring costs, and legal and regulatory matters. 

1 January 2023
£m

Charged in the 
year 
£m

Notional 
interest
£m

Unused and 
reversed in
the year
£m

Utilised
£m

Revisions and
additions
£m

Transfers (v)
£m

Exchange
adjustments
£m

31 December 
2023
£m

Current

Restructuring costs

Decommissioning 
costs (i) (ii)

Onerous contracts 
provision (iii)
Other (iv)

Total

(15)   

(216)   

(937)   

(45)   

(6)   

—   

(19)   

(89)   

(1,213)   

(114)   

—   

—   

—   

—   

—   

6   

3   

—   

173   

359   

7   

372   

568   

26   

770   

—   

—   

—   

—   

—   

(1)   

2   

(11) 

(89)   

—   

(132) 

—   

(4)   

(94)   

(1)   

(1)   

—   

(30) 

(106) 

(279) 

1 January 2023
£m

Charged in the 
year
£m

Notional 
interest
£m

Unused and 
reversed in
the year
£m

Revisions and
additions
£m

Transfers (v)
£m

Exchange
adjustments
£m

31 December 
2023
£m

Non-current

Restructuring costs
Decommissioning costs (i) (ii)
Onerous contracts provision (iii)
Other (iv)

Total

(5)   

(1,298)   

(99)   

(44)   

(1,446)   

—   

(80)   

(2)   

(7)   

(89)   

—   

(21)   

—   

—   

(21)   

—   

7   

75   

5   

87   

—   

(94)   

—   

(4)   

(98)   

1   

89   

—   

4   

94   

—   

2   

1   

1   

4   

(4) 

(1,395) 

(25) 

(45) 

(1,469) 

Included within the above liabilities are the following financial liabilities:

31 December

Restructuring costs

Provisions other than restructuring costs

Maturity profile of decommissioning provisions

31 December 

2024-2028

2029-2033

2034-2038

2039-2043

2044-2048

2049-2053

2023

2022

Current
£m

Non-current
£m

Current
£m

Non-current
£m

(11)   

(123)   

(134)   

(4) 

(60) 

(64) 

(15)   

(973)   

(988)   

(5) 

(132) 

(137) 

2023
£m

(445) 

(908) 

(162) 

(10) 

(1) 

(1) 

(1,527) 

(i) Provision has been made for the estimated net present cost of decommissioning gas production facilities at the end of their useful lives. The estimate has been based on 

2P reserves, price levels and technology at the balance sheet date. The payment dates of decommissioning costs are dependent on the lives of the facilities, but 
utilisation of the provision is expected to occur until the 2040s. The maturity profile of total decommissioning provisions is analysed above. The rate used to discount 
decommissioning provisions is 1% (2022: 1%). See note 3.
Included in the provision balance as at 31 December 2023 is £1,191 million held in Spirit Energy, £319 million in relation to the Rough field, and £17 million in the 
remainder of the business. 

(ii)

(iii) The provision balance at 31 December 2022 primarily comprised the onerous supply contract provision of £999 million. This provision has been fully unwound during 

2023, see note 3(b). 

(iv) Other provisions have been made for dilapidations, insurance, legal, warranty and various other claims.
(v) Relates to amounts transferred between current and non-current provisions.

Financial Statements | Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

177

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
22. POST-RETIREMENT BENEFITS

The Group manages a number of final salary and career average defined benefit pension schemes. It also has defined 
contribution schemes. The majority of these schemes are in the UK.

(a)  Summary of main post-retirement benefit schemes

Name of scheme

Type of benefit

Status

Country

Centrica Engineers Pension 
Scheme

Defined benefit final salary pension

Closed to new members in 2006 UK

Defined benefit career average pension Closed to new members in 2022 UK

Centrica Pension Plan

Defined benefit final salary pension

Closed to new members in 2003 UK

Centrica Pension Scheme

Defined benefit final salary pension

Closed to new members in 2003 UK

Defined benefit career average pension Closed to new members in 2008 UK

Defined contribution pension

Open to new members

Bord Gáis Energy Company 
Defined Benefit Pension Scheme

Defined benefit final salary pension

Closed to new members in 2014

Bord Gáis Energy Company 
Defined Contribution Pension Plan Defined contribution pension

Open to new members

UK

Republic 
of Ireland

Republic 
of Ireland

Number of
active 
members
as at
31 December
2023

Total
membership
as at
31 December
2023

1,483   

2,761   

1,400   

8,402 

7,179 

8,408 

1   

10,120 

734   

4,191 

11,409   

22,848 

89   

169 

317   

455 

The Centrica Engineers Pension Scheme (CEPS), Centrica Pension Plan (CPP) and Centrica Pension Scheme (CPS) form the significant 
majority of the Group’s defined benefit obligation and are referred to below as the ‘Registered Pension Schemes’. The other schemes are 
individually, and in aggregate, immaterial.

Independent valuations
The Registered Pension Schemes are subject to independent valuations at least every three years, on the basis of which the qualified 
actuary certifies the rate of employer contributions, which together with the specified contributions payable by the employees and 
proceeds from the schemes’ assets, are expected to be sufficient to fund the benefits payable under the schemes.

The latest full actuarial valuations agreed and finalised with the Pension Trustees were carried out at the following dates: the Registered 
Pension Schemes at 31 March 2021 and the Bord Gáis Energy Company Defined Benefit Pension Scheme at 1 January 2023. These 
valuations have been updated to 31 December 2023 for the purpose of meeting the requirements of IAS 19. Investments held in all 
schemes have been valued for this purpose at market value.

Governance
The Registered Pension Schemes are managed by trustee companies whose boards consist of both company-nominated and member-
nominated Directors. Each scheme holds units in the Centrica Combined Common Investment Fund (CCCIF), which holds the majority of 
the combined assets of the Registered Pension Schemes. The board of the CCCIF is currently comprised of seven directors: two 
independent directors (including the Chair), two directors appointed by Centrica plc and one director appointed by each of the three 
Registered Pension Schemes. 

Under the terms of the Pensions Act 2004, Centrica plc and each trustee board must agree the funding rate for its defined benefit pension 
scheme and a recovery plan to fund any deficit against the scheme-specific statutory funding objective. This approach was first adopted 
for the triennial valuations completed at 31 March 2006, and has been reflected in subsequent valuations, including the 31 March 2021 
valuation.

178

Financial Statements | Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
22. POST-RETIREMENT BENEFITS
(b) Risks

The Registered Pension Schemes expose the Group to the following risks:

Asset volatility
The pension liabilities are calculated using a discount rate set with reference to AA corporate bond yields. If the growth in plan assets is 
lower than this, this will create an actuarial loss within other equity. The CCCIF is responsible for managing the assets of each scheme in 
line with the risk tolerances that have been set by the trustees of the schemes, and invests in a diversified portfolio of assets. The schemes 
are relatively young in nature (the schemes opened in 1997 on the formation of Centrica plc on demerger from BG plc (formerly British Gas 
plc)), and only took on past service liabilities in respect of active employees. 

The trustees significantly reduced their tolerance to scheme valuation risk in 2019, increasing inflation and interest rate hedges from one 
third to two thirds, and further de-risked thereafter such that there was an 85% hedge level (in relation to assets) at 2021 year-end. This 
de-risking included the use of collateralised gilt holdings in the Schemes’ Liability-Driven Investment (LDI) portfolio (shown in the Pension 
scheme asset table in section (f) of this note within Liability matching assets).

Throughout 2022 and in particular during September, there were significant increases and volatility in gilt yields. This led to a significant fall 
in the value of assets invested in the UK Registered Pension Schemes’ LDI funds, thereby driving collateral calls and temporarily reducing 
the hedge position. All liquid credit mandates were placed into redemption with proceeds directed to the LDI portfolio to increase collateral 
and reduce leverage.

In October 2022, the Group agreed to provide the Schemes with a £400 million two-year revolving, unsecured, interest-bearing credit 
facility, and a short-term £150 million loan. This money was immediately drawn down to purchase physical gilts to reduce the extent of 
interest rate and inflation risk. The short-term loan was repaid in December 2022 and the remaining £400 million credit facility is scheduled 
for repayment in October 2024. At the 2023 year-end, the £400 million loan (together with unpaid interest) is recorded in Securities from a 
Centrica plc Group perspective and as a reduction to scheme assets for the UK Registered Pension Schemes. The Securities balance is 
included within the Group’s Adjusted net cash/(debt). See note 24(c).

The above events resulted in a reduction of both return-seeking and liquid assets within the portfolio, as well as a higher weighting to 
assets that are expected to better manage downside risk. At the 2023 year-end, the LDI and gilts portfolio provides a level of hedging 
against movements in long-term interest rates and inflation expectations at around 80% as a proportion of scheme assets. The schemes 
also benefit from further hedging arising from the other long-dated income unquoted asset portfolio.
Interest rate 
A decrease in bond interest rates will increase the net present value of the pension liabilities. The relative immaturity of the schemes means 
that the duration of the liabilities is longer than average for typical UK pension schemes, resulting in a relatively higher exposure to interest 
rate risk. This risk is reduced via the hedging referred to in the Asset volatility section.

Inflation
Pensions in deferment, pensions in payment and pensions accrued under the career average schemes increase in line with the Retail 
Prices Index (RPI) and the Consumer Prices Index (CPI). Therefore, scheme liabilities will increase if inflation is higher than assumed, 
although in some cases caps are in place to limit the impact of significant movements in inflation. Furthermore, a pension increase 
exchange (PIE) option implemented in 2015 is available to future retirees, which gives the choice to receive a higher initial pension in return 
for giving up certain future increases linked to RPI, again limiting the impact of significant movements in inflation. Inflation risk is reduced 
via the hedging referred to in the Asset volatility section.

Longevity
The majority of the schemes’ obligations are to provide benefits for the life of scheme members and their surviving spouses; therefore 
increases in life expectancy will result in an increase in the pension liabilities. The relative immaturity of the schemes means that there is 
comparatively little observable mortality data to assess the rates of mortality experienced by the schemes, and means that the schemes’ 
liabilities will be paid over a long period of time, making it particularly difficult to predict the life expectancy of the current membership. 
Furthermore, pension payments are subject to inflationary increases, resulting in a higher sensitivity to changes in life expectancy. 
Salary 
Pension liabilities are calculated by reference to the future salaries of active members, and hence salary rises in excess of assumed 
increases will increase scheme liabilities. During 2011, changes were introduced to the final salary sections of CEPS and CPP such that 
annual increases in pensionable pay are capped to 2%, resulting in a reduction in salary risk. During 2016, a salary cap on pensionable 
pay for the CPS career average and CPP schemes was implemented, and in 2019 a similar change took place for CEPS. All of the 2011, 
2016 and 2019 changes result in a reduction in salary risk. 

High Court ruling
In June 2023, the UK High Court issued a ruling in the case of Virgin Media Limited v NTL Pension Trustees II Limited and others relating 
to the validity of certain historical pension changes. This case may have implications for other defined benefit schemes in the UK, although 
is subject to possible appeal in 2024. The Group is aware of this legal ruling and is assessing whether there is any potential impact upon 
the Group, although currently no conclusion has been reached therefore no quantification of any potential impact has been determined.
Foreign exchange 
Certain assets held by the CCCIF are denominated in foreign currencies, and hence their values are subject to exchange rate risk. The 
CCCIF has long-term hedging policies in place to manage interest rate, inflation and foreign exchange risks. The table below analyses 
the total liabilities of the Registered Pension Schemes, calculated in accordance with accounting principles, by type of liability, as at 
31 December 2023.

Financial Statements | Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

179

22. POST-RETIREMENT BENEFITS
Total liabilities of the Registered Pension Schemes

31 December 

Actives – final salary – capped

Actives – final salary – uncapped and crystallised benefits

Actives – career average

Deferred pensioners

Pensioners

(c) Accounting assumptions

The accounting assumptions for the Registered Pension Schemes are given below:

Major assumptions used for the actuarial valuation 

31 December 

Rate of increase in employee earnings:

Subject to 2% cap

Other not subject to cap

Rate of increase in pensions in payment

Rate of increase in deferred pensions:

In line with CPI capped at 2.5%

In line with RPI

Discount rate

2023
%

 11 

 5 

 4 

 38 

 42 

 100 

2023
%

2022
%

1.6   

2.6   

3.0   

2.3   

2.9   

4.6   

1.5 

2.9 

3.3 

2.5 

3.0 

4.7 

The assumptions relating to longevity underlying the pension liabilities at the balance sheet date have been based on a combination of 
standard actuarial mortality tables, scheme experience and other relevant data, and include an allowance for future improvements in 
mortality. The longevity assumptions for members in normal health are as follows:

Life expectancy at age 65 for a member

31 December 

Currently aged 65

Currently aged 45

2023

Male
Years

22.0   

23.2   

Female
Years

23.5 

24.6 

2022

Male
Years

22.4   

23.6   

Female
Years

23.9 

25.0 

The other demographic assumptions have been set having regard to the latest trends in scheme experience and other relevant data. The 
assumptions are reviewed and updated as necessary as part of the periodic actuarial valuations of the pension schemes.

For the Registered Pension Schemes, marginal adjustments to the assumptions used to calculate the pension liability, or significant swings 
in bond yields or stock markets, can have a large impact in absolute terms on the net assets of the Group. Reasonably possible changes 
as at 31 December to one of the actuarial assumptions would have affected the scheme liabilities as set out below:

Impact of changing material assumptions

2023

2022

31 December 

Rate of increase in employee earnings subject to 2% cap

Rate of increase in pensions in payment and deferred pensions

Discount rate

Inflation assumption

Longevity assumption

Increase/ 
decrease in 
assumption

 1.00% 

 1.00% 

 1.00% 

 1.00% 

1 year

Indicative 
effect on 
scheme 
liabilities %

+/-1

+15/-12

-16/+20

+15/-12

+/-3

Increase/ 
decrease in 
assumption

 1.00% 

 1.00% 

 1.00% 

 1.00% 

1 year

Indicative 
effect on 
scheme 
liabilities %

+1/-2

+14/-12

-15/+19

+15/-12

+/-2

The indicative effects on scheme liabilities have been calculated by changing each assumption in isolation and assessing the impact on 
the liabilities. For the reasonably possible change in the inflation assumption, it has been assumed that a change to the inflation 
assumption would lead to corresponding changes in the assumed rates of increase in uncapped pensionable pay, pensions in payment 
and deferred pensions.

The remaining disclosures in this note cover all of the Group’s defined benefit schemes.

180

Financial Statements | Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
22. POST-RETIREMENT BENEFITS
(d) Amounts included in the Group Balance Sheet

31 December 

Fair value of plan assets

Present value of defined benefit obligation

Recognised in the Group Balance Sheet

Presented in the Group Balance Sheet as:

Retirement benefit assets

Retirement benefit liabilities

2023
£m

6,143   

(6,260)   

(117)   

2022
£m

6,312 

(6,272) 

40 

64   

(181)   

150 

(110) 

The Trust Deed and Rules for the Registered Pension Schemes provide the Group with a right to a refund of surplus assets assuming the 
full settlement of scheme liabilities. The Trustees do not have the unilateral right to wind-up the schemes and cannot unilaterally enhance 
member benefits. The Group has not recognised any liability in relation to future contributions under its minimum funding agreement with 
the Trustees. No asset ceiling restrictions have been applied in the consolidated Financial Statements.

(e) Movements in the year

1 January 

Items included in the Group Income Statement:

Current service cost
Contributions by employer in respect of employee salary sacrifice arrangements (i)

Total current service cost

Interest (expense)/income

Termination benefit

Items included in the Group Statement of Comprehensive Income:

Returns on plan assets, excluding interest income

Actuarial gain from changes to demographic assumptions

Actuarial (loss)/gain from changes in financial assumptions

Actuarial loss from experience adjustments

Items included in the Group Cash Flow Statement:

Employer contributions

Contributions by employer in respect of employee salary sacrifice arrangements

Other movements:

Benefits paid from schemes

Other

31 December 

2023

2022

Pension 
liabilities
£m

(6,272) 

Pension 
assets
£m

6,312 

Pension 
liabilities
£m

(10,666) 

Pension 
assets
£m

10,666 

(22) 

(24) 

(46) 

(291) 

1 

— 

357 

(49) 

(215) 

— 

— 

— 

— 

— 

300 

— 

(474) 

— 

— 

— 

236 

24 

257 

(2) 

(6,260) 

(257) 

2 

6,143 

(84) 

(21) 

(105) 

(193) 

4 

— 

34 

4,803 

(425) 

— 

— 

278 

(2) 

(6,272) 

— 

— 

— 

196 

— 

(4,559) 

— 

— 

— 

264 

21 

(278) 

2 

6,312 

(i) A salary sacrifice arrangement was introduced on 1 April 2013 for pension scheme members. The contributions paid via the salary sacrifice arrangement have been 

treated as employer contributions and included within the current service cost, with a corresponding reduction in salary costs.

In addition to current service cost on the Group’s defined benefit pension schemes, the Group also charged £72 million (2022: £66 million) 
to operating profit in respect of defined contribution pension schemes. This included contributions of £25 million (2022: £20 million) paid 
via a salary sacrifice arrangement.

Financial Statements | Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

181

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
22. POST-RETIREMENT BENEFITS
(f)  Pension scheme assets

The market values of plan assets were: 

31 December 

Equities

Corporate bonds

High-yield debt

Liability matching assets

Other long-dated income assets

Property

Cash pending investment

Loan and interest

Quoted
£m

23   

6   

18   

2,860   

—   

—   

391   

—   

3,298   

2023

Unquoted
 £m

503   

—   

1,238   

—   

1,204   

305   

—   

(405)   

2,845   

Total
 £m

526 

6 

1,256 

2,860 

1,204 

305 

391 

(405) 

6,143 

Quoted 
£m

19   

24   

106   

2,835   

—   

—   

205   

—   

2022

Unquoted 
£m

486   

—   

1,331   

—   

1,343   

366   

—   

(403)   

3,189   

3,123   

Total 
£m

505 

24 

1,437 

2,835 

1,343 

366 

205 

(403) 

6,312 

Unquoted private equity, other long-dated income assets and debt funds are valued at fair value as calculated by the investment manager 
at the latest valuation date in accordance with generally accepted guidelines, adjusted for cash flow in the intervening period. Investment 
properties are valued in accordance with guidelines by independent valuers. These valuations are reviewed annually as part of the CCCIF 
audit and receive greater scrutiny now that unquoted assets make up a greater proportion of the scheme portfolio. Included within equities 
are £nil of ordinary shares of Centrica plc (2022: £nil) via pooled funds that include a benchmark allocation to UK equities. Included within 
corporate bonds are £nil (2022: £nil) of bonds issued by Centrica plc, albeit minor exposure may be held within pooled funds over which 
the CCCIF has no ability to direct investment decisions. Apart from the investment in the Scottish Limited Partnerships which form part of 
the asset-backed contribution arrangements described in section (g) of this note, no direct investments are made in securities issued by 
Centrica plc or any of its subsidiaries or property leased to or owned by Centrica plc or any of its subsidiaries. The corporate bond, high-
yield debt and liability matching asset categories headings above have segregated portfolio mandates which include the cash, cash funds 
and derivatives associated with the mandates. 

The liability matching assets in the table above relate to the quoted LDI and gilts portfolio used to hedge against movements in interest 
rates and inflation. The other long-dated income assets are unquoted investments in infrastructure and similar assets.  

At 31 December 2023, the aggregate LDI and gilts portfolio was approximately 1.4 times leveraged (1 times being unleveraged) (2022: 1.3 
times leveraged).

Included within the Group Balance Sheet within non-current securities are £104 million (2022: £95 million) of investments, held in trust on 
behalf of the Group, as security in respect of the Centrica Unapproved Pension Scheme. Of the pension scheme liabilities above, £49 
million (2022: £49 million) relate to this scheme. More information on the Centrica Unapproved Pension Scheme is included in the 
Remuneration Report on pages 84 to 109.

(g) Pension scheme contributions

The Group estimates that it will pay £53 million of ordinary employer contributions during 2024 for its defined benefit schemes, at an 
average rate of 21% of pensionable pay, together with £27 million of contributions paid via a salary sacrifice arrangement.

For the Registered Pension Schemes the last actuarial valuation was as at 31 March 2021. As at that date, the weighted average duration 
of the liabilities of the Registered Pension Schemes was 22 years and the technical provisions deficit (funding basis) was £944 million. The 
Group committed to additional annual cash contributions to fund this pension deficit. The overall deficit contributions, including the 
previously disclosed asset-backed contribution arrangements, totalled £175 million in 2021 (of which £99 million was after 31 March 
2021), £204 million in 2022, £175 million in 2023; and will amount to £175 million per annum in 2024 and 2025, with a balancing payment 
of £116 million in 2026. Separately, a pension strain payment of £5 million associated with employee redundancies was also contributed in 
2023 (2022: £10 million). 

On a pure roll-forward basis, from 31 March 2021, using the same methodology and consequent assumptions, the technical provisions 
deficit (funding basis) would be around £900 million on 31 December 2023. Note that the valuation methodology and assumptions used 
for future assessments may differ from those previously used.
At the beginning of 2022, the Group had provided security of £745 million of letters of credit and £250 million cash in escrow to the 
Registered Pension Schemes. In October 2022, as part of the £400 million loan arrangement from Centrica plc to the Registered Pension 
Schemes (described in part (b) above), this security was reduced by £545 million, so that only £450 million of letters of credit remained. 
When this loan is repaid, currently due in October 2024, replacement security may be required (dependent on the funding position) and 
the form of security will be at the Group’s discretion.

182

Financial Statements | Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
23. LEASES, COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES

(a) Commitments and leases

Commitments are not held on the Group’s Balance Sheet as these are executory arrangements, and relate to amounts 
that we are contractually required to pay in the future as long as the other party meets its contractual obligations.

The Group’s commitments in relation to commodity purchase contracts disclosed below are stated net of amounts receivable under 
commodity sales contracts where there is a right of offset with the counterparty, and are based on the expected minimum quantities of 
gas and other commodities that the Group is contracted to buy at estimated future prices.

The commitments in this note differ in scope and in basis from the maturity analysis of energy derivatives disclosed in note S3, as only 
certain procurement and sales contracts are within the scope of IFRS 9 and included in note S3 and the volumes used in calculating the 
maturity analysis in note S3 are estimated using valuation techniques, rather than being based on minimum contractual quantities. 

The Group’s 20-year agreement with Cheniere to purchase 89bcf per annum of LNG volumes for export from the Sabine Pass liquefaction 
plant in the US commits the Group to capacity payments of £3.4 billion (included in ‘LNG capacity’ below) between 2023 and 2039. It also 
allows the Group to make up to £4.9 billion of commodity purchases based on market gas prices and foreign exchange rates as at the 
reporting date. 

During 2019, the Group signed a 20-year agreement to purchase LNG volumes from Mozambique LNG1 Company. The commercial start 
date is 2025 and under this agreement the Group is committed to make commodity purchases expected to amount to £7.9 billion based 
on market gas and oil prices at the reporting date.

During 2023, the Group signed a 15-year agreement to purchase LNG volumes from Delfin LNG. The provisional commencement date is 
2029 and under this agreement the Group is committed to make commodity purchases expected to amount to £4.2 billion based on 
market gas prices at the reporting date.

These LNG contracts are deemed to be own use and therefore are accounted for on an accruals basis. Based on forecast gas spreads, 
they are predicted to be profitable but due to their duration are exposed over a long period of time to the impact of governmental policy 
decisions in relation to climate change.

The Group has numerous renewable power purchase arrangements where renewable obligation certificates are purchased as power is 
produced. This gives rise to the commitments below.

31 December 

Commitments in relation to the acquisition of PP&E

Commitments in relation to the acquisition of intangible assets:

Renewable obligation certificates

Other intangible assets

Other commitments:

Commodity purchase contracts

LNG capacity

Transportation capacity
Other long-term commitments (i)

(i) Other long-term commitments include amounts in respect of executory contracts and the smart meter roll-out programme.

The maturity analysis for commodity purchase contract commitments at 31 December is given below:

2023
£m

56   

2022
£m

75 

3,369   

323   

3,642 

194 

40,908   

69,824 

4,230   

3,894 

266   

414   

320 

459 

31 December 

<1 year

1–2 years

2–3 years

3–4 years

4–5 years

>5 years

Commodity purchase contract commitments

Fixed price
 commodity commitments

Commodity commitments
 that float with indices

2023
£bn

5.9   

1.3   

0.2   

0.2   

—   

0.1   

7.7   

2022
£bn

13.0 

2.3 

0.9 

0.1 

— 

0.1 

16.4 

2023
£bn

6.3   

5.0   

1.9   

1.6   

1.2   

17.2   

33.2   

2022
£bn

15.4 

10.9 

7.5 

2.3 

1.8 

15.5 

53.4 

Financial Statements | Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

183

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
23. LEASES, COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES
The Group enters into lease arrangements for assets including property, vehicles, vessels and assets used within the exploration and 
production business. 

The carrying amount, additions and depreciation charge associated with right-of-use assets is disclosed in note 13 and the interest 
expense arising on the Group’s lease liability is disclosed in note 8. The total Group cash outflow in the year for capital and interest from 
lease arrangements was £105 million (2022: £107 million), and the maturity analysis of cash flows associated with the Group’s lease 
liability at the reporting date is shown in note S3. 

The table below provides further information on amounts not included in the lease liability and charged to the Group Income Statement 
during the year. 

Year ended 31 December 

Expense related to short-term leases

Expense related to variable lease payments

2023
£m

71   

9   

2022
£m

82 

9 

During the year, the Group’s expense related to short-term lease commitments predominantly related to the hire of LNG vessels and 
exploration and production drilling rigs. The commitment at the balance sheet date also relates to assets of a similar nature. The Group 
has £31 million of operating sub-lease arrangements mainly for LNG vessels. The Group does not have any material arrangements in 
which it acts as a lessor.

(b) Guarantees and indemnities

This section discloses any guarantees and indemnities that the Group has given, where we may have to provide 
security in the future against existing and future obligations that will remain for a specific period.

In connection with the Group’s energy trading, transportation and upstream activities, certain Group companies have entered into 
contracts under which they may be required to prepay, provide credit support or provide other collateral in the event of a significant 
deterioration in creditworthiness. The extent of credit support is contingent upon the balance owing to the third party at the point of 
deterioration.

As at 31 December 2023, £279 million (2022: £84 million) of letters of credit and on-demand payment bonds have been issued in respect 
of decommissioning obligations included in the Group Balance Sheet.

(c) Contingent liabilities

The Group has no material contingent liabilities.

184

Financial Statements | Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

 
 
24. SOURCES OF FINANCE

(a)  Capital structure

The Group seeks to maintain an efficient capital structure with a balance of debt and equity as shown in the table below:

31 December 

Gross debt

Shareholders’ equity

Capital

2023
£m

3,408   

3,877   

7,285   

2022
£m

3,570 

1,017 

4,587 

Debt levels are restricted to limit the risk of financial distress and, in particular, to maintain a strong credit profile. The Group’s credit 
standing is important for several reasons: to maintain a low cost of debt, limit collateral requirements in energy trading, hedging and 
decommissioning security arrangements, and to ensure the Group is an attractive counterparty to energy producers and long-term 
customers.

The Group monitors its current and projected capital position on a regular basis, considering a medium-term view of at least three years, 
and different stress case scenarios, including the impact of changes in the Group’s credit ratings and significant movements in commodity 
prices. A number of financial ratios are monitored, including those used by the credit rating agencies. 

The level of debt that can be raised by the Group is restricted by the Company’s Articles of Association. Borrowing is limited to the higher 
of £10 billion and a gearing ratio of three times shareholder’s equity. The Group funds its long-term debt requirements through issuing 
bonds in the capital markets and taking bank debt. Short-term debt requirements are met primarily through commercial paper or short-
term bank borrowings. The Group maintains substantial committed facilities and uses these to provide liquidity for general corporate 
purposes, including short-term business requirements and back-up for commercial paper.

British Gas Insurance Limited (BGIL) is required to hold a minimum capital amount under PRA regulations and has complied with this 
requirement since its inception. BGIL’s capital management policy and plan are subject to review and approval by the BGIL board. 
Reporting processes provide relevant and timely capital information to management and the board. A medium-term capital management 
plan forms part of BGIL’s planning and forecasting process, embedded into approved timelines, management reviews and board 
approvals.  

Financial Statements | Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

185

 
 
 
24. SOURCES OF FINANCE
(b) Liquidity risk management and going concern

The Group has a number of treasury and risk policies to monitor and manage liquidity risk. Cash forecasts identifying the Group’s liquidity 
requirements are produced regularly and are stress tested for different scenarios, including, but not limited to, reasonably possible 
increases or decreases in commodity prices and the potential cash implications of a credit rating downgrade. The Group seeks to ensure 
that sufficient financial headroom exists for at least a twelve month period to safeguard the Group’s ability to continue as a going concern, 
and as at the reporting date, the analysis performed by the Group extends to 31 December 2025. It is the Group’s policy to maintain 
committed facilities and/or available surplus cash resources of at least £1,500 million, raise at least 75% of its gross debt (excluding 
non-recourse debt) in the capital market and to maintain an average term to maturity in the recourse long-term debt portfolio greater than 
five years. 

At 31 December 2023 the Group had undrawn committed credit facilities of £3,784 million (2022: £3,951 million) and £5,525 million 
(2022: £3,687 million) of unrestricted cash and cash equivalents, net of outstanding overdrafts. 80% (2022: 82%) of the Group’s gross 
debt has been raised in the long-term debt market and the average term to maturity of the long-term debt portfolio was 10.5 years 
(2022: 9.9 years).  

The Group’s liquidity is impacted by the cash posted or received under margin and collateral agreements. The terms and conditions of 
these agreements depend on the counterparty and the specific details of the transaction. Margin/collateral is generally posted or received 
to support energy trading and procurement activities. It is posted when contracts with marginable counterparties are out of the money and 
received when contracts are in the money. Cash is generally returned to the Group or by the Group within two days of trade settlement. 
At 31 December 2023 the collateral position was as follows:

31 December 

Collateral (received)/posted included within:

Trade and other payables

Trade and other receivables

Collateral posted extinguishing:
Net derivative liabilities (i)

Net collateral posted (ii)

2023
£m

2022
£m

(184)   

260   

164   

240   

(601) 

1,154 

270 

823 

(i) Variation margin on daily settled derivatives results in the extinguishment of the net derivative asset/liability. These contracts remain outstanding until a future delivery 

date, and therefore the cumulative daily settlement is considered collateral until that fulfilment date.
In-year movements of net collateral posted include exchange adjustments of £2 million (2022: £61 million).

(ii)

The Group utilises initial margin waiver facilities to help manage its liquidity and working capital position in relation to derivative trading. For 
certain types of trade, initial margin is a requirement before entering into a transaction, as it provides credit assurance for the exchange. As 
initial margin is not a liability of the Group and is refundable, it is reflected as a margin asset on the Group’s balance sheet. Accordingly, 
where counterparties waive any requirement to post initial margin, the Group has no liability.

The level of undrawn committed bank facilities and available cash resources has enabled the Directors to conclude that the Group has 
sufficient headroom to continue as a going concern. The statement of going concern is included in the Governance section – Other 
Statutory Information, on page 112.

186

Financial Statements | Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

 
 
 
 
24. SOURCES OF FINANCE

(c)

 Adjusted net cash/(debt) summary

Adjusted net cash/(debt) predominantly includes capital market borrowings offset by cash, securities and certain 
hedging financial instruments used to manage interest rate and foreign exchange movements on borrowings.

Presented in the derivatives and current and non-current borrowings, leases and interest accruals columns shown 
below are the assets and liabilities that give rise to financing cash flows.

Group adjusted net (debt)/cash at 1 January 2022

Disposal of business

Cash outflow from settlement and purchase of securities

Cash outflow for payment of capital element of leases
Cash outflow for repayment of borrowings (vi)
Cash inflow from short-term borrowings (vi)

Remaining cash inflow

Revaluation/interest receivable on securities

Financing interest paid

Increase in interest payable and amortisation of borrowings

New lease agreements and re-measurement of existing 
lease liabilities

Exchange adjustments

Group adjusted net (debt)/cash at 31 December 2022
Transfer of other investments from net debt (iv)
Acquisition of businesses (v)

Cash outflow from net purchase of securities

Cash outflow for payment of capital element of leases
Cash outflow for repayment of borrowings (vi)
Cash inflow from borrowings (vi)

Cash inflow from operating activities
Cash inflow from other investing activities (vii)
Cash outflow from other financing activities (viii)

Revaluation

Interest receivable on securities

Interest received on securities

Financing interest paid

Current and 
non-current 
borrowings, 
leases and 
interest accruals
£m

Derivatives
£m

Gross debt
£m

Cash and cash 
equivalents, net 
of bank 
overdrafts (i) (ii)
£m

Current and 
non-current 
securities (iii)
£m

Sub-lease 
assets
£m

Adjusted 
net (debt)/
cash
£m

Other assets and liabilities

(3,899) 

6   

—   

103   

1,482   

(1,220)   

—   

240   

179   

(181)   

(42)   

(85)   

93  

—   

—   

—   

—   

—   

—   

(238)   

(8)   

—   

—   

—   

(3,806)   

4,328   

6   

—   

103   

1,482   

(1,220)   

—   

2   

171   

(181)   

(42)   

(85)   

(30)   

(398)   

(103)   

(1,482)   

1,220   

796   

—   

(172)   

—   

—   

83   

(3,417)   

(153)   

(3,570)   

4,242   

—   

(13)   

—   

93   

1,155   

(930)   

—   

—   

—   

(59)   

—   

—   

177   

—   

—   

—   

—   

—   

—   

—   

—   

—   

44   

—   

—   

41   

—   

(13)   

—   

93   

—   

—   

(12)   

(93)   

1,155   

(1,155)   

(930)   

—   

—   

—   

(15)   

—   

—   

218   

930   

2,752   

106   

(810)   

—   

—   

21   

(286)   

156   

(21)   

398   

—   

—   

—   

—   

(11)   

—   

—   

—   

3   

525   

(27)   

—   

12   

—   

—   

—   

—   

—   

—   

9   

23   

(21)   

—   

2   

—   

—   

—   

—   

—   

—   

—   

—   

—   

—   

—   

680 

(45) 

— 

— 

— 

— 

796 

(9) 

(1) 

(181) 

(42) 

1 

2   

1,199 

—   

—   

—   

—   

—   

—   

—   

—   

—   

—   

—   

—   

—   

(27) 

(13) 

— 

— 

— 

— 

2,752 

106 

(810) 

(6) 

23 

— 

(68) 

Increase in interest payable and amortisation of borrowings, 
and impact of associated interest rate swaps

New lease agreements and re-measurement of existing lease 
liabilities

Exchange adjustments

(186)   

(51)   

(237)   

—   

—   

—   

(237) 

(158)   

49   

—   

—   

(158)   

49   

—   

(66)   

—   

—   

—   

—   

(158) 

(17) 

Group adjusted net (debt)/cash at 31 December 2023

(3,289)   

(119)   

(3,408)   

5,629   

521   

2   

2,744 

(i) Cash and cash equivalents includes £104 million (2022: £555 million) of restricted cash, of which £nil (2022: £440 million) relates to cash received from the Energy Bill 
Support Scheme, this scheme concluded in 2023. This includes cash totalling £2 million (2022: £6 million) within the Spirit Energy business that is not restricted by 
regulation but is managed by Spirit Energy’s own treasury department.

(ii) Cash and cash equivalents are net of £814 million bank overdrafts (2022: £600 million). 

(iii) Securities balances includes £405 million (2022: £403 million) of loans to the pension schemes and £12 million (2022: £nil) of other loans receivable, both measured at 

amortised cost, as well as £72 million (2022: £67 million) other debt instruments and £32 million (2022: £55 million) equity instruments, both measured at fair value. See 
note 22 for further details on pension loans provided.

(iv) Transfer of other investments represents the reclassification of certain minority investments to Other investments from Securities in the Group Balance Sheet. Cash 

outflows from these securities in 2022 were £2 million. See note S2.

(v) Acquisition of business relates to the recognition of a £12 million external loan due to the step-up of the investment in Greener Ideas Limited from joint venture to 

subsidiary during the year, and the recognition of a £1 million lease liability acquired by Centrica Business Solutions during the year. 

(vi) Repayment of borrowings comprises the repayment of £20 million short-term borrowing obtained during December 2022, £886 million repayment of commercial paper 
taken out during the period and a scheduled £249 million repayment of a 4.00% USD bond repaid on 16 October 2023. During the year other borrowings of £44 million 
were obtained. Bond repayment in 2022 comprises £36 million repayment of a 3.68% HKD bond repaid on 22 February 2022, and £246 million repayment of a 6.375% 
GBP bond repaid on 10 March 2022. In August 2022 the Group borrowed £1,200 million, which was repaid in September 2022. 

(vii) Cash inflow from other investing activities excludes purchase of securities of £12 million, and interest received on securities of £21 million during the year.
(viii)Cash outflows from other financing activities comprise £17 million (2022: £273 million) of distributions to non-controlling interests (see note 12), proceeds of £6 million 

from exercise of share options (2022: £5 million payments for own shares), cash outflow of £186 million (2022: £59 million) for equity dividends and cash outflow of £613 
million (2022: £43 million) related to the share buyback programme. There is a liability of £94 million (2022: £207 million) recognised at 31 December 2023 related to this 
programme. See note S4 for further details on the share buyback programme. 

Financial Statements | Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

187

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
24. SOURCES OF FINANCE
(d)  Borrowings, leases and interest accruals summary

31 December 

Bank overdrafts

Bank loans (> 5 year maturity)

Other borrowings

Bonds (by maturity date):

16 October 2023
4 September 2026 (i)

16 April 2027
13 March 2029 (i)
5 January 2032 (ii)
19 September 2033 (i)

16 October 2043

12 September 2044

25 September 2045
10 April 2075 (i) (iii)

Coupon rate
%

Principal
m

Current
£m

Non-current
£m

2023

(814)   

—   

(37)   

—   

—   

—   

—   

—   

—   

—   

—   

—   

—   

—   

4.000

6.400

5.900

4.375

Zero

7.000

5.375

4.250

5.250

5.250

US$302  

£52  

US$70  

£552  

€50  

£770  

US$367  

£550  

US$50  

£450  

—   

(130)   

(20)   

—   

(50)   

(55)   

(497)   

(71)   

(703)   

(284)   

(539)   

(38)   

(428)   

Total
£m

(814) 

(130) 

(57) 

— 

(50) 

(55) 

(497) 

(71) 

(703) 

(284) 

(539) 

(38) 

(428) 

2022

Current
£m

Non-current
£m

(600)   

—   

(20)   

(246)   

—   

—   

—   

—   

—   

—   

—   

—   

—   

—   

(143)   

—   

—   

(49)   

(58)   

(471)   

(69)   

(684)   

(299)   

(539)   

(41)   

(418)   

Total
£m

(600) 

(143) 

(20) 

(246) 

(49) 

(58) 

(471) 

(69) 

(684) 

(299) 

(539) 

(41) 

(418) 

(2,665)   

(2,665) 

(246)   

(2,628)   

(2,874) 

Obligations under lease arrangements 

Interest accruals

(98)   

(53)   

(286)   

—   

(384) 

(53) 

(88)   

(55)   

(237)   

—   

(325) 

(55) 

(1,002)   

(3,101)   

(4,103) 

(1,009)   

(3,008)   

(4,017) 

(i) Bonds or portions of bonds maturing in 2026, 2029, 2033 and 2075 have been designated in a fair value hedge relationship. See note S5 for details of hedge 

relationships.

(ii) €50 million of zero coupon notes have an accrual yield of 4.2%, which will result in a €114 million repayment on maturity.
(iii) The Group has the right to repay at par on 10 April 2025 and every interest payment date thereafter.

188

Financial Statements | Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
25. SHARE CAPITAL

Ordinary share capital represents the total number of shares issued which are publicly traded. We also disclose the 
number of own and treasury shares the Company holds, which the Company has bought, principally as part of share 
buyback programmes.

Allotted and fully paid share capital of the Company

31 December 
5,907,846,138 ordinary shares of 614/81 pence each (2022: 5,907,846,138)

2023
£m

365

2022
£m

365

The closing price of one Centrica ordinary share on 31 December 2023 was 140.7 pence (2022: 96.5 pence). Centrica employee share 
ownership trusts purchase Centrica ordinary shares from the open market and receive treasury shares to satisfy future obligations of 
certain employee share schemes. The movements in own and treasury shares during the year are shown below:

1 January 

Shares purchased

Shares issued and placed into trust

Shares transferred from treasury and placed into trust

Shares released to employees on vesting
Share buyback programme (ii)
31 December (i)

Own shares (i)

Treasury shares (i)

2023
million shares

2022
million shares

2023
million shares

2022
million shares

30.4   

1.4   

—   

34.3   

(19.3)   

—   

46.8   

33.8 

6.5 

8.4 

— 

(18.3) 

— 

30.4 

45.7   

—   

—   

(34.3)   

(31.7)   

512.3

492.0   

— 

— 

— 

— 

— 

45.7

45.7 

(i) Own shares are shares held in trusts to meet employee share awards. Treasury shares are shares that have been purchased from the open market and have not been 

cancelled. The closing balance in the treasury and own shares reserves of own shares was £44 million (2022: £20 million) and treasury shares was £606 million (2022: £43 
million), these are both held at weighted average cost.

(ii) See note S4 for further details of the share buyback programme.

26. EVENTS AFTER THE BALANCE SHEET DATE

The Group updates disclosures in light of new information being received, or a significant event occurring, in the 
period between 31 December 2023 and the date of this report.

The Directors propose a final dividend of 2.67 pence per ordinary share for the year ended 31 December 2023 (which would total £144 
million based on shareholding at that date). The dividend will be submitted for formal approval at the Annual General Meeting to be held on 
5 June 2024 and, subject to approval, will be paid on 11 July 2024 to those shareholders registered on 31 May 2024.

Financial Statements | Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

189

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Supplementary Information

Supplementary information includes additional information and disclosures we are required to make by accounting 
standards or regulation.

S1. GENERAL INFORMATION
Centrica plc (the ‘Company’) is a public company limited by shares, domiciled and incorporated in the UK, and registered in England 
and Wales. The address of the registered office is Millstream, Maidenhead Road, Windsor, Berkshire, SL4 5GD. The Company, together 
with its subsidiaries, comprise the ‘Group’. The nature of the Group’s operations and principal activities are set out in note 4(a) and on 
pages 1 to 55.

The consolidated Financial Statements of Centrica plc are presented in pounds sterling. Operations and transactions conducted in 
currencies other than pounds sterling are included in the consolidated Financial Statements in accordance with the foreign currencies 
accounting policy set out in note S2.

190

Financial Statements | Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

S2. SUMMARY OF MATERIAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES

This section sets out the Group’s material accounting policies in addition to the critical accounting policies applied in 
the preparation of these consolidated Financial Statements. Unless otherwise stated, these accounting policies have 
been consistently applied to the years presented.

Basis of consolidation
The Group Financial Statements consolidate the Financial Statements of the Company and entities controlled by the Company. 
Subsidiaries are all entities (including structured entities) over which the Group has control. Control is exercised over an entity when the 
Group is exposed to, or has rights to, variable returns from its involvement with the entity and has the ability to affect those returns through 
its power over the entity. Subsidiaries are fully consolidated from the date on which control is transferred to the Group. They are 
deconsolidated from the date that control ceases. Transactions with non-controlling interests that relate to their ownership interests and 
do not result in a loss of control are accounted for as equity transactions.

The results of subsidiaries acquired or disposed of during the year are consolidated from the effective date of acquisition (at which point 
the Group gains control over a business as defined by IFRS 3, and applies the acquisition method to account for the transaction as a 
business combination) or up to the effective date of disposal, as appropriate. Where necessary, adjustments are made to the financial 
statements of subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures to align the accounting policies with those used by the Group.

When the Group ceases to have control, any retained interest in the entity is re-measured to its fair value with the change in carrying 
amount recognised in profit or loss. This fair value becomes the initial carrying amount for the purposes of subsequently accounting for 
the retained interest as a joint venture, associate or financial asset.
Segmental reporting
The Group’s operating segments are reported in a manner consistent with the internal reporting provided to and regularly reviewed by 
the Group’s Executive Committee (which is the Group’s Chief Operating Decision Maker as defined by IFRS 8 ‘Operating segments’) for 
the purposes of evaluating segment performance and allocating resources.
Revenue
Energy supply to business and residential customers
The vast majority of contractual energy supply arrangements have no fixed duration, and require no minimum consumption by the 
customer. No enforceable rights and obligations exist at inception of the contract and arise only once the cooling off period is complete 
and the Group is the legal supplier of energy to the customer. The performance obligation is the supply of energy over the contractual 
term; the units of supply represent a series of distinct goods that are substantially the same with the same pattern of transfer to the 
customer. The performance obligation is considered to be satisfied as the customer consumes based on the units of energy delivered. 
This is the point at which revenue is recognised. In respect of energy supply contracts, the Group considers that it has the right to 
consideration from the customer for an amount that corresponds directly with the invoiced value delivered to the customer through their 
consumption. The Group’s assessment of the amount that it has a right to invoice includes an assessment of energy supplied to 
customers between the date of the last meter reading and the year-end (known as unread revenue). Unread gas and electricity comprises 
both billed and unbilled revenue and is estimated through the billing systems, using historical consumption patterns, on a customer-by-
customer basis, taking into account weather patterns, load forecasts and the differences between actual meter readings being returned 
and system estimates. Actual meter readings continue to be compared to system estimates between the balance sheet date and the 
finalisation of the accounts. 

The Group holds a number of energy supply contracts that specify a minimum consumption volume over a specified contractual term. 
The transaction price for these contracts is the minimum supply volume multiplied by the contractually agreed price per unit of energy. 
Revenue from the sale of additional volumes is considered to be variable and not included in the transaction price. Revenue for these 
contracts continues to be recognised as invoiced.

In making disclosures under IFRS 15, the Group applies the practical expedient in paragraph 121 of IFRS 15 and therefore does not 
disclose information related to the transaction price allocated to remaining performance obligations on the basis that the Group recognises 
revenue from the satisfaction of the performance obligations within energy supply contracts in accordance with Paragraph B16. 

Financial Statements | Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

191

S2. SUMMARY OF MATERIAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES
Energy services provided to business and residential customers
Energy services relate to the installation, repair and maintenance of central heating, ventilation and air conditioning systems. 

In the UK, delivery of an item is considered a separate performance obligation to the installation of the item, both satisfied at a point in 
time. Delivery is the point at which control passes to the customer as the customer takes physical possession of the asset. It is also the 
point at which the Group has the right to consideration. Delivery and installation usually occur at the same point in time and consequently 
revenue is recognised for both performance obligations simultaneously.

Costs to obtain or fulfil a contract
Under IFRS 15 ‘Revenue from contracts with customers’, the incremental costs of obtaining a contract are recognised as an asset if they 
are expected to be recovered. These costs include expenditures that would not have been incurred if the contract had not been secured 
and typically relate to sales commissions payable in relation to both Energy supply and Energy service contracts.  

Costs to fulfil a contract are recognised as an asset where they are directly related to a contract and where they generate or enhance 
resources of the entity that will be used in satisfying the performance obligations. Costs must be expected to be recoverable. Assets 
relating to costs to obtain or fulfil a contract are amortised over the period of the contract. See note 17.

Sales of LNG
Revenue arising from sales of LNG is recognised when control of the commodity passes to the counterparty, with each cargo representing 
a separate performance obligation satisfied at a point in time. 

Sales of own gas and liquid production
Revenue arising from the sale of produced gas is recognised in a manner consistent with energy supply contracts with the revenue 
recognition profile reflecting the supply of gas to the customer. 

The rights and obligations identifiable within a contract where the Group holds sellers’ nomination rights are considered to be enforceable 
from inception of the contract. The transaction price for the contract will include variable consideration based on forecast production and 
market prices. The point at which the performance obligation is satisfied and revenue recognised is the point at which control of the 
commodity passes to the customer according to the contractual trading terms, usually on shipment or delivery to a specified location. 

Energy sales to trading and energy procurement counterparties
Revenue arising from the sale of energy procured from generation asset owners to trading and energy procurement counterparties is also 
recognised in a manner consistent with energy supply contracts. There is a single performance obligation being the supply of energy over 
the contractual term at spot prices and revenue is recognised at the point at which energy is supplied to the counterparty in accordance 
with the contractual terms.

Revenue arising from contracts outside the scope of IFRS 15
Revenue from sources other than the Group’s contracts with customers is recognised in accordance with the relevant standard, 
as detailed below:

Fixed-fee service and insurance contracts: revenue from these contracts is recognised in the Group Income Statement with regard to the 
incidence of risk over the life of the contract, reflecting the seasonal propensity of claims to be made under the contracts and the benefits 
receivable by the customer, which span the life of the contract as a result of emergency maintenance being available throughout the 
contract term.

Power generation: revenue is recognised under IFRS 9 where contracts to supply power are measured at fair value. 
Cost of sales
Energy supply includes the cost of gas and electricity produced and purchased during the year for own-use contracts, taking into account 
the industry reconciliation process for total gas and total electricity usage by supplier and related transportation, distribution, royalty costs 
and bought-in materials and services.

Cost of sales relating to fixed-fee service and insurance contracts includes direct labour and related overheads on installation work, repairs 
and service contracts in the year.

Cost of sales relating to gas production includes depreciation of assets used in production of gas, royalty costs and direct labour costs.

Cost of sales within power generation businesses includes the depreciation of assets included in generating power, fuel purchase costs, 
direct labour costs and carbon emissions costs.
Re-measurement and settlement of energy contracts
Re-measurement and settlement of energy contracts includes both realised (settled) commodity sales and purchase contracts in the 
scope of IFRS 9, as well as unrealised (fair value changes) on active contracts, as detailed further in note 2.
Financing costs
Financing costs that arise in connection with the acquisition, construction or production of a qualifying asset are capitalised and 
subsequently amortised in line with the depreciation of the related asset. Financing costs not arising in connection with the acquisition, 
construction or production of a qualifying asset are expensed.

192

Financial Statements | Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

 
S2. SUMMARY OF MATERIAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES
Foreign currencies
The consolidated Financial Statements are presented in pounds sterling, the functional currency of the Company and the Group’s 
presentational currency. Each entity in the Group determines its own functional currency and items included in the financial statements of 
each entity are measured using that functional currency. Transactions in foreign currencies are initially recorded in the functional currency 
of the entity at the exchange rate ruling at the date of the transaction. 

Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are retranslated to the functional currency of the relevant entity at the rate 
of exchange ruling at the balance sheet date and exchange movements included in the Group Income Statement for the period. 

Non-monetary items that are measured at historical cost in a currency other than the functional currency of the entity concerned are 
translated using the exchange rate prevailing at the dates of the initial transaction.

For the purpose of presenting consolidated Financial Statements, the assets and liabilities of the Group’s non-sterling functional currency 
subsidiary undertakings, joint ventures and associates are translated into pounds sterling at exchange rates prevailing at the balance sheet 
date. The monthly results of these (generally foreign) subsidiary undertakings, joint ventures and associates are translated into pounds 
sterling each month at the average rates of exchange for that month. The closing exchange rates, and the average of the rates used to 
translate the results of foreign operations to pounds sterling are shown below.

Exchange rate per pounds sterling (£)

US dollars

Canadian dollars

Euro

Norwegian krone

Danish krone

Closing rate at
31 December

Average rate for the year ended
31 December

2023

1.27

1.68

1.15

12.90

8.59

2022

1.20

1.63

1.14

11.89

8.51

2023

1.24

1.68

1.15

13.14

8.58

2022

1.24

1.61

1.17

11.84

8.73

Exchange adjustments arising from the retranslation of the opening net assets and results of non-sterling functional currency operations 
are transferred to the Group’s foreign currency translation reserve, a separate component of equity, and are reported in other 
comprehensive income. In the event of the disposal of a non-sterling functional currency subsidiary, the cumulative translation difference 
arising in the foreign currency translation reserve is charged or credited to the Group Income Statement on disposal. Where the Group 
utilises net investment hedging, changes in the fair value of the hedging instrument are recognised in equity and remain there until the 
disposal of the specific, related investments, at which point the gains and losses are recycled to profit or loss. 
Employee share schemes
The Group operates a number of employee share schemes, detailed in the Remuneration Report on pages 84 to 86, under which it makes 
equity-settled share-based payments to certain employees. Equity-settled share-based payments are measured at fair value at the date of 
grant (excluding the effect of non-market-based vesting conditions). The fair value determined at the grant date is expensed on a straight-
line basis together with a corresponding increase in equity over the vesting period, based on the Group’s estimate of the number of 
awards that will vest, and adjusted for the effect of non-market-based vesting conditions.

The majority of the share-based payment charge arises from the Annual Incentive Plan. This scheme is applicable to senior executives, 
and senior and middle management. Shares issued under the scheme vest subject to continued employment within the Group in two 
stages (half after two years and the other half after three years). Employees leaving prior to the vesting date will normally forfeit their rights 
to unvested share awards. The fair value of the awards is measured using the market value at the date of grant.

More information is included in the Remuneration Report on pages 84 to 86.

Financial Statements | Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

193

S2. SUMMARY OF MATERIAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES
Business combinations and goodwill
The acquisition of subsidiaries is accounted for using the acquisition method (at the point the Group gains control over a business as 
defined by IFRS 3). The cost of the acquisition is measured as the cash paid and the aggregate of the fair values, at the date of exchange, 
of other assets transferred, liabilities incurred or assumed, and equity instruments issued by the Group in exchange for control of the 
acquiree. The consideration transferred includes the fair value of any asset or liability resulting from a contingent consideration 
arrangement at the acquisition date.

Acquisition-related costs are expensed as incurred. The identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities are recognised at their fair 
value at the acquisition date, except for non-current assets (or disposal groups) that are classified as held for sale in accordance with IFRS 
5. The Group recognises any non-controlling interests in the acquiree either at fair value or at the non-controlling interests’ proportionate 
share of the recognised amounts of the acquiree’s identifiable net assets.

Goodwill arising on a business combination represents the excess of the consideration transferred, the amount of the non-controlling 
interests and the acquisition date fair value of any previously held interest in the acquiree over the Group’s interest in the fair value of the 
identifiable net assets acquired. Goodwill arising on the acquisition of a stake in a joint venture or an associate represents the excess of 
the consideration transferred over the Group’s interest in the fair value of the identifiable assets and liabilities of the investee at the date of 
acquisition. Goodwill is initially recognised as an asset at cost and is subsequently measured at cost less any accumulated impairment 
losses. The goodwill arising on an investment in a joint venture or in an associate is not recognised separately, but is shown under 
‘Interests in joint ventures and associates’ in the Group Balance Sheet. If, after reassessment, the Group’s interest in the net fair value of 
the acquiree’s identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities exceeds the cost of the business combination, the excess is 
recognised immediately in the Group Income Statement.

Acquisitions of joint operations that meet the definition of a business as defined in IFRS 3 are accounted for as business combinations. 

On disposal of a subsidiary, associate or joint venture entity, any amount of goodwill attributed to that entity is included in the 
determination of the profit or loss on disposal. A similar accounting treatment is applied on disposal of assets that represent a business.
Other intangible assets
Intangible assets acquired separately are measured on initial recognition at cost. 

Capitalisation begins when expenditure for the asset is being incurred and activities necessary to prepare the asset for use are in progress 
and ceases when substantially all the activities that are necessary to prepare the asset for use are complete. Amortisation commences at 
the point of commercial deployment. The cost of intangible assets acquired in a business combination is their fair value as at the date of 
acquisition.

Following initial recognition, intangible assets are carried at cost less any accumulated amortisation and any accumulated impairment 
losses. Intangible assets with finite lives are amortised over their useful lives and are tested for impairment, as part of the CGU to which 
they relate where necessary, annually and whenever there is an indication that the asset could be impaired. The amortisation period and 
method for an intangible asset are reviewed at each financial year-end. Changes in the expected useful life or the expected pattern of 
consumption of future economic benefits embodied in the asset are accounted for on a prospective basis by changing the amortisation 
period or method, as appropriate, and treated as changes in accounting estimates.

Intangible assets are derecognised on disposal, or when no future economic benefits are expected from their use.

Intangible assets with indefinite useful lives are not amortised but tested for impairment annually, and whenever there is an indication that 
the intangible asset could be impaired, either individually or at the CGU level. The indefinite life assessment is reviewed annually and, if not 
supportable, the change in the useful life assessment from indefinite to finite is made on a prospective basis.

The useful economic lives for the material categories of intangible assets are as follows:

Customer relationships and other contractual assets

Strategic identifiable acquired brands

Application software

Up to 20 years

Indefinite

Up to 15 years

Strategic identifiable acquired brands are deemed to have indefinite lives where evidence suggests that the brand will generate net cash 
inflows for the Group for an indefinite period. 
Cloud computing arrangements
The Group has a number of contracts for Software as a Service (SaaS) and Platform as a Service (PaaS) Cloud Computing Arrangements. 
These contracts permit the Group to access vendor-hosted software and platform services over the term of the arrangement. The Group 
does not control the underlying assets in these arrangements and costs are expensed as incurred.

The Group also incurs implementation costs in respect of these contracts. Implementation costs are capitalised as intangible assets where 
costs meet the definition and recognition criteria of an intangible asset under IAS 38. Such costs typically relate to software coding which 
is capable of providing benefit to the Group on a standalone basis. Other implementation costs, primarily relating to the configuration and 
customisation of the Cloud software solution, are assessed to determine whether the implementation activity relating to these costs is 
distinct from the Cloud Arrangement, in which case costs are expensed as the activity occurs. If the configuration and customisation costs 
relate to activity which is integral to the Cloud Arrangement such that the activity is received over the term of the Cloud Arrangement, 
costs are recognised as a prepayment and expensed over the term of the Cloud Arrangement.

194

Financial Statements | Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

 
S2. SUMMARY OF MATERIAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES
UK & EU Emissions Trading Scheme
Purchased carbon dioxide emissions allowances are recognised initially at cost (purchase price) within intangible assets. The liability is 
measured at the cost of purchased allowances up to the level of purchased allowances held, and then at the market price of allowances 
ruling at the balance sheet date, with movements in the liability recognised in operating profit.

Forward contracts for the purchase or sale of carbon dioxide emissions allowances are measured at fair value with gains and losses 
arising from changes in fair value recognised in the Group Income Statement. The intangible asset is surrendered and the liability is 
extinguished at the end of the compliance period. No amortisation is charged up to the date of surrender as the cost and residual value 
of the intangible asset are deemed to be the same with no consumption of economic benefit.
Renewable certificates
The Group purchases renewable certificates both on a standalone basis, and through Power Purchase Agreements. The main types of 
renewable certificates acquired are Renewable Energy Guarantees of Origin (REGOs) which are certificates issued by Ofgem certifying that 
electricity has been produced from renewable sources, Renewable Obligation Certificates (ROCs) which are issued to accredited 
generators for the eligible renewable electricity they generate and Guarantees of Origin (GoOs) which are the EU equivalent of REGOs. 
The Group uses renewable certificates to meet its obligations under a number of Ofgem schemes, namely the Feed-in Tariff (FIT), the 
Contracts for Difference (CFD), the Fuel Mix Disclosure (FMD) and the Renewables Obligation (RO) scheme.

Purchased renewable certificates are recognised initially at cost within intangible assets as an indefinite life asset. A liability for the RO is 
recognised based on the level of electricity supplied to customers, and is calculated in accordance with percentages set by the UK 
Government and the renewable obligation certificate buyout price for that period. 

The intangible asset is surrendered and the liability is extinguished at the end of the compliance period to reflect the consumption of 
economic benefits. Any recycling benefit related to the submission of renewable obligation certificates is recognised in the Group Income 
Statement when received. The Group also recognises supplier obligations for CFD and FIT schemes; renewable certificates are used to 
offset these liabilities.

Cash flows relating to renewable obligation certificates and similar schemes are recognised within cash flows from operating activities.
Exploration, evaluation, development and production assets
The Group uses the successful efforts method of accounting for exploration and evaluation expenditure. Exploration and evaluation 
expenditures associated with an exploration well, including acquisition costs related to exploration and evaluation activities are capitalised 
initially as intangible assets. Certain expenditures such as geological and geophysical exploration costs are expensed. If the prospects are 
subsequently determined to be successful on completion of evaluation, the relevant expenditure is transferred to PP&E. If the prospects 
are subsequently determined to be unsuccessful, the associated costs are expensed in the period in which that determination is made. 

All field development costs are capitalised as PP&E. Such costs relate to the acquisition and installation of production facilities and include 
development drilling costs, project-related engineering and other technical services costs. PP&E, including rights and concessions related 
to production activities, is depreciated from the commencement of production in the fields concerned, using the unit of production 
method, based on all of the 2P reserves of those fields. Changes in these estimates are dealt with prospectively. 

The net carrying value of fields in production and development is compared annually on a field-by-field basis with the likely discounted 
future net revenues to be derived from the remaining commercial reserves. An impairment loss is recognised where it is considered that 
recorded amounts are unlikely to be fully recovered from the net present value of future net revenues. Exploration assets are reviewed 
annually for indicators of impairment and production and development assets are tested annually for impairment.
Interests in joint arrangements and associates
The Group’s joint ventures and associates (as defined in note 6) are accounted for using the equity method. 

The Group’s interests in joint operations (gas exploration and production licence arrangements) are accounted for by recognising its 
assets (including its share of assets held jointly), its liabilities (including its share of liabilities incurred jointly), its revenue from the sale of 
its share of the output arising from the joint operation, its share of the revenue from the sale of the output by the joint operation and its 
expenses (including its share of any expenses incurred jointly).

Where the Group has an equity stake or a participating interest in operations governed by a joint arrangement for which it is acting as 
operator, an assessment is carried out to confirm whether the Group is acting as agent or principal. As the terms and conditions 
negotiated between business partners usually provide joint control to the parties over the relevant activities of the gas fields that are 
governed by joint arrangements, the Group is usually deemed to be an agent when it is appointed as operator and not as principal as the 
contracts entered into presents gross liabilities and gross receivables of joint operations (including amounts due to or from non-operating 
partners) in the Group Balance Sheet in accordance with the netting rules of IAS 32 ‘Financial instruments – presentation’.
Property, plant and equipment
PP&E is included in the Group Balance Sheet at cost, less accumulated depreciation and any provisions for impairment. 

Subsequent expenditure in respect of items of PP&E, such as the replacement of major parts, major inspections or overhauls, are 
capitalised as part of the cost of the related asset where it is probable that future economic benefits will arise as a result of the expenditure 
and the cost can be reliably measured. All other subsequent expenditure is expensed as incurred.

Financial Statements | Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

195

S2. SUMMARY OF MATERIAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES
Freehold land is not depreciated. Other PP&E, with the exception of upstream production assets (see above), are depreciated on a 
straight-line basis at rates sufficient to write off the cost, less estimated residual values, of individual assets over their estimated useful 
lives. The depreciation periods for the material categories of assets are as follows:

Freehold and leasehold buildings

Plant

Equipment and vehicles

Power generation assets

Up to 50 years

5 to 20 years

3 to 10 years

Up to 30 years

The carrying values of PP&E are tested annually for impairment and are reviewed for impairment when events or changes in circumstances 
indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable. Residual values and useful lives are reassessed annually and, if necessary, 
changes are accounted for prospectively.
Impairment assumptions
The Group tests the carrying amounts of goodwill, PP&E and intangible assets (with the exception of exploration assets) for impairment 
at least annually. Interests in joint ventures and associates and exploration assets are reviewed annually for indicators of impairment and 
tested for impairment where such an indicator arises. Where an asset does not generate cash flows that are independent from other 
assets, the Group estimates the recoverable amount of the CGU to which the asset belongs. The recoverable amount is the higher of 
value in use (VIU) and fair value less costs of disposal (FVLCD). 

At inception, goodwill is allocated to each of the Group’s CGUs or groups of CGUs that expect to benefit from the business combination 
in which the goodwill arose. If the recoverable amount of an asset (or CGU) is estimated to be less than its carrying amount, the carrying 
amount of the asset (or CGU) is reduced to its recoverable amount. Any impairment is expensed immediately in the Group Income 
Statement. Any CGU impairment loss is allocated first to reduce the carrying amount of any goodwill allocated to the CGU and then to the 
other assets of the CGU pro rata on the basis of the carrying amount of each asset in the CGU. 

Further information on the assumptions used in the VIU calculations and FVLCD calculations that resulted in impairment or impairment 
reversals during the year can be found at note 7.

VIU – Key assumptions used
Pre-tax cash flows used in the VIU calculations are derived from the Group’s Board-approved business plans, and assumptions specific to 
the nature and life of the asset. The Group’s business plans and assumptions are based on past experience and adjusted to reflect market 
trends, economic conditions and key risks. Commodity prices used in the planning process are based in part on observable market data 
and in part on estimates. Note S6 provides additional detail on the active period of each of the commodity markets in which the Group 
operates. 

(a) VIU – Growth rates and discount rates
Unless stated otherwise in the table below, cash flows beyond the planned period have been extrapolated using long-term growth rates in 
the market where the CGU operates. Long-term growth rates are determined using a blend of publicly available historical data and long-
term growth rate forecasts published by external analysts. Cash flows are discounted using a discount rate specific to each CGU. 
Discount rates reflect the current market assessments of the time value of money and are based on the estimated cost of capital of each 
CGU. Additionally, risks specific to the cash flows of the CGUs are reflected within cash flow forecasts. Each CGU’s weighted average 
cost of capital is then adjusted to reflect the impact of tax in order to calculate an equivalent pre-tax discount rate.

Long-term growth rates and pre-tax discount rates used in the VIU calculations for each of the Group’s CGUs are shown below.

2023

Growth rate to perpetuity (including inflation)

Pre-tax discount rate

2022

Growth rate to perpetuity (including inflation)

Pre-tax discount rate

British Gas 
Services & 
Solutions
%

British Gas 
Energy
 %

2.1

10.0

2.1

10.7

British Gas 
Services & 
Solutions
%

2.0

9.3

British Gas 
Energy
 %

2.0

10.0

Centrica 
Business 
Solutions 
Energy 
Supply 
%

2.1

12.0

Centrica 
Business 
Solutions 
Energy
Supply 
%

2.0

11.3

Centrica 
Business 
Solutions 
(turbines/
engines/
battery/solar) (i) 
%

Bord Gáis 
Energy 
%

1.6

10.7

N/A
10.0/8.0 (ii)

Centrica 
Business 
Solutions 
(turbines/
engines/
battery/solar) (i)
%

Bord Gáis 
Energy 
%

Centrica Energy 
%

1.9

8.1

N/A
9.3/8.0 (ii)

2.0

11.3

Nuclear (i)
%

N/A

24.8

Centrica 
Energy  

%

2.1

12.0

Nuclear (i)
%

N/A

17.3

(i) Cash flows arising after the plan period have been derived from forecasts to the end of the asset lives. Due to the nature of these finite-lived assets, this provides a more 

appropriate valuation in later years.

(ii) Flexible assets (turbines, engines, battery) and solar discount rates respectively.

196

Financial Statements | Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

 
S2. SUMMARY OF MATERIAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES
(b) VIU – Inflation rates
Inflation rates used in the business plan were based on a blend of publicly available inflation forecasts and range from 1.6% to 7.5%.

(c) Key operating assumptions by CGUs using VIU
The key operating assumptions across all CGUs are gross margin, revenues and operating costs. These assumptions are tailored to the 
specific CGU using management’s knowledge of the environment, as shown in the table below: 

Gross margin

Revenues

Operating costs

CGU

All – base 
assumptions

Centrica Energy

Existing customers: based on 
contractual terms.
Losses are forecast based on historic 
data and future expectations of 
the market.
New customers and renewals: based 
on gross margins achieved in the 
period leading up to the date of the 
business plan. Both adjusted for 
current market conditions and cost of 
goods inflation.
For the Services business, future sales 
and related gross margins are based 
on planned future product sales and 
contract losses based upon past 
performance and future expectations 
of the competitive environment.

Existing and new markets: 
management’s estimate of future 
trading performance.

Existing customers: based on 
contractual terms. 
Losses are forecast based on historic 
data and future expectations of 
the market.
Adjusted for: growth forecasts which 
are based on sales and marketing 
activity, recent customer acquisitions 
and the current economic environment 
in the relevant geography. 
Gas and electricity revenues based 
on forward market prices.
Market share: percentage immediately 
prior to business plan.

As above.

Wages: projected headcount in line 
with expected efficiency programme. 
Salary increases based on inflation 
expectations. 
Credit losses: historical assumptions 
regarding realised cash losses have 
been updated to reflect the current 
environment.

Future development: increase in costs 
to support growth forecasts, adjusted 
for planned business process 
efficiencies.

Based on run-rate and forecast 
changes, including expected inflation 
for the asset life.

Centrica Business 
Solutions (turbines/
engines/battery/solar)

Based on forecast revenues, 
operations and maintenance costs, 
grid network and balancing system 
charges for the asset life.

Based on forward and contracted 
prices for commodity, capacity market 
and grid ancillary service contracts for 
the asset life.

Overlift and underlift
Off-take arrangements for gas produced from joint operations are often such that it is not practical for each participant to receive or sell its 
precise share of the overall production during the period. This results in short-term imbalances between cumulative production entitlement 
and cumulative sales, referred to as overlift and underlift.

An overlift payable, or underlift receivable, is recognised at the balance sheet date within trade and other payables or trade and other 
receivables respectively, and is measured at market value, with movements in the period recognised within cost of sales. 

Financial Statements | Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

197

S2. SUMMARY OF MATERIAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES
Leases
The Group assesses its contractual arrangements to determine whether they are or contain leases based on whether they convey the right 
to control the use of an identified asset for a period of time in exchange for consideration.

The Group recognises a right-of-use asset and a lease liability at the lease commencement date. The right-of-use asset is initially 
measured at cost, which comprises the initial amount of the lease liability adjusted for any lease payments made at or before the 
commencement date, plus any initial direct costs incurred and an estimate of costs to dismantle and remove the underlying asset or to 
restore the underlying asset or the site on which it is located, less any lease incentives received.

The right-of-use asset is subsequently depreciated using the straight-line method from the commencement date to the earlier of the end 
of the useful life of the right-of-use asset or the end of the lease term. The estimated useful lives of right-of-use assets are determined on 
the same basis as those of property and equipment. In addition, the right-of-use asset is periodically reduced by impairment losses, if any, 
and adjusted for certain re-measurements of the lease liability.

The lease liability is initially measured at the present value of the lease payments that are not paid at the commencement date, discounted 
using the interest rate implicit in the lease or, if that rate cannot be readily determined, the Group’s incremental borrowing rate. The 
liabilities for the majority of the Group’s lease portfolio are calculated using the incremental borrowing rate. This rate is calculated on a 
lease-by-lease basis, taking into account the credit rating of the Group at the inception of the lease and the lease term. The credit 
adjustment used in this calculation is modified to reflect the security implicit in a lease arrangement based on the specific class of asset 
being leased.

Lease payments included in the measurement of the lease liability comprise: fixed payments (including in-substance fixed payments), 
variable lease payments that depend on an index or a rate (initially measured using the index or rate as at the commencement date), 
amounts expected to be payable under a residual value guarantee, the exercise price under a purchase option that the Group is 
reasonably certain to exercise, lease payments in an optional renewal period if the Group is reasonably certain to exercise an extension 
option, and penalties for early termination of a lease unless the Group is reasonably certain not to terminate early. When considering 
whether the Group is reasonably certain to exercise extension or termination options, various factors are considered, such as the level of 
lease payments relative to the market rate, the importance of the specific asset to the Group’s operations and the period remaining until 
the option becomes exercisable. Such judgements are reconsidered when there is a significant event or change of circumstances that is 
within the control of the Group. Variable lease payments that do not depend on an index or rate are recognised in profit or loss in the 
period in which the event or condition that triggers those payments occurs.

The lease liability is subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method. It is re-measured when there is a 
change in future lease payments arising from a change in an index or rate, if there is a change in the Group's estimate of the amount 
expected to be payable under a residual value guarantee, or if the Group changes its assessment of whether it will exercise a purchase, 
lease-term extension or termination option. Cash flows reflecting payment of capital and interest on leases are shown in cash flows from 
financing activities.

When the lease liability is re-measured in this way, a corresponding adjustment is made to the carrying amount of the right-of-use of asset 
or is recorded in profit or loss if the carrying amount of the right-of-use asset has been reduced to zero.

The Group recognises the lease payments associated with short-term leases (leases expiring within twelve months from commencement) 
and leases of low value assets (underlying asset value less than £5,000) on a straight-line basis over the lease term.

The Group holds interests in a number of joint operations within its exploration and production business. The Group has applied 
judgement in identifying the customer where a lease arrangement is to be used by a jointly controlled operation.

If the leased asset is dedicated to a specific joint operation and its usage is dictated by the joint operating agreement, the joint operation 
is deemed the customer. In such instances: 

¢ When the Group signs a lease agreement on behalf of a joint operation and has primary responsibility for payments to the lessor, the 

Group recognises 100% of the lease liability and a right-of-use asset on its balance sheet. When the partner is obliged to reimburse the 
Group for its share of lease payments, a sub-lease receivable is recognised and an equal adjustment to the right-of-use asset is made; 
and

¢ When the partner has the primary responsibility for payments to the lessor and the Group is obliged to reimburse its share of the lease 

payments, a lease liability due to the partner and equal right-of-use asset are recognised. 

If the leased asset is not dedicated to a specific joint operation or its usage is not dictated by the joint operating agreement of a joint 
operation to which it is dedicated, the signatory to the lease agreement is deemed the customer. If this is the Group, the lease liability and 
right-of-use asset are recognised in full. If it is the partner, no lease liability or right-of-use asset is recognised. 

198

Financial Statements | Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

 
S2. SUMMARY OF MATERIAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES
Inventories
Inventories of finished goods are valued at the lower of cost (using weighted-average cost) or estimated net realisable value after 
allowance for redundant and slow-moving items. The cost of inventories includes the purchase price plus costs of conversion incurred in 
bringing the inventories to their present location and condition.

Inventory of gas in storage held for the purpose of the Group’s own use is measured on a weighted-average cost basis, whilst gas used 
for trading purposes is measured at fair value less any costs to sell. Changes in fair value less costs to sell are recognised in the Group 
Income Statement. 
Government grants
Government grants are transfers of resources to the Group in return for past or future compliance with certain conditions relating to the 
operating activities of the entity. Government assistance is designed to provide an economic benefit that is specific to an entity qualifying 
under certain criteria. The Group recognises government grants only when there is reasonable assurance that the Group will comply with 
the conditions attached to them and the grant will be received. Government grants are recognised in profit and loss on a systematic basis 
over the periods in which the Group recognises as expenses the related costs for which the grants are intended to compensate. 
Government grants related to assets are deducted from the carrying amount of the asset.

In 2022 and 2023 the Group recognised a Supplier of Last Resort (SoLR) receivable in relation to amounts recoverable under the Last 
Resort Supplier Payment (LRSP) mechanism administered by Ofgem, a government body, which is detailed in note 3. This process allows 
suppliers, appointed as Supplier of Last Resort, to recover costs reasonably incurred in supplying affected customers. The receivable 
recognised reflects amounts incurred primarily on commodity costs up to the reporting date which are recoverable under the LRSP claim. 
The associated credit has been recognised in cost of sales and operating costs.
Decommissioning costs
A provision is made for the net present value of the estimated cost of decommissioning gas production facilities at the end of the 
producing lives of fields and power stations at the end of their useful lives, based on price levels and technology at the balance sheet date.

When this provision relates to an asset with sufficient future economic benefits, a decommissioning asset is recognised and included as 
part of the associated PP&E and depreciated accordingly. The asset is subject to impairment review as detailed above. Changes in 
estimates and discount rates are dealt with prospectively and reflected as an adjustment to the provision and corresponding 
decommissioning asset included within PP&E. The discount rate used to calculate the provision is 1% as discussed in note 3. 
The unwinding of the discount on the provision is included in the Group Income Statement within financing costs.
Non-current assets and disposal groups held for sale and discontinued operations
Non-current assets and disposal groups classified as held for sale are measured at the lower of carrying amount and fair value less costs 
of disposal. No depreciation is charged in respect of non-current assets classified as held for sale.

Non-current assets and disposal groups are classified as held for sale if their carrying amount will be recovered through a sale transaction 
rather than through continuing use. This condition is regarded as met only when the sale is highly probable, the asset or disposal group is 
available for immediate sale in its present condition and the Directors are committed to the sale which should be expected to qualify for 
recognition as a completed sale within one year from the date of classification.

The profits or losses and cash flows that relate to a major component of the Group that has been sold or is classified as held for sale 
are presented separately from continuing operations as discontinued operations within the Group Income Statement and Group Cash 
Flow Statement.
Pensions and other post-employment benefits
The Group operates a number of defined benefit and defined contribution pension schemes. The cost of providing benefits under the 
defined benefit schemes is determined separately for each scheme using the projected unit credit actuarial valuation method. Actuarial 
gains and losses are recognised in the period in which they occur in other comprehensive income.

The cost of providing retirement pensions and other benefits is charged to the Group Income Statement over the periods benefitting from 
employees’ service. Past service cost is recognised immediately. Costs of administering the schemes are charged to the Group Income 
Statement. Net interest, being the change in the net defined benefit liability or asset due to the passage of time, is recognised in the Group 
Income Statement within net finance cost.

The net defined benefit liability or asset recognised in the Group Balance Sheet represents the present value of the defined benefit 
obligation of the schemes and the fair value of the schemes’ assets. The present value of the defined benefit obligation is determined by 
discounting the estimated future cash outflows using interest rates of high-quality corporate bonds that are denominated in the currency in 
which the benefits are paid, and that have terms of maturity approximating to the terms of the related pension liability.

Payments to defined contribution retirement benefit schemes are recognised in the Group Income Statement as they fall due.

In 2022 the Group provided a loan facility to the Group’s three defined benefit pension schemes. The Group recognised the loan as a 
financial asset under IFRS 9 ‘Financial instruments’ measured at amortised cost and classified as a receivable within Securities on the 
Group’s balance sheet. The loan liability has been deducted from plan assets on the basis that the loan does not relate to employee 
benefits in accordance with IAS 19.

Financial Statements | Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

199

S2. SUMMARY OF MATERIAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES
Provisions
Provisions are recognised when the Group has a present obligation (legal or constructive) as a result of a past event, that can be 
measured reliably, and it is probable that the Group will be required to settle that obligation. Provisions are discounted to present value 
where the effect is material.

Where discounting is used, the increase in the provision due to the passage of time is recognised in the Group Income Statement within 
interest expense. Onerous contract provisions are recognised where the unavoidable costs of meeting the obligations under a contract 
exceed the economic benefits expected to be received under it. Contracts to purchase or sell energy are reviewed on a portfolio basis 
given the fungible nature of energy, whereby it is assumed that the highest priced purchase contract supplies the highest priced sales 
contract and the lowest priced sales contract is supplied by the lowest priced purchase contract. Since 2021, the Group recognises a 
material onerous supply contract provision where the future costs to fulfil customer contracts on a current market price basis exceed the 
charges recoverable from customers because the associated hedging gains have already been recognised in the Group Income 
Statement. Further detail relating to the key assumptions and sources of estimation uncertainty are provided in note 3.
Taxation
Current tax, including UK corporation tax, UK petroleum revenue tax and foreign tax is provided at amounts expected to be paid (or 
recovered) using the tax rates and laws that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date. From time to time, 
the Group may have open tax issues with a number of revenue authorities. Where an outflow of funds is believed to be probable and a 
reliable estimate of the dispute can be made, management provides for its best estimate of the liability. These estimates take into account 
the specific circumstances of each dispute and relevant external advice as well as the rules and regulations of the relevant tax authority in 
the jurisdiction of the dispute. Often the Group is unable to predict whether an uncertain tax treatment will be accepted by the relevant 
authority. In such instances the effects of uncertainty are reflected in management’s assessment of the most likely outcome of each issue, 
as reviewed and updated on a regular basis. Each item is considered separately and on a basis that provides the better prediction of the 
outcome, unless the Group determines that it is appropriate to group certain items for consideration. See note 9 for further details on 
uncertain tax provisions. 

Deferred tax is recognised in respect of all temporary differences identified at the balance sheet date, except to the extent that the 
deferred tax arises from the initial recognition of goodwill, or the initial recognition of an asset or liability in a transaction which is not a 
business combination and at the time of the transaction affects neither accounting profit nor taxable profit and loss. Temporary differences 
are differences between the carrying amount of the Group’s assets and liabilities and their tax base. 

Deferred tax liabilities may be offset against deferred tax assets within the same taxable entity or qualifying local tax group. Any remaining 
deferred tax asset is recognised only when, on the basis of all available evidence, it can be regarded as probable that there will be suitable 
taxable profits, within the same jurisdiction, in the foreseeable future, against which the deductible temporary difference can be utilised.

Deferred tax is provided on temporary differences arising on subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates, except where the timing of the 
reversal of the temporary difference can be controlled and it is probable that the temporary difference will not reverse in the foreseeable 
future.

Deferred tax is measured at the average tax rates that are expected to apply in the periods in which the asset is realised or liability settled, 
based on tax rates and laws that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date. Measurement of deferred tax 
liabilities and assets reflects the tax consequences expected from the manner in which the asset or liability is recovered or settled.

200

Financial Statements | Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

 
S2. SUMMARY OF MATERIAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES
Financial instruments 
Financial assets and financial liabilities are recognised in the Group Balance Sheet when the Group becomes a party to the contractual 
provisions of the instrument. Financial assets are derecognised when the Group no longer has the rights to cash flows, the risks and 
rewards of ownership or control of the asset. Financial liabilities are derecognised when the obligation under the liability is discharged, 
cancelled or expires.

(a) Trade receivables
Trade receivables are initially recognised at a value based on their transaction price, and are subsequently held at amortised cost using the 
effective interest method (taking into account the Group’s business model, which is to collect the contractual cash flows owing) less an 
allowance for impairment losses. Balances are written off when recoverability is assessed as being remote. If collection is expected in one 
year or less, receivables are classified as current assets. If not, they are presented as non-current assets. 

(b) Trade payables
Trade payables are initially recognised at fair value, which is usually the original invoice amount and are subsequently held at amortised 
cost using the effective interest method. If payment is due within one year or less, payables are classified as current liabilities. If not, they 
are presented as non-current liabilities.

(c) Share capital
Ordinary shares are classified as equity. Incremental costs directly attributable to the issue of new shares are shown in equity as a 
deduction from the proceeds received. Own equity instruments that are reacquired (treasury or own shares) are deducted from equity. 
No gain or loss is recognised in the Group Income Statement on the purchase, sale, issue or cancellation of the Group’s own equity 
instruments. 

(d) Cash and cash equivalents
Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash in hand and current balances with banks and similar institutions and money market deposits, 
which are readily convertible to known amounts of cash and which are subject to insignificant risk of changes in value and have an original 
maturity of three months or less. Money market funds are also included in cash and cash equivalents, and are required to be measured at 
fair value through profit or loss under IFRS 9, as noted in section (g) below. Cash and cash equivalents are presented net of outstanding 
bank overdrafts where there is a legal right of set off and, for the Group’s cash pooling arrangements, to the extent the Group expects to 
settle its subsidiaries’ year-end account balances on a net basis.

For the purpose of the Group Cash Flow Statement, cash and cash equivalents consist of cash and cash equivalents as defined above, 
net of outstanding bank overdrafts. 

(e) Interest-bearing loans and other borrowings
All interest-bearing loans and other borrowings with banks and similar institutions are initially recognised at fair value net of directly 
attributable transaction costs. After initial recognition, interest-bearing loans and other borrowings are subsequently measured at 
amortised cost using the effective interest method, except when they are hedged items in an effective fair value hedge relationship where 
the carrying value is also adjusted to reflect the fair value movements associated with the hedged risks. Such fair value movements are 
recognised in the Group Income Statement. Amortised cost is calculated by taking into account any issue costs, discount or premium.

(f) Financial instruments at fair value through other comprehensive income
Financial assets at fair value through other comprehensive income are equity instruments that the Group has elected to recognise the 
changes in fair value of in other comprehensive income. They are recognised initially at fair value in the Group Balance Sheet and are re-
measured subsequently at fair value with gains and losses arising from changes in fair value recognised directly in equity and presented in 
other comprehensive income. Dividends arising on these financial assets are recognised in the Group Income Statement.

Cumulative gains and losses on equity instruments at fair value through other comprehensive income are not recycled to the Group 
Income Statement. 

(g) Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss
The Group previously held investments in gilts which it designated at fair value through profit or loss in order to eliminate asymmetry arising 
from the measurement of an index-linked derivative. Other debt instruments and money market funds (which are classified as cash 
equivalents) are required to be measured at fair value through profit or loss under IFRS 9, as the assets are not held solely for the purpose 
of collecting contractual cash flows related to principal and interest. Both mandatory and designated instruments are measured at fair 
value on initial recognition and are re-measured to fair value in each subsequent reporting period. Gains and losses arising from changes 
in fair value are recognised in the Group Income Statement within investment income or financing costs.

(h) Securities
The Group holds debt and equity securities predominantly in respect of the Centrica Unapproved Pension Scheme (see note 22). Debt 
securities are required to be measured at fair value through profit or loss under IFRS 9, as the contractual terms of these assets do not 
give rise to cash flows that are solely payments of principal and interest on the principal amounts outstanding. The Group has elected to 
recognise the changes in fair value of the equity securities in other comprehensive income.

The Group classifies the loan facility provided to the Group’s defined benefit pension schemes within Securities. It is recognised as a 
financial asset under IFRS 9 ‘Financial instruments’ and measured at amortised cost. Correspondingly, the loan liability is deducted from 
plan assets on the basis the loan does not relate to employee benefits (scheme liabilities) in accordance with IAS 19.

Securities also includes a loan made to the minority shareholder in the Group’s Greener Ideas Limited subsidiary which is similarly 
recognised as a financial asset under IFRS 9 and measured at amortised cost.

(i) Other investments
Other investments include minority interest equity investments which the Group accounts for under IFRS 9, because it does not have the 
ability to control, or significantly influence the investment. According to the requirements of IFRS 9, the Group may either measure these 
investments at fair value with value changes recognised in profit or loss, or it may elect to recognise those value changes in other 
comprehensive income. For the majority of the Group’s other investments, fair value movements are recognised in other comprehensive 
income; this election is made separately for each investment made.

Financial Statements | Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

201

S2. SUMMARY OF MATERIAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES
(j) Derivative financial instruments
The Group routinely enters into sale and purchase transactions for physical delivery of gas and power. A portion of these transactions 
take the form of contracts that were entered into and continue to be held for the purpose of receipt or delivery of the physical commodity 
in accordance with the Group’s expected sale, purchase or usage requirements (‘own use’), and are not within the scope of IFRS 9. The 
assessment of whether a contract is deemed to be ‘own use’ is conducted on a Group basis without reference to underlying book 
structures, business units or legal entities.

Certain purchase and sales contracts for the physical delivery of gas and power are within the scope of IFRS 9 due to the fact that they 
net settle or contain written options. Such contracts are accounted for as derivatives under IFRS 9 and are recognised in the Group 
Balance Sheet at fair value. Gains and losses arising from changes in fair value on derivatives that do not qualify for hedge accounting are 
taken directly to the Group Income Statement for the year.

The Group uses a range of derivatives for both trading and to hedge exposures to financial risks, such as interest rates, foreign exchange 
and energy price risks, arising in the normal course of business. Where considered appropriate, the Group may use weather derivatives to 
protect against earnings volatility arising from unseasonal weather variations. The use of such derivatives did not have a material financial 
statement impact in 2023 or 2022. The use of derivative financial instruments is governed by the Group’s policies which are approved by 
the Board of Directors. Further detail on the Group’s risk management policies is included within the Strategic Report – Principal Risks and 
Uncertainties on pages 28 to 34 and in note S3.

The accounting treatment of derivatives is dependent on whether they are entered into for trading or hedging purposes. A derivative 
instrument is considered to be used for hedging purposes when it alters the risk profile of an underlying exposure of the Group in line with 
the Group’s risk management policies and is in accordance with established guidelines. Certain derivative instruments used for hedging 
purposes are designated in hedge accounting relationships as described by IAS 39 (the Group has not applied the hedge accounting 
requirements of IFRS 9). In order to qualify for hedge accounting, the effectiveness of the hedge must be reliably measurable and 
documentation describing the formal hedging relationship must be prepared at the point of designation. The hedge must be highly 
effective in achieving its objective. The Group also holds derivatives that are used for hedging purposes which are not designated in hedge 
accounting relationships and are held for trading.

All derivatives are recognised at fair value on the date on which the derivative is entered into and are re-measured to fair value at each 
reporting date. Derivatives are carried as assets when the fair value is positive and as liabilities when the fair value is negative. Derivative 
assets and derivative liabilities are offset and presented on a net basis only when there is a currently enforceable legal right of set-off, and 
the intention to net settle the derivative contracts is present. The disclosure of current and non-current derivative assets and liabilities is 
determined by the settlement date of the derivative.

The Group enters into certain energy derivative contracts covering periods for which observable market data does not exist. The fair value 
of such derivatives is estimated by reference in part to published price quotations from active markets, to the extent that such observable 
market data exists, and in part by using valuation techniques, the inputs to which include data that is not based on or derived from 
observable markets. Where the fair value at initial recognition for such contracts differs from the transaction price, a fair value gain or fair 
value loss will arise. This is referred to as a day-one gain or day-one loss. Such gains and losses are deferred (not recognised) and 
amortised to the Group Income Statement based on volumes purchased or delivered over the contractual period until such time as 
observable market data becomes available. When observable market data becomes available, any remaining deferred day-one gains or 
losses are recognised within the Group Income Statement. 

Recognition of the gains or losses resulting from changes in fair value depends on the purpose for issuing or holding the derivative. For 
derivatives that do not qualify for cash flow or net investment hedge accounting, any gains or losses arising from changes in fair value are 
taken directly to the Group Income Statement and are included within gross profit or investment income and financing costs. Where 
derivatives qualify for cash flow or net investment hedging, changes in fair value arising from the effective element of the hedge are 
recognised initially in the Group Statement of Comprehensive Income and are recycled to the Group Income Statement when the hedged 
item impacts profit or loss. Further details on the treatment of energy derivatives in the Group Income Statement is provided in note 2. 
Further detail on the treatment of derivatives in hedging relationships is provided in note S5.

Derivatives embedded in other financial instruments or other host contracts are treated as separate derivatives when their risks and 
characteristics are not closely related to those of the host contracts and the host contracts are not carried at fair value, with gains or 
losses reported in the Group Income Statement. The closely related nature of embedded derivatives is reassessed when there is a change 
in the terms of the contract that significantly modifies the future cash flows under the contract. Where a contract contains one or more 
embedded derivatives, and providing that the embedded derivative significantly modifies the cash flows under the contract, the option to 
fair value the entire contract may be taken and the contract will be recognised at fair value with changes in fair value recognised in the 
Group Income Statement. Gains and losses arising from changes in the fair value of energy derivative contracts are recognised within 
‘Re-measurement and settlement of energy contracts’ in the Group’s Results for the period under IFRS.

202

Financial Statements | Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

 
S2. SUMMARY OF MATERIAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES
(k) Hedge accounting
The Group continues to apply the hedge accounting requirements of IAS 39 and has not adopted IFRS 9 hedge accounting.

For the purposes of hedge accounting, hedges are classified as either fair value hedges or cash flow hedges. Note S5 details the Group’s 
accounting policies in relation to derivatives qualifying for hedge accounting under IAS 39. 

(l) Financial guarantees
Financial guarantees are contracts that require the Group to make specified payments to reimburse the holder for a loss it incurs because 
a specified debtor fails to make payment when due in accordance with the terms of a debt instrument. The Group accounts for financial 
guarantee contracts under IFRS 9.

(m) Impairment of financial assets
In accordance with IFRS 9, the Group has applied the expected credit loss model to financial assets measured at amortised cost and to 
investments in debt instruments measured at fair value through other comprehensive income.

For trade receivables and contract assets the simplified approach is taken and the lifetime expected credit loss provided for. 

For all other in-scope financial assets at the balance sheet date either the lifetime expected credit loss or a 12-month expected credit loss 
is provided for, depending on the Group’s assessment of whether the credit risk associated with the specific asset has increased 
significantly since initial recognition. As the Group’s financial assets are predominantly short-term (less than 12 months), the impairment 
loss recognised is not materially different using either approach. Further details of the assumptions and inputs used to calculate expected 
credit losses are shown in note 17.
Nuclear activity
The Group’s investment in Lake Acquisitions Limited (‘Nuclear’) is accounted for as an associate. The following accounting policies are 
specific to this nuclear activity.

(a) Fuel costs – nuclear front end
Front-end fuel costs consist of the costs of procurement of uranium, conversion and enrichment services, and fuel element fabrication. 
All costs are capitalised into inventory and charged to the Group Income Statement in proportion to the amount of fuel burnt.

(b) Fuel costs – nuclear back end
Advanced gas-cooled reactors (AGR)

Spent fuel extracted from the reactors is sent for reprocessing and/or long-term storage and eventual disposal of resulting waste 
products. Back-end fuel costs comprise of a loading-related cost per tonne of uranium and a rebate/surcharge to this cost which is 
dependent on the out-turn market electricity price and the amount of electricity generated from AGR stations in the year. These costs are 
capitalised into inventory and charged to the Group Income Statement in proportion to the amount of fuel burnt.

Pressurised water reactor (PWR)

Back-end fuel costs are based on wet storage in station ponds followed by dry storage and subsequent direct disposal of fuel. Back-end 
fuel costs are capitalised into inventory on loading and are charged to the Group Income Statement in proportion to the amount of fuel 
burnt.

(c) Nuclear PP&E – depreciation
The majority of the cost of the nuclear fleet is depreciated from the date of the Group acquiring its share of the fleet on a straight-line 
basis, with remaining depreciable periods currently of up to 32 years.

Other expenditure including amounts spent on major inspections and overhauls of production plant is depreciated over the period until the 
next outage which for AGR power stations is 2 to 3 years and for the PWR power station is 18 months.

(d) Nuclear Liabilities Fund (NLF) funding arrangements
Under the arrangements in place with the Secretary of State, the NLF will fund, subject to certain exceptions, qualifying uncontracted 
nuclear liabilities and qualifying decommissioning costs.

In part consideration for the assumption of these liabilities by the Secretary of State and the NLF, the former British Energy Group agreed 
to pay fixed decommissioning contributions each year and £150,000 (indexed to RPI) for every tonne of uranium in PWR fuel loaded into 
the Sizewell B reactor after the date of these arrangements.

(e) NLF and nuclear liabilities receivables
The UK Government indemnity is provided to indemnify any future shortfall on NLF funding of qualifying uncontracted nuclear liabilities 
(including PWR back-end fuel services) and qualifying nuclear decommissioning costs such that the receivable equals the present value of 
the associated qualifying nuclear liabilities (apart from a small timing difference due to timing of receipts from NLF).

(f) Nuclear liabilities
Nuclear liabilities represent provision for liabilities in respect of the costs of waste management of spent fuel and nuclear decommissioning.

(g) Unburnt fuels at shutdown
Due to the nature of the nuclear fuel process there will be quantities of unburnt fuel in the reactors at station closure. The costs relating to 
this unburnt fuel (final core) are fully provided for at the balance sheet date. The provision is based on a projected value per tonne of fuel 
remaining at closure, discounted back to the balance sheet date and recorded as a long-term liability.

Financial Statements | Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

203

S3. FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT

The Group’s normal operating, investing and financing activities expose it to a variety of financial risks: market risk 
(including commodity price risk, currency risk and interest rate risk), credit risk and liquidity risk. The Group’s overall 
financial risk management processes are designed to identify, manage and mitigate these risks.

Further detail on the Group’s overall risk management processes is included within the Strategic Report – Principal Risks and 
Uncertainties on pages 28 to 34.

Commodity price risk management is carried out in accordance with individual business unit policies and directives including appropriate 
escalation routes. 

Treasury risk management, including management of currency risk, interest rate risk and liquidity risk is carried out by a central Group 
Treasury function in accordance with the Group’s financing and treasury policy, as approved by the Board.

The wholesale credit risks associated with commodity trading and treasury positions are managed in accordance with the Group’s credit 
risk policy. Downstream customer credit risk management is carried out in accordance with appropriate Group-wide and individual 
business unit credit policies.
Market risk management
Market risk is the risk of loss that results from changes in market prices (commodity prices, foreign exchange rates and interest rates). The 
level of market risk to which the Group is exposed at a point in time varies depending on market conditions, expectations of future price or 
market rate movements and the composition of the Group’s physical asset and contract portfolios.

(a) Commodity price risk management
The Group is exposed to commodity price risk in its energy procurement and supply activities, production, generation and trading 
operations and uses specific limits to manage the exposure to commodity prices associated with the Group’s activities to an acceptable 
level. The Group uses Profit at Risk (PaR) limits to control exposures to market prices. These are complemented by other limits including 
Value at Risk (VaR), volumetric or stop-loss limits to control risk around trading activities.

(i) Energy price exposed business activities
The Group’s price exposed business activities consist of equity gas and liquids production, equity power generation, bilateral procurement 
and sales contracts, market-traded purchase and sales contracts and derivative positions primarily transacted with the intent of securing 
gas and power for the Group’s supply customers, from a variety of sources at an optimal cost. The Group actively manages commodity 
price risk by optimising its asset and contract portfolios and making use of volume flexibility.

The Group’s commodity price risk exposure within its business activities is driven by the cost of procuring gas and electricity to serve its 
supply customers and selling gas and electricity from its upstream production and generation, which varies with wholesale commodity 
prices. The primary risk is that market prices for commodities will fluctuate between the time that sales prices are fixed or tariffs are set 
and the time at which the corresponding procurement cost is fixed, thereby potentially reducing expected margins or making sales 
unprofitable.

The Group’s supply activities are also exposed to volumetric risk in the form of an uncertain consumption profile arising from a range of 
factors, including the weather, energy consumption changes, customer attrition and the economic climate. There is also risk associated 
with ensuring that there is sufficient commodity available to secure supply to customers. The Group’s production and generation activities 
are also exposed to volumetric risk in the form of uncertain production profiles.

In order to manage the exposure to market prices associated with the Group’s business operations the Group uses a specific set of 
risk limits (including VaR and PaR) established by the Board, and sub-delegated downwards through the delegation lines to the 
commercial leaders. 

PaR measures the estimated potential loss in a position or portfolio of positions associated with the movement of a commodity price for 
a given confidence level, over the remaining term of the position or contract. VaR measures the estimated potential loss for a given 
confidence level over a predetermined holding period. The standard confidence level used is 95%. In addition, regular stress and scenario 
tests are performed to evaluate the impact on the portfolio of possible substantial movements in commodity prices.

The Group measures and manages the commodity price risk associated with the Group’s entire energy price exposed business portfolio. 
Only certain of the Group’s energy contracts constitute financial instruments under IFRS 9 (see note S6).

As a result, while the Group manages the commodity price risk associated with both financial and non-financial energy procurement and 
sales contracts, it is the notional value of energy contracts being carried at fair value that represents the exposure of the Group’s energy 
price exposed business activities to commodity price risk according to IFRS 7 ‘Financial Instruments: Disclosures’. This is because energy 
contracts that are financial instruments under IFRS 9 are accounted for on a fair value basis and changes in fair value immediately impact 
profit. Conversely, energy contracts that are not financial instruments under IFRS 9 are accounted for as executory contracts and changes 
in fair value do not immediately impact profit and, as such, are not exposed to commodity price risk as defined by IFRS 7. So, whilst the 
PaR or VaR associated with energy procurement and supply contracts that are outside the scope of IFRS 9 are monitored for internal risk 
management purposes, only those energy contracts within the scope of IFRS 9 are within the scope of the IFRS 7 disclosure 
requirements.

204

Financial Statements | Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

 
S3. FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT
(ii) Proprietary energy trading
The Group’s proprietary energy trading activities consist of physical and financial commodity purchases and sales contracts taken on with 
the intent of benefitting from changes in market prices or differences between buying and selling prices. The Group conducts its trading 
activities in the over-the-counter market and through exchanges in the UK and continental Europe. The Group is exposed to commodity 
price risk as a result of its proprietary energy trading activities because the value of its trading assets and liabilities will fluctuate with 
changes in market prices for commodities.

The Group sets volumetric and VaR limits to manage the commodity price risk exposure associated with the Group’s proprietary energy 
trading activities. VaR measures the estimated potential loss at a 95% confidence level over a one-day holding period. The carrying value 
of energy contracts used in proprietary energy trading activities at 31 December 2023 is disclosed in note 19.

As with any modelled risk measure, there are certain limitations that arise from the assumptions used in the VaR calculation. VaR assumes 
that historical price behaviours will continue in the future and that the Group’s trading positions can be unwound or hedged within the 
predetermined holding period. Furthermore, the use of a 95% confidence level, by definition, does not take into account changes in value 
that might occur beyond this confidence level.

(b) Currency risk management
The Group is exposed to currency risk on foreign currency denominated forecast transactions, firm commitments, monetary assets and 
liabilities (transactional exposure) and on its net investments in foreign operations (translational exposure). IFRS 7 only requires disclosure 
of currency risk arising on financial instruments denominated in a currency other than the functional currency of the commercial operation 
transacting. As a result, for the purposes of IFRS 7, currency risk excludes items that are not financial instruments, such as the Group’s 
net investments in international operations as well as foreign currency denominated forecast transactions and firm commitments.

(i) Transactional currency risk
The Group is exposed to transactional currency risk on transactions denominated in currencies other than the underlying functional 
currency of the commercial operation transacting. The primary functional currencies remain pounds sterling in the UK, Danish krone in 
Denmark, euros in the Netherlands and the Republic of Ireland and US dollars in the Group’s LNG business. The risk is that the functional 
currency value of cash flows will vary as a result of movements in exchange rates. Transactional exposure arises from the Group’s energy 
procurement, production and generation activities, where many transactions are denominated in foreign currencies. In addition, in order to 
optimise the cost of funding, the Group has, in certain cases, issued foreign currency denominated debt or entered into foreign currency 
loans, primarily in US dollars, euros and Japanese yen.

It is the Group’s policy to hedge material transactional exposures using derivatives (either applying formal hedge accounting or economic 
hedge relationships) to fix the functional currency value of non-functional currency cash flows, except where there is an economic hedge 
inherent in the transaction. At 31 December 2023, there were no material unhedged non-functional currency monetary assets or liabilities, 
firm commitments or probable forecast transactions (2022: £nil), other than transactions which have an inherent economic hedge and 
foreign currency borrowings used to hedge translational exposures.

(ii) Translational currency risk
The Group is exposed to translational currency risk as a result of its net investments in Europe. The risk is that the pounds sterling value of 
the net assets of foreign operations will decrease with changes in foreign exchange rates. The Group’s policy is to protect the pounds 
sterling book value of its net investments in foreign operations where appropriate, subject to certain parameters, by holding foreign 
currency debt, entering into foreign currency derivatives, or a mixture of both.

The Group manages translational currency risk taking into consideration the cash impact of any hedging activity as well as the risk to the 
net asset carrying values in the Group’s Financial Statements. The translation hedging programme including the potential cash impact is 
managed by the Group Treasury function and monitored by the Chief Financial Officer.

(c) Interest rate risk management
In the normal course of business the Group borrows to finance its operations. The Group is exposed to interest rate risk because the fair 
value of fixed-rate borrowings and the cash flows associated with floating rate borrowings will fluctuate with changes in interest rates. The 
Group’s policy is to manage the interest rate risk on long-term borrowings by ensuring the exposure to floating interest rates remains 
within a 30% to 70% range, including the impact of interest rate derivatives.

The return generated on the Group’s cash balance is also exposed to movements in short-term interest rates. The Group manages cash 
balances to protect against adverse changes in rates whilst retaining liquidity.

Financial Statements | Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

205

S3. FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT
(d) Sensitivity analysis
IFRS 7 requires disclosure of a sensitivity analysis that is intended to illustrate the sensitivity of the Group’s financial position and 
performance to changes in market variables (commodity prices, foreign exchange rates and interest rates) as a result of changes in the fair 
value or cash flows associated with the Group’s financial instruments. The sensitivity analysis provided discloses the effect on profit or loss 
and equity at 31 December 2023, assuming that a reasonably possible change in the relevant risk variable had occurred at 31 December 
2023, and has been applied to the risk exposures in existence at that date to show the effects of reasonably possible changes in price on 
profit or loss and equity. Reasonably possible changes in market variables used in the sensitivity analysis are based on implied volatilities, 
where available, or historical data for energy prices and foreign exchange rates. Reasonably possible changes in interest rates are based 
on management judgement and historical experience.

The sensitivity analysis has been prepared based on 31 December 2023 balances and on the basis that the balances, the ratio of fixed to 
floating rates of debt and derivatives, the proportion of energy contracts that are financial instruments, the proportion of financial 
instruments in foreign currencies and the hedge designations in place at 31 December 2023 are all constant. Excluded from this analysis 
are all non-financial assets and liabilities and energy contracts that are not financial instruments under IFRS 9. The sensitivity to foreign 
exchange rates relates only to monetary assets and liabilities denominated in a currency other than the functional currency of the 
commercial operation transacting, and excludes the translation of the net assets of foreign operations to pounds sterling.

The sensitivity analysis provided is hypothetical only and should be used with caution as the impacts provided are not necessarily 
indicative of the actual impacts that would be experienced. This is because the Group’s actual exposure to market rates is changing 
constantly as the Group’s portfolio of commodity, debt and foreign currency contracts changes. Changes in fair values or cash flows 
based on a variation in a market variable cannot be extrapolated because the relationship between the change in market variable and the 
change in fair value or cash flows may not be linear. In addition, the effect of a change in a particular market variable on fair values or cash 
flows is calculated without considering interrelationships between the various market rates or mitigating actions that would be taken by the 
Group. 

(i) Transactional currency risk
The Group has performed an analysis of the sensitivity of the Group’s financial position and performance to changes in foreign exchange 
rates. The Group deems 10% movements to US dollar and euro currency rates relative to pounds sterling to be reasonably possible.

The material impact of such movements on profit and equity, both before and after taxation, are as follows:

Incremental profit/(loss)

US dollar – increase/(decrease)

Euro – increase/(decrease)

All other currency sensitivities are not material. 

2023
Impact on 
profit
£m

102/(54)

(56)/128

2022
Impact 
on profit
£m

139/(180)

36/(38)

(ii) Interest rate risk
The Group has performed an analysis of the sensitivity of the Group’s financial position and performance to changes in interest rates. The 
Group deems a one percentage point move in UK, US and Euro interest rates to be reasonably possible. The impact of such movements 
on profit and equity, both after taxation, is immaterial.

(iii) Commodity price risk – non-proprietary
The impacts of reasonably possible changes in commodity prices on profit and equity, both after taxation, based on the assumptions set 
out above are as follows:

Energy prices

UK gas (p/therm)

European gas (€/MWh)

UK power (£/MWh)

UK emissions (€/tonne)

UK oil (US$/bbl)

North American gas (US cents/therm)

Japan Korea Marker (JKM) gas price (US$/MMBtu)

2023

2022

Reasonably 
possible
change in 
variable (ii)
 %

+/-54

+/-54

+/-13

+/-7

+/-10

+/-11

+/-9

Base price (i)

86

33

85

80

73

34

12

Reasonably  
possible 
change in  
variable (ii)
 % 

+/-47

+/-47

+/-26

+/-7

+/-19

+/-25

+/-10

Base price (i)

184

71

189

86

84

44

21

206

Financial Statements | Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

 
S3. FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT

Incremental profit/(loss)

UK gas price – increase/(decrease)

UK power price – increase/(decrease)

European gas price – (decrease)/increase

Other UK energy prices (oil and emissions) – (decrease)/increase

UK and European energy prices (combined) – increase/(decrease)

North American energy prices (combined) – increase/(decrease)

JKM gas price – increase/(decrease)

2023
Impact on 
profit (ii)
£m

2022
Impact on 
profit (ii)
£m

218/(218)

365/(374)

84/(83)

(167)/167

(2)/2

540/(544)

(171)/171

(32)/32

133/(132)

702/(715)

35/(35)

60/(60)

60/(60)

294/(294)

(i) The base price represents the average forward market price over the duration of the active market curve used in the sensitivity analysis provided.
(ii) The reasonably possible change in variable and the impact on profit are calculated using both the active and inactive market curves for energy prices.

The impact on other comprehensive income of such price changes is immaterial.

(iv) Commodity price risk – proprietary trades
As at 31 December 2023 the VaR associated with proprietary trading was £4 million (2022: £5 million). This represents the statistical 
downside risk associated with the proprietary trade and associated hedging positions. The changes in the year only relate to changes in 
commodity prices. Intra-day trading positions are monitored using a live time risk management system.

The impacts of reasonably possible changes using probability-based high and low price curves applied to level 3 proprietary trades are 
as follows:

Incremental profit/(loss)
Level 3 proprietary trades – increase/(decrease) (ii)

2023
Impact on 
profit (i)
£m

2022
Impact on 
profit (i)
£m

24/(24)

891/(877)

(i) The reasonably possible change in variable and the impact on profit are calculated using both the active and inactive market curves for energy prices, see note 7(c) for 

detail on market curves.

(ii) The level 3 proprietary financial instruments’ sensitivity has been valued in Secure Environment and excludes associated hedges which would mitigate this impact. 

Financial Statements | Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

207

S3. FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT
Credit risk management
Credit risk is the risk of loss associated with a counterparty’s inability or failure to discharge its obligations under a contract. 

The Group continually reviews its rating thresholds for relevant counterparty credit limits and updates these as necessary, based on a 
consistent set of principles. It continues to operate within its limits. In respect of trading activities for both the US and Europe there is an 
effort to maintain a balance between exchange-based trading and bilateral transactions. This allows for a reasonable balance between 
counterparty credit risk and potential liquidity requirements. In addition, the Group actively manages the trade-off between credit and 
liquidity risks by optimising the use of contracts with collateral obligations and physically settled contracts without collateral obligations. 

The Group is exposed to credit risk in its treasury, trading, energy procurement and downstream activities. The maximum exposure to 
credit risk for financial instruments at fair value is equal to their carrying value. Gross amounts are shown by counterparty credit rating in 
the table below. Further details of other collateral and credit security not offset against these amounts is shown in note S6. 

Financial assets at 
amortised cost

Financial assets at fair value

2023

31 December 

AAA to AA

AA- to A-

BBB+ to BBB-

BB+ to BB-

B+ or lower
Unrated (iii)

31 December 

AAA to AA

AA- to A-

BBB+ to BBB-

BB+ to BB-

B+ or lower
Unrated (iii)

Receivables 
including 
treasury, trading 
and energy 
procurement 
counterparties (i)
£m

65   

605   

1,054   

164   

58   

4,553   

6,499   

Receivables
 including
 treasury,
 trading and 
energy 
procurement 
counterparties
£m (i)

245   

914   

2,727   

542   

112   

4,534   

9,074   

Securities (ii)
£m

Cash and cash 
equivalents
£m

Cash and cash 
equivalents
£m

Derivative 
financial 
instruments with 
positive 
fair values
£m

— 

1,459 

41 

5 

8 

71 

4,859   

—   

—   

—   

—   

—   

—   

819   

1,646   

438   

45   

324   

Securities
£m

104   

—   

—   

—   

—   

—   

Other 
investments
£m

— 

— 

— 

— 

— 

61 

61 

1,584 

4,859   

3,272   

104   

Financial assets at 
amortised cost

Financial assets at fair value

2022

Securities (ii)
£m

Cash and cash 
equivalents (iv)
£m

Cash and cash 
equivalents
£m

Securities
£m

Other investments
£m

Derivative
 financial 
instruments 
with positive 
fair values
£m

19   

1,271   

4,459   

724   

235   

719   

— 

1,844 

20 

— 

— 

— 

2,800   

178   

—   

—   

—   

—   

95   

—   

—   

—   

—   

27   

— 

— 

— 

— 

— 

— 

— 

—   

—   

—   

—   

—   

417   

417   

—   

—   

—   

—   

—   

403   

403   

1,864 

2,978   

7,427   

122   

(i) The Group holds a provision of £1,309 million (2022: £872 million) against receivables. The significant majority of this provision is held against amounts due from unrated 

counterparties. Further analysis of past due trade receivables may be found at note 17. 

(ii) Securities held at amortised cost consist of loans to the pension schemes of £405 million (2022: £403 million) and other loans receivable of £12 million (2022: £nil) – see 

note 24.

(iii) The unrated counterparty receivables primarily comprise amounts due from downstream customers, subsidiaries of rated entities, exchanges or clearing houses.
(iv) Cash and cash equivalents measured at amortised cost in 2022 have been restated following re-analysis of counterparty credit rating.

208

Financial Statements | Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
S3. FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT
Details of how credit risk is managed across the asset categories are provided below:

(a) Treasury, trading and energy procurement activities
Wholesale counterparty credit exposures are monitored by individual counterparty and by category of credit rating, and are subject to 
approved limits. The Group uses master netting agreements to reduce credit risk and net settles payments with counterparties where net 
settlement provisions exist (see note S6 for details of amounts offset). In addition, the Group employs a variety of other methods to 
mitigate credit risk: margining, various forms of bank and parent company guarantees and letters of credit. 

The vast majority of Group credit risk associated with its treasury, trading and energy procurement activities is with counterparties in 
related energy industries or financial institutions together with smaller exposures to commodity traders and small independent renewable 
producers. The impairment considerations of IFRS 9 are applicable to financial assets arising from treasury, trading and energy 
procurement activities that are carried at amortised cost and debt instruments that are carried at fair value through other comprehensive 
income (FVOCI). Debt instruments measured at FVOCI are not material for further disclosure. 

Included in the table above within receivables including treasury, trading and energy procurement counterparties is £2,155 million (2022: 
£4,525 million) of treasury, trading and energy procurement assets. The Group’s risk assessment procedures and counterparty selection 
process ensure that the credit risk on this type of financial asset is always low at initial recognition.

Included within the table above is information about the exposure to credit risk arising from only certain of the Group’s energy 
procurement contracts – those in the scope of IFRS 9. Whilst the Group manages the credit risk associated with both financial and non-
financial energy procurement contracts, it is the carrying value of financial assets within the scope of IFRS 9 that represents the maximum 
exposure to credit risk in accordance with IFRS 7.

(b) Trade receivables and contract assets 
The simplified approach of measuring lifetime expected credit losses has been applied to trade receivables and contract asset balances, 
which are the focus of this disclosure. Therefore, consideration of the significance of any change in credit risk since initial recognition for 
the purpose of applying this model is not required for any material component of the receivables balance. 

In the case of business customers, credit risk is managed by checking a company’s creditworthiness and financial strength both before 
commencing trade and during the business relationship. For residential customers, creditworthiness is ascertained normally before 
commencing trade to determine the payment mechanism required to reduce credit risk to an acceptable level. Certain customers will only 
be accepted on a prepayment basis or with a security deposit. In some cases, an ageing of receivables is monitored and used to manage 
the exposure to credit risk associated with both business and residential customers. In other cases, credit risk is monitored and managed 
by grouping customers according to method of payment or profile.

Liquidity risk management and going concern
Liquidity risk is the risk that the Group is unable to meet its financial obligations as they fall due. The Group experiences significant 
movements in its liquidity position due primarily to the seasonal nature of its business and margin cash arrangements associated with 
certain wholesale commodity contracts. To mitigate this risk the Group maintains significant committed facilities and holds cash on deposit 
to ensure that there is sufficient liquidity headroom at all points in the seasonal trading cycle of the business. See note 24 for further 
information. 

Financial Statements | Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

209

S3. FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT
Maturity profiles
Maturities of derivative financial instruments, provisions, borrowings and leases are provided in the following tables (all amounts are 
remaining contractual undiscounted cash flows):

Due for payment 2023

Energy and interest derivatives in a loss position that will be 
settled on a net basis (i)

Gross energy procurement contracts and other derivative buy 
trades carried at fair value

Foreign exchange derivatives that will be settled on a gross 
basis:

Outflow

Inflow

Trade and other payables and contract liabilities

Borrowings (bank loans, bonds, overdrafts and interest)

Leases: (ii)

Minimum lease payments

Capital elements of leases

Due for payment 2022

Energy and interest derivatives in a loss position that will be 
settled on a net basis (i)

Gross energy procurement contracts and other derivative buy 
trades carried at fair value

Foreign exchange derivatives that will be settled on a gross 
basis:

Outflow

Inflow

Trade and other payables and contract liabilities

Borrowings (bank loans, bonds, overdrafts and interest)

Leases: (ii)

Minimum lease payments

Capital elements of leases

<1
year
£m

1 to 2 
years
£m

2 to 3
years
£m

3 to 4
years
£m

4 to 5
years
£m

>5
years
£m

(300)   

(80)   

(30)   

(21)   

(17)   

(4,541)   

(2,423)   

(78)   

(35)   

(32)   

(7,783)   

(1,367)   

7,732   

(6,267)   

(924)   

1,360   

(130)   

(593)   

(12,083)   

(3,233)   

(99)   

(98)   

<1
year
£m

(91)   

(80)   

1 to 2 
years
£m

(570)   

570   

(41)   

(183)   

(332)   

(78)   

(68)   

2 to 3
years
£m

(298)   

296   

(20)   

(182)   

(260)   

(44)   

(38)   

3 to 4
years
£m

—   

—   

(2)   

(125)   

(176)   

(25)   

(21)   

4 to 5
years
£m

(47) 

(82) 

— 

— 

(8) 

(3,397) 

(3,534) 

(99) 

(79) 

>5
years
£m

(1,159)   

(146)   

(47)   

(28)   

(18)   

(80) 

(10,490)   

(8,525)   

(4,580)   

(67)   

(47)   

(116) 

(7,748)   

8,027   

(8,930)   

(1,016)   

(1,244)   

1,207   

(113)   

(157)   

(73)   

239   

(24)   

(595)   

(21,316)   

(8,978)   

(5,080)   

(89)   

(88)   

(79)   

(69)   

(70)   

(67)   

—   

20   

(17)   

(185)   

(277)   

(55)   

(51)   

—   

1   

—   

(186)   

(250)   

(26)   

(24)   

— 

— 

— 

(3,575) 

(3,771) 

(29) 

(26) 

(i) Proprietary energy trades are excluded from this maturity analysis as the Group does not take physical delivery of volumes traded under these contracts. The associated 

cash flows are expected to be equal to the contract fair value at the balance sheet date. See note 19 for further details.

(ii) The difference between the total minimum lease payments and the total capital elements of leases is due to future finance charges.

210

Financial Statements | Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
S4. OTHER EQUITY

This section summarises the Group’s other equity reserve movements.

1 January 2022

Actuarial loss

Employee share schemes:

Exercise of awards

Value of services provided

Purchase of own shares

Issue of shares

Share buyback programme:

Purchase of Treasury shares

Accrual for committed share purchases

Impact of cash flow hedging

Taxation on above items

Share of other comprehensive loss of joint ventures 
and associates, net of taxation
Exchange differences on translation of foreign 
operations

Exchange differences reclassified to Group Income 
Statement on disposal

31 December 2022

Actuarial loss

Employee share schemes:

Exercise of awards

Value of services provided

Proceeds from exercise of share options

Share buyback programme:

Purchase of Treasury shares

Movement on accrual for committed share 
purchases

Impact of cash flow hedging

Share of other comprehensive loss of joint ventures 
and associates, net of taxation

Exchange differences on translation of foreign 
operations

Revaluation of FVOCI securities

Taxation on above items

31 December 2023

Cash flow 
hedging 
reserve
£m

Foreign 
currency 
translation 
reserve
£m

Actuarial 
gains and 
losses 
reserve
£m

Financial 
asset at 
FVOCI 
reserve
£m

Treasury 
and own 
shares 
reserve
£m

Share-
based 
payments 
reserve
£m

Merger, 
capital 
redemption 
and other 
reserves
£m

10   

—   

—   

—   

—   

—   

—   

—   

(28)   

8   

(304)   

(1,012)   

—   

(147)   

—   

—   

—   

—   

—   

—   

—   

—   

—   

—   

—   

—   

—   

—   

—   

23   

3   

—   

—   

—   

—   

—   

—   

—   

—   

—   

(18)   

—   

10   

—   

(5)   

(7)   

(43)   

—   

—   

—   

42   

—   

(22)   

10   

—   

—   

—   

—   

—   

—   

527   

—   

—   

—   

—   

—   

—   

(207)   

—   

—   

Total
£m

(752) 

(147) 

(12) 

10 

(5) 

(7) 

(43) 

(207) 

(28) 

31 

—   

—   

(293)   

—   

—   

—   

—   

(293) 

—   

(95)   

—   

—   

—   

—   

—   

(95) 

—   

(10)   

—   

—   

—   

—   

272   

—   

(127)   

(1,429)   

—   

(381)   

—   

—   

—   

—   

—   

—   

—   

3   

—   

—   

—   

—   

—   

(63)   

—   

22   

—   

6   

—   

30   

—   

(20)   

31   

—   

—   

272 

320   

(1,276) 

—   

(381) 

—   

—   

—   

2 

31 

6 

—   

—   

—   

—   

(615)   

—   

—   

(615) 

—   

(3)   

—   

—   

—   

—   

—   

—   

—   

—   

—   

—   

115   

—   

115 

(3) 

—   

—   

(95)   

—   

—   

—   

—   

(95) 

—   

—   

1   

(43)   

—   

—   

—   

—   

93   

(12)   

(170)   

(1,812)   

—   

4   

(1)   

6   

—   

—   

—   

(650)   

—   

—   

6   

47   

—   

—   

—   

(43) 

4 

99 

435   

(2,156) 

Merger, capital redemption and other reserves
During February 1997, BG plc (formerly British Gas plc) demerged certain businesses (grouped together under GB Gas Holdings Limited 
(GBGH)) to form Centrica plc. Upon demerger, the share capital of GBGH was transferred to Centrica plc and was recorded at the 
nominal value of shares issued to BG plc shareholders. In accordance with the Companies Act 1985, no premium was recorded on the 
shares issued. On consolidation, the difference between the nominal value of the Company’s shares issued and the amount of share 
capital and share premium of GBGH at the date of demerger was credited to a merger reserve.

On 8 December 2017, the Group’s existing exploration and production business was combined with that of Bayerngas Norge AS to form 
the Spirit Energy business. The Group acquired 69% of the Spirit Energy business and Bayerngas Norge’s former shareholders acquired 
31%. The non-controlling interest established on acquisition has been based on its share of the carrying value of the combined business, 
with the other reserve representing the difference between the fair value and this carrying value. 

In accordance with the Companies Act, the Company has transferred to the capital redemption reserve an amount equal to the nominal 
value of shares repurchased and subsequently cancelled. As at 31 December 2023 the cumulative nominal value of shares repurchased 
and subsequently cancelled was £28 million (2022: £28 million).

At the year-end, the Group has recognised a financial liability of £94 million relating to the share buyback programme. See Treasury and 
own shares reserve section for more details.

Financial Statements | Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

211

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
S4. OTHER EQUITY
Treasury and own shares reserve
The own shares reserve reflects the cost of shares in the Group held in the Centrica employee share ownership trusts to meet the future 
requirements of the Group’s share-based payment plans.

Treasury shares are acquired equity instruments of the Company. 

On 10 November 2022, the Group announced an intention to undertake a share buyback of £250 million and the Group entered into 
contracts with third parties to undertake this repurchase programme which has now completed. During 2023, the Group firstly increased 
the share buyback by an additional £300 million which completed during the second half of the year. 

Subsequently, in July 2023, the Group announced a further £450 million extension to the share buyback programme and as a result, the 
Group signed an agreement with a third party to undertake the repurchase of £200 million of shares which is expected to complete by 
March 2024. The repurchase of the remaining £250 million of shares is expected to commence in the first half of 2024. See note 3 for 
further details. 

During the year ended 31 December 2023, the Group purchased 512 million ordinary shares, representing approximately 8.7% of the 
issued ordinary share capital at an average price of 120.1 pence per share, and an aggregate cost of £615 million under the share 
buyback programme. Of this £615 million, £613 million has been paid and £2 million relates to shares committed to being purchased at 
31 December 2023 but not yet settled.

A financial liability of £94 million was recognised at 31 December 2023, representing the difference between purchases paid for to date 
under the current tranche, and the maximum potential repurchase under the contract of £200 million.
The monthly breakdown of all shares purchased and the average price paid per share (excluding expenses) in relation to the financial 
liability of £207 million recognised at 31 December 2022 were as follows:

Period

January 2023

February 2023

March 2023

Total

Number
of shares
purchased under
share buyback
programme

44,926,039   

51,825,628 

108,017,252 

204,768,919   

Average price paid
Pence

Total cost
£m

95.4 

100.7

103.7

101.1 

43

52

112  

207  

Authorised
purchases
unutilised at
month end
£m

164

112

— 

— 

The monthly breakdown of all shares purchased and the average price paid per share (excluding expenses) in relation to the additional 
£300 million programme for the year ended 31 December 2023 were as follows:

Period

April 2023

May 2023

June 2023

July 2023

August 2023

September 2023

October 2023

Total

Number
of shares
purchased under
share buyback
programme

43,184,077   

29,309,742 

42,623,172 

54,532,501 

22,378,746 

30,685,854 

12,740,987 

235,455,079   

Average price paid
Pence

Total cost
£m

112.7 

116.5

118.4

119.7

142.3

163.6

153.1

127.4 

49

34

50

65

32

50

20  

300  

Authorised
purchases
unutilised at
month end
£m

251

217

167

102

70

20

— 

— 

The monthly breakdown of all shares purchased and the average price paid per share (excluding expenses) in relation to the further £200 
million programme for the year ended 31 December 2023 were as follows. This includes £2 million relating to shares committed to being 
purchased at 31 December 2023 but not yet settled.

Period

October 2023

November 2023

December 2023

Total

Number
of shares
purchased under
share buyback
programme

17,642,000   

27,672,575 

26,734,872 

72,049,447   

Average price paid
Pence

Total cost
£m

155.8 

151.5

145.4

150.6 

27

42

39  

108  

Authorised
purchases
unutilised at
month end
£m

173

131

92 

92 

212

Financial Statements | Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
S5. HEDGE ACCOUNTING

The Group primarily applies hedge accounting to address interest rate and foreign currency risk on borrowings. 

For the purposes of hedge accounting, hedges are classified either as fair value hedges, cash flow hedges or hedges of 
net investments in foreign operations. 

The fair values of derivatives and primary financial instruments in hedge accounting relationships at 31 December were as follows: 

31 December 

Interest rate risk

Hedge

Fair value

Foreign exchange risk

Cash flow hedge

2023

2022

Assets
£m

Liabilities
£m

—   

36  

(136)   

(18)   

Change in
fair value
£m

48 

(13) 

Assets
£m

Liabilities
£m

37   

37  

(221)   

(6)   

Change in
fair value
£m

(228) 

(10) 

Cumulative
amount of 
fair value 
hedge
adjustments 
on hedged 
item
£m

Accumulated 
(losses)/gains 
in equity (i)
£m

Change in
fair value
of hedged item
in year
£m

(59)   

138 

N/A

Hedged item
Bonds (ii)

2023

Interest rate risk

Hedge

Fair value

Timing of
nominal 
amount

2025-2033

Foreign exchange risk

Cash flow hedge

2032

Cash flow hedge

2036-2038

Average rate Nominal value

£50 million-
£550 million

Fixed to 
floating
at Fallback 
LIBOR + 
2%-5%

GBP to euro
at 1.171

GBP to yen
at 158.87

€50 million Euro bonds  

¥20 billion

Yen bank
loans

(1) 

7 

N/A  

3 

N/A  

(21) 

2022

Interest rate risk

Hedge

Fair value

Timing of
nominal 
amount

Average rate

Nominal value

2022-2033 Fixed to floating
at LIBOR/US
IBOR + 1%-5%

£50 million-
£550 million,
$250 million

Hedged item
Bonds (ii)

Change in
fair value
of hedged item
in year
£m

Cumulative
amount of fair
value hedge
adjustments on
hedged item
£m

Accumulated
gains/(losses) in
equity (i)
£m

228   

158 

N/A

Foreign exchange risk

Cash flow hedge

2032

Cash flow hedge

2036-2038

GBP to euro
at 1.171

GBP to yen
at 157.33

€50 million

Euro bonds  

¥20 billion

Yen bank
loans

7 

3 

N/A  

N/A  

26 

(23) 

In the years presented all amounts related to continuing cash flow hedge relationships.

(i)
(ii) The carrying amount of bonds designated as hedged items in hedging relationships is disclosed in note 24.

The Group’s accounting policies in relation to derivatives qualifying for hedge accounting under IAS 39 are described below.
Fair value hedges 
A derivative is designated as a hedging instrument and its relationship to a recognised asset or liability is classified as a fair value hedge 
when it hedges the exposure to changes in the fair value of that recognised asset or liability. The Group’s fair value hedges consist of 
interest rate swaps used to protect against changes in the fair value of fixed-rate, long-term debt due to movements in market interest 
rates. Any gain or loss from re-measuring the hedging instrument to fair value is recognised immediately in the Group Income Statement 
in net finance cost. Any gain or loss on the hedged item attributable to the hedged risk is adjusted against the carrying amount of the 
hedged item and recognised in the Group Income Statement within net finance cost. The Group discontinues fair value hedge accounting 
if the hedging instrument expires or is sold, terminated or exercised, the hedge no longer qualifies for hedge accounting or the Group 
revokes the designation. Any adjustment to the carrying amount of a hedged financial instrument for which the effective interest method is 
used is amortised to the Group Income Statement. Amortisation may begin as soon as an adjustment exists and begins no later than 
when the hedged item ceases to be adjusted for changes in its fair value attributable to the risk being hedged.

Financial Statements | Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

213

 
 
 
 
 
 
Cash flow hedges 
A derivative is classified as a cash flow hedge when it hedges exposure to variability in cash flows that is attributable to a particular risk 
associated with a recognised asset, liability or a highly probable forecast transaction. The Group’s cash flow hedges consist primarily of: 

¢ Forward foreign exchange contracts used to protect against the variability of functional currency denominated cash flows associated 

with non-functional currency denominated highly probable forecast transactions; and

¢ Cross-currency interest rate swaps and forward foreign exchange contracts used to protect against the variability in cash flows 

associated with borrowings denominated in non-functional currencies.

The portion of the gain or loss on the hedging instrument which is effective is recognised directly in equity while any ineffectiveness is 
recognised in the Group Income Statement. The Group does not have any material sources of ineffectiveness. The gains or losses that are 
initially recognised in the cash flow hedging reserve through other comprehensive income are transferred to the Group Income Statement 
in the period in which the hedged item affects profit or loss. Hedge accounting is discontinued when the hedging instrument expires or is 
sold, terminated or exercised without replacement or rollover, no longer qualifies for hedge accounting or the Group revokes the 
designation. At that point in time, any cumulative gain or loss on the hedging instrument recognised in equity remains in equity until the 
hedged transaction occurs. If the transaction is no longer expected to occur, the cumulative gain or loss recognised in equity is 
recognised in the Group Income Statement. Note S4 details movements in the cash flow hedging reserve. 

214

Financial Statements | Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

 
S6. FAIR VALUE OF FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS

The fair value of a financial instrument is the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability 
in an orderly transaction between market participants at the measurement date. The Group has documented internal 
policies for determining fair value, including methodologies used to establish valuation adjustments required for 
credit risk.

(a)  Fair value hierarchy

Financial assets and financial liabilities measured and held at fair value are classified into one of three categories, known as hierarchy 
levels, which are defined according to the inputs used to measure fair value as follows:

¢ Level 1: fair value is determined using observable inputs that reflect unadjusted quoted market prices for identical assets and liabilities;

¢ Level 2: fair value is determined using significant inputs that may be directly observable inputs or unobservable inputs that are 

corroborated by market data; and

¢ Level 3: fair value is determined using significant unobservable inputs that are not corroborated by market data and may be used with 

internally developed methodologies that result in management’s best estimate of fair value.

31 December 

Financial assets

Derivative financial instruments:

Energy derivatives

Interest rate derivatives

Foreign exchange derivatives

Debt instruments

Equity instruments

Contingent consideration receivable

Cash and cash equivalents

Total financial assets at fair value

Financial liabilities

Derivative financial instruments:

Energy derivatives

Interest rate derivatives

Foreign exchange derivatives

Contingent consideration payable

Total financial liabilities at fair value

2023

2022

Level 1
£m

Level 2
£m

Level 3
£m

Total
£m

Level 1
£m

Level 2
£m

Level 3
£m

Total
£m

2,995   

156   

3,151 

—   

—   

—   

72   

32   

—   

—   

—   

121   

—   

—   

—   

4,859   

—   

—   

1   

60   

—   

—   

104   

7,975   

217   

— 

121 

73 

92 

— 

4,859 

8,296 

—   

—   

—   

—   

—   

(2,436)   

(272)   

(2,708) 

(136)   

(162)   

—   

—   

—   

(123)   

(136) 

(162) 

(123) 

(2,734)   

(395)   

(3,129) 

—   

—   

—   

66   

29   

—   

—   

95   

—   

—   

—   

—   

—   

6,486   

592   

7,078 

37   

312   

—   

9   

26   

2,978   

9,848   

—   

—   

1   

17   

—   

—   

37 

312 

67 

55 

26 

2,978 

610   

10,553 

(8,806)   

(850)   

(9,656) 

(221)   

(274)   

—   

—   

—   

(96)   

(221) 

(274) 

(96) 

(9,301)   

(946)   

(10,247) 

The reconciliation of the Level 3 fair value measurements during the year is as follows:

Level 3 financial instruments

1 January 

Total realised and unrealised (losses)/gains:

Recognised in Group Income Statement

Recognised in Other Comprehensive Income

Net movement in contingent consideration liability

Purchases, sales, issuances and settlements (net)
Transfers between Level 3 and Level 2 (i)

Foreign exchange movements

31 December

Total (losses)/gains for the year for Level 3 financial instruments 
held at the end of the reporting period

(i) Transfers between levels are deemed to occur at the beginning of the reporting year.

2023

Financial
 assets
£m

Financial 
liabilities
£m

2022

Financial 
assets
£m

Financial 
liabilities
£m

610   

(946) 

501   

(290) 

(297)   

(1)   

—   

2   

(96)   

(1)   

217   

252 

— 

(27) 

194 

131 

1 

(395) 

10   

—   

—   

(4)   

101   

2   

610   

(784) 

— 

(96) 

— 

224 

— 

(946) 

(297)   

252 

10   

(784) 

(b) Valuation techniques used to derive Level 2 and Level 3 fair values and Group valuation process 

Level 2 interest rate derivatives and foreign exchange derivatives comprise interest rate swaps and forward foreign exchange contracts. 
Interest rate swaps are fair valued using forward interest rates extracted from observable yield curves. Forward foreign exchange contracts 
are fair valued using forward exchange rates that are quoted in an active market, with the resulting market value discounted back to 
present value using observable yield curves.

Financial Statements | Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

215

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Level 2 energy derivatives are fair valued by comparing and discounting the difference between the expected contractual cash flows for 
the relevant commodities and the quoted prices for those commodities in an active market. The average discount rate applied to value this 
type of contract during the year was 5% per annum (2022: average discount rate of 5% per annum).

For Level 3 energy derivatives, the main input used by the Group pertains to deriving expected future commodity prices in markets that 
are not active as far into the future as some of our contractual terms. This applies to certain contracts within Europe and North America. 
Fair values are then calculated by comparing and discounting the difference between the expected contractual cash flows and these 
derived future prices using an average discount rate of 5% (Europe) and 5% (North America) per annum (2022: average discount rate of 
5% (Europe) and 5% (North America) per annum).

Active period of markets

UK (years)

Gas

4

Power

4

Coal

Emissions

3

3

Oil

3

Because the Level 3 energy derivative valuations involve the prediction of future commodity market prices, sometimes a long way into the 
future, reasonably possible alternative assumptions for gas, power, coal, emissions or oil prices may result in a higher or lower fair value for 
Level 3 financial instruments. The impact of reasonably possible changes in commodity prices on profit and loss are included in note S3. 
Other than commodity prices there are no other unobservable inputs which would have a material impact.

It should be noted that the fair values disclosed in the tables above only concern those contracts entered into that are within the scope of 
IFRS 9. The Group has numerous other commodity contracts that are outside of the scope of IFRS 9 and are not fair valued. The Group’s 
actual exposure to market rates is constantly changing as the Group’s portfolio of energy contracts changes. 

The Group’s valuation process includes specific teams of individuals that perform valuations of the Group’s derivatives for financial 
reporting purposes, including Level 3 valuations. The Group has an independent team that derives future commodity price curves based 
on available external data and these prices feed into the energy derivative valuations, subject to adjustments to ensure they are compliant 
with IFRS 13 ‘Fair Value Measurement’. The price curves are subject to review and approval by the Group’s Executive Committee and 
valuations of all derivatives, together with other contracts that are not within the scope of IFRS 9, are also reviewed regularly as part of the 
overall risk management process. The Group adjusts the market value of derivative instruments to account for counterparty credit risk and 
corresponding possibility of a counterparty default preventing full realisation of the risk-free market value of the derivative. The Group 
estimates Credit Valuation Adjustments by computing an expected evolution of the market value of a counterpart’s derivatives portfolio 
over the life of the contracts weighted by the probability of a default and an assumption of the market value recoverable in the event of 
a default. The default probability is calibrated to the price of Credit Default Swaps – a debt instrument reflecting the insurance premium 
payable to protect against a debtor’s default. Debit valuation adjustments are the amount added back to the derivative value to account 
for the expected gain from the Group’s own default and are calculated using a similar methodology with reference to the Group’s own 
probability of default.

Where the fair value at initial recognition for contracts which have significant unobservable inputs and the fair value differs from the 
transaction price, a day-one gain or loss will arise. These deferred gains are presented net against respective derivative assets and 
derivative liabilities. Such gains and losses are deferred and amortised to the Group Income Statement based on volumes purchased or 
delivered over the contractual period until such time as observable market data becomes available (see note S2 for further detail). The 
amount that has yet to be recognised in the Group Income Statement relating to the differences between the transaction prices and the 
amounts that would have arisen had valuation techniques used for subsequent measurement been applied at initial recognition, less 
subsequent releases, is as follows: 

Day-one gains deferred

1 January 

Net gains deferred on transactions in the year

Net amounts recognised in Group Income Statement

Exchange differences

31 December 

2023
£m

304   

98   

(254)   

(6)   

142   

2022
£m

90 

401 

(195) 

8 

304 

(c) Fair value of financial assets and liabilities held at amortised cost 

The carrying value of the Group’s financial assets and liabilities measured at amortised cost are approximately equal to their fair value 
except as listed below:

31 December
Bonds 

Level 1

Level 2

Notes

Carrying value
£m

2023

Fair value
£m

Fair value 
hierarchy

Carrying value
£m

2022

Fair value
£m

24  

24  

(2,594)   

(2,769) 

(71)   

(79) 

Level 1

Level 2

(2,805)   

(2,840) 

(69)   

(79) 

Fair value 
hierarchy

Level 1

Level 2

Bank borrowings
The fair values of bonds classified as Level 1 within the fair value hierarchy are calculated using quoted market prices. The fair values of 
Level 2 bonds have been determined by discounting cash flows with reference to relevant market rates of interest. The fair values of 
overdrafts and bank loans are assumed to materially equal their carrying values.

Other financial instruments
Due to their nature and/or short-term maturity, the fair values of trade and other receivables, cash and cash equivalents, trade and other 
payables, other borrowings and securities held at amortised cost are estimated to approximate their carrying values.

216

Financial Statements | Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
S6. FAIR VALUE OF FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS
(d) Financial assets and liabilities subject to offsetting, master netting arrangements and similar 

arrangements

31 December 2023

Derivative financial assets

Derivative financial liabilities

Balances arising from commodity contracts:

Accrued and unbilled downstream and energy income  

Accruals for commodity costs

Cash and financing arrangements:

Cash and cash equivalents

Bank loans and overdrafts

Related amounts not offset in 
the Group Balance Sheet (i)

Gross 
amounts
of recognised
financial 
instruments
£m

Gross amounts of
recognised financial
instruments offset 
in the Group
Balance Sheet
£m

Net amounts 
presented
in the Group
Balance Sheet
£m

Financial
instruments
£m

Collateral
£m

Net amount
£m

9,883   

(9,617)   

(6,611)   

6,611   

3,272   

(3,006)   

266 

(77)   

77   

(184)   

260   

7,067   

(6,684)   

6,443   

(944)   

(4,220)   

4,220   

2,847   

(2,464)   

(2)   

2   

—   

—   

6,443   

(944)   

(814)   

814   

—   

—   

—   

—   

3,011 

(2,669) 

342 

2,845 

(2,462) 

5,629 

(130) 

Related amounts not offset in the 
Group Balance Sheet (i)

Gross amounts
of recognised
financial 
instruments
£m

Gross amounts of
recognised financial
instruments offset 
in the Group
Balance Sheet
£m

Net amounts 
presented
in the Group
Balance Sheet
£m

Financial
instruments
£m

Collateral
£m

Net amount
£m

28,019   

(30,743)   

(20,592)   

7,427   

20,592   

(10,151)   

(956)   

956   

(601)   

1,154   

(2,724) 

31 December 2022

Derivative financial assets

Derivative financial liabilities

5,870 

(8,041) 

(2,171) 

4,072 

(4,749) 

4,242 

(143) 

Balances arising from commodity contracts:

Accrued and unbilled downstream and energy income  

12,751   

Accruals for commodity costs

Cash and financing arrangements:

Cash and cash equivalents

Bank loans and overdrafts

(13,428)   

4,842   

(743)   

(8,057)   

8,057   

4,694   

(5,371)   

—   

—   

4,842   

(743)   

(622)   

622   

(600)   

600   

—   

—   

—   

—   

(i) The Group has arrangements in place with various counterparties in respect of commodity trades which provide for a single net settlement of all financial instruments 

covered by the arrangement in the event of default or termination, or other circumstances arising whereby either party is unable to meet its obligations. The above table 
shows the potential impact of these arrangements being enforced by offsetting the relevant amounts within each Group Balance Sheet class of asset or liability, but does 
not show the impact of offsetting across Group Balance Sheet classes where the offsetting Group Balance Sheet class is not included within the above table.

Financial Statements | Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

217

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
S7. FIXED-FEE SERVICE AND INSURANCE CONTRACTS

This section includes fixed-fee service (FFS) and insurance contract disclosures for services related to British Gas.

FFS non-insurance contracts in the UK are entered into with home services customers by British Gas Services Limited. FFS insurance 
contracts in the UK are entered into with home services customers by British Gas Insurance Limited, authorised by the PRA and regulated 
by the FCA and the PRA.

Product offerings include central heating, boiler and controls, plumbing and drains and electrical appliance insurance cover. Insurance 
contracts normally provide cover for twelve months with the option of renewal.

The contracts that protect policyholders against the risk of breakdowns result in risk transfer to the contract provider. Benefits provided to 
customers vary in accordance with terms and conditions of the contracts entered into. However, they generally include maintenance, 
repair and/or replacement of the items affected.

IFRS 17 ‘Insurance contracts’ became effective on 1 January 2023 and replaced the existing insurance standard, IFRS 4. FFS insurance 
contracts fall within the scope of IFRS 17 where the Group reflects an assessment of the risk associated with an individual customer in 
setting the price of the contract, this captures materially all the Group’s insurance contracts. The Group applies the simplified ‘Premium 
Allocation Approach’ to its contracts on the basis that the coverage period of the Group’s insurance contracts is not greater than one 
year. The implementation of IFRS 17 has not caused any material accounting changes to the Group, see note 1.

The levels of risk exposure and service provision to customers under the contract terms depend on the occurrence of uncertain future 
events, particularly the nature and frequency of faults, and the cost of repair or replacement of the items affected. Accordingly, the 
timing and the amount of future cash outflows associated with the contracts is uncertain. As the Group’s insurance contract portfolio is 
comprised of a large number of contracts with small individual values, a high volume of claims with relatively low unit cost results. The 
characteristics of the business mean that material concentrations or aggregations of risk are relatively remote. The key terms and 
conditions that affect future cash flows are as follows:

¢ Provision of labour and parts for repairs, dependent on the agreement and associated level of service;
¢ A specified number of safety and maintenance inspections are carried out as set out in the agreement (usually once a year);
¢ No limit to the number of call-outs to carry out repair work; and 
¢ Limits on certain maintenance and repair costs. 

The most significant insurance risk is an extreme weather event for an extended period, which has the propensity to increase claim 
frequencies. The Group regularly assesses insurance risk sensitivities, the most significant relating to increases in breakdown frequency 
and increases in the average cost of repair. A reasonably possible increase in either would not have a material impact on the results of 
the Group.

Revenue is recognised over the life of contracts (usually a twelve month period) regarding the incidence of risk, in particular the seasonal 
propensity of claims that span the life of the contract as a result of emergency maintenance being available throughout the contract term. 
Costs incurred to settle claims represent principally the engineer workforce employed by the Group within home services and the cost of 
parts utilised in repair or maintenance. Revenue is accounted for over a twelve month period in accordance with the premium allocation 
approach required by IFRS 17, with adjustments made to reflect the seasonality of workload over a given year. Claims frequency is 
sensitive to the reliability of appliances as well as the impact of weather conditions. The contracts are not exposed to any interest rate risk 
or significant credit risk and do not contain any embedded derivatives.

Weather conditions and the seasonality of repairs both affect the profile of the workload and associated costs incurred across the year.

The risk exposure of these uncertain events is actively managed by undertaking the following risk mitigation activities:

¢ An initial service visit is provided to customers taking up most central heating contracts and in some instances pre-existing faults may 

lead to the contract being cancelled and no further cover being provided;

¢ An annual maintenance inspection is performed as part of most central heating contracts to help identify and prevent issues developing 

into significant maintenance or breakdown claims; and

¢ Contract limits are applied to certain types of maintenance and repair work considered to be higher risk in terms of frequency and cost.

The costs of FFS insurance claims was £nil (2022: £2 million) and revenue earned from FFS insurance contracts in the scope of IFRS15 
was £nil (2022: £5 million). The cost of insurance claims incurred during the year was £240 million (2022: £290 million) and is included in 
the table below in ‘Insurance services cost of sales’. Due to the short average lead time between claims occurrence and settlement, no 
material provisions were outstanding at the balance sheet date in 2023 or 2022.

31 December 

Insurance services revenue

Insurance services cost of sales

Insurance services operating costs

Insurance contract liabilities:

Liabilities for incurred claims (LIC)

Liability for remaining coverage (LRC)

2023
£m

813   

(475)   

(294)   

(126)   

(39)   

2022
£m

852 

(582) 

(264) 

(124) 

(36) 

218

Financial Statements | Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

 
 
 
 
 
 
S8. RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS

The Group’s principal related party is its investment in Lake Acquisitions Limited, which owns the existing UK nuclear 
fleet. The disclosures below, including comparatives, only refer to related parties that were related in the current 
reporting period.

During the year, the Group entered into the following arm’s length transactions with related parties who are not members of the Group, 
and had the following associated balances:

31 December 

Associates:

Nuclear

Joint ventures

2023

2022

Purchase of 
goods and 
services
£m

Amounts 
owed to
£m

Purchase of 
goods and 
services
£m

Amounts 
owed to
£m

(655)   

(1)   

(656)   

(94) 

— 

(94) 

(564)   

—   

(564)   

(102) 

— 

(102) 

During the year, there were no material changes to commitments in relation to joint ventures and associates. 

At the balance sheet date, the Group had committed facilities to the Lake Acquisition Group totalling £120 million (2022: £120 million), 
although nothing has been drawn at 31 December 2023.

Remuneration of key management personnel

Year ended 31 December 

Short-term benefits

Post-employment benefits

Share-based payments

2023
£m

5.0   

0.2   

4.6   

9.8   

2022
£m

4.4 

0.1 

4.1 

8.6 

Key management personnel comprise members of the Board and Executive Committee, a total of 14 individuals at 31 December 2023 
(2022: 11).

Remuneration of the Directors of Centrica plc

Year ended 31 December 
Total emoluments (i)

Amounts receivable under long-term incentive schemes

Contributions into pension schemes

2023
£m

4.6  

7.7   

0.1   

12.4   

2022
£m

3.2 

2.3 

— 

5.5 

(i)

 These emoluments were paid for services performed on behalf of the Group. No emoluments related specifically to services performed for the Company. 

Directors’ interests in shares are given in the Remuneration Report on pages 84 to 109. 

Financial Statements | Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

219

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
S9. AUDITORS’ REMUNERATION

Year ended 31 December 

Fees payable to the Company’s auditors for:

Audit of the Company's individual and consolidated Financial Statements

Audit of the Company’s subsidiaries

Total fees related to the audit of the parent and subsidiary entities

Fees payable to the Company’s auditors and its associates for other services:

Audit-related assurance services (i)

Total fees
Fees in respect of pension scheme audits (ii)

(i) Predominantly relates to the review of the condensed interim Financial Statements.
(ii) The pension scheme audit continues to be performed by PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP.

2023
£m

2022
£m

5.8   

2.0   

7.8   

0.7   

8.5   

0.1   

4.8 

1.7 

6.5 

0.9 

7.4 

0.1 

220

Financial Statements | Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
S10. RELATED UNDERTAKINGS

The Group has a large number of related undertakings principally in the UK, US, Canada, Denmark, the Netherlands and 
the Republic of Ireland. These are listed below.

(a)

Subsidiary undertakings

Investments held directly by Centrica plc with 100% voting rights

31 December 2023

Centrica Beta Holdings Limited

Centrica Ireland Holdings Limited
CH4 Energy Limited (ii)
Rhodes Holdings HK Limited

Principal activity

Country of incorporation/

registered address key (i)

Class of shares held

Holding company

United Kingdom A

Ordinary shares

Holding company Republic of Ireland

B

Ordinary shares

Dormant

United Kingdom A

Ordinary shares

Non-trading

Hong Kong

C

Ordinary shares

Investments held indirectly by Centrica plc with 100% voting rights

31 December 2023
Accord Energy (Trading) Limited (ii)

Alertme.com GmbH

Astrum Solar, Inc.
Blandford Hill Eco Hub Limited (iii)

Bord Gáis Energy Limited

Bord Gáis Energy Trustees DAC

British Gas Finance Limited

British Gas Insurance Limited

British Gas Limited

British Gas New Heating Limited

British Gas Services (Commercial) Limited

British Gas Services Limited

Principal activity

Country of incorporation/

registered address key (i)

Class of shares held

Dormant

United Kingdom A

Ordinary shares

In liquidation

Germany

Home and/or commercial services

United States

D

E

Ordinary shares

Ordinary shares

Building solar farm & connecting to grid

United Kingdom A

Ordinary shares

Energy supply and power generation Republic of Ireland

Pension trustee company Republic of Ireland

B

B

Ordinary shares

Ordinary shares

Vehicle leasing

United Kingdom A

Ordinary shares

Insurance provision

United Kingdom A

Ordinary shares

Energy supply

United Kingdom A

Ordinary shares

Electrical and gas installations

United Kingdom A

Ordinary shares

Non-trading

United Kingdom A

Ordinary shares

Home services

United Kingdom A

Ordinary shares

British Gas Social Housing Limited

Servicing and installation of heating systems

United Kingdom A

Ordinary shares

British Gas Trading Limited

British Gas X Limited

Caythorpe Gas Storage Limited

CBS Energy Assets Belgium B.V. 
CBS Energy Storage Assets UK Limited (iv)
CBS Services Holdings Limited (iv)

CBS Solar Assets UK Limited 
CEA SLH Limited (iii) (iv)

Centrica (Lincs) Wind Farm Limited

Centrica Barry Limited

Centrica Business Holdings Inc.

Energy supply

United Kingdom A

Ordinary shares

Dormant

United Kingdom A

Ordinary shares

Gas storage

United Kingdom F

Ordinary shares

Construction of battery storage

Belgium G

Ordinary shares

Construction of battery storage

United Kingdom A

Ordinary shares

Holding company

United Kingdom A

Ordinary shares

Building solar farm & connecting to grid

United Kingdom A

Ordinary shares

Construction of gas peaker

United Kingdom A

Ordinary shares

Dormant

United Kingdom A

Ordinary shares

Power generation

United Kingdom A

Ordinary shares

Holding company

United States

H

Ordinary shares

Centrica Business Solutions (Generation) Limited

Power generation

United Kingdom A

Ordinary shares

Centrica Business Solutions B.V.

Energy management products and services

Netherlands

I

Ordinary shares

Centrica Business Solutions Belgium NV

Demand response aggregation

Belgium G

Ordinary shares

Centrica Business Solutions Canada Inc.

Energy management products and services

Centrica Business Solutions Deutschland GmbH

Centrica Business Solutions France SASU

Centrica Business Solutions International Limited

Demand response aggregation

Demand response aggregation

Canada

Germany

France

J

K

L

Ordinary shares

Ordinary shares

Ordinary shares

Dormant

United Kingdom A

Ordinary shares

Centrica Business Solutions Ireland Limited

Energy management products and services Republic of Ireland

B

Ordinary shares

Centrica Business Solutions Italia Srl

Energy management products and services

Italy M

Ordinary shares

Centrica Business Solutions Management Limited

Holding company

United Kingdom A

Ordinary shares

Financial Statements | Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

221

S10. RELATED UNDERTAKINGS

31 December 2023

Principal activity

Country of incorporation/ 
registered address key (i)

Class of shares held

Centrica Business Solutions Romania Srl

Energy management products and services

Romania

N

Ordinary shares

Centrica Business Solutions Services, Inc.

Energy management products and services

United States O

Ordinary shares

Centrica Business Solutions UK Limited

Energy management products and services

United Kingdom A

Ordinary shares

Centrica Business Solutions UK Optimisation 
Limited

Demand response aggregation

United Kingdom A

Ordinary shares

Centrica Business Solutions US, Inc.

Energy management products and services

United States O

Ordinary shares

Centrica Business Solutions Zrt

Energy management products and services

Hungary

P

Ordinary shares

Centrica Combined Common Investment Fund 
Limited

Centrica Directors Limited

Centrica Distributed Generation Limited
Centrica Energy Assets Holdings Limited (iv)
Centrica Energy Limited

Centrica Energy Marketing Limited
Centrica Energy Renewable Investments Limited (ii)
Centrica Energy Storage Limited (iv)
Centrica Energy Trading A/S

Dormant

United Kingdom A

Ordinary shares

Dormant

United Kingdom A

Ordinary shares

Power generation

United Kingdom A

Ordinary shares

Power generation

United Kingdom A

Ordinary shares

Wholesale energy trading

United Kingdom A

Ordinary shares

Wholesale energy trading

United Kingdom A

Ordinary shares

Dormant

United Kingdom A

Ordinary shares

Gas production and processing

United Kingdom F

Ordinary shares

Energy services and wholesale energy trading

Denmark Q

Ordinary shares

Centrica Energy Trading GmbH

Centrica Energy Trading Pte. Ltd

Energy services and wholesale energy trading

Energy services and wholesale energy trading

Germany

Singapore

R

S

Ordinary shares

Ordinary shares

Centrica Engineers Pension Trustees Limited

Dormant

United Kingdom A

Ordinary shares

Centrica Finance (Scotland) Limited

Centrica Finance Investments Limited

Centrica Finance Norway Limited

Centrica Gamma Holdings Limited

Centrica Hive Limited

Centrica Hive Srl
Centrica Holdings Limited (v)
Centrica Ignite GP Limited

Centrica Ignite LP Limited

Centrica India Offshore Private Limited

Centrica Innovations UK Limited

Centrica Innovations US, Inc.

Centrica Insurance Company Limited

Centrica Lake Limited

Centrica LNG Company Limited

Centrica LNG UK Limited

Centrica Nederland B.V.

Centrica Nigeria Limited
Centrica Nominees No.1 Limited (ii)
Centrica Offshore UK Limited
Centrica Onshore Processing UK Limited (ii)
Centrica Overseas Holdings Limited

Centrica Pension Plan Trustees Limited

Centrica Pension Trustees Limited

Centrica Production Limited

Centrica Resources (Nigeria) Limited

Centrica Secretaries Limited

Centrica Services Limited
Centrica Smart Meter Assets Limited (iii)

Holding company

United Kingdom T

Ordinary shares

Holding company

United Kingdom A

Ordinary shares

Dormant

Jersey

U

Ordinary shares

Holding company

United Kingdom A

Ordinary shares

Energy management products and services

United Kingdom A

Ordinary shares

Energy management products and services

Italy

V

Ordinary shares

Holding company

United Kingdom A

Ordinary shares

Investment company

United Kingdom A

Ordinary shares

Investment company

United Kingdom A

Ordinary shares

Business services

India W

Ordinary shares

Investment company

United Kingdom A

Ordinary shares

Investment company

United States O

Ordinary shares

Insurance provision

Isle of Man

X

Ordinary and 
preference shares

Holding company

United Kingdom A

Ordinary shares

LNG trading

United Kingdom A

Ordinary shares

LNG trading

United Kingdom A

Ordinary shares

Holding company

Netherlands

I

Ordinary shares

Holding company

United Kingdom A

Ordinary shares

Dormant

United Kingdom A

Ordinary shares

Gas and/or liquid exploration and production

United Kingdom F

Ordinary shares

Dormant

United Kingdom F

Ordinary shares

Holding company

United Kingdom A

Ordinary shares

Dormant

United Kingdom A

Limited by guarantee

Dormant

United Kingdom A

Ordinary shares

Dormant

United Kingdom T

Ordinary shares

Non-trading

Nigeria

Y

Ordinary shares

Dormant

United Kingdom A

Ordinary shares

Business services

United Kingdom A

Ordinary shares

Metering assets and services

United Kingdom A

Ordinary shares

222

Financial Statements | Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

 
S10. RELATED UNDERTAKINGS

31 December 2023

Centrica Storage Holdings Limited

Centrica Titan Limited

Centrica Trading Limited

Centrica Trinidad and Tobago Limited

Centrica Trust (No.1) Limited

DEML Investments Limited

DER Development No.10 Ltd.

Principal activity

Country of incorporation/ 
registered address key (i)

Class of shares held

Holding company

United Kingdom F

Ordinary shares

Dormant

United Kingdom A

Ordinary shares

Dormant

United Kingdom A

Ordinary shares

Business services

Trinidad and 
Tobago

Z

Ordinary shares

Dormant

United Kingdom A

Ordinary shares

Holding company

Holding company

Canada

Canada

J

J

Ordinary shares

Ordinary shares

Distributed Energy Customer Solutions Limited

Energy management products and services

United Kingdom A

Ordinary shares

Dyno-Rod Limited

ECL Contracts Limited

ECL Investments Limited
Electricity Direct (UK) Limited (ii)
ENER-G Nagykanizsa Kft

ENER-G Rudox, LLC

Energy For Tomorrow

GB Gas Holdings Limited

Generation Green Solar Limited
GF One Limited (vi)
GF Two Limited (vi)
Goldbrand Development Limited (ii)
Greener Ideas Limited (vii)

Home Assistance UK Limited
Leicestershire Solar 1 Limited (iii)
Neas Energy Limited

Neas Invest A/S

P.H Jones Group Limited
P&M Energy Ltd (iii)
Panoramic Power Ltd.

Pioneer Shipping Limited
SN12 6EF Limited (iii)
South Energy Investments, LLC

Vista Solar, Inc.

Operation of a franchise network

United Kingdom A

Ordinary shares

Dormant

United Kingdom A

Ordinary shares

Dormant

United Kingdom A

Ordinary shares

Dormant

United Kingdom A

Ordinary shares

Energy management products and services

Hungary

P

Ordinary shares

Energy management products and services

United States O Membership interest

Not-for-profit energy services

United Kingdom A

Limited by guarantee

Holding company

United Kingdom A

Ordinary shares

Dormant community benefit society

United Kingdom A

Ordinary shares

In liquidation

United Kingdom AA

Ordinary shares

In liquidation

United Kingdom AA

Ordinary shares

Dormant

United Kingdom A

Ordinary shares

Development of flexible power generation 
sites

Republic of Ireland

B

Ordinary shares

Dormant

United Kingdom A

Ordinary shares

Building solar farm and connecting to grid

United Kingdom A

Ordinary shares

Energy services and wholesale energy trading

United Kingdom A

Ordinary shares

Dormant

Denmark Q

Ordinary shares

Holding company

United Kingdom A

Ordinary shares

Construction of battery storage

United Kingdom T

Ordinary shares

Energy management products and services

Israel AB

Ordinary shares

LNG vessel chartering

United Kingdom A

Ordinary shares

Power generation

United Kingdom A

Ordinary shares

Investment company

United States AC Membership interest

Distributed energy and power

United States AD

Ordinary shares

Financial Statements | Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

223

S10. RELATED UNDERTAKINGS
Investments held indirectly by Centrica plc with 69% voting rights

31 December 2023

Principal activity

Country of incorporation/

registered address key (i)

Bowland Resources Limited

Gas and/or liquid exploration and production

United Kingdom

Bowland Resources (No.2) Limited

Gas and/or liquid exploration and production

United Kingdom

Gas and/or liquid exploration and production

United Kingdom

Class of shares held

Ordinary shares

Ordinary shares

Ordinary shares

A

A

A

Elswick Energy Limited
Spirit Energy Hedging Holding Limited (viii)

Spirit Energy Hedging Limited (viii)
Spirit Energy Limited

Dormant

Dormant

United Kingdom AE

Ordinary shares

United Kingdom AE

Ordinary shares

Holding company

United Kingdom

A

Ordinary and 
deferred shares

Spirit Energy Nederland B.V.

Gas and/or liquid exploration and production

Netherlands

Spirit Energy North Sea Limited

Gas and/or liquid exploration and production

United Kingdom

AF

A

Ordinary Shares

Ordinary shares

Spirit Energy North Sea Oil Limited

Gas and/or liquid exploration and production

United Kingdom AG

Ordinary shares

Spirit Energy Norway AS

Gas and/or liquid exploration and production

Norway

AH

Ordinary shares

Spirit Energy Production UK Limited

Gas and/or liquid exploration and production

United Kingdom

Spirit Energy Resources Limited

Gas and/or liquid exploration and production

United Kingdom

Spirit Energy Southern North Sea Limited

Gas and/or liquid exploration and production

United Kingdom

Spirit Energy Treasury Limited

Spirit Europe Limited

Spirit Infrastructure B.V.

Spirit North Sea Gas Limited

Spirit Norway Holdings AS

Spirit Norway Limited

Finance company

United Kingdom

Holding company

United Kingdom

Construction, ownership and exploitation of 
infrastructure

Netherlands

AF

Ordinary shares

Gas and/or liquid exploration and production

United Kingdom AG

Ordinary shares

Gas and/or liquid exploration and production

United Kingdom

Dormant

Norway

AI

A

Ordinary shares

Ordinary shares

A

A

A

A

A

Ordinary shares

Ordinary shares

Ordinary shares

Ordinary shares

Ordinary shares

Spirit Production (Services) Limited

Business services

United Kingdom AG

Ordinary shares

Spirit Resources (Armada) Limited

Gas and/or liquid exploration and production

United Kingdom

A

Ordinary shares

 For list of registered addresses, refer to note S10(d).
 Active proposal to strike off. 
 Incorporated or acquired in 2023.

(i)
(ii)
(iii)
(iv)  The following name changes were made during the year:

– Centrica Brigg Limited to CBS Energy Storage Assets UK Limited
– ENER-G Cogen International Limited to CBS Services Holdings Limited
– EL (SLH CM) Limited to CEA SLH Limited
– Centrica KPS Limited to Centrica Energy Assets Holdings Limited 
– Centrica Storage Limited to Centrica Energy Storage Limited
 Centrica Holdings Limited moved from being a direct to indirect subsidiary during the year.

(v)
(vi)  GF One Limited and GF Two Limited are 75% indirectly owned by Centrica plc. 
(vii)  During 2023, the voting rights for Greener Ideas Limited increased to 80%.
(viii) Dissolved in January 2024.

224

Financial Statements | Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

 
S10. RELATED UNDERTAKINGS

(b)

Subsidiary undertakings – partnerships held indirectly by Centrica plc with 100% voting rights

31 December 2023

CF 2016 LLP

CFCEPS LLP

Direct Energy Resources Partnership

Finance Scotland 2016 Limited Partnership

Finance Scotland CEPS Limited Partnership

Principal activity

Country of incorporation/

registered address key (i)

Class of shares held

Group financing

United Kingdom A

Membership interest

Group financing

United Kingdom A

Membership interest

Holding entity

Canada AJ

Membership interest

Group financing

United Kingdom T

Membership interest

Group financing

United Kingdom T

Membership interest

Ignite Social Enterprise LP

Social enterprise investment fund

United Kingdom A

Membership interest

(i) For list of registered addresses, refer to note S10(d).

The following partnerships are fully consolidated into the Group Financial Statements and the Group has taken advantage of the 
exemption (as confirmed by regulation 7 of the Partnerships (Accounts) Regulations 2008) not to prepare or file separate accounts for 
these entities:

¢ Finance Scotland 2016 Limited Partnership;
¢ Finance Scotland CEPS Limited Partnership; and
¢ Ignite Social Enterprise LP.

(c) 

Joint arrangements and associates

Indirect 
interest 
and voting 
rights (%)

40.0%

50.0%

50.0%

40.0%

40.0%

40.0%

50.0%

31 December 2023
Joint ventures (ii)

Allegheny Solar 1, LLC

C2 Centrica MT, LLC

Principal activity

Country of incorporation/

registered address key (i)

Class of shares held

Energy supply and/or services

United States AK

Membership interest

Energy supply and/or services

United States AL

Membership interest

Eurowind Polska VI Sp z.o.o.

Operation of an onshore windfarm

Poland AM

Ordinary shares

Energy supply and/or services

United States AK

Membership interest

Energy supply and/or services

United States AK

Membership interest

Energy supply and/or services

United States AK

Membership interest

Operation of an onshore windfarm

Denmark AN

Ordinary shares

Three Rivers Solar 1, LLC

Three Rivers Solar 2, LLC

Three Rivers Solar 3, LLC

Vindpark Keblowo ApS
Associates (ii)

Lake Acquisitions Limited

Holding company

United Kingdom AO

Ordinary shares

20.0%

(i) For list of registered addresses, refer to note S10(d).
(ii) Further information on the principal joint ventures and associate investments held by the Group is disclosed in notes 6 and 14.

All Group companies principally operate within their country of incorporation unless noted otherwise.

Financial Statements | Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

225

S10. RELATED UNDERTAKINGS

(d)

 List of registered addresses

Registered 
address key

A

B

C

D

E

F

G

H

I

J

K

L

M

N

O

P

Q

R

S

T

U

V

W

X

Y

Z

AA

AB

AC

AD

AE

AF

AG

AH

AI

AJ

AK

AL

AM

AN

AO

Address
Millstream, Maidenhead Road, Windsor, SL4 5GD, United Kingdom (i)

1 Warrington Place, Dublin 2, Republic of Ireland
5/F, Manulife Place, 348 Kwun Tong Road, Kowloon, Hong Kong (ii)

Thomas-Wimmer-Ring 1-3, 80539, Munich, Germany

2 Wisconsin Circle #700, Chevy Chase, MD 20815, United States

Woodland House, Woodland Park, Hessle, HU13 0FA, United Kingdom

Roderveldlaan 2 bus 2, 2600 Antwerp, Belgium

3411 Silverside Road, Rodney Building #104, Wilmington, DE 19810, United States

Wiegerbruinlaan 2A, 1422 CB Uithoorn, Netherlands

550 Burrard Street, Suite 2900, Vancouver BC V6C 0A3, Canada

Neuer Wall 10, 20354 Hamburg, Germany

60 Avenue Charles de Gaulle, Cs 60016, 92573, Neuilly sur Seine Cedex, France

Milan (MI), Via Emilio Cornalia 26, Italy

Strada Martir Colonel loan Uţă nr.28 camera 1, Municipiul Timisoara judet Timis, Romania

3411 Silverside Road, Suite 104, Tatnall Building, Wilmington, DE 19810, United States

H-1106 Budapest Jászberényi út 24-36, Hungary

Skelagervej 1, 9000 Aalborg, Denmark

Esplanade 40, 20354 Hamburg, Germany

220 Orchard Road, #05-01 Midpoint Orchard, Singapore 238852, Republic of Singapore

1 Waterfront Avenue, Edinburgh, Scotland EH5 1SG, United Kingdom

47 Esplanade, St Helier, JE1 0BD, Jersey, Channel Islands

Via Paleocapa Pietro 4, 20121, Milano, Italy

G-74, LGF, Kalkaji, New Delhi, South Delhi, 110019, India

3rd floor, St George's Court, Upper Church Street, Douglas, IM1 1EE, Isle of Man

Sterling Towers, 20 Marina, Lagos, Nigeria

48-50 Sackville Street, Port of Spain, Trinidad and Tobago

1 More London Place, London, SE1 2AF, United Kingdom

15 Atir Yeda Street, Kfar Saba, 44643, Israel

6 Landmark Square, 4th floor, Stamford CT 06901, United States

4640 Admiralty Way, 5th floor, Marina del Rey, California 90292, United States

1st floor, 20 Kingston Road, Staines-upon-Thames, TW18 4LG, United Kingdom

Transpolis Building, Polarisavenue 39, 2132 JH Hoofddorp, Netherlands

5th floor, IQ Building, 15 Justice Mill Lane, Aberdeen, AB11 6EQ, United Kingdom

Veritasvien 29, 4007 Stavanger, Norway

Lilleakerveien 8, 0283 Oslo, Norway

350 7th Avenue SW, Suite 3400, Calgary AB T2P 3N9, Canada

1209 Orange Street, Wilmington, New Castle County, DE 19801, United States

850 New Burton Road, Suite 201, Dover, DE 19904, United States

Ul. Wysogotowska 23, 62-081 Przezmierowo, Wielkpolskie, Poland

Mariagervej 58B, DK 9500 Hobro, Denmark

90 Whitfield Street, London, W1T 4EZ, United Kingdom

(i) The following entities changed their registered address during the year from 1st floor, 20 Kingston Road, Staines-upon-Thames, TW18 4LG, United Kingdom to the address 
listed above. 

Bowland Resources Limited
Bowland Resources (No.2) Limited
Elswick Energy Limited 
Spirit Energy Limited
Spirit Energy North Sea Limited
Spirit Energy Production UK Limited
Spirit Energy Resources Limited
Spirit Energy Southern North Sea Limited
Spirit Energy Treasury Limited
Spirit Europe Limited
Spirit Norway Limited
Spirit Resources (Armada) Limited

(ii) Rhodes Holdings HK Limited changed its registered address during the year from Level 54, Hopewell Centre, 183 Queens Road East, Hong Kong to the address listed 
above. 

226

Financial Statements | Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

 
S10. RELATED UNDERTAKINGS
(e)

Summarised financial information

Management has determined that the investment in Lake Acquisitions Limited is sufficiently material to warrant further disclosure on an 
individual basis. Accordingly, the Group presents summarised financial information, along with reconciliations to the amounts included in 
the consolidated Group Financial Statements, for this investee.
Lake Acquisitions Limited
Summarised statement of total comprehensive income

Year ended 31 December 

Revenue

Operating profit/(loss) before 
interest and tax

2023

2022

Associate 
information 
reported to 
Group
£m

Unadjusted 
20% share
£m

Fair value 
and other 
adjustments
£m 

3,398   

680   

—   

Associate 
information 
reported to 
Group
£m

Unadjusted 
20% share
£m

Fair value 
and other 
adjustments
£m 

2,960   

592   

—   

Group
 share
£m

680 

Group
 share
£m

592 

1,671   

334   

(52)   

282 

737   

147   

(26)   

121 

Profit/(loss) for the year

Other comprehensive (loss)/income

Total comprehensive income/(loss)

1,242   

(477)   

765   

248   

(95)   

153   

(40)   

—   

(40)   

208 

(95) 

113 

542   

(1,467)   

(925)   

108   

(293)   

(185)   

(15)   

—   

(15)   

93 

(293) 

(200) 

Summarised balance sheet

31 December 

Non-current assets

Current assets

Current liabilities

Non-current liabilities

Net assets

2023

2022

Associate 
information 
reported to 
Group
£m

Unadjusted 
20% share
£m

Fair value 
and other 
adjustments (i)
£m

Group
 share
£m

Associate 
information 
reported to 
Group
£m

Unadjusted 
20% share
£m

Fair value 
and other 
adjustments (i)
£m

Group
 share
£m

15,970   

3,194   

694   

3,888 

17,121   

3,424   

751   

4,175 

3,901   

(1,350)   

780   

(270)   

—   

—   

780 

(270) 

4,212   

(1,742)   

842   

(348)   

—   

—   

842 

(348) 

(11,675)   

(2,335)   

(114)   

(2,449) 

(12,405)   

(2,481)   

(131)   

(2,612) 

6,846   

1,369   

580   

1,949 

7,186   

1,437   

620   

2,057 

(i) Before cumulative impairments of £1,046 million (2022: £497 million) of the Group’s associate investment.

During the year, dividends of £220 million (2022: £60 million) were paid by the associate to the Group.

Joint operations - fields/assets

31 December 2023

Cygnus

Location

Percentage holding

UK North Sea

 61% 

Financial Statements | Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

227

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
S11. NON-CONTROLLING INTERESTS
The Group has one subsidiary undertaking with a material non-controlling interest: Spirit Energy Limited, through which the Group carries 
out the majority of its exploration and production activities.

2023

2022

Non-
controlling 
interests
%

Profit for 
the year
£m

Total 
comprehensive 
income
£m

Distributions 
to non-
controlling 
interests
£m

Total 
equity
£m

Non-
controlling 
interests
%

Profit for 
the year
£m

Total 
comprehensive 
income
£m

Distributions 
to non-
controlling 
interests
£m

Total 
equity
£m

31   

111   

110   

356   

(17) 

31   

146   

151   

263   

(273) 

Year ended 31 December

Spirit Energy Limited

Summarised financial information
The summarised financial information disclosed is shown on a 100% basis. It represents the consolidated position of Spirit Energy Limited 
and its subsidiaries that would be shown in its consolidated financial statements prepared in accordance with IFRS under Group 
accounting policies before intercompany eliminations.
Summarised statement of total comprehensive income

Year ended 31 December

Revenue

Profit for the year (i)
Other comprehensive (loss)/income (i)

Total comprehensive income

2023
£m

974 

357 

(1) 

356 

(i) 2023 includes £nil exchange differences reclassified to the income statement on disposal not attributable to non-controlling interests (2022: £101 million).

Summarised balance sheet

31 December

Non-current assets

Current assets

Current liabilities

Non-current liabilities

Net assets

Summarised cash flow

Year ended 31 December

Net decrease in cash and cash equivalents

2023
£m

1,028 

2,099 

(481) 

(1,498) 

1,148 

2023
£m

(13) 

2022
£m

1,667 

371 

116 

487 

2022
£m

1,683 

1,451 

(1,183) 

(1,104) 

847 

2022
£m

(73) 

228

Financial Statements | Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
COMPANY STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN EQUITY

1 January 2022
Profit for the year (i)

Other comprehensive loss

Total comprehensive income/(loss)
Employee share schemes and other share transactions (ii)
Share buyback programme (iii)

Dividends paid to equity holders

31 December 2022
Profit for the year (i)

Other comprehensive loss

Total comprehensive income/(loss)
Employee share schemes and other share transactions (ii)
Share buyback programme (iii)

Dividends paid to equity holders

31 December 2023

Share 
capital
£m

Share 
premium
£m

Retained 
earnings
£m

363   

2,377   

2,590   

—   

—   

—   

2   

—   

—   

—   

—   

—   

17   

—   

—   

365   

2,394   

—   

—   

—   

—   

—   

—   

—   

—   

—   

—   

—   

—   

365   

2,394   

719   

—   

719   

(2)   

—   

(59)   

3,248   

2,258   

—   

2,258   

(3)   

—   

(186)   

5,317   

Other 
equity 
(note II)
£m

(19)   

—   

(51)   

(51)   

(14)   

(250)   

—   

(334)   

—   

(35)   

(35)   

39   

(500)   

—   

(830)   

Total 
equity
£m

5,311 

719 

(51) 

668 

3 

(250) 

(59) 

5,673 

2,258 

(35) 

2,223 

36 

(500) 

(186) 

7,246 

Includes inter-company dividend income of £2,635 million (2022: £1,500 million).
Includes taxation on employee share schemes and other share transactions attributable to the Company only.

(i)
(ii)
(iii) See note I and note S4 of the Group consolidated Financial Statements for further details of the share buyback programme.

As permitted by section 408(3) of the Companies Act 2006 no Income Statement or Statement of Comprehensive Income is presented.

The Directors propose a final dividend of 2.67 pence per ordinary share for the year ended 31 December 2023 (which would total £144 
million based on shareholding at that date). The dividend will be paid on 11 July 2024 to those shareholders registered on 31 May 2024. 

Details of the interim and final dividends are provided in note 11 to the Group consolidated Financial Statements.

Details of the Company’s share capital are provided in the Group Statement of Changes in Equity and note 25 to the Group consolidated 
Financial Statements.

The notes on pages 231 to 240 form part of these Financial Statements, along with note 25 to the Group consolidated Financial 
Statements.

Financial Statements | Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

229

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
COMPANY BALANCE SHEET

31 December 

Non-current assets

Property, plant and equipment

Investments

Deferred tax assets

Trade and other receivables

Derivative financial instruments

Retirement benefit assets

Securities

Current assets

Trade and other receivables

Derivative financial instruments

Securities

Cash and cash equivalents

Total assets

Current liabilities

Derivative financial instruments

Trade and other payables

Provisions for other liabilities and charges

Bank overdrafts, loans and other borrowings

Non-current liabilities

Deferred tax liabilities

Derivative financial instruments

Trade and other payables

Provisions for other liabilities and charges

Retirement benefit obligations

Bank loans and other borrowings

Total liabilities

Net assets

Share capital

Share premium
Retained earnings (i)

Other equity 

Total shareholders’ equity

Notes

2023
£m

2022
£m

11 

949 

1 

11   

94   

11   

14,274   

13,089 

39   

28   

104   

101 

56 

498 

14,561   

14,705 

590   

66   

405   

5,482   

6,543   

1,500 

217 

— 

3,395 

5,112 

21,104   

19,817 

(116)   

(211) 

(9,925)   

(9,883) 

(2)   

(789)   

(1) 

(905) 

(10,832)   

(11,000) 

(3)   

(170)   

(3)   

(1)   

(49)   

— 

(271) 

(45) 

(1) 

(49) 

(2,800)   

(3,026)   

(2,778) 

(3,144) 

(13,858)   

(14,144) 

7,246   

365   

2,394   

5,317   

(830)   

7,246   

5,673 

365 

2,394 

3,248 

(334) 

5,673 

IV  

V  

XII

VI

VII

XIV  

IX  

VI

VII

IX  

VII

XI

XIII

XII

VII

XI

XIV  

XIII

II

(i) Retained earnings includes a net profit after taxation of £2,258 million (2022: £719 million) which includes inter-company dividend income of £2,635 million (2022: £1,500 

million).

The Financial Statements on pages 229 to 240, of which the notes on pages 231 to 240 form part, along with note 25 to the Group 
consolidated Financial Statements, were approved and authorised for issue by the Board of Directors on 14 February 2024 and were 
signed on its behalf by:

Chris O’Shea 
Group Chief Executive 

Russell O’Brien
Group Chief Financial Officer

Centrica plc Registered No: 03033654

230

Financial Statements | Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
NOTES TO THE COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

I.     GENERAL INFORMATION AND MATERIAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES OF THE COMPANY
General information
The Company is a public company limited by shares, incorporated and domiciled in the UK, and registered in England and Wales. 
The registered office is Millstream, Maidenhead Road, Windsor, Berkshire, SL4 5GD.

The Company Financial Statements are presented in pounds sterling which is the functional currency of the Company.
(a) Basis of preparation
The separate financial statements of the Company are presented as required by the Companies Act 2006. The Company meets the 
definition of a qualifying entity under FRS 100 ‘Application of Financial Reporting Requirements’ issued by the FRC. Accordingly, these 
financial statements are prepared in accordance with FRS 101 ‘Reduced Disclosure Framework’.
(b) New accounting policies, standards, amendments and interpretations effective or adopted in 2023
From 1 January 2023, the following standards and amendments are effective in the Company’s Financial Statements:

¢ IFRS 17 ‘Insurance Contracts’;
¢ Amendments to IAS 8 ‘Accounting policies, Changes in Accounting Estimates and Errors’, distinguishing changes in accounting 

estimates from changes in accounting policies;

¢ Amendments to IAS 1 ‘Presentation of Financial Statements’, disclosure of accounting policies and materiality judgements;
¢ Amendments to IAS 12 ‘Income Taxes’:

     –  Deferred tax related to these assets and liabilities arising from a single transaction; and

     –  International tax reform, pillar 2 model rules.

There has been no material impact on the Company’s Financial Statements from any standards and amendments effective during 
the year.

Pension Scheme Loan Arrangement
In October 2022, the Company agreed to provide the Schemes with a £400 million two-year revolving, unsecured, interest bearing credit 
facility, and a short-term £150 million loan. This money was immediately drawn down to purchase physical gilts to reduce the extent of 
interest rate and inflation risk. The short-term loan was repaid in December 2022 and the remaining £400 million credit facility is scheduled 
for repayment in October 2024. See note 22 of the Group consolidated Financial Statements for further details. At the 2023 year-end, the 
£400 million loan (together with unpaid interest) is recorded in note IX Securities on the Company’s balance sheet and as a reduction to 
scheme assets for the UK Registered Pension Schemes.
(c) Standards and amendments that are issued but not yet applied by the Company
At the date of authorisation of these Company Financial Statements, the Company has not applied the following new and revised 
standards and amendments that have been issued but are not yet effective:

¢ Amendments to IAS 1 ‘Presentation of Financial Statements’:

– Classification of liabilities as current or non-current, effective 1 January 2024; and
– Non-current liabilities with covenants, effective 1 January 2024.
¢ Amendments to IFRS 16 ‘Leases’; effective from 1 January 2024;

– Lease liability in a sale and leaseback; 

¢ Amendments to IAS 7 ‘Statement of Cash Flows’ and IFRS 7 ‘Financial Instruments : Disclosures’; effective from 1 January 2024:

– Supplier finance arrangements; and

¢ Amendments to IAS 21 ‘The Effects of Changes in Foreign Exchange Rates’.

Management does not expect other issued but not effective amendments or standards, or standards not discussed above to have 
a material impact on the Company’s Financial Statements.

As permitted by FRS 101, the Company has taken advantage of the disclosure exemptions available under that standard in relation to:

¢ The requirements of IAS 7 ‘Statement of Cash Flows’;

¢ The statement of compliance with Adopted IFRSs;

¢ The effects of new but not yet effective IFRSs;

¢ Prior year reconciliations for property, plant and equipment and intangible assets;

¢ The prior year reconciliation in the number of shares outstanding at the beginning and at the end of the year for share capital;

¢ Disclosures in respect of related party transactions with wholly owned subsidiaries in a group;

¢ Disclosures in respect of the compensation of key management personnel; 

¢ Disclosures in respect of capital management; and

¢ The requirements of paragraphs 45(b) and 46 to 52 of IFRS 2 ‘Share-based Payment’.

As the Group consolidated Financial Statements of Centrica plc, which are available from the registered office, include the equivalent 
disclosures, the Company has taken the exemptions available under FRS 101 in respect of certain disclosures required by IFRS 13 ‘Fair 
Value Measurement’ and the disclosures required by IFRS 7 ‘Financial Instruments: Disclosures’. These disclosures have not been 
provided apart from those that are relevant for financial instruments held at fair value.

The Company has also taken the advantage of the exemption in respect of disclosures for Pillar 2 tax, as required by paragraphs 88C and 
88D of IAS 12 ‘Income Taxes’, as the equivalent disclosures are available in the notes 9(c) and 16 of the Group consolidated Financial 
Statements.

Financial Statements | Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

231

I.     GENERAL INFORMATION AND MATERIAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES OF THE COMPANY
Measurement convention
The Company Financial Statements have been prepared on the historical cost basis except for: investments in subsidiaries that have been 
recognised at deemed cost on transition to FRS 101; derivative financial instruments, financial instruments required to be measured at fair 
value through profit or loss or other comprehensive income, and those financial assets so designated at initial recognition, and the assets 
of the defined benefit pension schemes that have been measured at fair value; the liabilities of the defined benefit pension schemes that 
have been measured using the projected unit credit valuation method; and the carrying values of recognised assets and liabilities qualifying 
as hedged items in fair value hedges that have been adjusted from cost by the changes in the fair values attributable to the risks that are 
being hedged.
Going concern
The accounts have been prepared on a going concern basis, as described in the Directors’ Report and note 24(b) of the Group 
consolidated Financial Statements.
Critical accounting judgements – share buyback programme
On 10 November 2022, the Group announced an intention to undertake a share buyback of £250 million and the Company entered into 
contracts with third parties to undertake this repurchase programme which has now completed. During 2023, the Company firstly 
increased the share buyback by an additional £300 million which completed during the second half of the year. 

Subsequently, in July 2023, the Group announced a further £450 million extension to the share buyback programme and as a result, the 
Company signed an agreement with a third party to undertake the repurchase of £200 million shares which is expected to complete by 
March 2024. The repurchase of the remaining £250 million shares is expected to commence in the first half of 2024. 

The Company judges that the terms and conditions of the contracts mean that, at 31 December 2023, it was unable to cancel the 
obligation arising under the contract signed in the second half of 2023. Accordingly, the Company has recorded a financial liability at 
31 December 2023 of £94 million (31 December 2022: £207 million) for this obligation in accordance with IAS 32 ‘Financial instruments: 
Presentation’ that is subsequently measured in accordance with IFRS 9 ‘Financial instruments’. This liability is included within other 
payables, with the corresponding debit presented in the other equity reserve. 

The Company has not recognised a liability relating to the further £250 million announced during 2023, as no contract has been signed 
and therefore no financial liability has yet arisen. The monthly breakdown of all shares purchased and the average price paid (excluding 
expenses) in relation to the financial liability recognised at 31 December 2023 are detailed in note S4 of the Group consolidated Financial 
Statements.
Material accounting policies

The accounting policies set out below have, unless otherwise stated, been applied consistently to all periods presented in these Company 
Financial Statements. 
Employee share schemes
The Group has a number of employee share schemes under which it makes equity-settled share-based payments as detailed in the 
Remuneration Report on pages 84 to 86 and in note S2 to the Group consolidated Financial Statements. Equity-settled share-based 
payments are measured at fair value at the date of grant (excluding the effect of non-market-based vesting conditions). The fair value 
determined at the grant date is expensed on a straight-line basis together with a corresponding increase in equity over the vesting period, 
based on the Group’s estimate of the number of awards that will vest and adjusted for the effect of non-market-based vesting conditions. 
The issue of share incentives by the Company to employees of its subsidiaries represents additional capital contributions. When these 
costs are recharged to the subsidiary undertaking, the investment balance is reduced accordingly. Fair value is measured using methods 
detailed in note S2 to the Group consolidated Financial Statements.
Foreign currencies
The Company’s functional and presentational currency is pounds sterling. Transactions in foreign currencies are translated at the rate of 
exchange ruling at the date of the transaction. Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are translated into pounds 
sterling at closing rates of exchange. Exchange differences on monetary assets and liabilities are taken to the Income Statement.

232

Financial Statements | Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

I.     GENERAL INFORMATION AND MATERIAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES OF THE COMPANY
Property, plant and equipment 
PP&E is included in the Balance Sheet at cost, less accumulated depreciation and any provisions for impairment. The initial cost of an 
asset comprises purchase price and construction cost and any costs directly attributable to bringing the asset into operation. The 
purchase price or construction cost is the aggregate amount paid and the fair value of any other consideration given to acquire the asset. 
Depreciation is charged so as to write off the cost of assets over their estimated useful lives, on a straight-line basis, over a period of 3 to 
10 years.
Investments
Fixed asset investments in subsidiaries’ shares are held at deemed cost on transition to FRS 101 and at cost in accordance with IAS 27 
‘Separate Financial Statements’, less any provision for impairment as necessary.
Impairment
Impairment of investments in subsidiaries and non-financial assets
The Company’s accounting policies in respect of impairment of property, plant and equipment, and intangible assets are consistent with 
those of the Group.

The carrying values of investments in subsidiary undertakings are reviewed at each reporting date to determine whether there is any 
indication of impairment. If any such indication exists, then the asset’s recoverable amount is estimated.

The recoverable amount of an investment in a subsidiary undertaking is the greater of its value in use and its fair value less cost of 
disposal. In assessing a recoverable amount, the market capitalisation of the Company is taken and, following relevant adjustments, 
allocated to specific holding company investments. Separately, an average of third-party analysts’ ‘sum of the parts’ valuations for the 
Group’s business units, allocated to specific investments and assessed relative to internal forecasts, is also considered. An appropriate 
recoverable amount is then determined from this work and compared with the investment carrying value and net intercompany receivable 
held on the Company’s balance sheet.

Refer to note V for more details on the impairment charge and reduction in the cost of investments in subsidiaries recognised during 
the year.

Impairment of other financial assets and credit losses for financial guarantee contracts
The Company’s impairment policies in relation to financial assets are consistent with those of the Group, with additional consideration 
given to amounts owed by Group undertakings. Except for certain loans due in greater than one year, all outstanding receivable balances 
are repayable on demand and arise from funding provided by the Company to its subsidiaries. Where net receivers of funding are unable 
to repay loan balances in full at maturity, or if the debt was otherwise called upon, the Company expects that in such circumstances the 
counterparty would either negotiate extended credit terms with the Company or obtain external financing to repay the balance. As such, 
this is considered a significant risk of causing material adjustment to the carrying amounts of financial assets within the next financial year. 
A detailed review of the amounts owed by Group undertakings for the expected credit loss provision is carried out on an annual basis. 
The model considers whether the receivable is repayable on demand within a 12-month period and the probability of default by the 
counterparty. As at 31 December 2023, there was a release of cumulative provision for expected credit losses on current financial assets 
of £15 million (2022: £15 million expected credit losses charge) as disclosed in note VI (i) and on non-current financial assets of £217 
million (2022: £872 million expected credit losses charge) as disclosed in note VI (ii). This was either due to the settlement of the loan 
receivable during the year or a fall in the estimate of the credit loss of the financial instrument when measured in accordance with IFRS 9 
‘Financial instruments’. 

The Company has applied the impairment requirements of IFRS 9 to financial guarantees issued to its subsidiary undertakings. A financial 
guarantee contract is measured at fair value at the reporting date and where the expected credit loss is higher than calculated on 
recognition, an additional liability is recognised. Expected credit losses which arise on such arrangements have been calculated according 
to the nature of the guarantee and the Company’s estimate of potential exposure at the balance sheet date. As at 31 December 2023, 
there was a release of net provision for expected credit losses on financial guarantees contracts of £126 million (2022: £55 million 
expected credit loss provision charge) as disclosed in note XI (iii). The significant decrease in the expected credit loss provision is due to 
the reduced short-term derivative liabilities in the market-facing entities which actively trade and are exposed to the risk of market price 
volatility during the year.
Pensions and other post-employment benefits
The Company’s employees participate in a number of the Group’s defined benefit pension schemes. The total Group cost of providing 
benefits under defined benefit schemes is determined separately for each of the Group’s schemes under the projected unit credit actuarial 
valuation method. Actuarial gains and losses are recognised in full in the period in which they occur. The key assumptions used for the 
actuarial valuation are based on the Group’s best estimate of the variables that will determine the ultimate cost of providing post-
employment benefits, on which further detail is provided in notes 3(b) and 22 to the Group consolidated Financial Statements.

The Company’s share of the total Group surplus or deficit at the end of the reporting period for each scheme is calculated in proportion to 
the Company’s share of ordinary employer contributions to that scheme during the year; ordinary employer contributions are determined 
by the pensionable pay of the Company’s employees within the scheme and the cash contribution rates set by the scheme trustees. Note 
that as a participant in these multi-employer schemes, the Company could be liable for other entities’ obligations (for example under 
section 75 of the Pensions Act). See note 22 of the Group consolidated Financial Statements for details of the overall scheme obligations. 
Current service cost is calculated with reference to the pensionable pay of the Company’s employees. The Company’s share of the total 
Group interest on scheme liabilities, expected return on scheme assets and actuarial gains or losses is calculated in proportion to ordinary 
employer contributions in the prior accounting period. Changes in the surplus or deficit arising as a result of the changes in the Company’s 
share of total ordinary employer contributions are also treated as actuarial gains or losses.

Financial Statements | Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

233

I.     GENERAL INFORMATION AND MATERIAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES OF THE COMPANY
Taxation
Current tax, including UK corporation tax, is provided at amounts expected to be paid (or recovered) using the tax rates and laws that 
have been enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date.

Deferred tax is recognised in respect of all temporary differences identified at the balance sheet date, except for differences arising on:

¢ The initial recognition of an asset or liability in a transaction which is not a business combination and which at the time of the transaction 

affects neither accounting profit nor taxable profit; and

¢ Investments in subsidiaries where the Company is able to control the timing of the reversal of the difference and it is probable that the 

difference will not reverse in the foreseeable future.

Temporary differences are differences between the carrying amount of the Company’s assets and liabilities and their tax base.

Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset when the Company has a legally enforceable right to offset current tax assets and liabilities and 
the deferred tax assets and liabilities relate to taxes levied by the same tax authority.

Deferred tax assets that are not eligible for offset against deferred tax liabilities are recognised only when, on the basis of all available 
evidence, it can be regarded as probable that there will be suitable taxable profits in the foreseeable future, against which the deductible 
temporary difference can be utilised. 

Deferred tax is measured at the average tax rates that are expected to apply in the periods in which the asset is realised or the liability is 
settled, based on tax rates and laws that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date. Measurement of 
deferred tax liabilities and assets reflects the tax consequences expected from the manner in which the asset or liability is recovered 
or settled.

The tax expense for the year comprises current and deferred tax. Tax is recognised in the Income Statement, except to the extent that 
it relates to items recognised in other comprehensive income or directly in equity. In this case, the tax is also recognised in other 
comprehensive income or directly in equity, respectively.
Financial instruments
The Company’s accounting policies for financial instruments are consistent with those of the Group as disclosed in note S2 to the Group 
consolidated Financial Statements. The Company’s financial risk management policies are consistent with those of the Group and are 
described in the Strategic Report – Principal Risks and Uncertainties on pages 28 to 34 and in note S3 to the Group consolidated 
Financial Statements. 
Financial guarantees
Financial guarantees are contracts that require the Company to make specified payments to reimburse the holder for a loss it incurs 
because a specified debtor fails to make payment when due in accordance with the terms of a debt instrument. The Company accounts 
for financial guarantee contracts under IFRS 9.
Presentation of derivative financial instruments
In line with the Group’s accounting policy for derivative financial instruments, the Company has classified those derivatives held for the 
purpose of treasury management as current or non-current, based on expected settlement dates. 

234

Financial Statements | Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

II.    OTHER EQUITY

1 January 2022

Actuarial losses

Employee share schemes:

 Exercise of awards

 Value of services provided

 Purchase of own shares

 Issue of shares

Share buyback programme: (i)

Purchase of Treasury shares

Accrual for committed share purchases

Impact of cash flow hedging
Taxation on above items (ii)

31 December 2022

Gains on revaluation of equity investments 
measured at fair value through other 
comprehensive income

Actuarial losses

Employee Share Schemes:

Exercise of awards

Value of services provided

Net proceeds from exercise of share options

Share buyback programme: (i)

Purchase of Treasury shares

Movement on committed share purchases

Impact of cash flow hedging
Taxation on above items (ii)

31 December 2023

Cash flow 
hedging 
reserve
£m

Actuarial gains 
and losses 
reserve
£m

Financial asset 
at FVOCI 
reserve
£m

Treasury and  
own shares 
reserve
£m

Share-based 
payments 
reserve
£m

Capital 
redemption 
reserve
£m

5   

—   

—   

—   

—   

—   

—   

—   

(26)   

8   

(13)   

—   

—   

—   

—   

—   

—   

—   

(3)   

1   

(87)   

(44)   

—   

—   

—   

—   

—   

—   

—   

11   

(120)   

—   

(48)   

—   

—   

—   

—   

—   

—   

12   

(15)   

(156)   

11   

—   

—   

—   

—   

—   

—   

—   

—   

—   

11   

3   

—   

—   

—   

—   

—   

—   

—   

(1)   

13   

(18)   

—   

10   

—   

(5)   

(7)   

(43)   

—   

—   

—   

(63)   

—   

—   

22   

—   

6   

(615)   

—   

—   

—   

(650)   

42   

—   

(22)   

10   

—   

—   

—   

—   

—   

—   

30   

—   

—   

(20)   

31   

—   

—   

—   

—   

1   

42   

28   

—   

—   

—   

—   

—   

—   

(207)   

—   

—   

(179)   

—   

—   

—   

—   

—   

—   

115   

—   

—   

(64)   

Total
£m

(19) 

(44) 

(12) 

10 

(5) 

(7) 

(43) 

(207) 

(26) 

19 

(334) 

3 

(48) 

2 

31 

6 

(615) 

115 

(3) 

13 

(830) 

(i) See note I and note S4 of the Group consolidated Financial Statements for further details of the share buyback programme.
(ii)

Includes current and deferred taxation on above items attributable to the Company only.

III.    DIRECTORS AND EMPLOYEES
(a) Employee costs 

Year ended 31 December 

Wages and salaries

Other

(b) Average number of employees during the year

Year ended 31 December 

Administration

Power

2023
£m

(12)   

(8)   

(20)   

2022
£m

(7) 

(8) 

(15) 

2023
Number

2022
Number

171   

11   

182   

138 

8 

146 

Financial Statements | Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

235

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
IV.   PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT

Cost

1 January 

Additions 

31 December 

Accumulated depreciation

1 January 

Charge for the year

31 December 
NBV at 31 December (i)

Plant, 
equipment & 
vehicles

2023
£m

12 

4 

16 

(1) 

(4) 

(5) 

11 

(i)

Included within the above are right-of-use assets of £6 million relating to infrastructure services (2022: £9 million), and £5 million of staff salary sacrifice electric vehicles 
(2022: £2 million).

V.    INVESTMENTS IN SUBSIDIARIES

Cost

1 January 
Additions (ii)
Write-downs (iii)
Disposals (iv)
Employee share scheme net capital movement (v)

31 December 

Provision

1 January
Impairment provided in the year (vi)
Disposals (iv)

31 December 

NBV at 31 December 

2023 (i)
£m

2022 (i)
£m

2,262   

2,273 

—   

(863)   

(1,313)   

8   

94   

— 

— 

— 

(11) 

2,262 

(1,313)   

(1,173) 

—   

1,313   

—   

94   

(140) 

— 

(1,313) 

949 

(i) Direct investments are held in CH4 Energy Limited (formerly Centrica Trading Limited) and Centrica Beta Holdings Limited, both of which are incorporated in England, and 

Rhodes Holdings HK Limited, which was incorporated in Hong Kong and Centrica Ireland Holdings Limited, which was incorporated in Ireland. The prior year direct 
investment held in Centrica Holdings Limited, which was incorporated in England, has become an indirect investment after a share transfer with Centrica Ireland Holdings 
Limited in January 2023. Related undertakings are listed in note S10 to the Group consolidated Financial Statements.

(ii) The Company acquired 100% share capital of £0.02 million in Centrica Ireland Holdings Limited.
(iii)

Investments in CH4 Energy Limited, and Centrica Beta Holdings Limited were largely written down as deemed irrecoverable after the dividend payment of £686 million 
(2022: £nil) and £1.7 billion (2022: £nil) from these companies in November 2023 and December 2023 respectively.

(iv) Disposals predominantly relate to Centrica Holdings Limited, following a share for share exchange transaction, swapping the previous investment in Centrica Holdings 

Limited for shares in Centrica Ireland Holdings Limited. 

(v) Employee share scheme movement is the net change in shares to be awarded under employee share schemes to employees of Group undertakings.
(vi) An impairment charge was recognised in the prior year, predominantly in relation to the investment in Centrica Holdings Limited.

The Directors believe that the carrying value of the investments is supported by their realisable value.

VI.    TRADE AND OTHER RECEIVABLES

31 December 

Amounts owed by Group undertakings

Prepayments and other receivables

2023

2022

Current (i)
£m

Non-current (ii)
£m

Current (i)
£m

Non-current (ii)
£m

582   

8   

590   

14,262 

12 

1,496   

13,085 

4   

4 

14,274 

1,500

13,089

(i) The amounts receivable by the Company includes a gross balance of £480 million (2022: £1,424 million) that bears interest at a quarterly rate determined by Group 

treasury and linked to the Group cost of funds. The quarterly rates ranged between 2.1% and 5.7% per annum during 2023 (2022: 0% and 4.1%). The other amounts 
receivable from Group undertakings are interest free. All amounts receivable from Group undertakings are unsecured and repayable on demand. Amounts receivable by 
the Company are stated net of credit loss provision of £nil (2022: £15 million). 

(ii) The amounts receivable by the Company includes a gross balance of £15,082 million (2022: £14,206 million) due after more than one year that bears interest at a quarterly 
rate determined by Group treasury and linked to the Group cost of funds. The quarterly rates ranged between 2.1% and 5.7% per annum during 2023 (2022: 0% and 
4.1%). The other amounts receivable from Group undertakings are interest-free. All amounts receivable from Group undertakings are unsecured and not expected to be 
repayable within 12 months from the reporting date. Amounts receivable by the Company are stated net of credit loss provisions of £655 million (2022: £872 million).

236

Financial Statements | Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
VII.   DERIVATIVE FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS

31 December 

Derivative financial assets

Derivative financial liabilities

VIII.  FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS

(a) Determination of fair values

2023

Current
£m

Non-current
£m

66   

(116)   

39   

(170)   

Total
£m

105 

(286) 

2022

Current
£m

Non-current
£m

217   

(211)   

101   

(271)   

Total
£m

318 

(482) 

The Company’s policies for the classification and valuation of financial instruments carried at fair value are consistent with those of the 
Group, as detailed in note S6 to the Group consolidated Financial Statements.

(b) Financial instruments carried at fair value

31 December 

Financial assets

Derivative financial assets held for trading:

Foreign exchange derivatives (i)

Derivative financial assets in hedge accounting relationships:

Interest rate derivatives

Foreign exchange derivatives

Debt instruments

Equity instruments
Cash and cash equivalents (ii)

Total financial assets at fair value

Financial liabilities

Level 1
£m

Level 2
£m

2023
Total
£m

Level 1
£m

Level 2
£m

2022
Total
£m

—   

69   

69   

—   

243   

243 

—   

—   

72   

32   

—   

104   

—   

36   

—   

—   

—   

36   

72   

32   

4,673   

4,778   

4,673   

4,882   

—   

—   

66   

29   

—   

95   

37   

38   

—   

—   

37 

38 

66 

29 

2,809   

3,127   

2,809 

3,222 

Derivative financial liabilities held for trading:

Foreign exchange derivatives (i)

Derivative financial liabilities in hedge accounting relationships:

Interest rate derivatives

Foreign exchange derivatives

Total financial liabilities at fair value

—   

(134)   

(134)   

—   

(257)   

(257) 

—   

—   

—   

(136)   

(16)   

(286)   

(136)   

(16)   

(286)   

—   

—   

—   

(221)   

(4)   

(482)   

(221) 

(4) 

(482) 

(i) In addition to the derivatives included in the table above, the Company also has internal derivative assets with a fair value of £133 million (2022: £257 million) entered into 
on behalf of its subsidiaries and are included within Trade receivables in note VI, and internal derivative liabilities with a fair value of £66 million (2022: £242 million) included 
within Trade payables in note XI.
(ii) Included within cash and cash equivalents are money market funds amounting to £4,673 million (2022: £2,809 million).

IX.   SECURITIES

31 December

Debt instruments

Equity instruments

Other

2023

2022

Current

Non-current

Current

Non-current

£m

—   

—   

405   

405   

£m

72 

32 

— 

104 

£m

—   

—   

—   

—   

£m

66 

29 

403 

498 

Within Non-current securities, £104 million (2022: £95 million) of investments were held in trust, on behalf of the Company, as security in 
respect of the Centrica Unapproved Pension Scheme (refer to note XIV (c)).

Other Current securities represents the pension scheme loan arrangement (including interest) of £405 million (2022: £403 million within 
Non-current securities) as disclosed in note I(b), note XIV(f) and in note 22(b) to the Group consolidated Financial Statements. 

Financial Statements | Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

237

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
X.    LEASE LIABILITIES MATURITY ANALYSIS
A maturity analysis of lease liabilities based on undiscounted gross cash flow is reported in the table below:

Less than one year

2 years

3 years

Total lease liabilities (undiscounted)

Future finance charges are expected to be £1 million (2022: £1 million). 

Analysed as:

Non-current
Current

XI.   TRADE AND OTHER PAYABLES

31 December 

Amounts owed to Group undertakings
Loss on financial guarantee contracts (iii)
Accruals and other creditors (iv)
Taxation and social security (v)

2023

£m

5   

4   

1   

10 

2023

£m

5   
5   

10 

2022

£m

4 

4 

3 

11

2022

£m
7 
4 

11

2023

2022

Current (i)
£m

Non-current (ii)
£m

Current (i)
£m

Non-current (ii)
£m

(9,749)   

(33)   

(107)   

(36)   

(9,925)   

(3) 

— 

— 

— 

(3) 

(9,503)   

(159)   

(221)   

—   

(9,883)   

(45) 

— 

— 

— 

(45) 

(i) The amounts payable by the Company includes £9,582 million (2022: £8,577 million) that bears interest at a quarterly rate determined by Group treasury and linked to the 
Group cost of funds. The quarterly rates ranged between 2.1% and 5.7% per annum during 2023 (2022: 0% and 4.1%). Other amounts payable by the Company are 
interest free, unsecured and repayable on demand. Refer to note I for further details.

(ii) These other amounts payable by the Company are interest free and unsecured.
(iii) During the year, the Company has released £126 million (2022: £55 million expected credit loss provision charge) of expected credit loss provision on financial guarantee 

contracts. See note I for further details.

(iv) During the year, the Company recognised a financial liability of £94 million (2022: £207 million) relating to the share buyback programme. See note I and ‘Own and 

treasury shares reserve’ section in note S4 of the Group consolidated Financial Statements for more details.
Includes group relief creditor of £36 million in 2023 (2022: £nil).

(v)

XII.   DEFERRED TAX LIABILITIES AND ASSETS

1 January 2022

(Charge)/credit to income

Credit to equity

Deferred tax assets/(liabilities) at 31 December 2022

(Charge)/credit to income

Credit to equity

Deferred tax assets at 31 December 2023

Retirement 
benefit 
obligation
£m

(2)   

(6)   

11   

3   

(5)   

9   

7   

Other
£m

(12)   

2   

8   

(2)   

2   

1   

1   

Total
£m

(14) 

(4) 

19 

1 

(3) 

10 

8 

Other deferred tax assets primarily relate to other temporary differences. All deferred tax crystallises in over one year.

XIII.   BANK OVERDRAFTS, LOANS AND OTHER BORROWINGS

31 December 

Bank loans and overdrafts

Bonds

Interest accruals

Lease obligations

2023

2022

Current
£m
(731)   

Non-current
£m
(130) 

Current
£m
(600)   

Non-current
£m
(143) 

—   

(53)   

(5)   
(789)   

(2,665) 

— 

(5) 
(2,800) 

(246)   

(55)   

(4)   
(905)   

(2,628) 

— 

(7) 
(2,778) 

Disclosures in respect of the Group’s financial liabilities are provided in notes 24 and S3 to the Group consolidated Financial Statements. 
With the exception of leases and overdrafts, materially all of the Group’s financing activity is carried out through the Company. 

238

Financial Statements | Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
XIV.   PENSIONS
(a) Summary of main schemes

The Company’s employees participate in the following Group defined benefit pension schemes: Centrica Pension Plan (CPP), Centrica 
Pension Scheme (CPS) and Centrica Unapproved Pension Scheme. Its employees also participate in the defined contribution section of 
the Centrica Pension Scheme. Information on these schemes is provided in note 22 to the Group consolidated Financial Statements.

Together with the Centrica Engineers Pensions Scheme (CEPS), CPP and CPS form the significant majority of the Group’s and 
Company’s defined benefit obligation and are referred to below and in the Group Financial Statements as the ‘Registered Pension 
Schemes’.

(b) Accounting assumptions, risks and sensitivity analysis

The accounting assumptions, risks and sensitivity analysis for the Registered Pension Schemes are provided in note 22 to the Group 
consolidated Financial Statements.

(c) Movements in the year

2023

2022

Pension liabilities
£m

Pension assets
£m

Pension liabilities
£m

Pension assets
£m

(731)   

738 

(1,328)   

1,364 

1 January 

Items included in the Company Income Statement:

Current service cost

Contributions by employer in respect of employee salary 
sacrifice arrangements (i)

Total current service cost

Interest (expense)/income on scheme liabilities/assets

Termination benefit

Items included in the Company Statement of Comprehensive 
Income:

Returns on plan assets, excluding interest income

Actuarial (loss)/gain from changes to demographic 
assumptions

Actuarial (loss)/gain from changes in financial assumptions

Actuarial loss from experience adjustments

Other movements:

Employer contributions

Contributions by employer in respect of employee salary 
sacrifice arrangements

Benefits paid from schemes

31 December 

(2)   

(2)   

(4)   

(40)   

—   

—   

(97)   

(60)   

(35)   

—   

—   

38   

(929)   

— 

— 

— 

41 

— 

144 

— 

— 

— 

21 

2 

(38) 

908 

(6)   

(2)   

(8)   

(24)   

1   

—   

4   

621   

(36)   

—   

—   

39   

(731)   

(i) A salary sacrifice arrangement was introduced on 1 April 2013 for pension scheme members. The contributions paid via the salary sacrifice arrangement have been 

treated as employer contributions and included within the current service cost, with a corresponding reduction in salary costs. 

Presented in the Company Balance Sheet as:

31 December 

Retirement benefit pension assets

Retirement benefit pension liabilities

The pension scheme liabilities relate to the Centrica Unapproved Pension Scheme.

2023
£m

28   

(49)   

— 

— 

— 

27 

— 

(633) 

— 

— 

— 

17 

2 

(39) 

738 

2022
£m

56 

(49) 

Financial Statements | Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

239

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
XIV.  PENSIONS
(d)

Analysis of the actuarial losses recognised in reserves 

Year ended 31 December 

Actuarial gain/(loss) (actual return less expected return on pension scheme assets)

Experience loss arising on the scheme liabilities

Changes in assumptions underlying the present value of the schemes’ liabilities

Actuarial loss recognised in reserves before adjustment for taxation

Cumulative actuarial losses recognised in reserves at 1 January, before adjustment for taxation

Cumulative actuarial losses recognised in reserves at 31 December, before adjustment for taxation

2023
£m

144   

(35)   

(157)   

(48)   

(196)   

(244)   

2022
£m

(633) 

(36) 

625 

(44) 

(152) 

(196) 

(e) Defined benefit pension scheme contributions

Note 22 to the Group consolidated Financial Statements provides details of the triennial review carried out at 31 March 2021 in respect of 
the UK Registered Pension Schemes and the future pension scheme contributions, including asset-backed arrangements, agreed as part 
of this review. Under IAS 19, the Company’s contribution and trustee interest in the Scottish Limited Partnerships are recognised as 
scheme assets.

The Company estimates that it will pay £4 million of employer contributions during 2024 for its defined benefit schemes, at an average rate 
of 22% of pensionable pay, together with contributions via the salary sacrifice arrangement of £2 million.

For details of the weighted average duration of the liabilities of the Registered Pension Schemes see note 22 of the Group consolidated 
Financial Statements.

(f)

Pension scheme assets

31 December 

Equities

Corporate bonds

High-yield debt

Liability matching assets

Other long-dated income assets

Property

Cash pending investment

Loan and interest

Asset-backed contribution assets
Group pension scheme assets (i)

Company share of the above

Quoted
£m

23   

6   

18   

2,860   

—   

—   

391   

—   

—   

2023

Unquoted
£m

503   

—   

1,238   

—   

1,204   

305   

—   

(405)   

469   

Total
£m

526 

6 

1,256 

2,860 

1,204 

305 

391 

(405) 

469 

Quoted
£m

19   

24   

106   

2,835   

—   

—   

205   

—   

—   

2022

Unquoted
£m

486   

—   

1,331   

—   

1,343   

366   

—   

(403)   

527   

Total
£m

505 

24 

1,437 

2,835 

1,343 

366 

205 

(403) 

527 

3,298   

3,314   

6,612 

3,189   

3,650   

6,839 

2023
£m

908

2022
£m

738

(i) Total pension scheme assets, including asset-backed contribution assets not recognised in the Group consolidated Financial Statements.

XV.    COMMITMENTS
At 31 December 2023, the Company had commitments of £93 million (2022: £66 million) relating to contracts for outsourced services, 
£129 million (2022: £177 million) relating to the contracts for centralised information services and £5 million (2022: £5 million) relating 
to contracts for property services.

The Company has provided guarantees and letters of credit relating to its subsidiaries’ trading activities and decommissioning obligations. 
At 31 December 2023, the Group has derivative liabilities of £3,006 million (2022: £10,151 million), and decommissioning liabilities of 
£1,527 million (2022: £1,514 million). See notes 19 and 21 to the Group consolidated Financial Statements for further information on 
these balances. 

XVI.   RELATED PARTIES
During the year the Company accepted cash deposits on behalf of the Spirit Energy group of companies giving rise to a Trade and other 
payables balance of £1,356 million (2022: £1,091 million). Spirit Energy Limited is a subsidiary of the Company, held indirectly, that is not 
wholly owned. See note 3 to the Group consolidated Financial Statements for more information. 

240

Financial Statements | Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
GAS AND LIQUIDS RESERVES (UNAUDITED)

The Group’s estimates of reserves of gas and liquids are reviewed as part of the full year reporting process and updated accordingly.

A number of factors affect the volumes of gas and liquids reserves, including the available reservoir data, commodity prices and future 
costs. Due to the inherent uncertainties and the limited nature of reservoir data, estimates of reserves are subject to change as additional 
information becomes available. 

The Group discloses 2P gas and liquids reserves, representing the central estimate of future hydrocarbon recovery. Reserves for Centrica 
operated fields are estimated by in-house technical teams composed of geoscientists and reservoir engineers. Reserves for non-operated 
fields are estimated by the operator but are subject to internal review and challenge.

As part of the internal control process related to reserves estimation, an assessment of the reserves, including the application of the 
reserves definitions, is undertaken by an independent technical auditor. An annual reserves assessment has been carried out by DeGolyer 
& McNaughton for the Group’s global reserves. Reserves are estimated in accordance with a formal policy and procedure standard.

The Group has estimated 2P gas and liquids reserves in Europe. 

The principal retained fields in Spirit Energy are Cygnus, Morecambe Hub, Rhyl and Chiswick. The principal non-Spirit Energy field is 
Rough. The European reserves estimates are consistent with the guidelines and definitions of the Society of Petroleum Engineers, the 
Society of Petroleum Evaluation Engineers and the World Petroleum Council’s Petroleum Resources Management System using accepted 
principles.

Estimated net 2P reserves of gas 
(billion cubic feet)

1 January 2023
Revisions of previous estimates (ii)
Production (iii)

31 December 2023

Estimated net 2P reserves of liquids 
(million barrels)

1 January 2023
Revisions of previous estimates (ii)
Production (iii)

31 December 2023

Estimated net 2P reserves 
(million barrels of oil equivalent)
31 December 2023 (iv)

(i) The movements represent Centrica’s 69% interest in Spirit Energy.
(ii) Revision of previous estimates include those associated with Morecambe Hub, Chiswick and Cygnus.
(iii) Represents total sales volumes of gas and oil produced from the Group’s reserves.
(iv) Includes the total of estimated gas and liquids reserves at 31 December 2023 in million barrels of oil equivalent. 

Liquids reserves include oil, condensate and natural gas liquids.

Spirit Energy (i)

Rough

261   

40   

(59)   

242   

16   

—   

(1)   

15   

Total

277 

40 

(60) 

257 

Spirit Energy (i)

Rough

Total

1   

1   

(1)   

1   

—   

—   

—   

—   

1 

1 

(1) 

1 

Spirit Energy (i)

Rough

42   

3   

Total

45 

Financial Statements | Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

241

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
FIVE YEAR SUMMARY (UNAUDITED)

Year ended 31 December 

Total Group revenue from continuing operations included in business 
performance

Operating profit/(loss) from continuing operations before exceptional items and 
certain re-measurements:

2019 (restated) (i) 
£m

2020 (restated) (i) 
£m

2021 
 £m

2022
£m

2023
£m

15,958   

14,949   

18,300   

33,637   

33,374 

British Gas Services & Solutions (i) 
British Gas Energy (i)
Bord Gáis Energy (i)
Centrica Business Solutions (i)
Centrica Energy (i)
Upstream (i)

Colleague profit share

Operating profit from discontinued operations before exceptional items and 
certain re-measurements (i)

Exceptional items and certain re-measurements after taxation

(Loss)/profit attributable to equity holders of the parent

Earnings per ordinary share

Adjusted earnings per ordinary share

Dividend per ordinary share in respect of the year

ASSETS AND LIABILITIES

31 December (restated) (ii)

Goodwill and other non-current intangible assets

Other non-current assets

Net current (liabilities)/assets

Non-current liabilities

Net assets of disposal groups held for sale

Net assets
Adjusted net (debt)/cash (ii) (note 24)

CASH FLOWS

Year ended 31 December (restated) (ii)

187   

117   

50   

(20)   

138   

178   

—   

650   

251   

(1,531)   

(1,023)   

Pence

(17.8)   

7.3   

1.5   

2019
£m

4,033   

5,826   

(696)   

191   

82   

42   

(132)   

174   

90   

—   

447   

252   

(520)   

121   

118   

28   

(52)   

70   

663   

—   

948   

—   

866   

41   

1,210   

Pence

0.7   

6.5   

—   

Pence

20.7   

4.1   

—   

(9)   

72   

31   

44   

1,400   

1,793   

(23)   

47 

751 

1 

104 

774 

1,083 

(8) 

3,308   

2,752 

—   

(2,755)   

(782)   

Pence

(13.3)   

34.9   

3.0   

— 

2,165 

3,929 

Pence

70.6 

33.4 

4.0 

2023
£m

745 

4,555 

4,930 

2020
£m

1,940   

4,767   

622   

2021
£m

1,161   

6,040   

1,465   

2022
£m

1,116   

7,234   

(1,023)   

(7,474)   

(8,072)   

(6,360)   

(6,047)   

(5,997) 

106   

1,795   

(3,507)   

2,125   

1,382   

(2,998)   

444   

2,750   

680   

—   

1,280   

1,199   

— 

4,233 

2,744 

2019
£m

2020
£m

2021
£m

2022
£m

2023
£m

Cash flow from operating activities before exceptional payments

1,548   

1,532   

1,687   

1,338   

2,758 

Payments relating to exceptional charges in operating costs

Net cash flow from investing activities

Cash flow before cash flow from financing activities

(298)   

(503)   

747   

(132)   

(285)   

1,115   

(76)   

2,263   

3,874   

(24)   

(566)   

748   

(6) 

115 

2,867 

(i) Results have been restated to reflect the new operating structure of the Group, effective during 2021.
(ii) Results have been restated to reflect the change in definition of adjusted net cash/debt in 2021.

242

Financial Statements | Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION

GENERAL ENQUIRIES
Centrica’s share register is administered and maintained by 
Equiniti, our Registrar, whom you can contact directly if you 
have any questions about your shareholding which are not 
answered here or on our website. You can contact Equiniti 
using the following details:

Address: Equiniti, Aspect House, Spencer Road, Lancing, 
West Sussex BN99 6DA, UK

Telephone: 0371 384 2985* 
Outside the UK: +44 (0)371 384 2985

Contact: help.shareview.co.uk

Website: equiniti.com

You can also contact Equiniti using the Relay UK website 
at relayuk.bt.com

*  Calls to an 03 number cost no more than a national rate call to an 01 or 
02 number. Lines open 8.30am to 5.30pm, Monday to Friday (UK time), 
excluding public holidays in England and Wales.

When contacting Equiniti or registering via shareview.co.uk, you 
should have your shareholder reference number to hand. This can 
be found on your share certificate, dividend confirmation or any 
other correspondence you have received from Equiniti.

Together with Equiniti, we have introduced an electronic queries 
service to enable our shareholders to manage their investment at 
a convenient time. Details of this service can be found at 
shareview.co.uk.

DIVIDEND
As communicated previously, dividends are now paid only by direct 
transfer to your bank or building society account, rather than by 
cheque. This is faster, more secure and better for the environment. 

If you have not already done so, please therefore provide Equiniti 
with your bank or building society account details. You can do 
this online at www.shareview.co.uk or by telephoning Equiniti 
on +44 (0)371 384 2985.

AMERICAN DEPOSITARY RECEIPT (ADR)
We have an ADR programme, trading under the symbol CPYYY. 
Centrica’s ratio is one ADR being equivalent to four ordinary 
shares. Further information is available on our website or 
please contact: 

Regular mail delivery address: BNY Mellon Shareowner Services, 
PO Box 505000, Louisville, KY 20233-5000, USA

Overnight, certified, registered delivery address: BNY Mellon 
Shareowner Services, 462 South 4th Street, Suite 1600, Louisville, 
KY 40202, USA

Email: shrrelations@cpshareownerservices.com

Website: mybnymdr.com

Telephone: +1 888 269 2377 (toll-free in the US) 

Outside the US: +1 201 680 6825

MANAGE YOUR SHARES ONLINE
We actively encourage our shareholders to receive communications 
via email and view documents electronically via our website, 
centrica.com. Receiving communications and documents 
electronically saves your Company money and reduces our 
environmental impact. If you sign up for electronic communications, 
you will receive an email to notify you that new shareholder 
documents are available to view online, including the Annual Report 
and Accounts, on the day it is published.

You will also receive alerts to let you know that you can cast your 
Annual General Meeting (AGM) vote online. You can manage your 
shareholding online by registering at shareview.co.uk, a free online 
platform provided by Equiniti, which allows you to:

¢ view information about your shareholding;
¢ update your personal details and your bank account details; and
¢ appoint a proxy for the AGM.

CENTRICA FLEXISHARE
FlexiShare is an easy way to hold Centrica shares without a share 
certificate. Your shares are held by a nominee company, Equiniti 
Financial Services Limited. However, you are able to attend and 
vote at general meetings as if the shares were held in your own 
name. Holding your shares in this way is free and gives you:

¢ low cost share dealing rates (full details of which are available 

on centrica.com, together with dealing charges);

¢ quicker settlement periods for buying and selling shares; and
¢ no paper share certificates to lose.

centrica.com
The Shareholder Centre on our website contains a wide range of 
information including a dedicated investors section where you can 
find further details about shareholder services including:

¢ share price information;
¢ dividend history; 
¢ telephone and internet share dealing;
¢ downloadable shareholder forms; and 
¢ taxation.

This Annual Report and Accounts can also be viewed online by 
visiting centrica.com/ar23.

SHAREGIFT
If you have a small number of shares and the dealing costs or the 
minimum fee make it uneconomical to sell them, it is possible to 
donate them to ShareGift, a registered charity, which provides a 
free service to enable you to dispose charitably of such shares.

More information on this service can be found at sharegift.org or by 
calling +44 (0)20 7930 3737.

FINANCIAL CALENDAR

Ex-dividend date for 2023 final dividend

30 May 2024

Record date for 2023 final dividend

Annual General Meeting (AGM)

Payment of 2023 final dividend

31 May 2024

5 June 2024

11 July 2024

For more information on Centrica’s financial calendar please 
visit centrica.com/investors/financial-calendar

Other Information | Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

243

ADDITIONAL INFORMATION – EXPLANATORY NOTES (UNAUDITED)

Definitions and reconciliation of adjusted performance measures
Centrica’s 2023 consolidated Financial Statements include a number of non-GAAP measures. These measures are chosen as they 
provide additional useful information on business performance and underlying trends. They are also used to measure the Group’s 
performance against its strategic financial framework. They are not however, defined terms under IFRS and may not be comparable with 
similarly titled measures reported by other companies. Where possible they have been reconciled to the statutory equivalents from the 
primary statements (Group Income Statement (‘I/S’), Group Balance Sheet (‘B/S’), Group Cash Flow Statement (‘C/F’)) or the notes to the 
Financial Statements.

Adjusted revenue, adjusted gross margin, adjusted operating profit, adjusted earnings and free cash flow have been defined and 
reconciled separately in notes 2, 4 and 10 to the Financial Statements where further explanation of the measures is given. Additional 
performance measures are used within these Financial Statements to help explain the performance of the Group and these are defined 
and reconciled below. Further information has been provided to help readers when reconciling between different parts of the consolidated 
Group Financial Statements, and when reconciling cash flow measures to the Group Cash Flow Statement. 
Adjusted EBITDA
Adjusted EBITDA is a business performance measure of operating profit, after adjusting for depreciation and amortisation. It provides 
a performance measure in its own right, and provides a bridge between the Income Statement and the Group’s key cash metrics. Further, 
a reconciliation excluding Spirit Energy disposed assets is provided.

Year ended 31 December 

Group operating profit/(loss)

Exceptional items included within Group operating profit/loss and certain re-measurements 
before taxation

Certain re-measurements before taxation
Share of profits of joint ventures and associates, net of interest and taxation (i)
Depreciation and impairments of PP&E (i)
Amortisation, write-downs and impairments of intangibles (i)

Group total adjusted EBITDA

(i) These line items relate to business performance only.

Change

Notes

2023
£m

I/S  

6,512   

7  

7  

I/S  

4  

4  

645   

(4,405)   

(209)   

404   

138   

2022
£m

(240) 

155 

3,393 

(92) 

598 

179 

3,085   

3,993 

 (23) %

Adjusted EBITDA excluding Spirit Energy disposed assets

Year ended 31 December 

Group total adjusted EBITDA

Less: disposed assets adjusted EBITDA (including associated hedges)

Adjusted EBITDA excluding Spirit Energy disposed assets

Adjusted operating profit excluding Spirit Energy disposed assets

Year ended 31 December 

Group total adjusted operating profit

Less: disposed assets adjusted operating profit (including associated hedges)

Adjusted operating profit excluding Spirit Energy disposed assets

Notes

2023
£m

3,085   

—   

3,085   

Notes

2023
£m

I/S  

2,752   

—   

2,752   

2022
£m

3,993 

(485) 

3,508 

2022
£m

3,308 

(485) 

2,823 

Change

 (12) %

Change

 (3) %

244

Other Information | Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

 
 
 
 
 
 
The below table shows how adjusted EBITDA reconciles to free cash flow:

Year ended 31 December 

Adjusted EBITDA

Notes

2023
£m

2022
£m

3,085   

3,993 

Group operating profit/(loss) including share of joint ventures and associates, from exceptional items and certain 
re-measurements

I/S  

3,760   

(3,548) 

Share of losses/(profits) of joint ventures and associates, net of interest and taxation, from exceptional items and 
certain re-measurements

Depreciation, amortisation, write downs, impairments and write-backs, from exceptional items and certain re-
measurements

Loss on disposals

Decrease in provisions

Cash contributions to defined benefit schemes in excess of service cost income statement charge

Employee share scheme costs

Unrealised (gains)/losses arising from re-measurement of energy contracts

Net movement in working capital

Taxes paid

Operating interest paid

Payments relating to exceptional charges in operating profit

Net cash flow from operating activities

Purchase of businesses, net of cash acquired

Sale of businesses, including receipt of deferred consideration

Purchase of property, plant and equipment and intangible assets

Sale of property, plant and equipment and intangible assets

Investments in joint ventures and associates

Dividends received from joint ventures and associates

Net purchase of other investments

UK pension deficit payments

Movements in variation margin and collateral

Group total free cash flow

I/S  

I/S  

C/F  

C/F  

C/F  

C/F  

C/F  

C/F  

C/F  

C/F  

C/F  

C/F  

C/F  

C/F  

C/F  

C/F  

C/F  

C/F  

4  

4  

4  

1   

(1) 

645   

—   

(207) 

343 

(1,021)   

(1,903) 

(215)   

31   

(184) 

10 

(2,949)   

4,095 

244   

(803)   

(20)   

(6)   

(656) 

(574) 

(30) 

(24) 

2,752   

1,314 

(34)   

55   

(335)   

—   

(9)   

220   

(37)   

180   

(585)   

2,207   

12 

92 

(371) 

11 

(18) 

60 

— 

214 

1,173 

2,487 

Adjusted earnings attributable to shareholders excluding Spirit Energy disposed assets

Year ended 31 December 

Adjusted earnings attributable to shareholders

Notes

2023
£m

2022
£m

Change

I/S  

1,859   

2,050 

Less: disposed assets adjusted earnings attributable to shareholders (including associated hedges) 

—   

(45) 

Adjusted earnings attributable to shareholders excluding Spirit Energy disposed assets

1,859   

2,005 

 (7) %

Adjusted basic earnings per share excluding Spirit Energy disposed assets

Year ended 31 December 

Adjusted earnings attributable to shareholders excluding Spirit Energy disposed assets (£m)

Weighted average of ordinary shares in issue during the period (million shares)

Adjusted basic earnings per share excluding Spirit Energy disposed assets

Notes

10  

2023

1,859   

5,569   

33.4p

2022

2,005 

5,869 

34.2p

Change

 (2) %

Other Information | Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

245

 
 
 
 
 
Definitions and reconciliation of adjusted performance measures

Gain on disposals 

Year ended 31 December 

Loss on disposals

Less: exceptional loss on disposals

Gain on disposals relating to business performance

Notes

C/F  

7  

2023
£m

—   

—   

—   

2022
£m

343 

(362) 

(19) 

Group net investment
With an increased focus on cash generation, capital discipline and managing adjusted net cash/debt, Group net investment provides a 
measure of the Group’s capital expenditure from a cash perspective and allows the Group’s capital discipline to be assessed.

Year ended 31 December 
Capital expenditure (including small acquisitions) (i)
Net disposals (ii)

Group net investment

Dividends received from joint ventures and associates

Interest received

Net purchase of securities

Net cash flow from investing activities

Notes

C/F  

C/F  

C/F  

C/F  

2023
£m

415   

(55)   

360   

(220)   

(267)   

12   

(115)   

2022
£m

377 

(103) 

274 

(60) 

(46) 

398 

566 

Change

 31% 

 (120) %

(i) Capital expenditure is the net cash flow on capital expenditure, purchases of businesses and other investments, and investments in joint ventures and associates (less 

than £100 million). See table (a).

(ii) Net disposals is the net cash flow from sales of businesses, and property, plant and equipment and intangible assets. See table (b).

Group net investment is capital expenditure including acquisitions less net disposals. It excludes cash flows from investing activities not 
associated with capital expenditure as detailed in the table above.

(a) Capital expenditure (including small acquisitions)

Year ended 31 December 

Purchase of property, plant and equipment and intangible assets

Purchase of businesses, net of cash acquired

Investment in joint ventures and associates

Net purchase of other investments

Less: material acquisitions (>£100 million)

Capital expenditure (including small acquisitions)

(b) Net disposals

Year ended 31 December 

Sale of businesses, including receipt of deferred consideration

Sale of property, plant and equipment and intangible assets

Net disposals

Notes

C/F  

C/F  

C/F  

C/F  

Notes

C/F  

C/F  

2023
£m

335   

34   

9   

37   

—   

415   

2023
£m

(55)   

—   

(55)   

2022
£m

371 

(12) 

18 

— 

— 

377 

2022
£m

(92) 

(11) 

(103) 

Change

 10% 

Change

 (47) %

246

Other Information | Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Definitions and reconciliation of adjusted performance measures

The following tables provide additional information to help readers when reconciling between different parts of the consolidated Group 
Financial Statements, and the Group Cash Flow Statement.

Reconciliation from free cash flow to change in adjusted net cash 

Year ended 31 December 

Group total free cash flow

Financing interest paid

Interest received

UK pension deficit payments

Proceeds from exercise of share options

Payments for own shares

Share buyback programme

Distributions to non-controlling interests

Equity dividends paid

Movements in variation margin and collateral

Cash flows affecting adjusted net cash

Non-cash movements in adjusted net cash

Change in adjusted net cash

Opening adjusted net cash

Closing adjusted net cash

Notes

4  

C/F  

C/F  

4  

C/F  

C/F  

C/F  

C/F  

C/F  

4  

24  

24  

2023
£m

2022
£m

2,207   

2,487 

(286)   

267   

(180)   

6   

—   

(613)   

(17)   

(186)   

585   

1,783   

(238)   

1,545   

1,199   

2,744   

(172) 

46 

(214) 

— 

(5) 

(43) 

(273) 

(59) 

(1,173) 

594 

(75) 

519 

680 

1,199 

Reconciliation of adjusted net cash to unadjusted net cash
Adjusted net cash is a business performance measure used by management to assess the underlying indebtedness of the business.

Year ended 31 December 

Adjusted net cash

Less: current and non-current securities

Less: sub-lease assets

Unadjusted net cash

Payments relating to exceptional charges in operating costs

Year ended 31 December 

Utilisation of prior year restructuring liabilities

Payments relating to exceptional charges in operating costs

Notes

24  

24  

24  

Notes

C/F  

2023
£m

2,744   

(521)   

(2)   

2,221   

2023
£m

6   

6   

2022
£m

1,199 

(525) 

(2) 

672 

2022
£m

24 

24 

Other Information | Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

247

 
 
 
 
 
Definitions and reconciliation of adjusted performance measures
Depreciation, amortisation, write-downs, impairments and write-backs

Year ended 31 December 

Movement from depreciation, amortisation, write-downs, impairments and write-backs, from exceptional 
items included in the Group Cash Flow Statement

Made up of:

Impairment/(write-back) of power assets

Impairment of gas storage asset

Movement from depreciation, amortisation, write-downs, impairments and write-backs, from business 
performance included in the Group Cash Flow Statement

Made up of:

Business Performance PP&E depreciation

Business Performance PP&E impairments

Business Performance intangibles amortisation

Business Performance intangibles impairments and write-downs

Notes

2023
£m

2022
£m

7  

7   

7   

4   

4   

4   

4   

645   

(207) 

563   

82   

(207) 

— 

542   

777 

395   

9   

123   

15   

510 

88 

159 

20 

Movement from depreciation, amortisation, write-downs, impairments and write-backs included in the 
Group Cash Flow Statement

1,187   

570 

Reconciliation of receivables and payables to Group Cash Flow Statement

Year ended 31 December 

Receivables opening balance

Less: receivables closing balance

Payables (incl. insurance contract liabilities) opening balance

Less: payables (incl. insurance contract liabilities) closing balance

Net reduction in receivables and payables

Non-cash changes, and other reconciling items:

Movement in share buyback liability

Business disposals

Movement in capital creditors

Movement in ROCS and emission certificate intangible assets

Other movements (including foreign exchange movements)

Non-cash changes, and other reconciling items

Notes

B/S  

B/S  

B/S  

B/S  

2023
£m

8,579   

(5,619)   

(10,341)   

2022
£m

6,114 

(8,579) 

(7,633) 

7,372   

10,341 

(9)   

243 

113   

(55)   

8   

(13)   

14   

67   

(207) 

(22) 

6 

(67) 

(16) 

(306) 

Movement in trade and other receivables, trade and other payables and contract-related assets/liabilities relating 
to business performance

C/F  

58   

(63) 

Pensions

Year ended 31 December 

Cash contributions to defined benefit schemes in excess of service cost income statement charge

Ordinary employer contributions

UK pension deficit payments

Contributions by employer in respect of employee salary sacrifice arrangements

Total current service cost

Termination benefit

Notes

C/F  

22  

22  

22  

22  

22  

2023
£m

(215)   

(56)   

(180)   

(24)   

46   

(1)   

2022
£m

(184) 

(50) 

(214) 

(21) 

105 

(4) 

248

Other Information | Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
PEOPLE AND PLANET –
PERFORMANCE MEASURES

In 2023, we engaged DNV Business Assurance Services UK Limited (DNV) to conduct an independent limited assurance engagement 
using the International Standard on Assurance Engagements (ISAE) 3000 (Revised): ‘Assurance Engagements Other Than Audits or 
Reviews of Historical Financial Information’. DNV has provided an unqualified opinion in relation to four KPIs that are identified with the 
symbol ‘†’ and feature on pages 1, 53 and 251. It is important to read the responsible business information in the Annual Report and 
Accounts 2023 in the context of DNV’s full limited assurance statement and Centrica’s Basis of Reporting, which are available at 
centrica.com/assurance 

READ MORE ABOUT OUR PEOPLE & PLANET PLAN 
ON PAGES 41 TO 55

READ MORE ABOUT OUR WIDER NON-FINANCIAL 
PERFORMANCE AT CENTRICA.COM/DATACENTRE

READ MORE ABOUT OUR SASB DISCLOSURE AT 
CENTRICA.COM/PEOPLEANDPLANET

PROGRESS AGAINST OUR PEOPLE & PLANET PLAN     

  Key: Progress against goals   On track l  Behind l

Goal 

Create an engaged team that reflects the 
full diversity of the communities we serve 
by 2030 – this means all company and 
senior leaders to be(i): 
¢ 48% women 
¢ 18% ethnically diverse 
¢ 20% disability 
¢ 3% LGBTQ+ 
¢ 4% ex-service

Milestone 

By the end of 2025: 
¢ 40% women 
¢ 16% ethnically diverse 
¢ 10% disability 
¢ 3% LGBTQ+ 
¢ 3% ex-service 

2023 Progress
All company: (ii)

¢ 30% women

– 41% excluding 
Field engineers

¢ 15% ethnically diverse

¢ 3% disability

¢ 3% LGBTQ+

¢ 2% ex-service

Senior leaders: (ii)

¢ 32%women

– 32%excluding 
Field engineers

¢ 9% ethnically diverse

¢ 2% disability

¢ 2% LGBTQ+

¢ 2% ex-service

1,198 apprentices

2022 Progress
All company: (ii)
l ¢ 30% women
l

– 41% excluding 
Field engineers
l ¢ 14% ethnically diverse
l ¢ 3% disability
l ¢ 3% LGBTQ+
l ¢ 2% ex-service

Senior leaders: (ii)
l ¢ 33% women
l

– 32%excluding 
Field engineers

l ¢ 9% ethnically diverse
l ¢ 3% disability
l ¢ 0% LGBTQ+
l ¢ 3% ex-service
l 1,033 apprentices 

l
l

l
l
l
l

l
l

l
l
l
l
l

l

l

l

Recruit 3,500 apprentices and provide 
career development opportunities for 
under-represented groups by 2030
(base year 2021)

Inspire colleagues to give 100,000 days 
to build inclusive communities by 2030
(base year 2019) 
Help our customers be net zero by 2050 (iv) 
(base year 2019) 

Be a net zero business by 2045 (v)
(base year 2019) 

2,000 apprentices by the end 
of 2025

35,000 days by the end of 2025 

20,383 days

l 13,155 days (iii)

28% greenhouse gas (GHG) 
intensity reduction by the end 
of 2030

40% GHG reduction by the end 
of 2034 

10% reduction

l 6% reduction

21% reduction

l 5% reduction (iii)(vi)

(i) Updated at the start of 2023 to align with newly released 2021 Census data for working populations.  
(ii) Beyond gender, Centrica’s 2023 performance is based on colleague voluntary disclosure of 74% ethnic diversity, 45% disability, 51% LGBTQ+ and 3% ex-service. For 
2022, this was 72% ethnic diversity, 40% disability, 47% LGBTQ+ and 2% ex-service. All company relates to everyone who works for Centrica. Senior leaders include 
colleagues above general management and spans senior leaders, the Centrica Leadership Team and the Board. 

(iii) Restated due to availability of improved data. 
(iv) Net zero goal measures the greenhouse gas (GHG) intensity of our customers’ energy use including electricity and gas with a 2019 base year of 183gCO2e/kWh, 

normalised to reflect acquisitions and divestments in line with changes in Group customer base. Target aligned to the Paris Agreement and based on science to limit 
global warming, corresponding to a well below 2°C pathway initially and 1.5°C by mid-century.

(v) Net zero goal measures scope 1 (direct) and 2 (indirect) GHG emissions based on operator boundary. Comprises emissions from all operated assets and activities 

including the shipping of Liquified Natural Gas (LNG) alongside the retained Spirit Energy assets in the UK and Netherlands. Non-operated nuclear emissions are 
excluded. Target is normalised to reflect acquisitions and divestments in line with changes in Group structure against a 2019 base year of 2,132,680mtCO2e. It’s also 
aligned to the Paris Agreement and based on science to limit global warming, corresponding to a well below 2°C pathway initially and 1.5°C by mid-century.
(vi) Previous figure included in DNV’s limited assurance scope for the Annual Report 2022 was 6%. See centrica.com/performanceandreporting for our 2022 Basis of 

Reporting and DNV’s 2022 Assurance Statement. 

Other Information | Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

249

PROGRESS AGAINST OUR FOUNDATIONS
People

Metric

Customers

British Gas Services & Solutions – 
Services Engineer Net Promoter 
Score (NPS) (i)

British Gas Energy – Energy 
Touchpoint NPS (ii)
Bord Gáis Energy – Journey NPS (iii)

Centrica Business Solutions – Energy 
supply Touchpoint NPS (iv) 

British Gas Services & Solutions – 
Services complaints per customer (v)

British Gas Energy – Energy 
complaints per customer (vi)

What’s next 

Deliver energy, services and solutions that energise a greener, fairer 
future for all 

2023

+71

+17

+18

+32

2022

+64

 +13

+19

+31

6.0%

7.0%

13.3%

14.4%

Maintain focus on driving down complaints by improving customer 
experience 

Bord Gáis Energy – Complaints per 
customer (vii)

Centrica Business Solutions – Energy 
supply complaints per customer (vii)

Customer support provided during 
the energy crisis (cumulative) (viii) 

Customer safety incident frequency 
rate per 1,000,000 jobs completed

1.7%

12.2%

£140m

2.82

2.2%

9.1%

£53m

3.64

Ensure customers in vulnerable circumstances receive the help they 
need with their energy bills during the energy crisis and beyond

Keep customers safe by following controls and encouraging customers 
to maintain distance from work areas 

(i) Measured independently, through individual questionnaires, the customer’s willingness to recommend British Gas following a gas engineer visit. 
(ii) Measured independently, through individual questionnaires, the customer’s willingness to recommend British Gas Energy following contact.
(iii) Weighted NPS for the main customer interaction channels.
(iv) Measured independently, through individual questionnaires and the customer’s willingness to recommend. 
(v)

Total complaints, measured as any expression of dissatisfaction where we identify material distress, inconvenience or financial loss, as a percentage of average 
customers over the year.

(vi) Total complaints, measured as an expression of dissatisfaction in line with submissions made to Ofgem, as a percentage of average customers over the year.
(vii) Total complaints, measured as any oral or written expression of dissatisfaction, as a percentage of average customers over the year. 
(viii) Forms part of our total community contributions in the Communities section on page 251. 

Metric

Colleagues
Colleague engagement (i)

2023

7.7

2022

7.4

Gender pay gap (ii)

Gender bonus gap (iii)

Ethnicity pay gap (ii)(iv)

14% median

23% median

15% mean

15% mean

14% median

12% median

36% mean

30% mean

11% median

10% median

2% mean

3% mean

Ethnicity bonus gap (iii)(iv)

25% median

23% median

Retention 

Absence (v)

4% mean

0% mean

90%

88%

10 days 

10 days 

Total recordable injury frequency rate 
(TRIFR) per 200,000 hours worked 

Lost time incident frequency rate 
(LTIFR) per 200,000 hours worked

Process safety incident frequency 
rate (Tier 1 and 2) per 200,000 hours 
worked 

0.84

0.44

0.09

Significant process safety events (Tier 1) 1

Fatalities

1

1.12

0.67

0

0

1

What’s next 

Strive to achieve top quartile performance by connecting colleagues 
with our purpose and strategy, whilst supporting them to be their best 

Reduce our pay gaps by building a diverse and inclusive team through 
our People & Planet Plan and associated Diversity, Equity and Inclusion 
Action Plans

Improve retention through our focus on talent development whilst 
providing a supportive and inclusive culture 

Reduce absence through good management practices alongside 
proactive support and education via our health and wellbeing suite 
of support 

Drive down TRIFR and LTIFR by keeping safety front-of-mind 
and reinforcing a strong safety culture whilst advancing controls 
and monitoring

Continue to ensure robust operational controls and operator 
competencies, timely safety-critical maintenance programmes 
and effective performance management

Return to zero fatalities

(i) Colleague engagement methodology has changed from percentage favourable to an average score out of 10, measuring how colleagues feel about the Company.  
(ii) Based on hourly rates of pay for all employees at full pay (including bonus and allowances) at the snapshot dates of 5 April 2022 and 2023. Read our Gender and Ethnicity 

Pay Statement to find out more at centrica.com/pay. 
Includes anyone receiving a bonus during the 12-month period leading up to the pay gap snapshot date and who are still employed on the snapshot date. 
(iii)
(iv) Based on 74% of colleagues in 2023 and 70% of colleagues in 2022, who confirmed whether they are from a Black, Asian or Mixed/Multiple ethnic group. 
(v) Relates to absence from sickness rather than wider forms of absence such as bereavement.

250

Other Information | Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Metric

Communities

Total community
contributions 

2023

2022

What’s next 

£501.6 million (i)

£293.5 million (ii)

On the ground site audits 
completed

Sites completing remote 
worker surveys

Colleagues committed to 
Our Code 

20

13

96%

9

6

98%

Make a big difference in our local communities – from helping 
people with their energy bills and energy efficiency, to 
volunteering and fundraising for causes that colleagues care 
passionately about 

Continue to monitor and raise standards across our supply 
chain to reduce risk and guard against modern slavery, 
focusing on enhancing engagement and controls

Ensure all colleagues uphold Our Code as part of our 
commitment to doing the right thing and acting with integrity 

(i) Comprises £409.4 million in mandatory and £88.1 million in voluntary contributions to support vulnerable customers and colleagues, alongside £4.0 million in charitable 
donations which includes £0.21million in contributions from third parties such as colleague fundraising. Sum of constituent parts is lower than total due to rounding. 
Voluntary category extended to include colleagues following the introduction of our Colleague Support Foundation. 

(ii) Restated due to availability of improved data. Comprises £243.8 million in mandatory and £45.1 million in voluntary contributions to support vulnerable customers, 

alongside £4.5 million in charitable donations which includes £0.23 million in contributions from third parties such as colleague fundraising. Sum of constituent parts is 
lower than total due to rounding. 

Planet

Metric

Greenhouse gas (GHG) 
and energy 

Total GHG emissions 
(scope 1 and 2) (i)

Scope 1 emissions 

Scope 2 emissions 
Scope 3 emissions (x)

Total GHG intensity
by revenue (xi) 
Total energy use 

Water, waste and
non-compliance

Total water use

2023

2022

What’s next 

1,681,475tCO2e (ii)†

2,009,885tCO2e (iii)(iv)(v)

1,674,829tCO2e (vi)†
6,647tCO2e (viii)†
21,180,922tCO2e
64tCO2e/£m (xii)

2,004,693tCO2e (iv)(v)(vii)
5,193tCO2e (iv)(v)(ix)
24,330,208tCO2e
85tCO2e/£m (xiii)

7,437,652,380kWh (xiv)†

9,047,097,047kWh (v)(xv)

Measure and reduce our emissions through our People & 
Planet Plan by focusing on being a net zero business by 2045 
and helping our customers be net zero by 2050

Analyse the impact of our strategy on decoupling GHG 
emissions from value creation

Remain focused on energy efficiency as we strive to be a net 
zero business by 2045

335,512m3

Total waste generated 

15,161 tonnes

Environmental 
non-compliance (xvi) 

12

317,760m3

18,686 tonnes

22

Effectively monitor, manage and reduce our water use and 
waste production, as well as our incidence of environmental 
non-compliance

Included in DNV’s independent limited assurance report. See page 249 or centrica.com/assurance for more. 

Reporting is based on operator boundary which is the more commonly used approach for reporting environmental matters, and includes all emissions from our shipping 
activities relating to LNG alongside the retained Spirit Energy assets in the UK and Netherlands. Non-operated nuclear emissions are excluded. 
† 
(i) Comprises scope 1 and scope 2 emissions as defined by the Greenhouse Gas Protocol.
(ii) Comprises UK 547,542tCO2e and non-UK 1,133,933tCO2e. 
(iii) Comprises UK 726,891tCO2e and non-UK 1,282,994tCO2e. 
(iv) Restated due to availability of improved data. 
(v)

Included in DNV’s limited assurance scope for the Annual Report 2022. See centrica.com/performanceandreporting for our 2022 Basis of Reporting and DNV’s 2022 
Assurance Statement. Previous figures included in DNV’s limited assurance scope include total GHG emissions 2,007,655tCO2e, scope 1 1,994,153tCO2e and scope 2 
13,502tCO2e. 

(vi) Comprises UK 542,244tCO2e and non-UK 1,132,585tCO2e.
(vii) Comprises UK 722,810tCO2e and non-UK 1,281,883tCO2e. 
(viii) Market-based, comprises UK 5,299tCO2e and non-UK 1,348tCO2e. Location-based is 17,041tCO2e. 
(ix) Market-based, comprises UK 4,082tCO2e and non-UK 1,111tCO2e. Location-based is 16,275tCO2e.  
(x)

Includes emissions from the following scope 3 categories defined by the Greenhouse Gas Protocol: purchased goods and services, capital goods, fuel and energy-
related activities, waste generated in operations, business travel, employee commuting, upstream and downstream transportation and distribution, use of sold 
product and investments. All emissions are calculated in line with the methodologies set out by the Greenhouse Gas Protocol’s technical guidance, apart from 
working from home emissions which are based on methodology set out in EcoAct’s homeworking emissions whitepaper. Other categories spanning upstream leased 
assets, processing of sold products, end-of-life treatment of sold product, downstream leased assets and franchises, are not included because they are not relevant 
to our business. 

(xi) Carbon intensity of revenue is employed as our intensity measure because it is the most meaningful intensity measure for our diverse business and is the most widely 

used and understood measure for climate-related stakeholders such as CDP. Based on statutory revenue. 

(xii) Comprises UK 25tCO2e/£m and non-UK 267tCO2e/£m. 
(xiii) Comprises UK 42tCO2e/£m and non-UK 203tCO2e/£m. 
(xiv) Comprises UK & Offshore 1,654,616,311kWh and non-UK energy use 5,783,036,069kWh. 
(xv) Comprises UK & Offshore 2,394,832,533kWh and non-UK energy use 6,652,264,514kWh. 
(xvi) Includes breaches of environmental authorisation including permit, licence and consent coupled with wider environmental legislation where we are either required 

to notify the regulator or where an authority or regulator is involved. The majority of incidents relate to offshore activities.

Other Information | Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

251

GLOSSARY

$

Refers to US dollars unless specified otherwise

2P reserves

Proven and probable reserves

Acas

AGM

AIP

bcf

CFD

CHP

CO2e

CPI

CSS

The Advisory, Conciliation and Arbitration Service is an 
independent public body that receives funding from the UK 
Government to provide employees and employers with free 
impartial advice on workplace rights and to help resolve disputes

Annual General Meeting

Annual Incentive Plan

Billion cubic feet

Climate-Related Financial Disclosure

Combined heat and power

Universal unit of measurement of the global warming potential 
(GWP) of greenhouse gases (GHG) expressed in terms of the GWP 
of one unit of CO2e (carbon dioxide equivalent)
Consumer Price Index

Consolidated Segmental Statement

CUPS DB

CUPS DC

Data analytics

Centrica Unapproved Pension Scheme defined benefit

Centrica Unapproved Pension Scheme defined contribution

The process of examining data sets to draw conclusions and 
insights about the information they contain

EBITDA

Earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortisation

EBT

EP

EPS

ESG

Employee Benefit Trust

Economic profit

Earnings per share

Environmental, Social & Governance

Ethnically diverse Colleagues from a Black, Asian, Mixed or other ethnic background

EV

EU

FCA

FCF

FRS

GDPR

GHG

GM

GMB

Electric vehicle

European Union

Financial Conduct Authority

Free cash flow

Financial Reporting Standards

General Data Protection Regulation

Greenhouse gas emissions 

Gross margin 

Trade union

Green jobs

Jobs that have a direct positive impact on the planet

GW

GWh

IAS

IFRS

KPI

kWh

LGBTQ+

Gigawatt

Gigawatt hours

International Accounting Standards

International Financial Reporting Standards

Key performance indicators

Kilowatt hour

Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual, Trans and Queer/Questioning plus. The 
‘plus’ is inclusive of other groups such as asexual, intersex and 
questioning

LNG

LTIFR 

mmboe

MThms

Net zero

NGO

NPS

Ofgem

Liquified natural gas

Lost time injury frequency rate

Million barrels of oil equivalent

Million therms

The point at which there is a balance between human-related 
carbon dioxide (CO2) being emitted into the atmosphere and the 
CO2 taken out
Non-governmental organisation

Net promoter score

The government regulator for gas and electricity markets in 
Great Britain

Paris Agreement A global agreement to keep temperature rise well below 2°C 

above pre-industrial levels, and pursue efforts to limit the increase 
to 1.5°C

PP&E

ppt

Process safety

Property, Plant and Equipment

Percentage point

Process safety is concerned with the prevention of harm to people 
and the environment, or asset damage from major incidents such 
as fires, explosions and accidental releases of hazardous 
substances

PRA

PRT

PWR

RBD

ROC
RPI

SASB

SAYE

SESC

SIP
tCO2e
T&Cs

TCFD

Prudential Regulatory Authority

Petroleum Revenue Tax

Pressurised water reactor

Reconciliation by difference

Renewable Obligation Certificate
Retail Price Index

Sustainability Accounting Standards Board

Save As You Earn

Safety, Environment and Sustainability Committee

Share Incentive Plan

Tonnes of carbon dioxide equivalent

Terms and Conditions

Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures

The Company

Centrica plc

The Group

Centrica plc and all of its subsidiary entities

TRIFR

TSR

TWh

UAOCF

Total recordable injury frequency rate

Total shareholder return

Terawatt hour

Underlying adjusted operating cash flow

Under-
represented 
groups 

A person or group of people who are insufficiently or inadequately 
represented in society such as women apprentices or those who 
are ethnically diverse, have a disability, are LGBTQ+ or carers

VIU

WBCSD

WRI

Value in use

World Business Council for Sustainable Development

World Resources Institute

252

Other Information | Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Designed and produced by
www.salterbaxter.com 
This report is printed on recycled silk papers made from 100% pre and 
post-consumer waste. The paper mills are based in the European 
Union and manufacture papers independently audited and certified by 
the Forest Stewardship Council® (FSC®) and accredited to the 
Environmental Management System 14001.

The paper is carbon balanced. Balancing is delivered by World Land 
Trust, an international conservation charity, who offset carbon 
emissions through the purchase and preservation of high conservation 
value land.

Through protecting standing forests, under threat of clearance, carbon 
is locked in that would otherwise be released. These protected forests 
are then able to continue absorbing carbon from the atmosphere, 
referred to as REDD (Reduced Emissions from Deforestation and 
forest Degradation). This is now recognised as one of the most cost-
effective and swiftest ways to arrest the rise in atmospheric CO2 and 
global warming effects. Additional to the carbon benefits is the flora 
and fauna this land preserves, including a number of species identified 
at risk of extinction on the IUCN Red List of Threatened Species.

Printed by Pureprint Group ISO14001, FSC® certified 
and CarbonNeutral®.

Disclaimer
This Annual Report and Accounts does not constitute an invitation to underwrite, subscribe 
for, or otherwise acquire or dispose of any Centrica shares or other securities.

This Annual Report and Accounts contains certain forward-looking statements, forecasts and 
projections that reflect the current intentions, beliefs or expectations of Centrica’s Management 
with respect to, the Group’s financial condition, goals and commitments, prospects, growth, 
strategies, results, operations and businesses of Centrica.

These statements only take into account information that was available up to and including 
the date that this Annual Report and Accounts was approved and can be identified by the 
use of terms such as ‘intend’, ‘aim’, ‘project’, ‘anticipate’, ‘estimate’, ‘plan’, ‘believe’, ‘expect’, 
‘forecasts’, ‘may’, ‘could’, ‘should’, ‘will’, ‘continue’ and other similar expressions of future 
performance and results including any of their negatives.

Although we make such statements based on assumptions that we believe to be reasonable, 
by their nature, readers are cautioned that these forward-looking statements are not 
guarantees or predictions of the Group’s future performance and undue reliance should not 
be placed on them when making investment decisions. Any reliance placed on this Annual 
Report and Accounts or past performance is not indicative of future results and is done 
entirely at the risk of the person placing such reliance.

There can be no assurance that the Group’s actual future results, financial condition, 
performance, operations and businesses will not differ materially from those expressed or 
implied in the forward-looking statements due to a variety of factors that are beyond the 
control of the Group and therefore cannot be precisely predicted. Such factors include, but 
not limited to, those set out in the Principal Risks and Uncertainties section of the Strategic 
Report in this Annual Report and Accounts. Other factors could also have an adverse effect 
on our business performance and results. 

At any time subsequent to the approval of this Annual Report and Accounts, neither Centrica 
nor any other person assumes responsibility for the accuracy and completeness or 
undertakes any obligation, to update or revise any of these forward-looking statements to 
reflect any new information or any changes in events, conditions or circumstances on which 
any such forward-looking statement is based save in respect of any requirement under 
applicable law or regulation.

Further when considering the information contained in, or referred to in this Annual Report 
and Accounts, please note that profit and inventory from Rough operations are reported 
under Centrica Energy Storage Limited for presentational purposes only. Centrica Energy 
Storage Limited does not produce, supply or trade gas, except to the extent necessary for 
the efficient operation of the storage facility. In accordance with the Gas Act 1986, such 
production, supply and trading of gas is carried out wholly independently of Centrica Energy 
Storage Limited by other Centrica group companies.

Certain figures shown in this announcement were rounded in accordance with standard 
business rounding principles and therefore there may be discrepancies.

Centrica plc
Registered office:
Millstream
Maidenhead Road
Windsor
Berkshire
SL4 5GD

Company registered
in England and Wales
No. 3033654

centrica.com

