TASK FORCE ON CLIMATE RELATED FINANCIAL DISCLOSURES 
The table below sets out the 11 TCFD recommendations and where the related information can be found.

Recommendation

Recommended disclosure

Pages

Governance 

Strategy 

a) Describe the Board’s oversight of climate-related risks and 

¢ Pages 47 to 48 and 57 to 71 

opportunities

b) Describe management’s role in assessing and managing 

¢ Pages 47 to 48, 52, 72 to 78         

climate-related risks and opportunities 

and 82 to 83 

a) Describe the climate-related risks and opportunities 

¢ Pages 49 to 52,138 to 142         

the organisation has identified over the short, medium, 
and long term 

and 152 to 156

b) Describe the impact of climate-related risks and 

¢ Pages 49 to 52, 138 to 142             

opportunities on the organisation’s businesses, strategy, 
and financial planning

and 152 to 156

¢ CDP 2023 submission 
centrica.com/CDP23

c) Describe the resilience of the organisation’s strategy, taking 

¢ Pages 49 to 52

into consideration different climate-related scenarios, 
including a 2°C or lower scenario

Risk management 

a) Describe the organisation’s processes for identifying and 

¢ Pages 28 to 29, 48 and 52

assessing climate-related risks

Metrics and targets

b) Describe the organisation’s processes for managing climate-

¢ Pages 28 to 29, 31 to 32, 34,        

related risks

c) Describe how processes for identifying, assessing, and 
managing climate-related risks are integrated into the 
organisation’s overall risk management

a) Disclose the metrics used by the organisation to assess 

climate-related risks and opportunities in line with its strategy 
and risk management process

b) Disclose Scope 1, Scope 2, and, if appropriate, Scope 3 
greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions, and the related risks

c) Describe the targets used by the organisation to manage 
climate-related risks and opportunities and performance 
against targets

48 and 52

¢ Pages 28 to 29, 48 and 52

¢ Pages 52 to 54
¢ Data centre at centrica.com/

datacentre

¢ Pages 49 to 53

¢ Pages 44 and 52 to 54
¢ Climate Transition Plan at 

centrica.com/climatetransition

The Strategic Report has been approved by the Board and 
signed on its behalf by:

Raj Roy
Group General Counsel 
& Company Secretary
14 February 2024

Strategic report | Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

55

Governance

57 Directors’ and Corporate Governance Report
59

– Board of Directors 

64 Corporate Governance Statement

72

79
82

84

– Audit and Risk Committee

– Nominations Committee

– Safety, Environment and Sustainability Committee

– Remuneration Report

110 Other Statutory Information

56

Governance | Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

DIRECTORS’ AND CORPORATE 
GOVERNANCE REPORT

DEAR SHAREHOLDER
I am pleased to present the 2023 
Directors’ and Corporate Governance 
Report. The Board recognises that good 
governance is essential for the effective 
delivery of our strategy and the ongoing 
development and sustainability of the 
Group, and in this report, we will update 
you on Centrica’s corporate governance, 
what the Board did in 2023 and the 
Board’s focus areas for the year ahead.

Having successfully revitalised the business by materially simplifying our 
portfolio and strengthening our balance sheet, alongside a relentless 
focus on operational performance, the Board has spent time seeking to 
build on this success and, as a result, significant efforts have been 
dedicated to crafting a green-focused investment strategy. This 
strategy is designed to ensure Centrica’s long-term sustainability and 
enhance stakeholder value. More information about this can be found 
on pages 14 and 15.

The Board is dedicated to delivering sustainable value to both 
shareholders and other stakeholders. In 2023, the Company declared 
and paid a total of 4.0p per share in dividends to shareholders (up 
33% on the total dividend of 3.0p per share paid in 2022). As of 
31 December 2023, we returned £613 million to our shareholders 
through our share buyback programme, with a further £2 million 
committed not yet settled, being a total of £615 million, as part of our 
commitment to distribute surplus capital. We expect to invest around 
£600-£800 million a year until 2028, primarily in customer technology, 
renewable generation and flexible power assets, enhancing the security 
of energy supply in the UK, while creating value for our shareholders. 
We have also maintained a strong focus on advancing the Company’s 
energy transition journey as outlined in our Climate Transition Plan 
(CTP). The CTP, and details of our progress to date, can be found 
at centrica.com/sustainability and in earlier sections of this Annual 
Report and Accounts.

ORGANISATIONAL CULTURE
Centrica is grounded in values of Care, Delivery, Agility, Courage and 
Collaboration, which form the core of our organisational culture. Our 
values are supported by Our Code that sets out our fundamental 
standards for engagement and collaboration. Our Code guides our 
decision-making, reflects our commitment to integrity and can be 
accessed at centrica.com/ourcode.

The Group Chief Executive regularly updates the Board on issues 
related to employee engagement, with the quarterly ‘Our Voice’ survey 
offering the Board crucial insights into the Company’s culture. This is 
supplemented with feedback from a variety of other sources, including 
dedicated colleague engagement meetings. I and my fellow Directors 
find these meetings to be most informative and we appreciate the 
opportunity to engage directly with colleagues in this way. You can find 
more information on the survey and other workforce engagement 
practices on pages 38 and 39. The Board maintains a focus on 
cultivating the Company’s culture, emphasising colleague development 
and digital enablement for Centrica’s future readiness.

DIVERSITY, EQUITY AND INCLUSION
Diversity, equity and inclusion continue to be key priorities for the 
Board. As at 31 December 2023, we complied with the diversity 
targets outlined in the FTSE Women Leaders Review and the Parker 
Review to have over 40% female representation on the Board and at 
least one Director from a minority ethnic background. We also 
complied with the Board and senior executive gender and ethnicity 
targets in the Listing Rules, save for the target that at least one senior 
position (Chair, Senior Independent Director, Group Chief Executive 
and Group Chief Financial Officer) be held by a woman. This situation 
arose when Kate Ringrose stepped down as Group Chief Financial 
Officer last year and Russell O’Brien was appointed following a 
thorough and robust recruitment process involving both a diverse 
candidate pool and interview panel. However, as explained in further 
detail in the Nominations Committee Report, the Board is fully 
committed to meeting the diversity target in relation to the above-
mentioned senior Board roles. The Board will therefore, as part of its 
ongoing succession planning arrangements, ensure that this 
requirement is taken into account in a way that enables the Company 
to meet the diversity target at the earliest possible opportunity. Overall 
the Board’s range and depth of experience and skills has expanded 
over the past year with new appointments to the Board in a way that 
will assist the Company in the delivery of its strategy. 

The Board has recently updated its diversity policy to comply with 
Disclosure Guidance and Transparency Rule 7.2.8A, the FTSE Women 
Leaders Review, and the Parker Review. This update also extends the 
policy to the Board’s Committees. For more detailed information on the 
Board’s diversity policy, please visit centrica.com or refer to the 
Nominations Committee Report on page 80.

Centrica is dedicated to fostering an inclusive environment where all 
individuals, regardless of their background, can succeed. We are 
actively working to ensure that our workforce, including senior 
leadership, mirrors the diversity of the communities we serve. Our 
Company has implemented policies aimed at enhancing diversity, 
equity and inclusion at every level. We have made progress in 
recruiting, promoting, and developing employees from diverse 
backgrounds, and we are committed to continuing these efforts.

Governance | Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

57

Throughout the year, Non-Executive Directors have visited a number of 
sites to immerse themselves in the operational aspects and 
communicate directly with employees about their work experiences 
and other significant issues. For instance, in 2023 the Board visited 
numerous sites Group wide, including the Brigg power station, the 
Hessle office, the Centrica Energy Storage gas terminal at Easington 
and the British Gas contact centre in Stockport. This engagement 
strategy is reviewed periodically to ensure its effectiveness.

Further details of how the Board has discharged its duties under 
Section 172 of the Companies Act 2006 can be found in our Section 
172 statement and Stakeholder Engagement section on pages 16 
to 17.

LOOKING FORWARD
Overall, I am pleased with the strong progress that was made in terms 
of the governance of the Company in 2023. The Board naturally 
remains focused on delivering against strategy, succession planning 
and ultimately creating long term sustainable value for all our 
stakeholders.

Thank you for your continued support and I look forward to updating 
you again during the year at our Annual General Meeting in June.

Scott Wheway, Chair
14 February 2024

BOARD COMPOSITION
On 1 March 2023, Russell O’Brien became Group Chief Financial 
Officer. During the year, after a detailed assessment of the Board’s 
needs and the strategic path of the Group by the Nominations 
Committee, three new independent Non-Executive Directors were 
appointed; Philippe Boisseau, Jo Harlow and Sue Whalley, each of 
whom brings a wealth of diverse experience to the Board. You can find 
more information on these Directors and their appointments in the 
biographies and the Nominations Committee Report on pages 59 to 62 
and 79 to 80 respectively.

BOARD, COMMITTEE AND DIRECTOR EVALUATIONS 
AND EFFECTIVENESS
In September 2023, the Board conducted a self-evaluation supported 
by Lintstock, a corporate advisory firm specialising in Board 
performance evaluations. The evaluation focused on a broad range 
of topics, which are discussed in more detail on page 66. Lintstock 
generated a tailored report, drawing on input from all the Directors. 
The output from this evaluation was reviewed at the Nominations 
Committee meeting in November 2023, in which all Directors 
participated.

The Directors concluded that, overall, the Board was performing 
effectively and the Committees were effective in supporting the Board 
to deliver against its objectives. The evaluation also identified areas 
which could benefit from increased focus and these topics (see page 
69) will be amongst the key priorities for the Board in the year ahead, 
in addition to the strategic and operational priorities already discussed 
in other sections of this Annual Report and Accounts.

ENGAGEMENT WITH OUR STAKEHOLDERS
Stakeholder views are gathered through an extensive network of 
strategic engagements to help grow the business and deliver 
improvements for our customers, colleagues and society over the long 
term. During 2023, representatives from the Board met with major 
shareholders from time to time in order to obtain their perspectives on a 
range of matters, including the Company’s performance, strategy and 
ESG matters.

The Board maintains collective responsibility for engaging with 
employees regularly throughout the year, recognising the insights and 
benefits gained by all Board members from regular interactions with a 
diverse range of colleagues.

58

Governance | Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

BOARD OF DIRECTORS*

Scott Wheway | Chair

Chris O’Shea | Group Chief Executive

Russell O’Brien | Group Chief Financial Officer 

Scott joined the Board on 1 May 2016 
and became Chair of the Board on 
17 March 2020. 

Chris joined Centrica in 2018 as Group 
Chief Financial Officer and was appointed 
as Group Chief Executive in 2020. Chris is 
also Chair of the Disclosure Committee and 
Chair of Spirit Energy (joint venture). 

Russell joined the Centrica plc Board on 
1 March 2023 and is also on the Board 
of the majority-controlled subsidiary, 
Spirit Energy.

Relevant skills and experience 
Scott has a wealth of experience as a senior 
customer-facing business leader with a mix of 
deep retail and consumer expertise. He has 
considerable knowledge gained in both the 
retail and insurance sectors, together with a 
strong understanding of operating within 
highly regulated businesses. 

Previous experience 
Scott worked in retail for 27 years both in the 
UK and internationally. His prior roles include 
chair of AXA UK plc from December 2017 until 
June 2022, seven years on the board of 
Santander UK plc, where he was the senior 
independent director, and non-executive 
director of Aviva plc between 2007 and 2016. 
He is the former chief executive officer of Best 
Buy Europe (retail services), director of The 
Boots Company plc, managing director and 
retail director of Boots the Chemist at Alliance 
Boots plc and a director of the British Retail 
Consortium. He formerly held a number of 
senior executive positions at Tesco plc (retail 
services), including chief executive of Tesco 
in Japan. 

Relevant skills and experience
Chris has wide-ranging experience across the 
entire energy value chain together with 
recognised experience in transforming 
business and financial performance. He has 
considerable knowledge of working in highly 
regulated industries and in complex, multi-
national organisations, not only in the energy 
sector but also in technology-led 
engineering and services industries.

Previous experience
Chris was appointed Group Chief Executive 
in early 2020 having previously been Group 
Chief Financial Officer. Prior to joining Centrica, 
Chris was group chief financial officer of UK 
listed Smiths Group plc and Vesuvius plc, 
and a non-executive director of Indian listed 
Foseco India Ltd. From 2006 to 2012 Chris 
held various senior finance roles with BG 
Group plc, including chief financial officer of 
Africa Middle East & Asia and Europe & 
Central Asia, prior to which he held a number 
of senior roles with Shell, (living and working in 
the UK, the US and Nigeria), and with Ernst & 
Young. 

External appointments 
Non-executive director of Lloyds Banking 
Group plc and chair of Scottish Widows 
Group.

Chris studied Accounting and Finance at the 
University of Glasgow, is a Chartered 
Accountant, and holds an MBA from the 
Fuqua School of Business at Duke University.

External appointments
None.

Relevant skills and experience
Russell has broad experience from across the 
energy value chain having spent more than 25 
years with Shell plc. He developed his financial 
management experience through work in 
various business models from Retail through 
to upstream development. Russell has 
extensive knowledge of controlling, capital 
markets, commercial finance and mergers 
and acquisitions activities. 

Previous experience
Prior to joining Centrica, Russell worked for 
Shell plc from 1995 to 2021. From 2006 to 
2009 Russell was financial controller for Shell’s 
upstream operations in the Americas. Russell 
was then CFO for Shell’s global retail business 
from 2009 to 2013. Following this, he was 
CFO for Shell’s Integrated Gas division. In 
2015 he was appointed group treasurer. 
During his time as treasurer Russell was also a 
board member of Shell Trading and chairman 
of Shell Asset Management Co. Russell has 
lived and worked in the USA, Singapore, the 
Netherlands and the UK. He was a board and 
advisory council member of the FICC Market 
Standards Board from 2015 to 2021. Russell 
is a Fellow of the Chartered Institute of 
Management Accountants and the Association 
of Corporate Treasurers. Russell studied 
Economics and Management and graduated 
from St. Andrews University in 1995.

External appointments
None.

Governance | Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

59

Carol Arrowsmith | Independent Non-Executive 
Director

Philippe Boisseau | Independent Non-Executive 
Director

Nathan Bostock | Independent Non-Executive 
Director

Carol joined the Board on 11 June 2020 
and is Chair of the Remuneration 
Committee.

Philippe joined the Board on 1 September 
2023. 

Nathan joined the Board on 9 May 2022 
and is Chair of the Audit and Risk 
Committee.

Relevant skills and experience 
Carol brings extensive advisory experience, 
especially of advising boards on executive 
remuneration across a range of sectors, and is 
a Fellow of the Chartered Institute of 
Personnel and Development. 

Previous experience 
Carol is a former deputy chair and senior 
partner of Deloitte LLP. She was a member of 
the Advisory Group for Spencer Stuart, Global 
Partner of Arthur Andersen, managing director 
of New Bridge Street Consultants and non-
executive director of Compass Group PLC 
and Vivo Energy plc.

External appointments 
Director and trustee of Northern Ballet Limited.

Relevant skills and experience 
Philippe brings broad experience of the 
energy industry, particularly of energy assets, 
energy infrastructure, energy trading and the 
renewable energy transition.

Previous experience 
Philippe was the chief executive officer of 
CEPSA (Compañía Española de Petróleos 
SA), the Spanish multinational oil and gas, 
chemicals, and renewable energy business, 
from 2019 to 2021. Before joining CEPSA, he 
worked at TotalEnergies SA for over two 
decades. During his tenure there, Philippe held 
president and senior executive roles across 
various business divisions and was 
instrumental in establishing and leading Total’s 
New Energies division from 2007 to 2016. 
Philippe was a senior advisor to Carlyle 
International Energy Partners between 2017 
and 2019 and was a board member at I-Pulse 
Inc. from 2017 to 2021. 

Philippe graduated from Ecole Polytechnique 
and has an MSc in Theoretical Physics.

External appointments 
Senior advisor to OMERS Infrastructure, 
Ondra Partners and Sibanye-Stillwater 
Limited.

Relevant skills and experience 
Nathan has worked in financial services since 
the mid-1980s and brings a wealth of 
financial, commercial, risk and compliance 
expertise, particularly in large-scale customer-
facing businesses. Nathan possesses current 
and pertinent experience in financial matters. 

Previous experience 
Nathan was chief executive officer of 
Santander UK from 2014 until early 2022, as 
well as global head of investment platforms of 
Banco Santander before leaving in late 2023. 
He joined Santander from the Royal Bank of 
Scotland plc (RBS), where he was an 
executive director and group finance director. 
He previously held the post of group chief risk 
officer and head of restructuring having joined 
RBS in 2009. Nathan served on the board of 
Abbey National plc (now Santander UK) as an 
executive director and chief financial officer 
from 2005 until 2009. Prior to this he held a 
number of senior positions with Abbey 
National, 2001 to 2004, RBS, 1992 to 2001 
and Chase Manhattan Bank, 1985 to 1992.

Nathan is a chartered accountant and holds 
a BSc (Hons) in Mathematics.

External appointments 
None.

60

Governance | Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Chanderpreet (CP) Duggal | Independent Non-
Executive Director

Jo Harlow | Independent Non-Executive Director

Heidi Mottram | Independent Non-Executive 
Director

CP joined the Board on 16 December 
2022.

Jo joined the Board on 1 December 2023.  

Relevant skills and experience
CP brings valuable expertise of digital 
technology and the use of data and analytics 
in large customer-facing businesses.

Relevant skills and experience 
Jo has more than 25 years’ experience 
working in various senior roles, predominantly 
in the branded and technology sectors.

Previous experience
CP worked for 20 years at American Express 
in various senior roles, the last of which was 
leading the company-wide digital and analytics 
organisation to enable growth, efficiency, and 
innovation globally. His experience includes 
managing digital/mobile channels and 
technology platforms across the customer 
lifecycle, applications of AI and Data Science 
across wide-ranging business applications, 
operational excellence and managing fraud 
risk. 

In his most recent executive role, CP was the 
chief digital and analytics officer for Burberry 
plc and a member of its executive committee. 
He was responsible for transforming              
e-commerce and omni-channel strategy 
globally, accelerating customer relationship 
management focus and leveraging analytics 
across the company. 

External appointments
None. 

Previous experience 
Prior to her non-executive career, Jo held 
the position of corporate vice president of 
the phones business unit at Microsoft. 
She previously spent 11 years at Nokia 
Corporation in a number of senior 
management roles, including executive vice 
president of smart devices. Jo was also non-
executive director at InterContinental Hotels 
Group PLC from 2014 to 2023 (including as 
remuneration committee chair from 2017 to 
2023) and was a non-executive director of 
Ceconomy-AG from 2017 to 2021.

Jo attended Duke University in North Carolina 
and has a BSc in Psychology. 

External appointments 
Non-executive director and chair of 
remuneration committee at J Sainsbury plc. 
Senior independent director and remuneration 
committee chair at Halma plc, and non-
executive director at Chapter Zero Ltd. 

Heidi joined the Board on 1 January 2020 
and is Chair of the Safety, Environment and 
Sustainability Committee. 

Relevant skills and experience 
Heidi brings considerable relevant strategic 
and operational experience acquired in her 
current and previous roles. Her deep 
understanding of the importance of customer 
service, delivered in complex, multi-
stakeholder environments with a high public 
profile, is particularly pertinent to the Group at 
this time, as it focuses on the delivery of its 
customer-centric strategy.

Previous experience 
Heidi began her career with British Rail in the 
mid-1980s. She held a number of roles in 
GNER, before joining Midland Mainline in 1999 
as operations director. She was managing 
director of Northern Rail from 2004, and 
before that she was commercial director of 
Arriva Trains Northern and operations director 
of Midland Mainline Limited from 1999 to 
2003. Additionally, Heidi was vice-chair of the 
North East Local Enterprise Partnership and 
Newcastle University Council. 

External appointments 
Chief executive director of Northumbrian 
Water Limited and Northumbrian Water Group 
Limited, and a member of the board of The 
Great British Railways Transition Team.

Governance | Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

61

Kevin O’Byrne | Senior Independent Director

Rt Hon. Amber Rudd | Independent 
Non-Executive Director

Sue Whalley | Independent Non-Executive Director

Kevin joined the Board on 13 May 2019. 
He became Senior Independent Director 
on 1 June 2022.

Amber joined the Board on 10 January 
2022.

Sue joined the Board on 1 December 2023.  

Relevant skills and experience 
Kevin brings extensive retail and finance 
experience to the Board, having occupied 
senior roles in a number of leading UK and 
international retailers. Kevin possesses current 
and pertinent experience in financial matters. 
The Board considers that Kevin has recent 
and relevant financial experience.

Previous experience 
Kevin was chief financial officer of J Sainsbury 
plc from January 2017 to March 2023. Prior 
to that, he was chief executive officer of 
Poundland Group plc, and previously held 
executive roles at Kingfisher plc, including 
divisional director UK, China and Turkey, chief 
executive officer of B&Q UK & Ireland and 
group finance director. Prior to that he was 
finance director of Dixons Retail plc. From 
2008 to 2017 he was a non-executive director 
and chairman of the audit committee of Land 
Securities Group PLC where he was also 
senior independent director from 2012 to 
2016. Kevin was chair of Centrica plc’s Audit 
and Risk Committee from 2019 to 2023. 

External appointments 
Non-executive director of International Flavors 
& Fragrances Inc. (NYSE listed)

Relevant skills and experience 
Amber brings a wealth of real-world 
experience in energy, policy and business.

Previous experience 
After around 20 years working in business, 
Amber served as a Member of Parliament 
between 2010 and 2019. In addition to 
holding the roles of Home Secretary, 
Secretary of State for Work and Pensions and 
Minister for Women and Equalities, Amber 
served as Secretary of State for Energy and 
Climate Change from 2015 to 2016, having 
been Parliamentary Under Secretary of State 
at the Department of Energy and Climate 
Change from July 2014 until May 2015. 
Amber led the UK team to the successful 
completion of the Paris Climate Change 
Agreement. This UN sponsored 2015 
Conference of the Parties (COP21) achieved 
a landmark global commitment to reduce 
national carbon emissions.

External appointments 
Non-executive director of Pinwheel, advisor to 
businesses including Energy 1, Equinor, FGS, 
Centerview Partners and Phoenix Group, and 
a trustee of The Climate Group, RUSI.

Relevant skills and experience 
Sue brings a blend of experience in people 
and cultural transformation, and strategic, 
technological, and operational evolution in 
large, complex organisations, championing 
the use of innovation to improve customer 
service. 

Previous experience 
Prior to joining Associated British Foods plc in 
2019, Sue spent 12 years at Royal Mail where 
she held several executive roles. She was 
chief executive officer of the UK post and 
parcels business where she led complex 
organisation and digital transformation to 
support e-commerce growth in the logistics 
and delivery business. Sue has extensive 
experience working with complex stakeholder 
landscapes including unions and regulators. 
Sue spent nearly 18 years in management 
consultancy working in a range of industries 
including retail and utilities. 

Sue is a graduate of the University of 
Cambridge and holds an MBA from Harvard 
Business School.

External appointments 
Chief people and performance officer at 
Associated British Foods plc. 

62

Governance | Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Raj Roy | Group General Counsel & Company 
Secretary

Raj was appointed Group General Counsel 
& Company Secretary on 1 October 2020.

Relevant skills and experience 
Raj has overall responsibility for legal, 
regulatory, compliance and secretariat 
activities across the Group, the effective 
operating of Centrica plc’s Board and advising 
on key issues of corporate governance and 
compliance. Raj joined Centrica in 2014 as the 
Legal Director for Residential Energy, before 
becoming General Counsel for the UK and 
Ireland region in 2017. He has led legal, 
regulatory and compliance teams at Centrica 
in various formations across the UK and 
Ireland region and the Consumer division.

Previous experience 
Prior to joining Centrica, Raj spent nine years 
at Vodafone, holding a number of senior in-
house legal roles in the Group and UK legal 
functions. Raj started his career in private 
practice, qualifying as a solicitor at Slaughter 
and May in London and subsequently working 
for Freshfields in Brussels.

External appointments 
Member of the Board of Energy UK 
(representing Centrica) and the Board of 
General Counsel for Diversity and Inclusion 
(GCD&I).

*as at 14 February 2024

The Board considers that each of the Directors 
continues to contribute effectively to the work 
and deliberations of the Board.

Reasons for the (re-)election of each of our 
Directors at the forthcoming AGM can be 
found within the Centrica plc Notice of Annual 
General Meeting 2024 which will be made 
available on our website centrica.com/agm24.

Full biographies can be found at centrica.com/
board

Governance | Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

63

CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 
STATEMENT

The Board is committed to high standards of corporate governance 
and is pleased to confirm that throughout the year ended 31 December 
2023, the Company complied with all relevant provisions of the UK 
Corporate Governance Code (UK Code) apart from Provisions 40 and 
41. An explanation of the non-compliance can be found in the 
Remuneration Committee Report on page 108. Our application of 
the UK Code is set out below. 

An explanation of non-compliance with Listing Rule 9.8.6(9) whereby 
the Company does not have at least one senior position held by a 
woman can be found on page 80. The UK Code and associated 
guidance are available on the Financial Reporting Council’s website at 
frc.org.uk. The index on page 110 sets out where to find each of the 
required disclosures in respect of Listing Rule 9.8.4 and Disclosure 
Guidance and Transparency Rules 4.1.5 R and 7.2.1.

Section 1 | Board Leadership and Company Purpose

Principles A, B, C,
D, E

The Corporate Governance statement (CG Statement) on pages 64 to 71 gives information on the Group’s compliance 
with the principles relating to the Board’s Leadership and Company Purpose. More detailed information on:

¢ the Group’s statement of purpose can be found on page 9;
¢ the Group’s strategy, resources and the indicators it uses to measure performance can be found on pages 10 to 11 

and 26 to 27 respectively;

¢ the Group’s engagement with stakeholders and the Group’s Section 172(1) Statement is set out on pages 14 to 17; 

and

¢ the Group’s approach to workforce matters can be found in the Chief People Officer’s report and in ‘Our 

people’ within our People and Planet section on pages 38 to 43. 

Details of AGM voting results can be found on page 70, the Group’s framework of controls is contained in the Audit 
and Risk Committee report on pages 73 to 74 of the CG Statement and in the Principal Risk and Viability Disclosure 
section on pages 28 to 37.

Section 2 | Division of Responsibilities

Principles F, G, H, I The CG Statement describes the structure and operation of the Board. In the CG statement, we describe on page 66 

the process the Company conducts to evaluate the Board, to ensure that it continues to operate effectively, that 
individual Director’s contributions are appropriate and that the oversight of the Chair promotes a culture of openness 
and constructive yet challenging debate. The policies and processes which support the Board to function effectively 
and efficiently can be found on our website at centrica.com/board.

Section 3 | Composition, Succession and Evaluation

Principles J, K, L

Details of the skills, experience and knowledge of the existing Board directors can be found in the Board biographies on 
pages 59 to 63. Information on the Board’s appointment process and approach to succession planning is contained in 
the Nominations Committee report on pages 79 to 80. Information on the Board evaluation process can be found on 
page 66.

Section 4 | Audit, Risk and Internal Control

Principles M, N, O

Information on the policies and procedures the Group has in place to monitor the effectiveness of the Group’s Internal 
and External Audit functions, and the integrity of the Group’s financial statements, is contained in the Audit and Risk 
Committee report on pages 72 to 74 of the CG Statement, along with an overview of the procedures in place to manage 
risk and oversee the internal control framework. Further information on the Group’s approach to risk management is 
contained in the Principal Risk and Viability Disclosure section of the Strategic Review on pages 28 to 37. The Board 
believes the 2023 Annual Report to be a fair, balanced and understandable assessment of the Company’s position and 
prospects. A description of the Audit and Risk Committee’s work in enabling the Board to reach this conclusion is 
contained in the Audit and Risk Committee report on page 73.

Section 5 | Remuneration

Principles P, Q, R

The Directors’ Remuneration Report section of the CG Statement describes the Group’s approach to Directors’ 
remuneration, including the procedure for developing policy and the Remuneration Committee’s discretion for 
authorising remuneration outcomes. Details of linkage of the Directors’ Remuneration Policy with long-term strategy 
are contained on page 102.

The Board and its committees continue to monitor developments in governance, and welcome the important revisions to the UK Corporate 
Governance Code (the Code) published by the Financial Reporting Council (FRC) on 22 January 2024.

64

Governance | Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

GOVERNANCE FRAMEWORK
The Board is responsible for leading the Group in an efficient manner, 
establishing the Group’s purpose, values and strategy, to which the 
Group’s culture is aligned. It focuses primarily on strategic and policy 
issues and is responsible for developing long-term sustainable value 
for stakeholders. It is responsible for ensuring there are effective risk 
assessment and management processes, setting the Group’s strategy, 
overseeing the allocation of resources and monitoring the performance 
of the Group. The framework to enable this is set out in a schedule 
of matters reserved for the Board. In order to allow the Board to focus 
on its priorities, a number of its oversight responsibilities have been 
delegated to four principal Committees. These responsibilities are set 
out in the terms of reference for each Committee. The Board regularly 
reviews the remit, authority, composition and terms of reference of 
each Committee. In performance of these duties, the Board has regard 
to the interests of the Group’s key stakeholders and the potential 
impact of the decisions it makes on wider society. 

Matters reserved exclusively for the Board 
There are certain key responsibilities that the Board does not 
delegate, and which are reserved for its consideration. The Board’s 
responsibilities include: the development of strategy; the acquisition 
and divestment policy; the approval of major capital expenditure; the 
Group’s capital structure; the approval of financials; and oversight 
and independent assurance of policies and procedures. The full 
schedule of matters reserved is available on the governance page 
of our website at centrica.com.

OUR BOARD
The Board comprises the Non-Executive Chair (independent on 
appointment), two Executive Directors (Group Chief Executive and 
Group Chief Financial Officer), and nine independent Non-Executive 
Directors. There is a clear division of responsibilities between the Chair 
and the Group Chief Executive, reflected in the schedule of matters 
reserved for the Board.

Board Committees
The Board oversees the Group’s operations through a unitary Board 
and four principal Committees, these being the Audit and Risk 
Committee, Nominations Committee, Remuneration Committee and 
the Safety, Environment and Sustainability Committee. The terms of 
reference for these Committees can be found on our website, 
centrica.com, and attendance at meetings of each of these 
Committees in 2023 can be found on page 68. Further information on 
the work of these Committees can be found in later sections of this 
Annual Report and Accounts (pages 72, 79, 82 and 84).

In addition to the above-mentioned Committees, the work of the Board 
is supported by a Disclosure Committee, the terms of reference for 
which are available on our website. The Disclosure Committee is 
responsible for overseeing the timely and accurate disclosure of 
sensitive information and maintaining procedures and controls to 
enable compliance with legal and regulatory disclosure obligations. 
Meetings of the Disclosure Committee are convened as and when 
necessary and membership of the Committee comprises the Group 
Chief Executive, Group Chief Financial Officer and the Group General 
Counsel & Company Secretary.

Centrica Leadership Team (CLT)
The CLT is led by the Group Chief Executive and members include the 
Group Chief Financial Officer, Group General Counsel & Company 
Secretary and the Chief People Officer. The CLT is responsible for 
ensuring the delivery of the Group’s strategy, business plans and 
financial performance. 

Board appointments
The report of the Nominations Committee on pages 79 to 80 describes 
the work of the Committee in relation to Board appointments. All 
Directors are subject to annual re-election. The Board sets out in the 
Notice of Annual General Meeting the specific reasons why each 
Director’s contribution is, and continues to be, valuable to the 
Company’s long-term sustainable success.

The Board is responsible for corporate governance, developing strategy and major policies, reviewing management performance, approving financials 
and providing entrepreneurial leadership to the Company within a framework of prudent and effective controls which enable risk to be assessed 
and managed. It is also responsible for setting the Company’s culture, values and the behaviours it wishes to promote in conducting its business. 
The Board’s role and responsibilities are reviewed against the UK Code to ensure that it is meeting all of its responsibilities.

The Board

Chair

Group Chief Executive

The Chair is responsible for the leadership and management of the 
Board. In doing so, he is responsible for promoting high ethical 
standards, ensuring the effective contribution of all Directors and, 
with support from the Group General Counsel & Company 
Secretary, ensuring best practice in corporate governance and the 
timely distribution of accurate and clear information to Directors.

The Group Chief Executive is responsible for the executive 
leadership and day-to-day management of the Company, 
to ensure the delivery of the strategy agreed by the Board.

Independent 
Non-Executive Directors

Senior Independent 
Director

Group Chief
Financial Officer

Group General Counsel 
& Company Secretary

Independent Non-Executive 
Directors are responsible for 
contributing sound judgement 
and objectivity to the Board’s 
deliberations and overall decision-
making process, providing 
constructive challenge, and 
monitoring the Executive 
Directors’ delivery of the strategy 
within the Board’s risk and 
governance structure. All of the 
Non-Executive Directors are 
considered independent.

The Senior Independent 
Director acts as a sounding 
board for the Chair and serves 
as a trusted intermediary for the 
other Directors, as well as 
shareholders, as required. 

The Group Chief Financial 
Officer is responsible for 
providing strategic financial 
leadership to the Company and 
for the day-to-day management 
of the finance function.

The Group General Counsel & 
Company Secretary advises the 
Chair on governance, together 
with updates on regulatory and 
compliance matters; supports the 
Board agenda with clear 
information flow; and acts as a 
link between the Board and its 
Committees, and between 
Independent Non-Executive 
Directors and senior 
management.

Governance | Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

65

Evaluation and effectiveness of the Board, Committees 
and the Directors
To ensure that the Board and its Committees continue to operate 
effectively, a performance evaluation of the Board and its principal 
Committees is undertaken annually with an externally facilitated 
evaluation every third year. We used the services of external advisors, 
Lintstock Limited, to support the 2023 internal evaluation process, 
which year on year has built on the priorities identified in the 
previous years. 

The 2023 evaluation, overseen by the Group General Counsel & 
Company Secretary, was conducted by way of a questionnaire which 
covered a broad range of topics, including:

¢ Board composition;
¢ Board dynamics;
¢ Stakeholder oversight;
¢ Strategic oversight;
¢ Management and focus of meetings;
¢ Risk management and internal controls;
¢ Succession planning and people oversight;
¢ Board support; and
¢ priorities.

The outcome of this year’s evaluation demonstrated that the Board 
and its Committees continue to operate effectively. 

The evaluation highlighted certain topics and actions for focus in the 
year ahead, including additional training on technological threats and 
opportunities, with a focus on green technologies and artificial 
intelligence, enhancing insights into global supply chain considerations 
and competitor strategies and performance. The Board and the 
Nominations Committee will also continue to focus on succession 
planning, both at Board and senior executive level. Creating further 
opportunities for engagement with senior leadership and management 
was also identified. 

Feedback from the 2022 evaluation related to succession planning, 
Board training and increasing the Board’s exposure to and 
understanding of certain stakeholders. During the course of 2023, 
meetings dedicated to talent and succession planning, including 
assessment of Board skills and composition, were held. The Board 
reviewed its training requirements and the 2023 and 2024 work 
programmes were updated to include training sessions on a broad 
range of topics. Stakeholder related information provided to the Board 
was enhanced, including site visits, meetings with colleagues and 
increased content on supply chain and customers as part of business 
unit deep-dive sessions. 

Independent Board Evaluation will be appointed to provide the triennial, 
in-depth, externally facilitated evaluation of the Board’s effectiveness in 
2024. Further information on the process and feedback from this 
evaluation will be reported in the 2024 Annual Report and Accounts.

Training and development for Directors 
It is important to ensure that Directors’ skills and knowledge are 
refreshed and updated regularly, given the dynamic business and 
regulatory environment in which the Company operates. The Chair, 
supported by the Group General Counsel & Company Secretary 
and Secretariat, and informed by the Nominations Committee, is 
responsible for the ongoing development of all Directors. The Chair 
discusses with each Director any individual training and development 
needs, such as formal and informal briefings, meetings with 
management and visits to the Group’s operations. During 2023, the 
Directors received deep dives including British Gas Energy, Centrica 
Energy and Centrica Energy Storage+, and training on various matters 
including, directors’ duties and hydrogen and carbon capture storage 
models (including economic regulation frameworks). In addition, the 
Directors have full access to the advice and services of the Group 
General Counsel & Company Secretary, who is responsible for advising 
the Board, on corporate governance matters. Should it prove 
necessary, Directors are also able to seek independent professional 
advice at the Company’s expense in respect of their duties.

66

Governance | Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Directors’ independence and conflicts
All our Non-Executive Directors are considered to be independent 
against the criteria in the UK Code, and free from any business interest 
which could materially interfere with the exercise of their independent 
judgement. In addition, the Board is satisfied that each Non-Executive 
Director is able to dedicate the necessary amount of time to the 
Company’s affairs. 

The Non-Executive Directors’ Letters of Appointment state that they 
must inform the Group General Counsel & Company Secretary of any 
other businesses, directorships, appointments, advisory roles, or other 
relevant commitments (including any relevant changes, and a broad 
indication of the time involved). Directors also confirm that they will 
inform the Board of any subsequent changes to their circumstances 
which may affect the time they can commit to their duties. The 
agreement of the Chair must be obtained before accepting additional 
commitments that might affect the time Non-Executive Directors are 
able to devote to their appointment.

In accordance with the Companies Act 2006 and the Company’s 
Articles of Association, Directors are required to report actual or 
potential conflicts of interest to the Board for consideration and, 
if required, authorisation. If such conflicts exist, Directors recuse 
themselves from consideration of the relevant subject matter. 
The Company maintains a schedule of authorised conflicts of 
interest which is regularly reviewed by the Board.

The Company’s Articles of Association provide how Directors are 
appointed, retired and replaced. These can be found on our website.

Directors’ induction
The Board has in place processes for the Directors’ induction and 
ongoing training. The Directors’ induction programme is led by the 
Chair and supported by the Group General Counsel & Company 
Secretary and Secretariat. It is tailored to meet the individual’s needs, 
providing all the information and support required in a structured way 
to allow them to be effective in their role. Directors are asked to provide 
input on how their induction should be tailored, in relation to both 
content and delivery, with the opportunity for periodic subsequent 
review with the Chair. For example, CP Duggal met with each of 
the business Managing Directors and their teams during the year, 
including a visit to the Stockport Call Centre and Bord Gáis Energy 
in Dublin, together with deep dive sessions with the Centrica Energy 
and British Gas Energy businesses, and some external training 
and mentoring sessions. 

DIRECTOR INDUCTION 2023 – CP DUGGAL, 
RUSSELL O’BRIEN, PHILIPPE BOISSEAU, 
JO HARLOW AND SUE WHALLEY

Following appointment, all Directors receive a comprehensive 
and tailored induction programme. This is designed through 
discussion with the Chair and the Group General Counsel & 
Company Secretary and considers existing expertise and any 
prospective Board Committee roles. 

The induction plans for CP Duggal and Russell O’Brien 
comprised a combination of in-person and virtual sessions 
with both internal functions and external advisors over an 
initial period of six months. This was structured to ensure that 
information material to their roles was delivered in the early 
stages of the programme.

These briefings provided an initial opportunity to meet senior 
leaders and were supported by site visits to provide on-the-
ground understanding of business units and working 
environments. 

The induction for Philippe Boisseau, who joined the Board 
on 1 September 2023, and for Jo Harlow and Sue Whalley, 
who joined the Board on 1 December 2023, has begun. 
An update on their respective inductions will be provided 
in the 2024 Annual Report & Accounts.

Areas covered during induction

Sessions covered by

Centrica’s purpose, strategic priorities and business unit operations

Group Chief Executive and Managing Directors of each 
Business Unit, Group Head of Strategy 

Financial position, performance, investment and funding, including 
credit ratings

Group Chief Financial Officer, Group Financial Controller and the 
Company’s brokers

Pensions, Treasury & Insurance

External assurance

Remuneration Committee advisors

Rewards & Benefits

People & Culture

Energy sector and trends, energy markets

Net zero, sustainability

Stakeholder communication and engagement

Corporate governance and Board operations

Group Head of Treasury, Pensions, & Insurance

External auditors

PwC

Group Chief People Officer, Director of Rewards & Benefits

Group Chief People Officer

Group Strategy Director, Group Regulatory Affairs Director, 
Group Head of M&A, Group Head of Investor Relations

Group Strategy Director, Group Head of Environment

Group General Counsel & Company Secretary and Group 
Corporate Affairs Director

Chair of the Board and Group General Counsel & Company 
Secretary 

Shareholder and investment perspectives

Group Head of Investor Relations and the Company’s brokers

Legal and regulatory landscape

Group General Counsel & Company Secretary, Director of 
Regulatory Affairs and Policy

Centrica’s risk profile

Chief Risk Officer

Safety, health and environment, people and culture

Group General Counsel & Company Secretary, Group Chief People 
Officer

Digital technology / Cyber security

Chief Information Officer, VP – Cyber Security

Site visits
The Directors recognise the importance of, and benefits gained by, 
visiting the Group’s operations and endeavour to visit Centrica sites 
each year. The site visits that the Board undertook in 2023 and 
the interactions at those visits are described in the Chair’s letter 
on page 58. 

Board meetings 
The Board is committed to upholding high standards of corporate 
governance and compliance, recognising their importance for the 
Company’s enduring performance and value generation. These 
standards underpin the Company’s strategic objectives and critical 
decision-making, crucial for reinforcing its financial foundation and 
navigating challenging market conditions.

The Board held eight formal meetings in 2023, which primarily occurred 
face-to-face. In addition, supplementary meetings were called for 
specific approvals. The table showing the attendance of Directors at 
Board meetings in 2023 can be found on page 68. If Directors are 
unable to attend a meeting, they have the opportunity beforehand to 
discuss any agenda items with the Chair. The agendas for Board 
meetings are agreed in advance by the Chair, Group Chief Executive 
and Group General Counsel & Company Secretary. The agenda 
typically consists of regular standing items, such as reports on financial 
performance, and in-depth examination or analysis of a topic. 

During the year, the independent Non-Executive Directors, including 
the Chair, met twice without management present. 

Governance | Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

67

Number of Board and Committee meetings attended during 2023(1):
Joined the 
Board

Name

Role

Tenure(2)

Board

Scott Wheway

Chair

01/05/2016

7 years, 8 months

Chris O’Shea

Group Chief Executive

01/11/2018

5 years, 2 months

Kate Ringrose(3)

Group Chief Financial Officer

18/01/2021

2 years, 1 month

Russell O’Brien(3) 

Group Chief Financial Officer 

01/03/2023

0 years, 10 months 

Carol Arrowsmith

Independent Non-Executive Director

11/06/2020

3 years, 6 months

Philippe Boisseau

Independent Non-Executive Director

01/09/2023

0 years, 4 months 

Nathan Bostock

Independent Non-Executive Director

09/05/2022

1 year, 7 months

CP Duggal

Jo Harlow 

Independent Non-Executive Director

16/12/2022

1 year, 1 month

Independent Non-Executive Director

01/12/2023

0 years, 1 month 

Heidi Mottram

Independent Non-Executive Director

01/01/2020

4 years, 0 months

Kevin O’Byrne

Senior Independent Non-Executive Director 13/05/2019

4 years, 7 months

Amber Rudd

Independent Non-Executive Director

10/01/2022

1 year, 11 months

Sue Whalley 

Independent Non-Executive Director

01/12/2023

0 years, 1 month

8/8

8/8

2/2

6/6

8/8

3/3

8/8

8/8

1/1

8/8

8/8

8/8

1/1

AC

N/A

N/A

N/A

N/A

4/4

1/1

4/4

4/4

N/A

N/A

4/4

N/A

N/A

NC

3/3

N/A

N/A

N/AN

3/3

1/1

3/3

3/3

N/A

3/3

3/3

3/3

N/A

RC

N/A

N/A

N/A

N/A

5/5

N/A

N/A

5/5

N/A

5/5

N/A

5/5

N/A

SC

3/3

N/A

N/A

N/A

N/A

1/1

3/3

N/A

N/A

3/3

N/A

3/3

N/A

(1) Any Director who is unable to attend a Board meeting provides feedback to the Chair on the matters to be discussed in advance of the meeting.
(2) Data as at 31 December 2023.
(3) Kate Ringrose stepped down as Group Chief Financial Officer and an Executive Director on 28 February 2023 and Russell O’Brien joined as Group Chief Financial Officer 

and an Executive Director on 1 March 2023.

Board activity including Section 172(1) considerations
The Board, as custodian of the Company, acknowledges the 
importance of understanding stakeholder needs and expectations to 
secure the Company’s long-term viability and to deliver value to all 
stakeholders and society at large. 

Throughout the year, the Board’s activities have included evaluating 
regular operational and financial reports, strategising, and approving 
various governance matters. Read more about Board discussions held 
on page 69. Moreover, they have conducted deep dives on special 
topics. The Directors ensure that their decisions are informed by the 
considerations set out in Section 172 of the Companies Act 2006.  

Feedback from key stakeholder engagements is routinely considered 
by the Board, and this report, alongside our website, contains 
additional examples and evidence of the Directors’ adherence to their 
duties as outlined in Section 172. Read more about the Section 172 
statement and the principal decision taken by the Board described on 
page 17. 

Section 172
The likely consequences of any decision in the long term

The interests of our colleagues

Evidence
Please see page 9 to 11, 14 to 17, 41 to 55 and 67 to 69

Please see page 14 to 17, 38 to 40, 42 to 43, and 67 to 71

The need to foster relationships with suppliers, customers and others

Please see page 14 to 17, 70 and 82 to 83

The impact of the Company’s operations on the community and the 
environment

Please see pages 41 to 55 and 82 to 83

The desirability of the Company maintaining a reputation for high 
standards of business conduct

Please see pages 45, 70 to 71, and 82 to 83 and visit our website 
centrica.com

The need to act fairly between members of the Company

Please see pages 15 to 17 and 69

68

Governance | Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

BOARD DISCUSSIONS HELD DURING THE YEAR INCLUDED

Strategy and business plan

Performance and risk

The Board set the delivery of the strategic direction of the Group 
and oversaw the delivery of that strategy for the benefit of relevant 
stakeholders. In particular, the Board also considered the following 
matters:

¢ Group Annual Plans for 2023 and 2024
¢ The Group’s new strategic & investment framework
¢ The Energy Supply Market – future investment strategy 
¢ The Climate Transition Plan
¢ Return of surplus capital to shareholders
¢ Energy transition investment opportunities
¢ Responsible sourcing strategy
¢ Stress testing under range of scenarios

Stakeholders considered: 

Culture and stakeholders

The Board recognises that understanding the views and interests of 
the Company’s diverse community of stakeholders, including 
customers, is important.

The views and interests of stakeholders are considered in the 
development, delivery and oversight of the Group’s business model, 
strategy and culture. During the year, the Board considered the 
following matters:

¢ Cost of living crisis and the impact on customers and colleagues
¢ Colleague engagement
¢ Pensions
¢ Company culture
¢ Investor updates and feedback
¢ Senior leadership development and succession planning
¢ Diversity, Equity & Inclusion strategy

Stakeholders considered:

Political and regulatory environment

During the year, the Board considered a range of political and 
regulatory matters relevant to the Group’s activities and strategy, 
including in particular:

¢ Macro/geopolitical developments
¢ Reform of energy markets
¢ Modern Slavery Act developments
¢ TCFD disclosure
¢ Government intervention initiatives
¢ UK and Ireland energy security
¢ FCA Consumer Duty

Financial performance and risks, as well as risk controls and 
processes are regularly reported to the Board and to the Audit and 
Risk Committee. Risks are also brought to the attention of the 
Board through reports from the Group Chief Executive, Group Chief 
Financial Officer, heads of business and functional subject matter 
experts. These reports covered a wide range of topics, including:

¢ Health and safety performance and process safety risk
¢ Group Performance Reports
¢ 2022 preliminary results statement and 2023 interim results 

statement

¢ Group credit exposure and liquidity
¢ Business reviews, including operational performance
¢ Periodic results
¢ Cyber security risk management
¢ Commodity price movements
¢ Climate Transition Plan performance
¢ People & Planet Plan performance
¢ Going concern and viability statements
¢ Audit fees
¢ Internal Audit review
¢ Internal controls
¢ Tax 
¢ Treasury risk management 
¢ Insurance
¢ Ensek migration
¢ 2022 final dividend
¢ 2023 interim dividend
¢ Technology systems roadmap

Stakeholders considered: 

Governance

The Board receives regular reports from the Group General Counsel 
& Company Secretary on governance and regulatory matters, as 
well as regular updates and insights on market trends from the 
Investor Relations function. During the year, the Board took time to 
consider or oversee the following key governance activities/matters:

¢ 2022 Annual Report and Accounts
¢ Independent Non-Executive Director recruitment
¢ Board effectiveness evaluation
¢ Succession planning for the Board
¢ Committee composition
¢ Reports from Committee Chairs
¢ Conflicts of interest reviews
¢ Terms of reference reviews
¢ Director skillset and Director training requirements
¢ Director independence
¢ Workforce engagement
¢ All-Employee Share Plan
¢ Dividend policy
¢ Company’s investigation results on warrant-based prepayment 

meter installations

Stakeholders considered: 

Stakeholders considered:

Governance | Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

69

RELATIONS WITH OUR STAKEHOLDERS
Shareholder engagement 
The Board is committed to maintaining open channels of 
communication with all of the Company’s stakeholders. An important 
part of this is providing a clear explanation of the Company’s strategy 
and objectives, and ensuring feedback is acknowledged, considered 
and, where appropriate, acted upon. 

Meetings, roadshows and conferences 
The Company reports its financial results to shareholders twice a year, 
with the publication of its annual and half-year results. The Group Chief 
Executive and Group Chief Financial Officer typically meet with our 
major institutional shareholders twice a year, following the Company’s 
preliminary and interim results, which provides an opportunity for a 
review of the Company’s strategy and performance. The results 
presentations, webcast and announcement from the 2022 preliminary 
results and 2023 interim results are available on our website, 
centrica.com. 

In addition, management and/or Investor Relations attend a number of 
investor conferences throughout the year, giving shareholders further 
opportunity to meet and receive updates directly from Company 
representatives. Senior management, the Chair, Senior Independent 
Director and Remuneration Committee Chair are also available to meet 
on an ad-hoc basis with major shareholders if requested.

Engagement themes with our institutional shareholders 
During the year, engagement themes included: 

¢ Centrica’s strategic refresh;
¢ Full year and interim results;
¢ the Rough storage facility;
¢ UK energy security; 
¢ Dividends and shareholder returns;
¢ The regulatory and political environment for UK energy;
¢ Impact of rising commodity prices;
¢ Energy transition investment opportunities;
¢ Board succession;
¢ Liquidity and result of stress tests; and
¢ ESG matters.

GENERAL MEETINGS
The Board is committed to communicating with shareholders and other 
stakeholders in a clear and open manner and seeks to ensure effective 
engagement through the Company’s regular communications, the 
AGM and other investor relations activities. During 2023, the Company 
undertook an ongoing programme of meetings with investors (in 
person and virtually). The majority of these meetings were led by the 
Group Chief Executive and Group Chief Financial Officer. 

The Company holds an Annual General Meeting (AGM) each year and 
holds General Meetings as required. At the AGM, the Chair gives his 
thoughts on governance aspects of the preceding year and the Group 
Chief Executive reviews the performance of the Group over the last 
year. In advance of each AGM, we write to our largest shareholders 
inviting discussion on any questions they might like to raise and 
making the Chairs of the Board, the Audit and Risk Committee and 
the Remuneration Committee available to meet shareholders should 
they so wish. In addition, the Company engaged with its largest 
shareholders and key governance agencies in early 2023, on 
resolutions concerning the Directors’ Remuneration Policy and our 
Climate Transition Plan. Feedback was received from major 
shareholders and governance agencies and dialogue entered into 
with a number of shareholders regarding the proposals. 

The 2023 AGM was held as a hybrid meeting, giving shareholders the 
opportunity to participate (including asking questions and voting) in 
person or virtually via an online platform (Lumi). Shareholders were 
encouraged to exercise their votes by submitting their proxy forms 
either electronically or by post. We also invited shareholders to submit 
their questions in advance of the AGM via a dedicated question facility 
on our website and, where appropriate, the answers were published 
on our website.

Our 2023 AGM was well supported with voting in favour of the 
resolutions ranging from 92% to 99% and with 65% of issued share 
capital voted.  

Information about the 2024 AGM will be provided in the Notice of 
Meeting and will be available in due course at centrica.com/agm24. 
Voting on the resolutions will generally be conducted by a poll and the 
voting results will be announced through the Regulatory News Service 
of the London Stock Exchange and also made available on the 
Company’s website.

Centrica.com
Our website, centrica.com, contains up-to-date information for 
shareholders and other interested parties including Annual Report and 
Accounts, shareholder circulars, share price information, news 
releases, presentations to the investment community and information 
on shareholder services.

WORKFORCE
Workforce engagement
Responsibility for workforce engagement is shared amongst the 
Directors of the Board, which is a well-recognised approach adopted 
by companies. Through engaging with colleagues and understanding 
what they think and feel, the Board is able to make more informed 
decisions which enable better outcomes for colleagues as well as the 
Company.

During the year, the Chair and Non-Executive Directors engaged with 
members of the workforce in various ways. This included site visits 
to Brigg, Hessle, Easington Terminal, and Park House where they met 
with colleagues to better understand the businesses. 

Quarterly engagement surveys, feedback from the Shadow Board, 
town halls, meetings with members of the Centrica Leadership Team, 
both individually and together, leader-led listening sessions and 
colleague-led network sessions provided additional mechanisms to 
better understand the views of the workforce and to foster a more 
collegial culture.

Ongoing and holistic engagements like these contributed to the 
decision-making of the Centrica Leadership Team and the 
Board throughout the course of 2023. Further information on some 
of the decision-making of the Board can be found on page 17.

Equal opportunities
The Group has, and is committed to, an active equal opportunities 
policy which includes, but is not limited to, recruitment and selection, 
training, career development, performance reviews, promotion and 
through to retirement. Our culture is to create an inclusive and safe 
environment free from discrimination, harassment and victimisation. 
Our policies are in place to ensure everyone receives equal treatment 
regardless of gender, identity, race, ethnic or national origin, disability, 
age, marital status, sexual orientation or religion or any other 
characteristic protected by applicable laws.

70

Governance | Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

We have created channels for colleagues to voice concerns 
confidentially, through a Speak Up helpline that is operated by a 
third party.

Action like this helps to ensure that decisions relating to employment 
practices are objective and based upon work criteria and individual 
merit. See pages 45 for more information. 

Colleagues with disabilities
It is our policy that current and prospective colleagues with a disability 
have the same right to access and develop their careers as anyone 
else, which is why we are actively targeting to grow disability 
representation as part of our People & Planet Plan to ensure we reflect 
the full diversity of our communities (see page 42). Colleagues with a 
disability receive full and fair consideration when applying for all 
vacancies and we interview those who meet the minimum criteria 
required, whilst making all reasonable adjustments during recruitment 
or during their employment with us. To help everyone reach their full 
potential, we provide training, career development and promotion 
opportunities that are open to anyone who works for us alongside 
tailored programmes that specifically support colleagues with 
disabilities to achieve the next steps in their career. We also endeavour 
to retain colleagues in the workforce if they become disabled during 
employment.

To support this approach, in 2017 we launched Diverse-ability, a 
network that celebrates physiological and neurological diversity among 
colleagues. Over the years, the network has grown from strength-to-
strength to become a family of networks including the neurodiversity 
network and The Fertility Sanctuary. They are a vital source of support 
and education for colleagues, whilst providing us with essential 
feedback to help us evolve our business in a more inclusive way. As 
part of our ambition to be a more inclusive business, we support The 
Valuable 500 initiative to champion disability inclusion across the 
business and beyond. We are also members of their Generation 
Valuable mentoring programme to help identify and build a community 
of disabled talent to develop their skills and share their experiences 
upwards, informing the C-suite about how to make businesses more 
inclusive. In addition to this, we are a Level 2 Disability Confident 
Employer, partner with Scope and are members of the Business 
Disability Forum, which offers support, toolkits and advice to 
businesses around disability matters. In 2024, we plan to launch our 
Great Minds programme to help normalise and better support 
neurodiversity amongst other activities.

Human rights
We are fully committed to upholding the fundamental human rights and 
freedoms of everyone who works for us, with us, or lives in the 
communities where we operate. We uphold the UN Guiding Principles 
on Business and Human Rights and are signatories of the United 
Nations Global Compact. As set out in Our Code, we take steps to 
ensure that we never knowingly cause or contribute to human rights 
abuses through activities like employment checks and supplier due 
diligence. We also aim to contribute positively to global efforts to ensure 
human rights are understood and observed. Further information about 
our efforts can be found in our People & Planet Plan on page 46, as 
well as in our Modern Slavery Statement and Our Code available on our 
website centrica.com. 

Governance | Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

71

DEAR SHAREHOLDER

The Audit and Risk Committee is pleased to present its 
report for the year ended 31 December 2023, which 
summarises the Committee’s work to ensure the accuracy 
of the Group’s published financial information and the 
effectiveness of the Group’s risk management and internal 
controls framework.

This report should be read in conjunction with the following 
sections in the Annual Report and Accounts:
¢ Principal Risks and Uncertainties, pages 28 to 34
¢ Viability Statement, pages 35 to 37
¢ UK Corporate Governance Code application, page 64

COMMITTEE OVERVIEW
The Committee has a yearly agenda which is linked to the Company’s 
financial calendar. The agenda is flexible, enabling in-depth reviews of 
topics of particular importance to the Committee.

The core responsibilities of the Committee are to:

¢ monitor and review the adequacy and effectiveness of the 

governance and oversight of the Company’s financial processing 
and reporting, internal controls and risk management, including key 
judgments and estimates;

¢ provide advice and assurance to the Board on whether it has 

discharged its duties and whether the Annual Report and Accounts, 
when taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable and 
provides all the necessary information for shareholders and other 
stakeholders to assess the Company’s position, performance, 
business model and strategy;

¢ monitor and review the operation and effectiveness of the Group’s 
Internal Audit function, including its independence, strategic focus, 
activities, plans and resources;

¢ supervise the appointments of the Group Chief Risk Officer and 

Group Head of Internal Audit;

¢ manage the relationship with the Group’s external auditors on behalf 
of the Board (including appointment, independence, effectiveness 
and remuneration);

¢ conduct a tender for the external audit contract at least every 

10 years and make appointment recommendations to the Board;
¢ review the Company’s arrangements for its workforce/stakeholders 
to raise concerns in confidence about possible improprieties in 
financial reporting or other matters; and

¢ consider and review material legal and regulatory policy compliance 
issues or risks, and maintain oversight of the arrangements in place 
for the management of statutory and regulatory compliance in areas 
such as financial crime.

AUDIT AND RISK COMMITTEE

MEMBERSHIP, MEETING ATTENDANCE 
AND KEY FOCUS

Committee members
— Nathan Bostock (Chair) (with effect from 

1 March 2023)

— Kevin O’Byrne (Chair until 28 February 

2023)

— Carol Arrowsmith
— Philippe Boisseau (with effect from 

1 September 2023)

— CP Duggal

All Committee members are independent 
Non-Executive Directors. Nathan Bostock  
and Kevin O’Byrne have recent and relevant 
financial experience and the Committee has 
sector relevant competence, as disclosed on 
pages 59 to 63.

Carol Arrowsmith is connected to Deloitte 
LLP (‘Deloitte’) as, historically, she was a 
partner there. However, she had left Deloitte 
prior to their appointment as the Group’s 
external auditors. In addition to this, Deloitte 
provides her with services in a personal 
capacity. The Committee deems that this 
does not affect the independence and 
judgement of Deloitte, nor the Committee’s 
oversight of Deloitte’s performance.

Meeting attendees by invitation
All other Non-Executive Directors, Group Chief 
Executive, Group Chief Financial Officer, Group 
General Counsel & Company Secretary, General 
Counsel, Secretariat & Corporate Services, 
Group Financial Controller, Group Head of 
Accounting, Reporting and Tax, Group Head of 
Treasury, Pensions and Insurance, Group Chief 
Risk Officer and Group Head of Internal Audit, 
and the External auditors.

Focus areas in 2023
¢ The Group’s published financial information.
¢ The effectiveness of the Group’s risk 
management and internal controls 
framework.

¢ The Enterprise Risk and Control Framework 
including risks managed by the other Board 
committees.

¢ The management of cyber risks.
¢ Ethical, legal and regulatory matters.
¢ Deep dives on Centrica Energy.
¢ Finance Systems Review and Finance 

health check.

72

Governance | Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Main activities during 2023
During the year, the Committee met four times and considered a broad 
range of topics. Our key highlights are disclosed below:

¢ Accounting judgments, especially those related to Spirit Energy and 
Centrica Energy Storage, the reversal of the onerous supply contract 
provision, the impairment of the Nuclear asset, the Electricity 
Generator Levy and the assessment of the downstream supply bad 
debt provision.

¢ Viability and Going Concern assessments and related disclosures.
¢ Review of the 2022 financial results, the Annual Report and 

Accounts, and the 2023 interim financial results, including any 
relevant communications from Deloitte.

¢ Evaluation of the effectiveness of the external audit process and the 

Internal Audit function.

¢ Continued oversight of the control environment and finance systems 
maintenance and development, particularly regarding the migration 
of British Gas Energy customers’ migration to a new technology 
platform.

¢ Assessment of credit risk exposure amidst volatile commodity prices 
and the broader impacts of high commodity price environments.
¢ Review of the Group’s pension schemes, including the forthcoming 
triennial review and the impact of changes in gilt yields (see note 22).

¢ Monitoring of sanctions compliance, information systems, cyber 

security and data security risk management, especially considering 
geopolitical developments and updating the Board accordingly.

¢ Updates on legal, regulatory, and ethical compliance, with a focus on 
energy trading and the sale and delivery of FCA-regulated products 
and services, including the operation of Our Code and the Speak Up 
helpline.

¢ Preparation for upcoming legal and regulatory changes, such as 

reforms to the UK corporate governance regime.

¢ Regular reports and recommendations from Internal Audit and the 

external auditors on risk, assurance, and controls.

¢ Regulatory compliance considerations regarding British Gas Energy, 

including in relation to the installation of prepayment meters.

¢ Bad debt provisioning in the context of the cost of living crisis and 

suspension of prepayment meter installations.

¢ In-depth reviews of the risks and controls environment across 

various divisions of the Group, including British Gas Energy, British 
Gas Services & Solutions, Centrica Business Solutions, Bord Gáis 
Energy, and Centrica Energy, as well as the Group-wide financial 
risk and definitions of capital employed.

¢ Report on the changes to the Government support schemes 

for suppliers.

¢ Evaluated risks and opportunities related to climate change 

alongside the Safety, Environment and Sustainability Committee, 
to ensure that the Annual Report and Accounts comprehensively 
outlines the actions taken to effectively address major climate-
related concerns.

RISK MANAGEMENT AND INTERNAL CONTROLS
Internal Audit
The Committee oversees the Group’s Internal Audit function, ensuring 
its efficiency, independence, and alignment with strategic objectives. 
This includes regular reviews and approval of the annual Internal Audit 
plan, which is developed in response to the Group’s evolving Principal 
Risks (details on pages 28 to 34). The Group Head of Internal Audit  
maintains direct communication with the Board Chair and Committee 
Chair and is accountable to the Committee. Throughout the year, the 
Committee is updated on Internal Audit’s findings. It also monitors the 
implementation of follow-up actions by business units.

The independence, objectivity and effectiveness of the Internal Audit 
function was reviewed by reference to the output from a combination of 
self-assessment, independent assessment conducted by survey 
involving the CLT and a broader group of senior managers, as well as 
assessment by the Committee. The review concluded that the Internal 
Audit function operated in accordance with the Institute of Internal 
Auditors’ International Professional Practices and continued to be 
independent, objective, and effective. 

Review of the system of risk management and internal controls
Our risk management and internal controls are assessed through a 
self-certification process, a Group Entity Level Controls assessment 
program, and internal reviews by Internal Audit and the Committee. 
The Committee oversees the work of Internal Audit, the functional 
support teams, and the management teams, receiving regular updates 
on Group Principal Risks and other Group frameworks. At every 
meeting, the Committee receives an update on the Group’s Enterprise 
Risk and Controls from the Chief Risk Officer and Group Head of 
Accounting, Reporting & Tax. This details the key risks the Group 
faces, the change in risk climate since the last meeting and any new 
emerging risks. The update also highlights the control environment, any 
changes in that environment as the control framework keeps pace with 
business change, and any areas of weakness identified, together with 
proposed mitigations. The Committee has confidence in its ability to 
identify issues and the business units’ ability to remediate control gaps. 
The risk management process and internal controls have been in place 
throughout the year and remain effective, with ongoing review and 
improvement. 

The Committee has received regular reports throughout the year on the 
status of the Group’s transition to the new billing system, Ensek. The 
Committee was made aware of the evolving nature of the control 
activities performed in relation to this in-development Software as a 
Service (SaaS) environment. Given the controls were still developing, 
the external auditors did not plan to place reliance on controls in this 
area and, as expected, their control design and implementation work 
led to certain control findings and observations. Notwithstanding these 
findings, management and the Committee are satisfied with the manual 
review controls that have been put in place, which include a significant 
number of validations, checks, and other broad assurance activities, 
providing financial integrity and ensuring we remain comfortable with 
the financial results. The business is committed to evolving further the 
manual and IT controls in place and the extent of automation, as the 
platform continues its development.  Alongside Ensek, the Committee 
also noted external audit findings across some of the Group’s systems 
around user access and oversight of  service organisations, leading to 
more substantive audit testing. The Committee discussed these 
challenges with management and the mitigations and improvements in 
these areas expected in 2024. 

The Committee also noted that, in line with the culture of continuous 
improvement in the business, there is an ongoing review being 
undertaken on the Group Enterprise Risk Management framework. 

Fair, balanced and understandable
In line with the UK Code, the Committee, on behalf of the Board, 
reviews the Annual Report and Accounts to ensure it is compliant 
with applicable laws and regulations and provides shareholders and 
stakeholders with the necessary information to assess the Company’s 
position, performance, culture, business model, and strategy. The 
Committee also considers the processes and controls involved in 
the production of the Annual Report and Accounts, the governance 
framework for review and the responsibilities of the Directors. 

There is a robust governance framework around the production of 
the Annual Report and Accounts to ensure they have been critically 
reviewed and verified by the key teams in the relevant businesses and 
functions. This includes review and agreement by the Fair, Balanced 
and Understandable Committee (comprising Heads of Function from 
Finance, Corporate Communications, Investor Relations, Internal Audit, 
People Function, Strategy and Corporate Legal & Secretariat) together 
with review and input from other content owners and their managers. 

Governance | Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

73

EXTERNAL AUDITORS
External auditors and Effectiveness of the external audit process
The Committee manages the relationship with the Group’s external 
auditors on behalf of the Board. The Committee considers annually the 
scope, fee, audit plan, performance, objectivity and independence of the 
external auditors. To maintain objectivity, principal members of the external 
audit team are rotated off the Company's audit. Additionally, to protect the 
independence of the external auditors and the integrity of the audit 
process, the Company prohibits hiring senior staff from its auditors for at 
least two years after they stop providing services to the Company. Jane 
Boardman was appointed as the lead audit partner after the completion of 
the 2021 audit and has been serving in this role for two years.

To assess the effectiveness of the external audit process and 
independence and objectivity of the external auditors, the Committee 
carried out an assessment, as in prior years, primarily looking at the key 
areas of:

¢ robustness of the audit process
¢ quality of people and service
¢ quality of delivery
¢ independence and objectivity
¢ value added advice

This assessment included an internal questionnaire, which was 
completed by the Chair of the Board, Committee members and senior 
members of management on their views of Deloitte's performance. The 
questionnaire covered a review of the audit partner and team, the audit 
scope and approach, audit plan execution, auditor independence and 
objectivity and robustness of challenge of management. Separately, 
Deloitte also provided an assessment, via an internal management 
questionnaire, of management's controls, judgements and 
engagement throughout the audit process. The feedback was 
reviewed by management and reported to the Committee. 

The Committee and the Board confirm that they have taken all the 
necessary steps to become aware of any relevant audit information and 
to pass that information onto Deloitte. The Committee was satisfied 
with the external auditors' commitment to audit quality, the robust and 
professional working relationship with management and demonstration 
of strong technical knowledge and professional scepticism. In addition, 
to ensure the independence of the external auditors, and in accordance 
with International Standards on Auditing (UK & Ireland) 260 and Ethical 
Standard 2019 issued by the Accounting Practices Board and as a 
matter of best practice, Deloitte has confirmed its independence as 
auditors of the Company. On the basis of Deloitte's confirmation and 
report on their approach to audit quality and transparency, the 
Committee concluded that Deloitte possesses the appropriate 
qualifications and expertise; remains independent of the Group; and, 
coupled with effective management engagement, that the audit 
process was effective. 

The re-appointment of Deloitte as auditors for the 2023 financial year 
was approved by shareholders at the AGM in June 2023 and Deloitte 
has been recommended for re-appointment again in 2024. The 
Committee confirms that this recommendation is free from influence by 
any third party and no contractual term of the kind mentioned in Article 
16(6) of the Audit Regulation has been imposed on the Company.

Deloitte has been the Company’s auditor since 2017. The Committee 
has considered the timing of a competitive tender and has decided to 
conduct the tender in early 2025. This will allow sufficient time for audit 
firms otherwise working with Centrica in any capacity to become 
independent in advance of taking on the audit in 2027. Deloitte will be 
invited to participate in the tender. 

The Company has complied with the Statutory Audit Services Order 
2014 for the financial year under review.

Non-audit fees
To safeguard the objectivity and independence of the external auditors, 
the Committee is responsible for the policy on the award of non-audit 
services to the external auditors. A copy of this policy is available on our 
website centrica.com. The Chair of the Committee must approve all 
74

Governance | Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

requests to utilise Deloitte for non-audit services. There is an annual cap 
on non-audit work during the ordinary course of business of £1 million, 
which is assessed each year for appropriateness in the context of 
external guidance and regulation.

Overall total non-audit fees incurred in 2023 were £0.7 million (2022: 
£0.9 million), including £0.5 million for the review of the interim results. 
All non-audit fees relate to assurance services (e.g. Interim review or 
local regulatory requirements). In line with the non-audit fees policy, 
approval for this expenditure was sought and received from the 
Committee in advance of the work commencing and Deloitte were best 
placed to provide these services on a timely and cost efficient basis, 
given their position as the external auditor. The amount incurred in the 
year is well below the legal cap of 70% of non-audit fees (for services 
not required by regulation) compared to the three-year average of 
statutory audit fees, amounting to approximately 9%.

In normal circumstances, all significant non-audit work is put out to 
tender and Deloitte is only appointed if their experience and knowledge 
makes them the most appropriate supplier and it is clear another firm 
could not undertake the work without adversely impacting the 
businesses. For further information, see note S9 to the accounts on 
page 220. 

Corporate Reporting Review
The Audit and Risk Committee assists the Board in fulfilling its oversight 
responsibilities by reviewing and monitoring the integrity of the financial 
information provided to shareholders and other stakeholders. The 
Committee oversees financial reporting and related risks and internal 
controls and has a role in overseeing the internal and external auditors, 
as well as interacting with other members of management and external 
stakeholders as required. 

The FRC’s Corporate Reporting Review (‘CRR’) team carried out a 
review of the Company’s Annual Report and Accounts (‘ARA’) for the 
year-ended 31 December 2022. The Committee was pleased to note 
that the CRR team did not raise any questions or queries with the 
Company in relation to compliance with reporting requirements. 
Whilst the CRR team do not benefit from a detailed knowledge of the 
business or underlying transactions and therefore their review does not 
provide an assurance that the ARA is correct in all material respects, 
it is nonetheless a positive outcome.  

In advance of the Audit, Reporting and Governance Authority being 
created, the Committee, during the year, complied with the majority of 
the FRC's Audit Committees and the External Audit: Minimum Standard.

UK Corporate Governance Code preparedness
The Board regularly receives updates from the Group General 
Counsel & Company Secretary about important developments and 
upcoming changes in UK Corporate Governance. During the year, 
the Committee, aided by the Group General Counsel & Company 
Secretary, considered the changes to the UK Corporate Governance 
Code and considered how these changes affect the roles and terms 
of reference of the Board Committees.

Committee effectiveness
The Committee reviews its terms of reference annually to ensure they 
remain appropriate in light of legal, regulatory and best practice 
changes. No material changes were made to the Committee’s terms 
of reference in the year under review (available on centrica.com). 

The effectiveness and performance of the Committee was evaluated 
as part of the overall evaluation of the Board and its Committees. 
Feedback from that process indicated that the Committee was 
performing effectively. Read page 66 for further information. Focus 
areas for the Committee in the year ahead include the review and 
update of the Group Enterprise Risk Management framework, 
alongside relevant Controls; the continued scrutiny of cyber risks, 
the rotational deep dives into material businesses and preparation 
for the audit tender in 2025. 

Nathan Bostock
on behalf of the Audit and Risk Committee
14 February 2024

Key judgements and financial reporting matters in 2023

Audit and Risk Committee reviews and conclusions

Electricity Generator Levy
The Electricity Generator Levy (EGL) applies a tax rate of 45% on 
revenues from sales exceeding a benchmark price of £75/MWh on 
electricity generated from nuclear sources. It applies from 1 January 
2023 to 31 March 2028. Because EGL is a tax on revenue and not 
profits, it falls under IFRIC 21: Levies and is not in the scope of IAS 12: 
Income Taxes. This means that EGL is not recognised in the tax line but 
instead reduces the Group’s adjusted operating profit.  

EGL is chargeable within the Group’s associate accounted 20% nuclear 
investment for its sale of electricity, as well as on off-take arrangements 
with significant minority shareholders in such generators.

During the year, the Group’s share of its Nuclear associate’s EGL 
payments amounted to £41 million (recorded within the share of profit 
after tax from associates). The Group has also made payments on 
account to HMRC of £285 million in relation to its estimated EGL 
liabilities for its minority shareholder Nuclear offtake arrangements 
during the year and this expense has been recorded within Cost of 
Sales.

The EGL legislation is new, and its interpretation and application is 
unclear in respect of the Group’s minority shareholder Nuclear offtake 
arrangements. As such, the extent of the levy that will ultimately be due 
in this regard is not yet certain, and a different amount (up to the £285 
million paid to date) may ultimately be determined. If this were the case, 
the Group would be due repayment of excess monies paid to HMRC 
and at the point at which such repayment became probable, a tax 
deposit asset would be recorded on the Group’s balance sheet, and as 
a credit within Cost of Sales in the income statement, in accordance 
with the 2019 IFRIC Agenda decision on Deposits relating to taxes other 
than income taxes. No tax deposit asset has been recorded because it 
is not deemed probable, as at the balance sheet date, that this will 
ultimately be recoverable (or used to settle another tax liability).

Determination of forecast commodity prices and
their use in valuing long-lived assets and derivative contracts
Commodity price forecasts are a key assumption in the valuation of the 
Group’s long-lived assets and derivative contracts. For short-term 
commodity prices over the next four years, observable liquid market 
prices (as at 31 December 2023) are taken as the best view of expected 
price. For the longer-term period thereafter, the Group uses a ‘P50’ 
median price curve, derived from a collection of third-party forecasts. 
This approach is deemed to align to pricing that a reasonable market 
participant would use. The Group has used these price curves in its 
asset impairment testing and contract valuations.

The Group has also obtained commodity price forecasts which are 
intended to be consistent with net zero by 2050. These are lower than 
the ‘P50’ curves the Group has adopted for NBP Gas but broadly similar 
for baseload power. The Group has shown the impact of such price 
forecasts on the gas assets and Nuclear assets in note 7 of the financial 
statements.

The Committee reviewed and discussed the complexity around the 
interpretation of the Electricity Generator Levy legislation. 

It also held discussions with the external auditors to confirm their view 
and the appropriateness of the accounting treatment adopted.

The Committee concluded that the judgement reached was appropriate 
and concurred with the accounting approach.

The Committee also noted the disclosures included in the financial 
statements to highlight the key source of estimation uncertainty in this 
area.

Further detail is provided in notes 1 and 3 on pages 132 to 133 and 136 
to 142.

The Committee noted the fall in short-term commodity prices during the 
year, with year-end prices well below 2022 levels. It also observed the 
flattening of summer/winter gas price spreads. The Committee 
understood that these outputs impact many of the other judgements 
listed below.

The Committee reconfirmed continued support for the longer-term ‘P50’ 
median curve (derived from third parties) approach. It noted that the 
‘P50’ long-term commodity price forecasts were broadly similar year-on-
year for all commodities and that these prices movements were 
insignificant compared with the near-term falls.

As a result of the above, the Committee was comfortable the curves 
were reasonable.

Sensitivities of the asset impairment tests to changes in price forecasts 
are provided in note 7 on page 152 to 156.

The Committee noted the use of a price curve intended to be consistent 
with net zero by 2050 in the impairment sensitivities and believed the 
output provided useful information to readers of the accounts. 

The Committee also noted the continued inclusion of a Climate Change 
accounting considerations section in note 3. 

Governance | Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

75

Key judgements and financial reporting matters in 2023

Audit and Risk Committee reviews and conclusions

The Committee noted that the Group’s policy and methodologies in 
classifying and valuing energy derivatives were unchanged from 
previous periods.

The Committee also reviewed and understood the breakdown by 
business of the movement in IFRS 9 energy derivative valuations in the 
Group Income Statement.

They reflected on the fact the certain re-measurement derivative net gain 
of £3.6 bn was predominantly as a result of the unwind of prior year out-
of-the money positions. Although commodity prices fell during the year, 
the timing of each business (e.g. UK supply book, Upstream/
infrastructure asset books) entering into new hedge trades was 
important, such that the net movement on unrealised trades was small in 
comparison to the unwind.

The Committee noted that following the extremely volatile prices in 
2022, all of the books had moved into more normal closing derivative 
positions, with Supply load books (buy books) being out-of-the-money 
following a period of falling prices, and Upstream/infrastructure asset 
and Centrica Energy (sell books) being in-the-money.  These closing 
positions are also at significantly lower values compared with the prior 
period, with the consequent expectation that the future 2024 certain re-
measurement unwind will also be at significantly lower levels than seen 
in 2022 and 2023.   

The Committee noted the link between the derivative certain                 
re-measurements for the UK supply books and the onerous supply 
contract provision certain re-measurements, as discussed below.
Further detail is provided in notes 2 and 7 on pages 134 to 135 and 152 
to 156.

The Committee noted and continued to concur with the specific 
judgement around LNG contract own use classifications.

The Committee reviewed the change in the underlying derivative hedge 
values of the business books and therefore the movement in the 
onerous energy supply contract provision.

The Committee noted that this movement is mainly driven by the unwind 
of the previous hedges.

The Committee observed that an onerous provision could come back 
in 2024 if derivative hedges moved back into the money but this is 
dependent on energy prices and the hedged position.

The Committee noted the disclosures included in the financial 
statements to highlight this area.

The Committee held discussions with the external auditors to re-confirm 
the appropriateness of the accounting treatment and to confirm their 
views of the assumptions used.

Further detail is provided in notes 2, 3 and 7 on pages 134 to 142 and 
152 to 156.

Energy derivatives – classification and valuation
The Group enters into numerous commodity contracts in its ordinary 
course of business. This can be to procure load for its downstream 
business, sell output from its upstream/infrastructure assets, to trade 
around its other commodity exposures or to make money from 
proprietary activities. On entering into these contracts, the business 
assesses each of the individual trades and classifies them as either:

(i) Out of scope of IFRS 9:

For ‘own use’ contracts (i.e. customer contracts, contracts to take 
delivery and meet customer demand or sell upstream/infrastructure 
output) and contracts that cannot be net settled.

(ii)

In scope of IFRS 9:

Contracts for commodities which have the ability to be and practice of 
being net settled.

Energy contracts outside the scope of IFRS 9 are accruals accounted. 
Those contracts considered to be within the scope of IFRS 9 are treated 
as derivatives and are marked-to-market (fair valued). If the derivatives 
are for proprietary energy trading, they are recorded in the business 
performance column of the Group Income Statement. If they are entered 
into to protect and optimise the value of underlying assets/contracts or 
to meet the future downstream demand needs, they are recorded as 
certain re-measurements.

The fair-value of derivatives are estimated by reference to published 
liquid price quotations for the relevant commodity. Where the derivative 
extends into illiquid periods, the valuation typically uses the ‘P50’ 
median price curves (see Determination of long-term commodity prices 
and their use valuing long-lived assets).

Judgement is required in all aspects of both the classifications and 
valuations.

One of the Group’s critical accounting judgements is that its LNG 
contracts are outside the scope of IFRS 9 because they are entered into 
for its own purchase and sale requirements (‘own use’).

Onerous energy supply contract provision
The Group’s residential and business energy supply contracts are 
accruals accounted. The Group operates and manages a hedging 
strategy to ensure that the future costs of supplying these customer 
portfolios are appropriately managed.

These hedges are generally in the scope of IFRS 9 and are measured at 
fair value (see ‘Energy Derivatives – classification and valuation’ above). 
They are recognised as certain re-measurements in the Group income 
statement until the point at which the related costs to purchase 
electricity and gas are incurred.

At the end of 2022, business supply hedges were significantly in-the-
money, following previous increases in near-term commodity prices. 
Because of this hedge value recognition, the assessment of whether the 
business supply contracts were onerous had to be calculated based on 
the cost of fulfilling these arrangements, including the reversal of 
previous mark-to-market gains.

Accordingly, the Group determined that at 31 December 2022, the future 
costs to fulfil business customer contracts including mark-to-market 
reversals would exceed the charges recovered from customers because 
the associated hedging gains had already been recognised in the 
Income Statement. The Group therefore retained an onerous supply 
contract provision of c.£1 billion at that date. 

During 2023, the business supply hedges moved to being out-of-the-
money and consequently, the costs to fulfil the customer contracts 
including mark-to-market reversals no longer exceed the charges 
expected to be recovered from the customer. Therefore no onerous 
supply contract provision is required and the previous provision has 
been unwound. 

The movement in the onerous provision has been reflected as a certain 
re-measurement in the Income Statement because these supply 
contracts are economically related to the fair value movements on the 
hedges (note that the certain re-measurement Income Statement 
movement is £0.8 billion, because a £0.2 billion onerous provision was 
acquired as part of the Avanti Gas purchase).

76

Governance | Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Key judgements and financial reporting matters in 2023

Audit and Risk Committee reviews and conclusions

Impairment of long-lived assets
The Group makes judgements and estimates in considering whether the 
carrying amounts of its assets are recoverable:

Upstream (Power assets and Gas assets (including gas storage))
For Upstream/infrastructure assets, discounted cash flows are prepared 
from projected production profiles of each field or power asset, taking 
into account forecast future commodity prices, to assess their 
recoverable amount. When deriving forecast cash flows, market prices 
are used for the period when a commodity is liquid. For the longer-term 
illiquid period, the ‘P50’ median price curve is used (see ‘Determination 
of forecast commodity prices and their use valuing long-lived assets and 
derivatives’, above).

Judgement is also required around production volumes. For Nuclear, 
individual station information and recent availability data is factored in to 
the overall asset valuation. The expected operating life of Sizewell has 
continued to be reflected to 2055 in the modelling, beyond the original 
design life. During 2023, the expected closure dates for Heysham 1 and 
Hartlepool stations were extended by two years to March 2026, with a 
plus or minus one year window either side of this date. For Gas assets, 
each field has specific reservoir and field characteristics and is modelled 
independently. For the Rough gas storage asset, in addition to the 
above process associated with its cushion gas production, an 
assessment is also made of value to be derived from cycling gas in and 
out of the reservoir (predominantly from summer/winter gas spreads). 
This assessment utilises the forward market prices noted above and is 
also used to calculate the optimum cushion gas production date to 
maximise the recoverable amount of the asset.

Consistent with previous years, taxes and levies are also included in the 
discounted cash flow modelling. For Nuclear, the Electricity Generator 
Levy (see ‘Electricity Generator Levy’ above) applies a tax rate of 45% 
on revenues exceeding a benchmark price of £75/MWh and applies from 
1 January 2023 to 31 March 2028. For Gas assets, the Energy Profits 
Levy applies a rate of 35% (bringing the headline rate on Gas asset 
profits to 75%) and also continues until 31 March 2028. 

Predominantly as a result of the year-on-year decrease in forecast 
commodity prices, an exceptional impairment of £549 million has been 
booked in relation to the Nuclear investment.

For Gas assets, the Rough gas storage field has booked an exceptional 
impairment of £82 million as a result of both the fall in forecast gas 
prices and the flattening of summer/winter gas spreads. All other gas 
fields retained impairment headroom.

Credit provisions for trade and other receivables
The IFRS 9 impairment model requires credit provisions (‘bad debt’) for 
trade and other receivables to be based on an expected credit loss 
model, as opposed to an incurred loss basis. The economic effects of 
the inflationary pressures on household income, not least energy prices, 
and the wider cost of living crisis will likely impact the ability of the 
Group’s customers to pay amounts due. Accordingly, there is significant 
judgement around the levels of forecast bad debt and the provisioning 
required at the year-end.

The Group’s residential and business energy supply customers account for 
the majority of the Group’s credit exposure (with balances associated with 
our trading business generally received within 30 days). Expected default 
rates in these areas are calculated initially on a matrix basis by considering 
recent historical loss experience, the nature of the customer, payment 
method selected and, where relevant, the sector in which they operate. 
Management has then also factored in forward-looking economic 
assumptions, taking into account inflation and affordability forecasts.

In the prior year a high-level macroeconomic provision of £125 million 
was maintained to cover inflationary concerns. During 2023, the deemed 
quality and relative ageing of the Group’s debt has declined with 
difficulties in field debt recovery following the suspension of prepayment 
meters and the fragile economic climate. Given these issues and the 
economic environment, the high level macroeconomic provisions have 
been increased by £50 million (to £175 million) to cover these concerns. 
For UK Downstream energy supply, the bad debt charge as a 
percentage of revenue increased to 2.7% (2022: 2.1%). The closing bad 
debt provision moved to 34% (2022: 26%) of UK energy supply gross 
receivables.

Due to the significant estimation uncertainty in this area, management 
continues to provide detailed analysis and sensitivities in note 17 to the 
Financial Statements.

The Committee challenged management and the external auditors on 
the key inputs to the impairment models including price, outage rates, 
assumed lives, tax and discount rates, and were comfortable with the 
conclusions reached.

The Committee reviewed the Nuclear investment impairment and noted 
that the decrease in near-term commodity prices had more than offset 
the benefit of life extensions at Heysham and Hartlepool. 

It also considered the Rough gas storage field impairment, following 
price and summer/winter spreads falls and highlighted the difficulty in 
assessing option value. 

The Committee noted that price sensitivity disclosures have been 
included in the financial statements.

Further detail on impairments and the assumptions used in determining 
the recoverable amounts is provided in notes 7 and S2 on pages152 to 
156 and 191 to 203.

The Committee reviewed management’s groupings of receivables by 
the key factors affecting recoverability (e.g. payment method, nature of 
customers) and considered the levels of provisions booked against each 
grouping, at the year-end.

The Committee discussed the approach with the external auditors.

The Committee was comfortable with the provisions booked, including 
the increase in the macroeconomic provisions, whilst noting the 
significant estimation uncertainty in this area.

The Committee noted the continued enhanced disclosure in note 17, 
setting out the judgemental nature of the provisioning and the sensitivity 
analysis to allow users of the accounts to model different outcome 
scenarios.

Governance | Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

77

Key judgements and financial reporting matters in 2023

Audit and Risk Committee reviews and conclusions

The Committee noted that the policy on certain re-measurements and 
exceptional items remains unchanged from the prior year. 

The Committee had formally reviewed and approved the Group’s policy 
on exceptional items in previous years and, in the current year, it used 
this policy to help inform the appropriateness of the proposed 
classifications. It challenged the items classified as exceptional items, 
considering their size, nature and incidence and in the context of the 
Group policy. The Committee concluded that separate disclosure of 
these items as exceptional was appropriate in the Financial Statements.

The Committee ultimately agreed that presenting certain re-measurements 
and exceptional items separately continues to allow underlying performance 
to be reflected on a consistent and comparable basis through the use of the 
adjusted alternative performance measures (e.g. adjusted operating profit).

Further detail is provided in notes 2, 3 and 7 on pages 134 to 142 and 
152 to 156.

The Committee has reviewed the level of unread revenue and unbilled 
accrual made during the year and discussed with management and the 
external auditors.

The Committee noted that the Ensek platform uses a different process 
to calculate the unbilled accrual compared with the legacy SAP system.  
Data from smart meters, industry information and from customers on the 
SAP system was utilised to finalise the Ensek revenue adjustment and 
the external auditors had independently reperformed this calculation to 
within an immaterial difference.

More details on unread energy income are provided in note 3 on pages 
136 to 142 and on unbilled energy income in note 17 on pages 168 to 
174.

The Committee noted the key pension assumptions and disclosures 
in the Financial Statements.

It noted that these assumptions were derived on a consistent basis 
to previous periods.

The Committee recognised the role of the independent actuary, who is 
consulted on the appropriateness of the assumptions, and discussions 
were also held with the external auditors.

The Committee also understood the need to continue to provide extra 
funding to the schemes to ensure they remained appropriately hedged. 

It also noted the greater proportion of unquoted assets in the scheme 
portfolio and welcomed the greater scrutiny on these valuations.

Further details on pensions are set out in note 22 on pages 178 to 182.

Classification and presentation of exceptional items and certain 
re-measurements
The Group reflects its underlying financial results in the business 
performance column of the Group Income Statement. To be able to 
provide this in a clear and consistent presentation, the effects of certain 
re-measurements of financial instruments and onerous supply contract 
provisions, and exceptional items are reported separately in a different 
column in the Group Income Statement.

The classification of items as exceptional and specific trades as certain 
re-measurements (see ‘Onerous energy supply contract provision’ and 
‘Energy Derivatives – classification and valuation’ sections above) are 
subject to defined Group policies. These policies are reviewed annually 
by management.

At the year-end, exceptional items included the Nuclear and Rough gas 
storage asset impairments noted above. Also included is a write-off of 
£14 million predominantly associated with a battery storage asset and a 
gas engine in Centrica Business Solutions. 

Certain re-measurements totalled an overall c.£4.4 billion gain – being 
£3,573 million gain from derivatives and £833 million gain from the 
onerous supply contract provision movement.

Energy supply revenue recognition
The Group’s revenue for energy supply activities includes an estimate of 
energy supplied to customers between the date of the last meter reading 
and an estimated year-end position. This is estimated through the billing 
systems, using historical consumption patterns, on a customer-by-
customer basis, taking into account weather patterns, load forecasts 
and the differences between actual meter readings being returned and 
system estimates. An assessment is also made of any factors that are 
likely to materially affect the ultimate economic benefits which will flow 
to the Group, including bill cancellation and re-bill rates. To the extent 
that the economic benefits are not expected to flow to the Group, 
revenue is not recognised.

At the year-end, unread energy income for the continuing supply 
businesses was £3.0 billion (2022: £2.9 billion).

Pensions
The assets and liabilities, and the cost associated with providing 
benefits under defined benefit schemes is determined separately for 
each of the Group’s schemes. Judgement is required in setting the key 
assumptions used for the actuarial valuation which determines the 
ultimate cost of providing post-employment benefits, especially given 
the length of the Group’s expected liabilities.

The net Group pension liability position was £117 million (2022: £40 
million asset). The UK defined benefit schemes used a nominal discount 
rate of 4.6% (2022: 4.7%) and inflation of 2.9% (2022: 3.0%)

Following the Liability Driven Investment (LDI) crisis in the pensions 
arena in late 2022, the Group continues to provide a £400 million 
interest-bearing loan to the UK Registered Pension Schemes to ensure 
the schemes can maintain a high level of interest and inflation hedging 
and meet any collateral requirements.

The Group judged that this should be accounted for as a loan (within 
Securities) in the books of the Group and as a reduction in scheme 
assets for the Pension Schemes.

As a consequence of the LDI issues, the pension scheme continue to have a 
greater proportion of unquoted assets in its asset portfolio. As a result the 
Group undertakes more detailed reviews of these valuations, whilst 
acknowledging the inherent uncertainty compared with quoted assets.

Fair, balanced and understandable
The Board is required to confirm that the Annual Report and Financial 
Statements are fair, balanced and understandable. To enable the Board 
to make this declaration, there is a year-end review process to ensure 
that the Committee and the Board have access to all relevant 
information, including management’s papers on significant issues.

The Committee reviewed the key factors considered in determining 
whether the Annual Report is fair, balanced and understandable. The 
Committee and all Board members received a draft of the Annual Report 
and Financial Statements in sufficient time to review and challenge the 
disclosures therein. In addition, the Committee took into consideration 
the external auditors’ reviews of the consistency between the reporting 
narrative of the Annual Report and the Financial Statements.

78

Governance | Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

NOMINATIONS COMMITTEE

MEMBERSHIP, MEETING ATTENDANCE 
AND KEY FOCUS

Committee members
— Scott Wheway (Chair)
— Carol Arrowsmith
— Philippe Boisseau (with effect from 

1 September 2023)

— Nathan Bostock
— CP Duggal
— Jo Harlow (with effect from 1 December 2023)
— Heidi Mottram
— Kevin O’Byrne
— Amber Rudd
— Sue Whalley (with effect from 1 December 

2023). 

Biographical details of the Committee Chair 
and members can be found on pages 59 to 
62. Meeting attendance of the Committee 
members can be found on page 68.

Meeting attendees by invitation
Group Chief Executive, Group General 
Counsel & Company Secretary, Group Chief 
People Officer and Group Chief Financial 
Officer.

Focus areas in 2023
¢ Board skills.
¢ Board diversity.
¢ Independent Non-Executive Director 

succession planning.

¢ Executive Director succession planning.
¢ Board Committee composition. 
¢ Independent Non-Executive Director 

recruitment.

¢ Approach to workforce engagement.
¢ Board training requirements. 
¢ Election and re-election of Directors at the 

2023 AGM.

¢ Approach to, and findings arising from, 

an annual Board effectiveness evaluation 
(see page 66).

¢ Oversight of Directors’ external 

appointments.

DEAR SHAREHOLDER
On behalf of the Board, I am pleased to present the 
Nominations Committee report for 2023 which explains 
the Committee’s focus and activities during the year.

COMMITTEE OVERVIEW
The Nominations Committee is responsible for ensuring that the Board 
and its Committees have the appropriate balance of skills, knowledge, 
and experience to effectively lead the Company both now and in the 
future. This is achieved through a formal procedure for the appointment 
of new Directors to the Board, an effective succession planning 
process, reviewing Board composition and Board skills, and assessing 
Board training requirements. 

MAIN ACTIVITIES DURING 2023
Board succession planning and Board skills
The Committee is responsible for leading the succession planning 
process and making recommendations to the Board. The Committee 
takes a long-term view to succession planning, regularly reviewing 
Board tenure, Board diversity (particularly diversity of gender, cultural 
background and experience) and assessing the skills required by the 
Board to best support the Company’s strategy on a multi-year look 
ahead as well as in the near term. Details of the wide range of skills, 
backgrounds and experience possessed by the Board today can be 
found in the Directors’ biographies.

The Committee’s work on succession planning directly informed 
recruitment in 2023. A focus area for the Committee in 2024 will remain 
ensuring the Company continues to have appropriate succession plans 
for different time horizons.

Independent Non-Executive Director recruitment
A primary focus area for the Committee in 2023 was independent  
Non-Executive Director recruitment that would continue to strengthen 
the Board’s existing capabilities in a way that would further support the 
delivery of the Company’s strategy.

Centrica has a thorough and robust search process for the selection 
of independent Non-Executive Directors involving the engagement of 
specialist external search firms. In identifying and nominating 
candidates to fill Board vacancies, the Committee considers 
candidates from a wide range of backgrounds, assessing them on 
merit against objective criteria and with due regard for the benefits of 
diversity on the Board. The Committee therefore takes particular 
interest in the recruitment process of its independent search firms to 
ensure that a diverse pool of candidates is considered for any vacancy.

A shortlist of candidates is shared with the Committee, meetings are 
scheduled with Directors and members of management, and then 
once the candidates have been identified, and their ability to meet the 
necessary time commitment is confirmed, a recommendation is made 
to the Board.

Governance | Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

79

The Committee therefore continues to embrace the strategic 
importance of diversity, equity and inclusion, including as part of the 
Board’s own succession planning. The Committee will report in the 
2024 Annual Report and Accounts how the updated Board diversity 
policy was implemented and the results thereof. 

As at 31 December 2023, 41.7% of the Board and 55.6% of 
independent Non-Executive Directors (excluding the Chair of the Board) 
were women, and the Board composition met, and continues to meet, 
the Listing Rules target for ethnic minority representation. As noted in 
the Governance introduction on page 57, the Board is fully aware that it 
currently does not meet the expectation that one of the following four 
roles, Chair, Group Chief Executive, Group Chief Financial Officer and 
Senior Independent Director is held by a woman. Through steps taken 
as part of its succession planning arrangements, the Board is fully 
committed to addressing this situation at the earliest possible 
opportunity. Further information on compliance with Board diversity 
targets can be found in the Governance introduction on page 57, 
and set out in the table on page 81. 

As disclosed in the table on page 81, there was a decline in the 
proportion of ethnically diverse individuals on the Board from 11% 
in 2022 to 8% in 2023. This decrease is attributed to the Board’s 
expansion from nine members in 2022 to 12 members in 2023, which 
enhanced the Board’s gender diversity whilst the number of individuals 
from an ethnically diverse background remained unchanged.

Further information on the steps that the Company is taking to create 
a diverse and inclusive workplace can be found in the Chief People 
Officer’s Report on pages 38 to 40.

Workforce engagement
The Committee reviewed the Board’s approach to workforce 
engagement pursuant to the expectations of Provision 5 of the UK 
Corporate Governance Code. The Committee supports the Board’s 
view that workforce engagement is a collective responsibility shared 
amongst the Directors of the Board and therefore ultimately decided to 
adopt a collective approach to workforce engagement involving all 
Directors and leveraging a combination of different types of 
engagement, including listening sessions with colleagues; meetings 
with senior leaders and future talent where they discuss opportunities 
for improving colleague performance and Company growth; and 
dedicated engagement sessions with the Chairs of the employee-led 
colleague networks such as the Women’s network and the Diverse-
Ability network. The Board believes this approach enables it to 
effectively fulfil its responsibility of staying engaged and informed about 
the workforce’s interest and matters.

Committee effectiveness
The Committee conducted its annual review of its terms of reference 
and concluded that no material changes were required. The 
Committee’s terms of reference are available on our website 
centrica.com.

The effectiveness and performance of the Committee was evaluated 
as part of the overall evaluation of the Board and its Committees. 
Feedback from that process indicated that the Committee was 
performing effectively. Succession planning at Board, executive and 
senior management levels and developing a talent pipeline continue 
to be key priorities for the Committee in the year ahead. Read page 66 
for further information.

Scott Wheway
on behalf of the Nominations Committee
14 February 2024

Lygon Group supported the search processes that led to the 
appointments of Philippe Boisseau in September 2023 and Jo Harlow 
and Sue Whalley in December 2023. Philippe brings significant 
experience of the energy sector, particularly energy assets, energy 
infrastructure and renewable energy transition, all of which is immensely 
valuable and relevant to Centrica. Jo has extensive knowledge on the 
use of technology and data to enhance development and drive growth 
in consumer businesses and Sue brings a blend of experience in 
people and cultural transformation, as well as strategic, technological 
and operational evolution in large, complex organisations. The collective 
experience and contribution from each of these Directors will 
undoubtedly be of great benefit to Centrica. Further information about 
Philippe, Jo and Sue can be found in their biographies. 

There are no connections between Lygon Group, the Company and its 
individual Directors.  

Executive Director succession 
As disclosed in last year’s Annual Report and Accounts, Russell 
O’Brien was appointed Group Chief Financial Officer and Executive 
Director with effect from 1 March 2023, bringing broad experience 
across the energy value chain. Following an orderly transition to Russell, 
Kate Ringrose stepped down as Chief Financial Officer and Executive 
Director on 28 February 2023. Further information about Russell can be 
found in his biography.

Board training
The Committee reviewed the training received by the Board during 
2023 as well as the training requirements for the Board in 2024. 
In doing so, the Committee sought to ensure the Board remained 
equipped with the latest knowledge and understanding to support 
effective decision-making. Board training in 2023 included sessions 
on directors’ duties and models of economic regulation for hydrogen 
production and storage as well as carbon capture and storage. The 
Committee also identified further areas of training that will inform the 
Board’s training programme in 2024. Further details of training, 
development and induction for all new Directors are on page 66.

Oversight of Director external appointments
To ensure that Directors will continue to have sufficient time to commit 
to their Centrica responsibilities, any additional external appointments 
taken up require advance consultation with the Chair and, where 
appropriate, approval by the full Board. 

The Committee considered Kevin O’Byrne’s external appointment 
to International Flavors & Fragrances, Inc. which took effect from 
10 March 2023. The Committee was satisfied that following his 
stepping down from the board of J Sainsbury plc in March 2023 that 
Kevin would continue to have sufficient time to commit to his Centrica 
responsibilities.

A focus on diversity, equity and inclusion
We operate in increasingly diverse communities and this diversity is 
evident in our workforce and our customers, suppliers, and other 
stakeholders. 

As set out in our Board diversity policy, we know that being inclusive 
of the diversity we have in our business will give us a competitive 
advantage. 

We updated our Board diversity policy in December 2023 to clarify that 
it extends to key Board Committees, and to provide for consideration 
of a wider list of diversity characteristics, including ethnicity, sexual 
orientation, disability and socio-economic background. 

The purpose of the Board diversity policy is to guarantee that both the 
Board and the Nominations Committee adopt an inclusive approach 
during the nomination and appointment processes. 

The revised Board diversity policy can be found on our website at 
centrica.com.  

80

Governance | Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

SAFETY, ENVIRONMENT AND 
SUSTAINABILITY COMMITTEE

MEMBERSHIP, MEETING ATTENDANCE 
AND KEY FOCUS

Committee members
— Heidi Mottram (Chair) 
— Philippe Boisseau (with effect from 

1 September 2023)

— Nathan Bostock
— Amber Rudd
— Scott Wheway

Biographical details of the Committee Chair 
and members can be found on pages 59 to 
63. Meeting attendance of the Committee 
members can be found on page 68.

Meeting attendees by invitation
All other Non-Executive Directors, Group Chief 
Executive, Group General Counsel & Company 
Secretary, Group Chief People Officer, Group 
HSE Director, Group Head of Environment, Chief 
Procurement Officer, Head of Business Ethics 
and Compliance and Deputy Head of Secretariat.

Focus areas in 2023
¢ Health and safety risks.
¢ Environment.
¢ Emerging climate reporting requirements and 

climate matters.

¢ Responsible sourcing including human 

rights and modern slavery risk.

¢ Societal contribution.
¢ Reputation.

82

Governance | Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

DEAR SHAREHOLDER
On behalf of the Board, I present the Safety, Environment 
and Sustainability Committee (SESC) report for the year 
ended 31 December 2023.

COMMITTEE OVERVIEW 
The Committee’s role and responsibilities, on behalf of the Board, is to 
review and monitor the culture, practices, risks and performance of 
Centrica with respect to health and safety, climate, environment and 
broader responsible business matters. This is achieved through a 
rigorous review of performance data, and the Company’s goals and 
initiatives in these areas. As part of its focus, the Committee also 
provides input to, and review of, the Company’s annual climate 
reporting disclosure requirements.

MAIN ACTIVITIES DURING 2023  
The Committee considered a broad range of topics in 2023 and the 
key highlights are disclosed below.

Health and Safety 
The Committee’s standing health and safety agenda items focused on 
relevant performance metrics, assurance activity and the approach to 
HSE risk management in specific business unit reviews. During these 
discussions, taking into account the needs of customers and 
employees, the Committee considered risk identification, appropriate 
HSE controls and processes. 

At each meeting, the Committee invited management to discuss 
occupational and process safety reviews, outcomes and improvements 
derived from targeted interventions and future action plans. Examples 
included a thorough review of the British Gas Services & Solutions 
health and safety performance, a maturity assessment for Bord Gáis 
Energy and external process safety audits for Centrica Energy Storage+ 
and Spirit Energy, during which any concerns or incidents were 
considered in detail and, where appropriate, remedial actions proposed 
by management were scrutinised to assess their effectiveness. 

The Committee acknowledged the Group’s positive safety mindset 
driven by highly engaged employees throughout 2023.

Environment
The Committee provides oversight of the Company’s continued 
commitment to, and role in, the drive to net zero. During 2023, the 
Committee reviewed progress made against the Company’s People & 
Planet Plan and the Climate Transition Plan, and specifically the 
implications of recent strategic investment decisions against Climate 
Transition Plan targets and ambitions and the Company’s strategic 
framework. 

Key focus areas for the Committee in 2023 were reviewing emerging 
voluntary and mandatory climate reporting requirements, both in the 
UK and in the EU, including Task Force on Climate related Financial 
Disclosures (TCFD) and Climate-Related Financial Disclosure (CFD) 
regulations. The Committee considered the application of these 
requirements to the Company, taking into account changing 
stakeholder expectations, and assessing how the Company would 
ensure compliance and governance with impending reporting 
requirements. The Committee also received regular updates and 
training on relevant legal and policy developments and trends regarding 
climate matters. 

Responsible business
Throughout the year, the Committee considered the Company’s 
responsible sourcing approach focusing on the supply chain that carry 
potentially higher inherent risk due to the associated jurisdiction and/or 
nature of the product, in particular in relation to issues such as the 
manufacture of solar panels, batteries or garments. The Committee 
reviewed the 2023 strategy for visits to supplier sites and the results of 
supplier audits. 

During discussions, the Committee assessed on a regular basis human 
rights and the risk of modern slavery occurring in Centrica’s operations, 
taking into account the increasing expectations of stakeholders and 
enhanced modern slavery disclosures. Further details of the 
Company’s management of modern slavery risk can be found on our 
website at centrica.com/modernslavery. The Committee also received 
training on emerging responsible sourcing supply chain requirements 
and considered changes that might be required to the Company’s 
current approach. 

The Committee continued to oversee societal contribution including the 
Company’s approach to charitable partnerships, its role in local 
communities and its People Goals including, in that context, the 
Company’s performance against its diversity and inclusion targets, its 
apprenticeship and volunteering ambitions. The Committee also 
reviewed perceptions of the Company’s reputation amongst a wide 
range of stakeholders in relation to topics such as the Company’s role in 
providing energy security in the markets in which it operates as well as 
supporting customers and communities in their transition to net zero in 
an affordable and secure way. 

Governance
In addition to the above areas of focus, the Committee also reviewed 
relevant disclosures in the Annual Report and Accounts within the 
Committee’s remit, as well as the TCFD and CFD regulations. The 
Committee also considered and recommended to the Board the 
Modern Slavery Act statement, which can be found on our website.

Committee effectiveness
The Committee undertakes an annual review of its terms of reference to 
ensure that it accurately reflects the role carried out by the Committee, 
taking into account any new internal and external developments and 
responsibilities. The Committee’s terms of reference are available on 
our website, centrica.com. The Committee considers that it has 
continued to discharge its oversight role effectively in an area where 
expectations and requirements are constantly evolving with insightful 
and regular engagement and support from management. Read more 
about the Committee’s effectiveness on page 66.

Heidi Mottram
on behalf of the Safety, Environment and Sustainability Committee
14 February 2024

READ MORE ABOUT OUR PEOPLE & 
PLANET PLAN ON PAGES 41 TO 55

Governance | Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

83

REMUNERATION REPORT

MEMBERSHIP, MEETING ATTENDANCE 
AND KEY FOCUS

Committee members
— Carol Arrowsmith (Chair)
— CP Duggal
— Jo Harlow (with effect from 1 December 

2023)

— Heidi Mottram
— Amber Rudd
— Sue Whalley (with effect from 1 December 

2023)

Biographical details of the Committee Chair 
and members can be found on pages 59 to 
63. Meeting attendance of the Committee 
members can be found on page 68.

Meeting attendees by invitation
All other Non-Executive Directors, Chair of the 
Board, Group Chief Executive, Group Chief 
People Officer, People Director, Reward, 
Benefits and Wellbeing

Focus areas in 2023
¢ Executive Directors’ salary reviews
¢ Gender and ethnicity pay gap report
¢ Review of pay issues across the wider 

workforce

¢ Closure CUPS-DC pension scheme
¢ Review of total remuneration packages for 

the Centrica Leadership Team

¢ Review and approve 2023 financial and 

business targets and individual objectives.

¢ Recruitment of new senior executives
¢ Review Executive Directors shareholding
¢ Review and approve Director Expenses

84

Governance | Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

DEAR SHAREHOLDER
On behalf of the Board, I am pleased to present the 
Remuneration Report for the year ended 31 December 2023.

BUSINESS CONTEXT FOR 2023
Centrica has delivered strong financial and operational performance 
including EPS performance of 33.4 pence. Centrica was also one of 
the best performing shares in the FTSE 100 with our share price 
increasing by more than 45% in 2023. At the same time, the Company 
has supported our customers through the cost of living crisis including 
£140m committed since 2022 to help them with their energy costs.

The turnaround of the Company over the last three years is credit to 
the management team led by Chris O’Shea, the Group Chief Executive. 
The team has simplified the business, strengthened and de-risked the 
balance sheet, and improved operational performance especially in 
our Retail businesses. As a uniquely integrated energy company, 
our Optimisation and Infrastructure businesses have contributed 
significantly towards Group profitability by applying their expertise in 
trading and storing energy in turbulent markets particularly during 2022 
and 2023. The Company now has a solid foundation and clear purpose 
of energising for a greener, fairer future. This means we can invest in 
the future for the benefit of all our stakeholders, including our 
customers, colleagues, communities and shareholders. Some 
examples of these investments are:  

Customers: We have invested in supporting customers by providing 
new on-demand services to install and maintain their home heating 
systems, and improved customer service by employing an extra 700 
colleagues across customer contact centres in Stockport, Leicester, 
Leeds, Edinburgh, and Cardiff. During the year, we remained acutely 
aware of the cost of living pressures that our customers faced, and we 
have committed a total of £140m during 2022-23 to continue to help 
customers with their energy costs. This included creating an Energy 
Support Fund managed by the British Gas Energy Trust, which has so 
far helped over 25,000 customers while funding new drop-in centres 
and advisors across the UK to support people with their finances. We 
have launched new innovative tariffs, which aim to be greener and fairer 
such as ‘Peak Save’ to help our customers manage their energy usage 
through the day and save money on their bills, and our offer of free 
Electric Vehicle charging at home for a year for customers that buy 
an EV charger from British Gas. 

Colleagues: We have hired over 1,000 new colleagues. We have 
launched our “Pathway to Parenthood” benefit to support colleagues 
through fertility treatment, adoption, or surrogacy. We have rewarded 
employees with £2,640 in free shares through our profit share plan to 
recognise our performance in 2023. This means that, over the last 
three years, we have paid a total of £5,886 in profit share to each 
colleague to ensure they share in our success. We maintained our 
focus on fair reward practices – from paying at least the Real Living 
Wage in the UK and working to reduce pay gaps. The average salary 
increase across the wider workforce in the UK was 6%, with our lowest 
paid colleagues receiving an average salary increase of between 7.8% 
to 9.5%. 

Communities: We have invested in improving energy storage and 
security for the UK, including doubling the gas storage capacity at 
Rough, which now provides half the UK’s gas storage capacity or 
enough gas to heat over three million homes. As part of our People & 
Planet Plan, our colleagues gave 7,200 days volunteering to help the 
communities and causes they are passionate about.

Shareholders: The financial strength of the business has also allowed 
us to deliver value to our shareholders with a 33% increase in the 2023 
interim dividend to 1.33 pence per share, and a proposed final dividend 
of 2.67 pence per share, alongside the £450m extension of our share 
buyback programme to be completed by around July 2024.

REMUNERATION OUTCOMES FOR 2023
In deciding the remuneration outcomes for 2023, the Remuneration 
Committee has focused on balancing the views and experiences of all 
our stakeholders with our responsibility to attract and retain high-
performing executives to lead a highly complex organisation. Our 
remuneration principles for Executive Directors are consistent with the 
wider workforce and can be found on page 96.

ANNUAL INCENTIVE PLAN (AIP)
Pay-outs under the AIP for members of the Centrica Leadership Team 
are based on financial and business performance (75%) and individual 
performance against strategic objectives (25%). 

The financial and business performance element for the year was split 
equally between Earnings Per Share (EPS) and the outcome of a 
balanced scorecard of financial and operational measures critical to the 
success of the organisation in 2023. 

The EPS measure had defined threshold, target and maximum levels 
that were set at the start of the financial year. During the first half of the 
year, market conditions were materially better than expected when the 
targets were set. Therefore, when reviewing progress against the EPS 
target during the year, the Committee determined that the original 
targets were no longer appropriate and should be increased to reflect 
these improved market conditions. Reflecting the strong performance 
of the business, Centrica achieved earnings performance of 33.4pence, 
resulting in an outturn of 100% of maximum against the revised targets 
for this part of the AIP. 

Excellent performance across the Group also meant the majority of 
customer, colleague and financial targets in the balanced scorecard 
were met in full, including delivering operating profits of £2,752m and 
free cash flow of £2,207m. We were particularly pleased to see a 
reduction in rescheduled appointments for customers in Services and 
Solutions and an improvement in our customer satisfaction scores. 
Given the cost of living challenges faced by our customers, we have 
seen an increase in our bad debt charges, and we will continue to 
engage with those customers who are struggling to pay their bills using 
a variety of mechanisms including payment spreading and utilising the 
£140m we have committed so far to help the most vulnerable and in 
need. We have made significant progress against both our goal to be a 
net zero business by 2045, and our goal to help our customers be net 
zero by 2050. Performance against the balanced scorecard measures 
resulted in an outturn of 85% of maximum for this part of the AIP. This 
gave a combined financial and business performance outturn of 185% 
of target. 

In response to shareholder feedback in previous years, we have 
provided more detail on each executive’s individual objectives in the 
body of the remuneration report on page 91. Chris O’Shea achieved an 
individual performance outturn of 87.5% of maximum, and Russell 
O’Brien, Group Chief Financial Officer, achieved an individual 
performance outturn of 82.5% of maximum for this part of the AIP. 

In determining the overall AIP outcome for 2023, the Committee 
considered the impact of a national newspaper undercover 
investigation in February 2023 into the fitting of prepayment meters 
under court warrant by a third-party contractor working for British Gas. 
The Group Chief Executive was deeply concerned when he observed a 
lack of empathy and respect in some of these cases; he apologised 
unreservedly and immediately commissioned an investigation into the 
issue, overseen by external compliance consultants. We ceased all 
warrant activity with the third-party contractor immediately.

This investigation found no wide-ranging systemic issues with the 
installation of prepayment meters under warrant and noted the high 
degree of complexity involved in the assessment of each case. 
However, it did highlight that in some cases the Company had fallen 
short of the high standards of behaviour that we set for ourselves when 
engaging with customers and identified where improvements should be 
made to existing processes. 

In addition to implementing all the recommended actions identified in 
the investigation and fully endorsing Ofgem’s new Code of Practice 
on the installation of prepayment meters under warrant, Centrica has 
re-affirmed its commitment to prepayment customers in the following 
ways: 

¢ Bringing this work in-house, giving British Gas direct oversight of the 
process and ensuring our agents benefit from training at British Gas’ 
award-winning academies.

¢ Swiftly introduced the cheapest prepayment meter tariffs of any 

supplier in the country, in line with the cost of energy for direct debit 
customers.

¢ Extended our scheme of direct customer support for prepayment 
customers to £20m, offering up to £250 in free credit to those 
who are struggling with energy costs.

After considering the findings of the investigation, the Remuneration 
Committee determined that the payment under the Annual Incentive 
Plan should be reduced. Therefore, the Committee reduced the outturn 
of the financial and business performance by 10% from 185% to 175% 
of target.  This resulted in a reduced AIP payment for the Group Chief 
Executive and Group Chief Financial Officer to reflect the impact of the 
prepayment meter investigation.

Overall, after combining the outturn for financial and business 
performance with the outturn for individual performance, and after 
deducting 10% for the prepayment meter investigation, the total AIP for 
Chris O’Shea was 87.5% of the maximum opportunity, which equated 
to 175% of salary or £1,426,250. The AIP for Russell O’Brien, who 
joined part way through the year, was 86.3% of the maximum 
opportunity (pro-rated for time served), which equated to 118.6% of 
salary or £640,606. Kate Ringrose, our previous Group Chief Financial 
Officer who served for part of the year, received an AIP of 78.1% of 
maximum (pro-rated for time served), which equated to 19.5% of salary 
or £90,088. The Committee was satisfied that the overall AIP outcome 
was fair and reasonable given the strong shareholder experience and 
financial performance, and that the outcome also reflected the wider 
stakeholder experience. Half of the AIP was paid in cash and half of the 
AIP was deferred into shares for a further three years.

LONG-TERM INCENTIVE PLAN
In line with our previous Remuneration Policy, a Long-Term Incentive 
Plan (LTIP) award was granted in 2021 to Chris O’Shea and Kate 
Ringrose, our former Chief Financial Officer. The maximum award 
granted was 300% of salary in Centrica shares for Chris O’Shea and 
175% of salary for Kate Ringrose. The LTIP awards were subject to the 
achievement of performance conditions over three financial years 
ending 31 December 2023. The performance targets for the LTIP 
award included relative Total Shareholder Return (TSR), cumulative 
EPS, cash conversion (conversion of EBITDA into Operating Cash 
Flows), and key non-financial performance indicators (KPIs) focused on 
safety, customer and colleague engagement.

TSR performance over the three-year period was outstanding with 
Centrica having the highest TSR in the FTSE 100 comparator group. 
Centrica’s TSR was 267.4%, which compared to 47.1% for the upper 
quartile TSR of the FTSE 100. Performance against the financial 
measures was near maximum vesting and performance against the 
non-financial KPIs was around target vesting. 

The overall formulaic outcome was therefore 85% of the maximum. 
Kate Ringrose’s award was also pro-rated to reflect time served.

As a matter of course, the Committee reviews the formulaic vesting 
outcome against the overall underlying performance of the Group and 
considers whether there have been any windfall gains. The 2021 LTIP 
was granted to the Centrica Leadership Team at a share price of 
52.46p, compared to the 2020 LTIP award, which was granted at 
55.0p. As there was no significant reduction in the share price between 
grants, the Committee concluded it was not necessary to make an 
adjustment for windfall gains. 

Governance | Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

85

Additionally, as highlighted above, management has delivered excellent 
performance over the period, not only in respect of key underlying 
financial metrics but also in our share price, with Centrica significantly 
outperforming the market over the period. The Committee therefore 
concluded that the formulaic outturn was appropriate, and no 
adjustment was necessary. 

We have simplified some of our legacy reward arrangements and, 
with effect from 31 December 2023, we have closed the Centrica 
Unapproved Pension Scheme Defined Contribution Section (CUPS DC) 
to future contributions. Chris O’Shea was a member of CUPS DC, and 
because of the scheme closing, he has elected to receive his 10% of 
salary as a cash allowance in lieu of pension. 

There are no changes to the AIP or RSP awards to be granted in 2024. 
The maximum AIP will be 200% of salary for the Group Chief Executive 
(and 150% of salary for the Chief Financial Officer). The maximum RSP 
award will be 150% of salary for the Group Chief Executive (and 125% 
of salary for the Group Chief Financial Officer). 

NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR FEES
In the year, the Board welcomed Philippe Boisseau, Jo Harlow, and 
Sue Whalley as new Non-Executive Directors. They bring excellent skills 
and experiences, and I very much look forward to working with them.

The Committee undertook an annual review of the fees payable to 
Scott Wheway, Chair of the Board. With effect from 1 April 2024, 
Scott’s fees will increase to £440,000, which is a 4.6% increase and 
lower than the average increase payable to the wider workforce of 6%. 

The Chair of the Board, the Executive Directors, and the Chief People 
Officer conducted an annual review of non-executive director fees and 
concluded there should be no change in 2024. The review recognised 
that the role of a non-executive director is becoming more complex, 
and the time commitment is becoming increasingly demanding. 
However, it was decided that Non-Executive fees would be reviewed 
again as part of the next Remuneration Policy review during 2024.

CONCLUSION
In 2024, the Committee will conduct a comprehensive review of our 
Remuneration Policy in preparation for shareholder approval at the 
AGM in 2025. As part of this review, we will continue to have an open 
and transparent dialogue with our shareholders on our remuneration 
arrangements and any future changes.

We try to make our Remuneration Report comprehensive and 
transparent and have provided additional information in support of this, 
including details on how the Committee benchmarks executive 
remuneration, insights into Centrica’s remuneration policies across the 
wider workforce, as well as enhanced information on each Executive 
Director’s individual objectives. We hope shareholders will find this 
additional information useful. 

Centrica’s performance and the executive team’s leadership in 
challenging conditions are reflected in the remuneration outcomes and 
the decisions the Committee has made in 2023. It is also consistent 
with the objectives of our Remuneration Policy to deliver remuneration 
that attracts and retains high calibre executives in a competitive global 
business environment in return for the achievement of our strategic 
objectives and the delivery of sustainable long-term shareholder value 
and returns. I hope you will give us your support.

Carol Arrowsmith
on behalf of the Remuneration Committee
14 February 2024

The value of the LTIP award for the Group Chief Executive was £5.9m 
as at the end of the performance period, 31 December 2023, and this 
has been included in the single figure for total remuneration table on 
page 89. Of this amount, share price growth accounted for £3.9m 
(or 66% of the total value). The vested shares are subject to an 
additional two-year holding period.

OVERALL SINGLE FIGURE OF TOTAL REMUNERATION 
FOR OUR GROUP CHIEF EXECUTIVE
Having determined that the LTIP outcome was a fair reflection of 
business performance, the Committee also felt it appropriate to review 
the overall single figure of total remuneration earned by the Group Chief 
Executive in respect of 2023. The Group Chief Executive’s single figure 
in 2023 was £8.23m, which compares to £4.49m in 2022. The year-
on-year increase is due to continued improvements in underlying 
performance and substantial share price growth. Since his appointment 
as Group Chief Executive, Chris O’Shea has helped create significant 
value for shareholders with Centrica’s TSR outperforming the FTSE100; 
his cumulative single figure of total remuneration over the same period 
is broadly in line with the median cumulative single figure for CEOs in 
the FTSE 100. The Committee believes that the single figure 
appropriately reflects the performance of both Chris O’Shea and the 
business over the relevant period. It is worth noting that the single figure 
of total remuneration for the Group Chief Executive over the next two 
years is likely to be lower to reflect outcomes of long-term incentive 
awards made under our Restricted Share Plan (RSP), where the 
maximum awards were discounted by 50% compared to previous 
LTIP awards.

REMUNERATION FOR 2024
For Executive Directors, we benchmark salaries and total 
compensation against companies in the FTSE 100. We use this 
comparator group as it provides a broad group of organisations where 
we compete for talented executives. Centrica is a uniquely integrated 
energy company, with over 21,000 employees operating in a highly 
regulated and highly unionised environment. The FTSE 100 includes 
companies that operate in similar sectors and are of comparable size 
and complexity (e.g. the energy sectors, retail & consumer companies, 
support services, utilities, insurance and commodity trading 
companies). In terms of size, Centrica is also a constituent of the FTSE 
100 index and is currently positioned around the median of the FTSE in 
terms of market capitalisation. The ‘At a Glance’ section on page 88 
shows how our Executive Director salaries and target total direct 
compensation (salary plus target annual bonus plus expected value of 
long-term incentives plus pensions) compares to the median FTSE 100 
benchmark. 

In determining salary increases for the Executive Directors for 2024, the 
Committee considered both the average salary increases awarded to 
the wider workforce and the performance and development of the 
executives in their roles throughout the year. 

With effect from 1 April 2024, Chris O’Shea’s salary will increase 
by 4.9% to £855,000. Given this year’s overall single figure of 
remuneration for the Group Chief Executive, the Committee decided to 
increase Chris’ salary at a rate that was below the average for the wider 
workforce of 6%. Russell O’Brien’s salary will increase by 9.3% to 
£590,000. The Committee awarded a higher salary increase to Russell 
to recognise his performance and development in the role since joining 
Centrica. Even after these increases, the salary and target total direct 
compensation for Chris and Russell are below the median benchmarks 
for similar roles in the FTSE 100. The Committee will keep the 
competitiveness of the remuneration packages for Executive Directors 
under review to ensure we can continue to attract and retain the talent 
we need to deliver the business strategy.

86

Governance | Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

REMUNERATION AT A GLANCE

HOW WE’VE SUPPORTED OUR STAKEHOLDERS IN 2023

£140m

Support given to help customers with 
their energy costs since 2022

25,000

Customers supported through the British 
Gas Energy Trust since the start of the 
energy crisis  

700

Extra colleagues hired across our 
customer contact centres

£100k

Contributions to colleagues via the 
Colleague Support Foundation

1,000

Professional colleagues joined our 
business

3ppt

Increase in colleague engagement

4.0p

Full year dividend per share

£613m

Shares repurchased in 2023

45%

Increase in share price over 
the financial year

SINGLE FIGURE OF TOTAL REMUNERATION IN FY 2023

GROUP CHIEF EXECUTIVE

GROUP CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER

790 1,422

2,262

4,490

810

1,426

0

2,500

5,902

8,231

5,000
£,000

7,500

459

498

0

500

576

1,084

640

1,196

1,000
£,000

1,500

Further details on page 89   |   ¢ Salary   ¢ Pension and Benefits   ¢ AIP   ¢ LTIP

Kate Ringrose stepped down from the Board on 28 February 2023. Russell O’Brien was 
appointed to the Board on the 1 March 2023.

FY2023 AIP PERFORMANCE

2021 LTIP OUTCOMES

The table below sets out details of the relevant measures in the Annual 
Incentive Plan and their link to our group priorities, and the resulting outcome 

The table below sets out details of the relevant measures in the Long-Term 
Incentive Plan and their link to our group priorities, and the resulting outcome. 

MEASURE

EPS

BG Cost to Serve

Customers to Ensek

BG complaints

BG reschedules

BG complaints

Centrica cost/income

CBS order intake

Bord Gáis Cost to Serve

Unique customer numbers

Colleague engagement

Climate transition plan progress

Adjusted operating Profit

Free Cash Flow

Net debt/cash

Individual measures

Group Chief Executive

Group Chief Financial Officer

Deduction for prepayment meter 
investigation 

OVERALL OUTCOME (% MAXIMUM)

Group Chief Executive

Group Chief Financial Officer

Weighting 

Outcome

37.5%

 100 %

37.5%

 85 %

25%

 87.5 %

 82.5 %

 (10) %

 87.5 %

 86.3 %

MEASURE

Relative TSR

Cumulative EPS

Cash conversion

Employee engagement

Aggregate Brand NPS

Complaints

Total Recordable Injury Frequency 
Rate (TRIFR)
Overall outcome

Weighting

33%

22%

22%

Vesting Outcome 
(% of max)
 100 %

 100 %

 75 %

22%

 57 %

 85 %

Governance | Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

87

FYE 2022FYE 2023FYE 2022 (Kate Ringrose)FYE 2023(Russell O’Brien)MARKET COMPETITIVE BENCHMARKS

When we set the remuneration levels, one of the factors we consider is the competitiveness of the total compensation package for the role in the relevant market.  
For the Group Chief Executive and Group Chief Financial Officer, we benchmark their roles against companies in the FTSE 100. The table below shows the 
competitiveness of salary and total compensation for target performance versus the median of the FTSE 100. 

GROUP CHIEF EXECUTIVE

GROUP CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER

Salary
Target Total Compensation(1)

Chris O'Shea

£815,000

£2,934,000

Median FTSE 100 
benchmark

£935,000

£3,533,000

Salary
Target Total Compensation(1)

Russell O'Brien

£540,000

£1,674,000

Median FTSE 100 
benchmark

£596,000

£2,097,000

(1) Salary + target annual bonus + expected value of long-term incentives + pension

EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR SHAREHOLDINGS % OF BASE SALARY

The chart below sets out the minimum shareholding requirements and the shareholdings of the Executive Directors. The shareholding requirement must be 
built up over five years and then subsequently maintained. For unvested shares with no performance conditions, we have assumed shares net of tax.

      FURTHER DETAIL REGARDING THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS’ OUTSTANDING SHARE AWARDS CAN BE FOUND ON PAGE 94

GROUP CHIEF EXECUTIVE
¢ Vested and owned shares   ¢ Unvested shares with no performance conditions

GROUP CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER
¢ Vested and owned shares   ¢ Unvested shares with no performance conditions

300

200

224

222

446

48

82

130

69

83

152

0%

100%

200%

300%

400%

500%

0%

50%

100%

150%

200%

250%

300%

Shareholding as % of salary

Shareholding as % of salary

2024 REMUNERATION

The table below sets out a summary of the implementation of the Policy for 2024. 

      FURTHER DETAILS CAN BE FOUND ON PAGE 101

Base Salary

Benefits

Pension

Short-term incentive

Long-term incentive

CEO: £855,000 (+4.9%)

CFO: £590,000 (+9.3%)

The average increases for the 
wider workforce in the UK was 
6%.

No change and remains in line 
with the wider workforce

10% of salary in line with the 
wider workforce

With effect from 31 December 
2023, we have closed the 
Centrica Unapproved Pension 
Scheme Defined Contribution 
Section (CUPS DC) to future 
contributions. Chris O'Shea will 
no longer be eligible contribute 
his 10% of salary pension 
contribution to CUPS DC. 
Instead, he has elected to receive 
10% of salary as a cash 
allowance in lieu of pension.

CEO: 200% of salary at max 

         100% of salary at target

CFO: 150% of salary at max 

          75% of salary at target

Measured 75% against financial 
and business measures and with 
25% against individual objectives.

50% of any bonus earned is 
deferred into shares that vest 
after three years.

Restricted Share Plan award 
subject to underpin framework.

CEO: 150%of salary

CFO: 125% of salary

Awards vest after three years and 
plus a two year additional holding 
period.

88

Governance | Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

GoalActual31/12/2023Actual31/12/2022GoalActual31/12/2023Actual31/12/2022DIRECTORS’ ANNUAL REMUNERATION REPORT

DIRECTORS’ REMUNERATION IN 2023 
This report sets out information on the remuneration of the Directors for the financial year ended 31 December 2023.

Single figure for total remuneration (audited)

Executives

£000

2023

Chris O’Shea
Russell O’Brien(5)
Kate Ringrose(6)

Total

2022

Chris O’Shea
Kate Ringrose(6)

Total

Salary/
fees

Bonus
(cash)

Bonus 
(deferred)(1)

Benefits(2)

LTIPs(3)

Pension(4)

Total

Total fixed 
remuneration

Total variable 
remuneration

810

498

77

713

320

45

713

320

45

1,385

1,078

1,078

790

459

1,249

711

288

999

711

288

999

16

13

3

32

16

16

32

5,902

—

1,833

7,735

2,262

—

2,262

77

45

—

122

—

33

33

8,231

1,196

2,003

11,418

4,490

1,084

5,574

903

556

80

1,527

806

508

1,314

7,328

640

1,923

9,891

3,684

576

4,260

(1) In accordance with the Remuneration Policy, 50% of the bonus is deferred into shares and will vest after three years.
(2) Taxable benefits include car allowance, health and medical benefits. Non-taxable benefits include matching shares received under the Share Incentive Plan (SIP). 

Both taxable and non-taxable benefits are included in the table.

(3) The estimated value of the LTIP award that was granted in respect of the 2021-23 performance period is included in the table above, based on a share price of 150 pence 
(the 3 month average share price for the period ending 31 December 2022). Of the £5.9m for Chris O’Shea, £3.9m (or 66% of the value) was due to share price growth. 
The award will vest in June 2024 and the shares will then be subject to an additional two-year holding period. Further details of the performance outcomes are set out on 
page 90. Dividend equivalents of £230K and £71K have been included.

(4) Notional contributions to the Centrica Unapproved Pension Scheme defined contribution section (CUPS DC) for Chris O’Shea and Kate Ringrose have been included in 
this table as if CUPS DC was a cash balance scheme. This includes a deduction in respect of an allowance for CPI inflation on the opening balance of 11.1% in 2023 
(4.1% in 2022).  CUPS DC was closed on 31 December 2023 and Chris O’Shea will receive his pension contribution as cash in lieu. 

(5) Russell O’Brien was appointed to the Board on 1 March 2023.
(6) Kate Ringrose stepped down from the Board on 28 February 2023.

Single figure for total remuneration (audited)

Non-Executives

£000

Scott Wheway

Carol Arrowsmith
Nathan Bostock(1)
CP Duggal(2)

Heidi Mottram

Kevin O’Byrne
Amber Rudd(3)
Philippe Boisseau(4)
Jo Harlow(5)
Sue Whalley(6)
Total

(1) Nathan Bostock joined the Board on 9 May 2022
(2) CP Duggal joined the Board on 16 December 2022
(3) Amber Rudd joined the Board on 10 January 2022
(4) Philippe Boisseau joined the Board on 1 September 2023
(5) Jo Harlow joined the board on 1 December 2023
(6) Sue Whalley joined the board on 1 December 2023

Salary/fees

Total

2023

418

96

97

76

96

100

76

25

6
6

996

2022

410

93

47

3

93

109

71

N/A

N/A
N/A

826

2023

418

96

97

76

96

100

76

25

6
6

996

2022

410

93

47

3

93

109

71

N/A

N/A
N/A

826

Governance | Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

89

BASE SALARY / FEES
With effect from 1 April 2024, the Group Chief Executive’s salary will increase by 4.9% to £855,000 per annum. The increase is below the average 
salary increase for the wider workforce in the UK of 6%. Please see page 96 for further details on Reward Across the Wider Workforce. The rate of 
increase was set lower than the wider workforce to reflect the increase in single figure for total remuneration in 2023. The salary for the Group Chief 
Financial Officer will increase by 9.3% to £590,000 per annum. A higher than average workforce increase was given to the Group Chief Financial 
Officer to reflect his performance and development in role since joining Centrica.  Both the salaries of the Group Chief Executive and the Group 
Chief Financial Officer remain below the median benchmarks for similar roles in the FTSE 100. 

The fees for the Chair of the Board were reviewed by the Remuneration Committee and increased by 4.6% to £440,000 per annum with effect 
from 1 April 2024. The increase is below the increase for the wider workforce in the UK. Non-Executive Director fees were also reviewed but there 
will be no increase in 2024. The Non-Executive Director fees will be reviewed again as part of the next Remuneration Policy review to ensure 
Centrica is able to continue to attract and retain Non-Executive Directors with the right skills, knowledge and experience, and to reflect the 
increasing time commitment and complexity of the role. 

FY23 ANNUAL INCENTIVE PLAN (AIP)
In line with the Remuneration Policy, 75% of the award was based on a mix of financial and business measures based on Centrica’s priorities for 
2023 and 25% was based on individual objectives. 

The financial and business performance element for 2023 was split equally between Earnings Per Share (EPS) and the outcome of a balanced 
scorecard of financial and operational measures critical to the success of the organisation in 2023.

The EPS measure had defined threshold, target and maximum levels that were set at the start of the financial year. During the first half of the year, 
market conditions were materially better than expected when the targets were set. Therefore, when reviewing progress against the EPS target 
during the year, the Committee determined that the original targets were no longer appropriate and should be increased to reflect these improved 
market conditions. This resulted in EPS targets for the FY23 AIP as follows:

Adjusted EPS

Threshold

17.6p

Target

22.0p

Max

26.4p

Outcome

33.4p

Reflecting the strong performance of the business in the year against these revised targets, Centrica achieved earnings performance above the 
maximum with an EPS of 33.4 pence, resulting in an outturn of 100% for this part of the AIP.  

In addition, the Committee determined a balanced scorecard for the remaining financial and business elements of the AIP. It was agreed that there 
would be no formula to translate the scorecard to a bonus outcome and no formal weighting of individual measures. The Committee monitored 
performance against the scorecard at regular points during the year. At the end of the year, the Committee took a holistic assessment of overall 
performance to determine an outturn. The balanced scorecard of measures, targets and outcomes are noted below.

Group

Measure

Adjusted Operating Profit

British Gas Energy

British Gas Services & Solutions

British Gas Services & Solutions

Bord Gáis

British Gas Energy

Centrica Business Solutions

Centrica Energy

Free Cash Flow

Net (Debt)/Cash

Complaints

Complaints

Reschedules

Cost to serve
Cost to serve(1)

Order Intake

Opex: Gross Margin Ratio

Target

£1,878m

£672m

£1,089m

 11.5% 

 10.8% 

 5.0% 

€212 per customer

£127 per customer

£264m

 33.5% 

Outcome

£2,752m

£2,207m

£2,744m

 13.3% 

 8.5% 

 3.1% 

€187 per customer

£142 per customer

£225m

 33.3% 

Customer numbers

10,228,00 unique customers

10,264,000 unique customers

Colleague engagement

7.7

7.7

On target for emissions reduction in 
line with the long-term glidepath but 
mixed performance against customer 
reduction ambitions. See page 47 for 
further details.

Progress towards climate transition plan 
– see People and Planet plan for further 
details. See page 47.

Goal 4 – helping our customers be net 
zero by 2050 

Goal 5 – be a net zero business by 2045

Make good progress against the 
interim climate targets including; 

Centrica carbon emissions

 Low carbon and transition 
assets

Electric vehicles in fleet

Reduction in property emissions

CAPEX allocated to green 
activities

Hive active heating units sold

SMART meters installed

EV charger points installed

Heat pumps installed

(1) British Gas Energy cost to serve per customer excluding bad debt was £84, against a target of £83.

Customers on Ensek

5m

5.4m

90

Governance | Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Excellent performance across the Group also meant the majority of customer, colleague and financial targets in the balanced scorecard were met 
in full, including delivering operating profits of £2,752m and free cash flow of £2,207m. We were particularly pleased to see a reduction in 
rescheduled appointments for customers in Services and Solutions and an improvement in our customer satisfaction scores. Given the cost 
of living challenges faced by our customers, we have seen an increase in our bad debt charges, and we will continue to engage with those 
customers who are struggling to pay their bills using a variety of mechanisms including payment spreading and utilising the £140m we have 
committed so far to help the most vulnerable and in need. We have made significant progress against both our goal to be a net zero business by 
2045, and our goal to help our customers be net zero by 2050. Performance against the balanced scorecard measures resulted in an outturn 
of 85% for this part of the AIP. The Committee is satisfied that the current incentive structure for senior executives does not drive unintended risks 
or ESG concerns.

The Committee carefully considered the outcomes against the EPS target and the balanced scorecard measures, determining an outcome of 
100% against the EPS target and 85% against the balanced scorecard. Achievement against the overall financial and business performance 
element of the AIP was 185% of target. However, as outlined in the Remuneration Committee Chair’s statement, the Remuneration Committee 
determined that the financial and business performance part of the AIP should be reduced by 10% to 175% of target to reflect the findings of the 
prepayment meter investigation.

Individual Objectives 
Each Executive Director had a set of stretching individual objectives which included key non-financial and strategic performance indicators (KPIs) 
that were important to the success of the business in 2023. The KPIs were cascaded to business and functional leaders to ensure a strong line 
of sight to key priorities throughout the organisation. The Committee assessed that the majority of individual objectives were met in full and good 
progress was made against others. Based on an assessment of performance against Chris O’Shea’s individual objectives, the Committee 
determined an outcome of 87.5% of maximum was appropriate. The Committee determined for Russell O’Brien an outcome of 82.5% of 
maximum under the individual objectives part of the Annual Incentive Plan. For Kate Ringrose, who served for two months of the financial year 
as CFO, the Committee determined an outcome of 50% of maximum of the individual objectives part of the AIP. 

The table below summarises the key individual objectives for Executive Directors during the year:

Chris O’Shea

Key objectives
Chris delivered further improvements in capability, culture, and operational delivery, including the launch of 
our new corporate purpose, established a new business operating model to support strategic plans for 
commercial and customer growth, investment in infrastructure and net zero, and a step change in our 
approach to health & safety. Achieved objective to return Services and Solutions to profitability and 
operational improvements continue to be delivered. With the team, Chris developed a compelling strategic 
plan and investment case to deliver shareholder returns including dividends and share buy backs. Launched 
new customer propositions in the year, including PeakSave and continued to provide customer support 
with over £140m of committed funds to help customers during the energy crisis since 2022.

Personal objectives 
Outturn (as % of 
maximum)

 87.5% 

Russell O’Brien

Smooth transition from former CFO. Refreshed capital allocation and investment framework and new risk 
capital framework. Developed new strategic plan and investment narrative, which was well received by 
investors at interim results in 2023. Reviewed the finance function with a focus on improving the efficiency 
and effectiveness of the function. 

Kate Ringrose

Kate’s focus was to complete the financial year-end reporting process for FY2022 and to provide an 
effective handover to Russell O’Brien, the incoming CFO.

 82.5% 

 50% 

Governance | Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

91

Overall AIP outcome
Overall, after combining the outturn for financial and business performance with the outturn for individual performance, and after deducting 10% 
for the prepayment meter investigation, the total AIP for Chris O’Shea was 87.5% of maximum, which equated to 175% of salary or £1,426,250. 
The table below summarises the outcomes under the AIP for all Executive Directors: 

Measure

EPS

Balanced scorecard

Deduction for prepayment meter 
investigation

Individual objectives

Total AIP (as % of maximum)

Total AIP (£)

(1) Prorata for the employment period.
(2) Prorata for the employment period.

Chris O’Shea

Russell O’Brien

Kate Ringrose

 100% 

 85 %

 (10%) 

 87.5% 

 87.5% 

£1,426,250

 100% 

 85% 

 (10%) 

 82.5% 

 86.3% 
£640,406(1)

 100% 

 85% 

 (10%) 

 50% 

 78.1% 
£90,088(2)

Half of the AIP earned was paid in cash and half of the AIP was deferred into shares, vesting in three years.  

LONG-TERM INCENTIVE AWARDS RELATING TO THE PERFORMANCE PERIOD 2021-23
The performance conditions relating to the three-year period ending in 2023 are set out below, together with the achievement against these 
performance conditions. Vesting between stated points is on a straight-line basis.

Financial targets and 
outcomes

Measures

Relative Total Shareholder Return 
(TSR)

Cumulative EPS

Cash conversion

Non-financial KPI improvement

Overall

(1) 3-year cumulative EPS

Weightings

 33.3% 

 22.2% 

 22.2% 

 22.2% 

 100% 

Targets

Threshold (25%)

Maximum (100%)

FTSE 100
median

7.5p

EBITDA to 
OCF of 85%

See below

FTSE 100
upper quartile
10.5p(1)
EBITDA to 
OCF of 100%

See below

Outcomes

Ranked first 
at 267.4%

72.4p

 95.0% 

Vesting

 100% 

 100% 

 75.5% 

 57.3% 

 85% 

Centrica’s TSR was outstanding over the three-year performance period being ranked in first position relative to the FTSE 100. Our TSR was 
267.4% compared to 47.1% for the upper quartile of the FTSE 100, therefore the TSR portion of the LTIP will vest at 100%.

Financial performance across the three-year performance period was strong, resulting in above maximum outcome against the Cumulative EPS 
target (vesting at 100%) and above target performance for cash conversion (vesting at 75.5%).

92

Governance | Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Non-financial KPI targets and outcomes
The KPI measures, targets and outcomes for the 2021-23 cycle were:

Safety
Total recordable injury frequency rate (TRIFR)(1)
Customer satisfaction

Aggregate brand NPS across our customer businesses weighted by customer 
numbers

Complaints per 100,000 customers across our customer businesses weighted 
by customer accounts

Targets

Threshold

Maximum

Outcomes

Vesting

0.85

0.65

0.84

 29% 

+10.52

+12.35

+18.3

 100% 

2,820

2,600

6,010

 0% 

Colleague engagement (percentage favourable)

 45% 

 54% 

 77% 

 100% 

(1) Per 200,000 hours worked.

Performance against the non-financial KPIs across the performance period was mixed with not all measures meeting threshold. The Committee 
determined that the outcome for this portion of the award would vest at 57.25%.

Overall performance outcome
The LTIP award was granted in June 2021 and will vest in June 2024, after which the shares are then subject to a mandatory holding period of 
two years. Taking into account the achievement against the financial performance targets, and the agreed outcome against the non-financial 
targets, the Committee approved the overall vesting outcome of 85% of the maximum award. 

The estimated value of the shares that will vest in respect of the three-year performance period, which ended in December 2023, has been 
included in the single figure for total remuneration on page 89. The shares will be released at the end of the holding period, in June 2026.

As stated in the Remuneration Committee Chair’s statement, as a matter of course, the Committee reviews the formulaic vesting outcome against 
the overall underlying performance of the group. The Committee considered whether there have been any windfall gains and determined there 
were none, and no adjustment was made.

Pension
In 2020, it was agreed that the pension contributions for the new and existing Executive Directors would be 10% of base salary to align them with 
the wider UK workforce. In 2023 the pension contribution rate across the UK workforce was 10-14%, depending on the pension scheme.

Chris O’Shea and Kate Ringrose participated in the Centrica Unapproved Pension Scheme Defined Contribution section (CUPS DC), until 
31 December 2023 when we closed the scheme to future contributions. For the period to 31 December 2023, notional contributions to the CUPS 
DC scheme have been included in the single figure for total remuneration table as if it was a cash balance scheme and therefore notional 
investment returns for the year have also been included. The notional pension fund balances for each Executive are disclosed below:

CUPS DC Scheme(1)
Chris O’Shea(1)
Kate Ringrose(1)

(1) The retirement age for the CUPS DC scheme is 62.

Total notional 
pension fund as at 
31 December 2023
£

431,775   

79,500   

Total notional 
pension fund as at 
31 December 2022 
£

319,407 

78,761 

Governance | Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

93

 
 
Following 31 December 2023 when the CUPS DC scheme closed to future contributions Chris O’Shea chose to take his pension contribution of 
10% of salary as cash in lieu of pension. Upon appointment Russell O’Brien similarly received his pension contribution of 10% of salary as cash in 
lieu of pension.

Chris O’Shea

Russell O’Brien

% of salary

10% cash in lieu of pension 

10% cash in lieu of pension

Taxable benefits
Taxable benefits include car allowance, health and medical benefits. Non-taxable benefits include matching shares received under the Share 
Incentive Plan (SIP) on the same terms as all employees. Both taxable and non-taxable benefits are included in the table of single figure for total 
remuneration. 

DIRECTORS’ INTERESTS IN SHARES (NUMBER OF SHARES) (AUDITED)
The table below shows the interests in the ordinary shares of the Company for all Directors who served on the Board during 2023.

For the Group Chief Executive the minimum shareholding requirement is 300% of base salary and for the Chief Financial Officer the minimum 
shareholding requirement is 200% of base salary. The achievement against the requirement is shown below.

Executive Directors have a period of five years from appointment to the Board, or from any material change in the minimum shareholding 
requirement, to build up the required shareholding.  A post-cessation shareholding requirement of 100% of the in-employment shareholding 
requirement (or full actual holding if lower) is applicable for two years post-cessation of employment. The Committee continues to keep both the 
shareholding requirement, and achievement against the shareholding requirement, under review and will take appropriate action should they feel 
it necessary. 

Executives
Chris O’Shea(5)
Russell O’Brien(5)
Kate Ringrose(4)
Non-Executives

Carol Arrowsmith
Phillippe Boisseau(7)

Nathan Bostock

CP Duggal

Jo Harlow

Heidi Mottram

Kevin O'Byrne
Amber Rudd(6)

Sue Whalley

Scott Wheway

Beneficially 
owned(1)

Shares subject to 
performance 
conditions

Shares vested but 
unexercised

Shares subject to 
continued service 
only(2)

Shares
exercised
in the year 

Shareholding 
requirement
(% of salary)

Current 
shareholding
(% of salary)(3)

1,295,884   

7,954,419   

185,511   

—   

550,940   

1,501,143   

49,286   

2,669   

27,000   

15,000   

—   

10,000   

40,000   

42,559   

13,868   

110,187   

—   

—   

—   

—   

—   

—   

—   

—   

—   

—   

—   

—   

—   

—   

—   

—   

—   

—   

—   

—   

—   

—   

—   

1,289,274   

314,566   

348,139   

—   

—   

—   

—   

—   

—   

—   

—   

—   

—   

—   

—   

—   

—   

—   

—   

—   

—   

—   

—   

—   

—   

—   

300   

200   

200   

—   

—   

—   

—   

—   

—   

—   

—   

—   

—   

224 

48 

126 

— 

— 

— 

— 

— 

— 

— 

— 

— 

— 

(1) These shares are owned by the Director or a connected person and they are not, save for exceptional circumstances, subject to continued service or the achievement of 
performance conditions. They include shares purchased by the Executive Director in March with deferred AIP funds which have mandatory holding periods of three years 
and which will be subject to tax at the end of the holding periods.

(2) Shares owned subject to continued service include RSP shares awarded and SIP free and matching shares that have not yet been held for the three-year holding period.  

The values are net of tax.

(3) The share price used to calculate the achievement against the guideline was 1.4065 pence, the price on 31 December 2023.
(4) Kate Ringrose stepped down from the Board on the 28 February 2023 and the number reflects her holding on this date.
(5) During the period 1 January 2024 to 15 February 2024 both Chris O’Shea and Russell O’Brien acquired 264 shares through the SIP.
(6) During the period 1 January 2024 to 15 February 2024 Amber Rudd acquired 1,580 shares through the NED Share Purchase Agreement.
(7) During the period 1 January 2024 to 15 February 2024 Phillippe Boisseau acquired 1,459 shares through the NED Share Purchase Agreement.

94

Governance | Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
External appointments of Executives
It is the Company’s policy to allow each Executive to accept one non-executive directorship of another company, although the Board retains the 
discretion to vary this policy. Fees received in respect of external appointments are retained by the individual Executive and are set out in the 
Directors’ Annual Remuneration Report each year.

Consideration of the UK Corporate Governance Code
As part of its review of the Policy, the Committee has considered the factors set out in provision 40 and provision 41 of the UK Corporate 
Governance Code (the ‘Code’). In the Committee’s view, the proposed Policy addresses those factors as set out below:

Principles of the Code

Clarity 

Remuneration arrangements should be transparent and promote effective 
engagement with shareholders and the workforce

Simplicity

Remuneration structures should avoid complexity and their rationale and operation 
should be easy to understand

Risk

Remuneration arrangements should ensure reputational and other risks from 
excessive rewards, and behavioural risks that can arise from target-based incentive 
plans, are identified and mitigated

Predictability

The range of possible values of rewards to individual Directors and any other limits 
or discretions should be identified and explained at the time of approving the Policy

Proportionality

The link between individual awards, the delivery of strategy and the long-term 
performance of the Group should be clear. Outcomes should not reward poor 
performance

Alignment to culture

Incentive schemes should drive behaviours consistent with the Group’s purpose, 
values and strategy

How the Policy aligns

The Policy is simple and designed to support long-term, sustainable performance. 
Shareholders were extensively consulted on the design of the Policy, and the key 
rationale for the changes that were made. The Policy received shareholder approval 
at the AGM in June 2022. The Committee proactively seeks engagement with 
shareholders on remuneration matters on an ongoing basis. 

During the year, consultation took place with recognised trade unions on pay 
across the wider workforce. No direct engagement with the workforce occurred 
on executive remuneration.  

In order to enhance the level of engagement with our employees, a Shadow Board, 
comprising colleagues across the business and in different locations, was launched 
in 2021. In 2023 a new Shadow Board was established and through the Shadow 
Board, colleagues are able to share views with the Board on executive pay, wider 
workforce terms & conditions, and people-related policies. 

The Shadow Board will be our primary forum for engaging on executive pay. The 
Remuneration Committee is actively exploring ways to enhance engagement across 
all groups in 2024.

The latest Policy results in a clear simplification of remuneration arrangements 
through the replacement of a performance share plan, with a simpler restricted 
share plan. 

We further operate an annual incentive (the AIP) with a straightforward deferral 
structure to allow it to be easily understood.

The performance conditions for variable elements are clearly communicated to, 
and understood by, participants and aligned with the Group strategy.

The majority of the Executive Directors’ total remuneration is weighted towards 
variable pay (and provided in shares).

The changes result in a reduced risk of excessive reward, through lower quantum for 
the Executive team alongside an increased discouragement of excessive risk-taking 
behaviour through the use of a post-employment shareholding requirement.

The Committee also retains discretion to override formulaic outcomes for incentive 
plans. Malus and clawback provisions mitigate behavioural risks by enabling 
payments to be reduced or reclaimed in specific circumstances.

The Policy sets out the maximum potential value for each element of remuneration 
subject to the achievement of performance conditions.

The potential total remuneration outcomes are easily quantifiable and are set out in 
the illustrations provided in the Policy.

As highlighted in Risk, the Committee has discretion to override formulaic outcomes 
if they were deemed to be inappropriate. 

Remuneration is appropriately balanced between fixed and variable pay. 

Short-term performance targets are linked to the Group’s strategy and the use of 
deferral in the AIP ensures a link to long-term performance through this element.

The introduction of an RSP ensures a strong link to long-term performance as 
executive reward is directly linked to the share price of the Company.

The short-term incentive plans are measured against performance measures which 
underpin the Group’s culture and strategy. 

The incentive structure is cascaded through the top six levels of the organisation 
ensuring that it drives the same behaviours across the Group. 

108

Governance | Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS’ REMUNERATION
Centrica’s policy on Non-Executive Directors’ (‘Non-Executives’) fees takes into account the need to attract the high-calibre individuals required to 
support the delivery of our strategy.

Purpose and 
link to strategy

Operation and 
clawback

Maximum 
opportunity

Performance 
measures

The maximum level of fees payable to 
Non-Executives, in aggregate, is set out 
in the Articles of Association.

Not applicable. 

Chair and Non-Executive Director Fees 

Sufficient level to secure 
the services of 
individuals possessing 
the skills, knowledge and 
experience to support 
and oversee the 
Executive Directors in 
their execution of the 
Board’s approved 
strategies and 
operational plans.

Fees reflect market 
practice as well as the 
responsibilities and time 
commitment required by 
our Non-Executives.

The fee levels for the Chair are reviewed  
by the Remuneration Committee. 

The fee levels of the Non-Executives are 
reviewed by the Chair of the Board, 
Executive Directors and the Chief People 
Officer. 

Non-Executives are paid a base fee for 
their services. Where individuals serve as 
Chair of a Committee of the Board, 
additional fees are payable. The Senior 
Independent Director also receives an 
additional fee. 

The Company reserves the right to pay a 
Committee membership fee in addition to 
the base fees. 

Recruitment policy
The policy on the recruitment of new Non-Executives during the policy period would be to apply the same remuneration elements as for the 
existing Non-Executives. It is not intended that variable pay, day rates or benefits in kind be offered, although in exceptional circumstances such 
remuneration may be required in currently unforeseen circumstances. The Committee will include in future Remuneration Reports details of the 
implementation of the policy as utilised during the policy period in respect of any such recruitment to the Board.

Terms of appointment 
Non-Executives, including the Chair, do not have service contracts. Their appointments are subject to Letters of Appointment and the Articles of 
Association. All Non-Executives are required to be re-elected at each AGM. The date of appointment and the most recent re-appointment and the 
length of service for each NED are shown in the table below:

Non Executive Director

Scott Wheway

Carol Arrowsmith

Amber Rudd

Nathan Bostock

CP Duggal

Heidi Mottram

Kevin O’Byrne

Phillippe Boisseau

Jo Harlow

Sue Whalley

Date of appointment to role

Date of current contract

Notice from the Group

Notice from the individual

1 May 2016

11 June 2020

10 January 2022

9 May 2022

16 December 2022

1 January 2020

13 May 2019

13 June 2023

13 June 2023

13 June 2023

13 June 2023

13 June 2023

13 June 2023

13 June 2023

1 September 2023

1 September 2023

1 December 2023

1 December 2023

1 December 2023

1 December 2023

6 months

3 months

3 months

3 months

3 months

3 months

3 months

3 months

3 months

3 months

6 months

3 months

3 months

3 months

3 months

3 months

3 months

3 months

3 months

3 months

Governance | Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

109

The Directors submit the Annual Report and Accounts for Centrica plc, 
together with the consolidated Financial Statements of the Centrica 
group of companies, for the year ended 31 December 2023. The 
Directors’ Report required under the Companies Act 2006 (the ‘Act’) 
comprises this Directors’ and Corporate Governance Report (pages 57 
to 112) including the TCFD section for disclosure of our greenhouse 
gas (GHG) emissions in the Strategic Report (pages 47 to 55) and note 
26 (page 189) to the Financial Statements. The index on this page 
includes matters contained in the Strategic Report that would otherwise 
be required in the Directors’ Report. The management report required 
under Disclosure Guidance and Transparency Rule 4.1.5 R comprises 
the Strategic Report (pages 2 to 55) (which includes the risks relating to 
our business), Shareholder Information (page 243) and details of 
acquisitions and disposals made by the Group during the year in note 
12 (page 161). The Strategic Report on pages 2 to 55 fulfils the 
requirements set out in Section 414 of the Act. This Directors’ and 
Corporate Governance Report fulfils the requirements of the corporate 
governance statement required under Disclosure Guidance and 
Transparency Rule 7.2.1.

ARTICLES OF ASSOCIATION (‘ARTICLES’)
The Company’s Articles were adopted at the 2023 Annual General 
Meeting (AGM) and may only be amended by a special resolution of the 
shareholders. The Articles include various rules outlining the running 
and governing of the Company, for example rules relating to the 
appointment and removal of the Directors and how the Directors can 
use all of the Company’s powers (except where the Articles or 
legislation says otherwise), for example in relation to issuing and buying 
back shares. The Articles can be found on our website centrica.com.

CENTRICA SHARES
Significant shareholdings
At 31 December 2023, Centrica had received notification of the 
following interests in voting rights pursuant to the Disclosure and 
Transparency Rules:

BlackRock, Inc.

Date 
notified

08.04.2022

Schroders Investment Management Limited

27.04.2023

Bank of America Corporation

02.06.2023

% of share
 capital(1)

5.25%

<5%

<5%

(1) Percentages are shown as a percentage of the Company’s issued share capital 
when the Company was notified of the change in holding. As at 14 February 
2024, the Company had received no further notifications. Copies of historic 
notifications and any notifications received since 14 February 2024, can be found 
on our website at centrica.com/rnsannouncements.

OTHER STATUTORY 
INFORMATION

Index to Directors’ Report and other disclosures

70

110

114 to 126

59 to 63

10 to 11

66

111
109

94
111

Annual General Meeting (AGM)

Articles of Association

Audit Information

Board of Directors

Business Model

Conflicts of Interest

Directors’ indemnities and insurance

Directors’ service contracts and letters of 
appointment

Directors’ share interests

Disclosure required under Listing Rule 
9.8.4 R

42, 57, 81 and 249 Diversity
Note 11
Page 160

Dividends

Note 26
Page 189

Note 19 on page 
175, note S2 on 
pages 191 to 203, 
and note S6 on 
pages 215 to 217

2 to 55

53 and 251

71

73

110

38 to 43

111
Note S8
Page 219

12 to 45

1

28 to 34

Events after the balance sheet date

Financial instruments

Future developments

Greenhouse Gas (GHG) Emissions

Human rights

Internal control over financial reporting

Material shareholdings

People

Political donations and expenditure
Related party transactions

Research and development activities

Results

Risk management

17 and 68 to 69

Section 172(1) Statement (Director’s Duty)

111

45
14 to 15

41 to 44

47 to 55

15, 38 to 40, 45, 46, 
58, 70 to 71, 90, 96, 
107 and 111

Share capital

Speak Up

Stakeholder engagement (including 
employees, suppliers and customers)

Sustainability

TCFD and CFD
The Company’s approach to investing in 
and rewarding its workforce

110

Governance | Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Share capital
The Company has a single share class which is divided into ordinary 
shares of 6 14/81 pence each. The Company was authorised at the 
2023 AGM to allot up to 1,895,391,323 ordinary shares as permitted 
by the Act. A renewal of a similar authority will be proposed at the 2024 
AGM. The Company’s issued share capital as at 31 December 2023, 
together with details of shares issued during the year, is set out in note 
25 to the Financial Statements on page 189.

Rights attaching to shares
Each ordinary share of the Company carries one vote. Further 
information on the voting and other rights of shareholders is set out 
in the Articles and in explanatory notes which accompany notices 
of general meetings, all of which are available on our website 
centrica.com. There are no shareholder agreements or restrictions 
in 2023.

Purchase of shares
As permitted by the Articles, the Company obtained shareholder 
authority at the 2023 AGM to purchase its own shares up to a 
maximum of 568,617,397 ordinary shares of 6 14/81 pence each 
(‘shares’). The 2022-23 repurchase programme completed on 
29 March 2023 having purchased 250,483,802 shares. The 2023 
programme commenced on 5 April 2023 and completed on 9 October 
2023 with 235,455,079 shares purchased.

As announced in the Company’s Interim Results on 27 July 2023, 
the Company intends to repurchase a further £450m of shares to 
return surplus capital to shareholders. The 2023-2024 programme 
commenced on 10 October 2023. From 10 October 2023 to 
31 December 2023, 72,049,447 shares were purchased (of which 
70,465,051 shares had settled and were held as treasury shares). 
The shares purchased during this period represent approximately 
1.2% of the issued ordinary share capital at an aggregate cost of 
approximately £108m (£106m in respect of settled shares).

The total number of shares purchased during the financial year was 
512,273,445, which represents approximately 8.7% of the Company’s 
issued share capital, at an aggregate cost of approximately £615m. 
Of the total number of shares purchased during the year, 66,123,754 
were used for share schemes with the rest held as treasury shares. 
As at 31 December 2023, there were 490,250,737 shares held in 
the treasury shares account representing approximately 8.3% of the 
Company’s issued share capital. Dividends are waived in respect of 
shares held in the treasury share account. Further details are set out 
in note S4 to the Financial Statements on page 212.

Shares held in employee benefit trusts
The Centrica plc Employee Benefit Trust (EBT) is used to purchase 
shares on behalf of the Company for the benefit of employees, in 
connection with the Restricted Share Scheme. The Centrica plc Share 
Incentive Plan Trust (SIP Trust) is used to purchase shares on behalf of 
the Company for the benefit of employees, in connection with the SIP. 
Both the Trustees of the EBT and the SIP Trust, in accordance with 
best practice, have agreed not to vote any unallocated shares held in 
the EBT or SIP Trust at any general meeting and dividends are waived 
in respect of these shares. In respect of allocated shares in both the 
EBT and the SIP Trust, the Trustees shall vote in accordance with 
participants’ instructions. In the absence of any instruction, the Trustees 
shall not vote.

EMPLOYEE PARTICIPATION IN SHARE SCHEMES
The Company’s all-employee share schemes are a long-established 
and successful part of our total reward package, encouraging the 
involvement of UK employees in the Company’s performance through 
employee share ownership. We offer a Share Incentive Plan (SIP) in the 
UK, with a take-up of 28%. In 2023, all eligible employees globally were 
awarded a Profit Share award under the SIP.

OTHER INFORMATION
Directors’ indemnities and insurance
In accordance with the Articles, the Company has granted a deed 
of indemnity, to the extent permitted by law, to the Directors of the 
Company. Qualifying third-party indemnity provisions (as defined 
by Section 234 of the Act) were in force during the year ended 
31 December 2023 and remain in force. The Company also maintains 
directors’ and officers’ liability insurance for its Directors and officers. 
The Company has granted qualifying pension scheme indemnities 
in the form permitted by the Companies Act 2006 to the directors of 
Centrica Pension Plan Trustees Limited, Centrica Engineers Pension 
Trustees Limited and Centrica Pension Trustees Limited, that act as 
trustees of the Company’s UK pension schemes.

Political donations
The Company operates on a politically neutral basis. No political 
donations were made by the Group for political purposes during 
the year.

Payments policy
We recognise the importance of good supplier relationships to the 
overall success of our business. We manage dealings with suppliers 
in a fair, consistent and transparent manner.

Significant agreements – change of control 
There are a number of agreements to which the Company is party that 
take effect, alter or terminate upon a change of control of the Company 
following a takeover bid.

The significant agreements of this kind include:

¢ Those that relate to 2009, when the Company entered into certain 
transactions with EDF Group in relation to an investment in the 
former British Energy Group, which owned and operated a fleet 
of nuclear power stations in the UK. The transactions include rights 
for EDF Group and the Company to offtake power from these 
nuclear power stations. As part of the arrangements, on a change 
of control of the Company, the Group loses its right to participate on 
the boards of the companies in which it has invested. Furthermore, 
where the acquirer is not located in certain specified countries, 
EDF Group is able to require Centrica to sell out its investments 
to EDF Group; and

¢ Committed facility agreements, subordinated fixed rate notes 
and bonds issued under the Company’s medium-term note 
programme.

The Remuneration Policy sets out on page 107 details on the treatment 
of the Executive Directors’ pay arrangements, including the treatment 
of share schemes in the event of a change of control.

Disclosures required under Listing Rule 9.8.4 R
The Company is required to disclose certain information under Listing 
Rule 9.8.4 R in the Directors’ Report or advise where such relevant 
information is contained. All such disclosures are included in this 
Directors’ and Corporate Governance Report, other than the following 
sections of the 2023 Annual Report and Accounts:

Information

Location in Annual Report

Page(s)

Capitalised interest 
(borrowing costs)

Details of long-term 
incentive schemes

Financial Statements

156, note 8

Remuneration Report

85 and 92

Governance | Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

111

DIRECTORS’ STATEMENTS
Accounting standards require that Directors satisfy themselves that it is 
reasonable for them to conclude whether it is appropriate to prepare 
the Financial Statements on a going concern basis. The Group’s 
business activities, together with factors that are likely to affect its future 
development and position, are set out in the Group Chief Executive’s 
Statement on pages 6 to 8 and the Business Reviews on pages 23 to 
25. After making enquiries, the Board has a reasonable expectation 
that Centrica and the Group as a whole have adequate resources to 
continue in operational existence and meet their liabilities as they fall 
due, for the foreseeable future.

For this reason, the Board continues to adopt the going concern basis 
in preparing the Financial Statements.

Additionally, the Directors’ Viability Disclosure, which assesses the 
prospects for the Group over a longer period than the 12 months 
required for the going concern assessment, is set out on pages 35 to 
37. Further details of the Group’s liquidity position are provided in notes 
24 and S3 to the Financial Statements on pages 185 to 188 and 204 
to 210.

Directors’ responsibilities
The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and the 
financial statements in accordance with applicable law and regulations.

Company law requires the Directors to prepare financial statements for 
each financial year. Under that law, the Directors are required to 
prepare the Group financial statements in accordance with international 
accounting standards, in conformity with the requirements of the 
Companies Act 2006. The Directors have also chosen to prepare the 
parent company financial statements in accordance with Financial 
Reporting Standard 101 ‘Reduced Disclosure Framework’.

Under company law, the Directors must not approve the financial 
statements unless they are satisfied that they give a true and fair view of 
the state of affairs of the Company and of the profit or loss of the 
Company for that period.

In preparing the parent company financial statements, the Directors are 
required to:

¢ Select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently;
¢ Make judgements and accounting estimates that are reasonable and 

prudent;

¢ State whether Financial Reporting Standard 101 ‘Reduced 

Disclosure Framework’ has been followed, subject to any material 
departures disclosed and explained in the Financial Statements; and

¢ Prepare the Financial Statements on the going concern basis 
unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Company will 
continue in business.

In preparing the Group Financial Statements, International Accounting 
Standard 1 requires that Directors:

¢ Properly select and apply accounting policies;
¢ Present information, including accounting policies, in a manner that 

provides relevant, reliable, comparable and understandable 
information;

¢ Provide additional disclosures when compliance with the specific 
requirements in IFRS Standards are insufficient to enable users to 
understand the impact of particular transactions, other events and 
conditions on the entity’s financial position and financial performance; 
and

¢ Make an assessment of the Company’s ability to continue as a 

going concern.

The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records 
that are sufficient to show and explain the Company’s transactions and 
disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of 
the Company and enable them to ensure that the Financial Statements 
comply with the Companies Act 2006.

They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company 
and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection 
of fraud and other irregularities.

The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the 
corporate and financial information included on the Company’s 
website. Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation 
and dissemination of Financial Statements may differ from legislation in 
other jurisdictions.

DIRECTORS’ RESPONSIBILITY STATEMENT 
Each of the Directors confirm that to the best of their knowledge:

¢ The Financial Statements, prepared in accordance with the relevant 
financial reporting framework, give a true and fair view of the assets, 
liabilities, financial position and profit or loss of the Company and the 
undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole;

¢ The Strategic Report includes a fair review of the development and 
performance of the business and the position of the Company and 
the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole, 
together with a description of the Principal Risks and Uncertainties 
that they face; and

¢ The Annual Report and Financial Statements, taken as a whole, 

are fair, balanced and understandable and provide the 
information necessary for shareholders to assess the Company’s 
position and performance, business model and strategy.

The names of the Directors and their functions are listed on pages 59 
to 62.

Information to the independent auditors
The Directors who held office at the date of this Report confirm that:

¢ There is no relevant audit information of which Deloitte LLP are 

unaware; and

¢ They have taken all the steps that they ought to have taken as a 
Director in order to make themselves aware of any relevant audit 
information and to establish that the Company’s auditors are 
aware of that information.

This confirmation is given and should be interpreted in accordance with 
the provisions of Section 418 of the Companies Act 2006.

Deloitte LLP have expressed their willingness to continue in office as 
auditors and a resolution to re-appoint them will be proposed at the 
forthcoming AGM.

This report, including the Directors’ Responsibility Statement, was 
approved by the Board of Directors on 14 February 2024 and is signed 
on its behalf by:

By order of the Board

Raj Roy
Group General Counsel & Company Secretary
14 February 2024

112

Governance | Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Financial 
Statements

114

Independent Auditor’s Report

127 Group Income Statement
128 Group Statement of Comprehensive Income

129 Group Statement of Changes in Equity

130 Group Balance Sheet

131 Group Cash Flow Statement

132 Notes to the Financial Statements

229 Company Financial Statements

241 Gas and Liquids Reserves (Unaudited)

242

Five Year Summary (Unaudited)

Financial Statements | Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

113

INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT

REPORT ON THE AUDIT OF THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

1. Opinion
In our opinion:

¢ the financial statements of Centrica plc (the ‘Company’) and its subsidiaries (the ‘Group’) give a true and fair view of the state of the 

Group’s and of the Company’s affairs as at 31 December 2023 and of the Group’s profit for the year then ended;

¢ the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom adopted international accounting 

standards;

¢ the Company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting 

Practice, including Financial Reporting Standard 101 ‘Reduced Disclosure Framework’; and

¢ the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006.

We have audited the financial statements which comprise:

¢ the Group Income Statement;
¢ the Group Statement of Comprehensive Income;
¢ the Group Statement of Changes in Equity;
¢ the Group Balance Sheet;
¢ the Group Cash Flow Statement;
¢ the related notes to the Group financial statements 1 to 26;
¢ the supplementary notes S1 to S11 of the Group financial statements;
¢ the Company Statement of Changes in Equity;
¢ the Company Balance Sheet; and
¢ the notes I to XVI to the Company financial statements.

The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the Group financial statements is applicable law and United 
Kingdom adopted international accounting standards. The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the 
Company financial statements is applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting Standards, including FRS 101 ‘Reduced Disclosure 
Framework’ (United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice).

2. Basis for opinion
We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing (UK) (ISAs (UK)) and applicable law. Our responsibilities 
under those standards are further described in the auditor’s responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements section of our report. 

We are independent of the Group and the Company in accordance with the ethical requirements that are relevant to our audit of the 
financial statements in the UK, including the Financial Reporting Council’s (the ‘FRC’s’) Ethical Standard as applied to listed public interest 
entities, and we have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with these requirements. The non-audit services provided to 
the Group for the year are disclosed in note S9 to the financial statements. We confirm that we have not provided any non-audit services 
prohibited by the FRC’s Ethical Standard to the Group or the Company.

We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion.

114

Financial Statements | Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

3. Summary of our audit approach

Key audit matters

The key audit matters identified in the current year were:
¢ the valuation of residential energy supply billed debt provisions within British Gas;
¢ the accuracy and completeness of revenue arising from British Gas’s new billing platform, ENSEK, including manual adjustments 

made in respect of revenue recognised through this platform; 

¢ impairment considerations in respect of the Group’s investment in its Nuclear associate; 
¢ accounting for the Electricity Generator Levy (“EGL”); and
¢ the valuation of complex energy derivative contracts.
Other than as explained below, these key audit matters are consistent with those identified in the prior year:
¢ In the prior year, we noted a key audit matter in respect of energy supply arrangements, which covered a number of judgements 
associated with the supply of energy including the billed debt provision, accounting for customer support schemes and ENSEK 
revenue. This year the judgement in respect of government support schemes has reduced following the wind-down of those 
schemes, leading to this area no longer being considered a key audit matter, and the other two areas have been reported on as 
separate key audit matters this year. The Group has continued to migrate customers onto ENSEK and ENSEK is now a bigger 
proportion of overall Group revenue which has led to increased risk.

¢ A new key audit matter in the year relates to accounting for the Electricity Generator Levy (“EGL”). At the end of 2022, the 

Government announced the implementation of the temporary levy applicable to receipts that the Group has realised from electricity 
generation in the UK from nuclear and renewable sources in the period from 1 January 2023 to 31 March 2028. 
There is significant uncertainty in how the legislation should be interpreted in relation to the Group’s significant minority shareholder 
off-take arrangement with its Nuclear associate. Payment has been made on account to HMRC for the maximum potential cost 
however the Group has also made considerations as to whether this could constitute a tax deposit asset. Given the complexity of the 
legislation, the impact on the Group and the estimation uncertainty in relation to the amount of levy the Group owes for 2023 and 
whether a tax deposit asset should be recorded for the recovery of payments on account made to HMRC, we identified a key audit 
matter in respect of the accounting for the EGL.

Whilst the commodity price environment has remained volatile in 2023, commodity prices are lower than in 2022. Centrica’s higher 
liquidity headroom, reduced volatility and management’s active liquidity risk management has reduced margin call risk significantly. 
Hence the audit of the going concern assumption is no longer identified as a key audit matter. Section 4 of our report describes the 
specific procedures performed to reach our conclusions related to the going concern basis of accounting in the preparation of the 
Group financial statements.  

Within this report, key audit matters are identified as follows:

! Newly identified

r Increased level of risk

vw Similar level of risk

s Decreased level of risk

Materiality

Scoping

The materiality used for the audit of the Group financial statements is £135m (2022: £158m), determined based on adjusted profit 
before tax. Adjusted profit before tax is the pre-tax profit adjusted for the impact of exceptional items and certain remeasurements. The 
decrease in materiality in 2023 reflects the decrease in commodity prices contributing to lower adjusted profit in the Upstream and 
Trading segments, partially offset by profit in the Energy Supply segments which is higher than in prior year. 

All components of the Group were subject to a full-scope audit other than New Energy Services (within the Centrica Business Solutions 
segment) which continues to be subject to review procedures and the components presented below which were subject to specified 
audit procedures:
¢ Centrica Business Solutions Energy Supply;
¢ Bord Gáis;
¢ British Gas Services and Solutions segment; and
¢ Centrica Energy Storage+ (within the Upstream segment). 
Component materiality levels were set based on the size and audit risk associated with each component on a range of applicable 
metrics. Our risk assessment procedures resulted in a reduction in the group reporting scope for Centrica Business Solutions Energy 
Supply from a full-scope audit in the prior year to an audit of specified account balances in the current year. 

In the current year the audit team has defined Head office as a separate component of the Group. The business activities of the Head 
office component are materially in line with those of the Company and this component has been subject to a full-scope audit in line with 
the audit of the Company.

Significant changes 
in our approach

Other than the changes in key audit matters and scope discussed above, there were no other significant changes in our audit approach 
when compared to 2022. 

Financial Statements | Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023

115

