Promoting diversity in the workplace

We want to build a diverse and 
inclusive workplace where every one 
of us can be our best and true selves; 
only with a mix of different ideas  
and perspectives can we come  
up with the most exciting new ideas 
and create the best experience for 
our customers and consumers.

We have a number of internal 
networks that support and align with 
our diversity and inclusion strategy.  

Everyone at Auto Trader is 
encouraged to join one of our 
employee-driven networks.  
These networks and their leaders 
are a core part of our culture,  
helping to welcome employees 
when they join our organisation, 
empowering team members to 
thrive and spearheading outreach 
programmes that support our  
local communities. 

Forever Manchester

The Auto Trader Community Fund, 
powered by the charity Forever 
Manchester, considers applications 
and awards up to £1,000 aimed  
at supporting grassroots projects 
across Greater Manchester,  
and in London.

During the year we celebrated the 
sixth anniversary of the Auto Trader 
Community Fund at Forever 
Manchester that provides support 
for a wide range of volunteer-led 
community projects across 
Greater Manchester. 

Our representation of women at a total 
company level increased from 40% to 43%. 
During the year, the percentage of women 
on our Operational Leadership Team  
(‘OLT’) increased from 44% to 56%. We also 
increased the percentage of women in 
leadership roles to 40% as at 31 March 2023 
(March 2022: 38%), as defined by the FTSE 
Women Leaders Review (formerly the 
Hampton-Alexander review). 

To increase our representation across all 
levels of the organisation, we aim to stimulate 
the flow of diverse talent from early careers 
through to senior leadership by both targeted 
development programmes and equipping 
our leaders to get the very best out of 
everyone on their team and support their 
development through the organisation.  
Our Continuous Leadership Development 
programme, made up of a range of training 
interventions, supports our senior leaders 
and people managers. We have also 
continued with our Diverse Talent Accelerator 
programme designed to support the 
progression of mid-career colleagues.

Making a difference to our 
communities and the industries 
we operate in
Community-minded is one of the values that 
shapes our culture and we are committed  
to making a difference and having a positive 
impact on the communities we operate in. 
Our Make a Difference Guild is committed  
to empowering our employees to support  
our local communities and national charities. 
During the year we continued our partnership 
with Forever Manchester to operate the  
Auto Trader Community Fund that provides 
support for community projects across 
Greater Manchester. We also launched  
a new ‘Your Community Fund’ available  
to all employees to nominate charities  
close to their hearts and local communities.  
We continue to work closely with our charity 
partner in London and support and promote 
all Disasters Emergency Committee (‘DEC’)
appeals. We operate in both the automotive 
and technology industries. BEN is a key 
charity supporting the automotive industry 
with the aim to offer life changing support 
which empowers people to take control of 
their mental and physical health. As with all 
charities, BEN was heavily impacted by the 
pandemic, making it even more important 
that we continue to support them.

Auto Trader Group plc  Annual Report and Financial Statements 2023

43

Strategic reportGovernanceFinancial statementsBeing a responsible business continued

Our governance  
& compliance

Uphold the values of good corporate 
governance and risk management and 
consider the needs of all our stakeholders 
in our strategic decision-making.

Comply with our legal and regulatory 
obligations and behave ethically and  
with integrity at all times.

Maintain a trusted marketplace for  
our customers and consumers to find,  
buy and sell vehicles.

Overview
To ensure that high standards are 
embedded across the business and form 
part of our culture, we have a compliance 
framework in place, consisting of policies, 
processes, guidance and training focused 
on a number of core compliance topics. 
Details of our Board governance framework 
and policies can be found in the Governance 
section (page 58 onwards).

As an online marketplace, cyber security and 
protecting customer and consumer data are 
primary areas of focus. They are fundamental 
to our future success and to build trust with 
our customers and consumers. As we shift to 
an accelerated adoption of digital retailing  
it is paramount that our cyber and data 
security and infrastructure evolve with our 
business priorities. 

Cyber security
Attempts to breach our systems to access 
our data and the threat of an unauthorised 
malicious attack on our systems pose a 
significant and perpetual threat. The nature 
of cyber-attacks has continued to evolve  
and changes in ways of working have 
created more opportunities for cyber 
criminals, increasing in both frequency  
and sophistication. A successful breach 
could lead to significant impairment of our 
reputation with customers and regulators 
and could be costly in terms of fraud losses, 
regulatory sanction or remediation activity – 
one of our viability scenarios reflects the risk 
of a data breach (see page 57). 

Whilst cyber security risks cannot be fully 
mitigated, having an effective cyber security 
risk and governance framework can help  
to significantly reduce the impact of such 
events. We have a security programme in 
place that covers both our corporate systems 
and the Auto Trader platform which includes 
a defined security governance framework, 
overseen by our Chief Technology Officer. 

NIST Cybersecurity Framework
We have adopted the NIST Cybersecurity 
Framework (‘NIST CSF’) to help us understand 
and define our existing policies, processes 
and technical measures in place with the aim 
to better govern our cyber security position.  
It enables us to identify areas of improvement 
and focus our efforts by agreeing and setting 
a target state, with the understanding that 
the NIST CSF is designed to complement  
and enhance existing business and cyber 
security operations. 

Internal Audit function
We operate a rolling internal audit programme 
(outsourced to a third party) which includes 
annual reviews of cyber security. As part  
of this programme, a review of our NIST 
Framework has been carried out to validate 
the status and perform an operating 
effectiveness review, the purpose of which 
is to provide confidence that the framework 
is robust, appropriate and effective.  

44

Auto Trader Group plc  Annual Report and Financial Statements 2023

 
How we govern this area

6

1

INTERNAL AUDIT
PROGRAMME

BOARD
RESPONSIBILITY

5

SECOND LINE
FORUMS &
COMMITTEES

2

EXECUTIVE
RESPONSIBILITY

4

3

AUDIT
COMMITTEE

OPERATIONAL
LEADERSHIP
TEAM

1. BOARD RESPONSIBILITY

Material ESG topics are discussed by the Board including cyber security  
and GDPR. 

The Corporate Responsibility Committee assists the Board in fulfilling its 
oversight responsibilities in respect of governance and compliance, where 
topics have not been covered by the Board. 

2. EXECUTIVE RESPONSIBILITY

Responsibility for assessing and managing our governance and 
compliance sits at both Executive and Board level. Our Executive Directors 
have responsibility for ensuring we conduct ourselves with the highest 
standards of honesty and integrity. 

3. OPERATIONAL LEADERSHIP TEAM

The Group’s Chief Technology Officer, Chris Kelly, is responsible for setting 
the Group technology strategy, including our cyber security framework.  
The Group’s Director of Governance, Claire Baty, is responsible for regulatory 
compliance, customer security, procurement, legal services and risk 
management. Her remit includes compliance with GDPR and FCA regulation. 

4. AUDIT COMMITTEE

Internal audit reports are reported to the Audit Committee and monitored to 
ensure recommendations are actioned. 

5. SECOND LINE FORUMS & COMMITTEES

We operate the following second line forums and committees: 

• Risk Forum.

• FCA Governance Committee.

• GDPR Steering.

• Cyber Security working group.

• Trust forum.

• Health & Safety Committee.

6. INTERNAL AUDIT PROGRAMME

We operate a rolling internal audit programme which provides independent 
and objective assurance activities relating to the Group’s governance, risk 
management and internal control processes. The programme includes 
regular reviews of cyber security, enterprise risk management, GDPR 
compliance and FCA compliance. 

We have successfully adopted the practical 
elements of the NIST CSF effectively.

Policies and procedures
•  A proactive awareness programme to 

educate all employees on cyber security risks.
•  A dedicated security operations team to 
detect and respond to security incidents 
in line with our cyber security incident 
management procedures.

•  Enhanced backup solutions have been 
implemented across consumer facing 
and internal systems, to guard against 
the increasing threat of ransomware.
•  All employee accounts are protected  
by multi-factor authentication (‘MFA’) 
regardless of device and location, providing 
enhanced authentication protection.
•  Major incident response simulations  

and business continuity tests are carried 
out periodically.

•  System vulnerability and penetration testing 
is carried out regularly by both external and 
internal resources, including: application 
vulnerability testing; penetration testing  
of our platform and infrastructure; and Red 
team testing to ensure our processes for 
responding to a cyber incident are robust 
and fit for purpose.

•  All aspects of our applications are designed 

and deployed with security in mind so  
that Auto Trader can deliver a secure and 
trusted platform for our customers.

Protecting our customer  
and consumer data 
Data is at the heart of everything we do and 
data compliance and protection is therefore 
of critical importance to Auto Trader.  
We operate a structured framework which 
supports us in meeting our compliance 
obligations, the expectations of customers 
and clients, fulfil privacy rights and mitigate 
the risks of a data breach. We comply with the 
Data Protection Act 2018 (‘DPA 2018’), and the 
UK General Data Protection Regulation (‘UK 
GDPR’) as our benchmark for data protection. 

When it comes to collecting and storing 
personal data, be that for consumers, 
customers or our employees, we have  
a comprehensive set of policies which 
reflect the applicable privacy legislation 
and abide by a clear set of principles.  
We act as data processor for our customers 
and a data controller for the personal  
data of our people.  

We are committed to ensuring that the 
personal information we collect is used for 
the appropriate purpose, which does not 
constitute an invasion of privacy and is held 
securely, responsibly and transparently in 
accordance with our privacy notices which 
govern all our platforms and subsidiaries.

To ensure we are meeting our compliance 
obligations we have a dedicated team  
that is responsible for data privacy, data 
breach prevention and reporting, policy 
compliance, record keeping and data 
subject rights. We have an assurance 
framework in place to monitor compliance 
with data privacy laws and to ensure any 
breaches are dealt with in a robust manner. 

We hold GDPR Steering meetings bimonthly, 
attended by data owners from all business 
areas. The meeting is a central point of 
communication and coordination and 
provides guidance on the governance  
of our data strategy and ongoing 
compliance with relevant data security  
and privacy regulations.

Auto Trader Group plc  Annual Report and Financial Statements 2023

45

Strategic reportGovernanceFinancial statements 
Being a responsible business continued

All Auto Trader employees, including 
part-time employees, contractors and all 
Board members, are required to complete 
annual data privacy and security training and 
we have established processes to cover all 
aspects of the GDPR: Data Protection Impact 
Assessments (‘DPIAs’). These are conducted 
to help identify and minimise any data 
protection risks for new or changed products 
or services; and all processes are recorded 
and records of processing activity (‘ROPAs’) 
are reviewed quarterly by data owners. These 
include the lawful basis for processing and 
data retention periods; our privacy notices 
are reviewed and updated regularly. We have 
separate notices for consumers, employees 
and retailers; and we have processes in place 
to respond to Subject Access Requests (‘SAR’) 
and Erasure requests. 

Where required, Auto Trader obtains consent 
from consumers to gather personal data to 
service their enquiries for products, services 
or vehicles advertised on the site. Explicit 
consent (gathered separately) is also obtained 
to contact consumers for marketing purposes. 
Where we pass personal data to third-party 
service providers contracted to Auto Trader  
in the course of dealing with customers or 
employees, we carefully vet any third parties 
that we share data with, and they are obliged 
to keep it securely, and use it only to fulfil the 
service they provide on our behalf. 

We record all instances of data loss and 
have a rigorous incident management 
process in the unlikely event a breach 
occurs. This includes reporting notifiable 
breaches to the relevant regulatory 
authorities without undue delay and within 
stipulated deadlines. Where required we 
take remedial action as soon as possible.

Maintaining a trusted marketplace 
As a leading online marketplace, we strive to provide a  
marketplace that is relevant, reliable and fair. It is important  
to our customers and our consumer audience that adverts 
displayed on Auto Trader are accurate and genuine. Our goal  
is also to provide a valuable service for our customers and 
consumers and provide an engaging user experience.

Retailer feedback
We actively seek retailer feedback  
in all aspects of product and service 
development to ensure that we continue  
to provide market-leading solutions and 
support to our retailer partners. We also 
actively monitor consumer sentiment 
across our various products and channels, 
and our teams review thousands of items 
of feedback a week.

Product research and testing
When we bring a product to market, we go 
through a rigorous process of discovery 
to ensure solutions meet the varied  
needs of both our retailer partners and 
consumers. Retailers are involved at all 
stages of product development, including 
beta testing prior to scaling solutions. 

Sentiment tracking
We survey retailers on a monthly basis 
through marketing channels to capture 
structured feedback on our relationship 
with retailers to ensure we’re meeting their 
needs and gauge sentiment towards our 
brand. This ensures we can keep an eye on 
overall satisfaction, value for money and 
the partnership we aim to foster.

Voice of the customer
We actively monitor feedback which our 
Retailer Development and Support teams 
capture from retailers during the course of 
the thousands of inbound and outbound 
calls we field per week, ensuring we keep  
a good gauge on retailer sentiment and 
can react to market challenges facing our 
retailers quickly.

Consumer sentiment
We’ve maintained extremely positive 
feedback scores across external review 
platforms including Trustpilot (4.7/5 based 
on 80,453 reviews), iOS App Store (4.8/5 
based on 165,159 reviews) and Android Play 
Store (4.7/5 based on 67,967 reviews).

TAG verification
We have achieved verification by TAG 
(‘Trustworthy Accountability Group’), 
achieving the Brand Safety Recognition 
seal. TAG is the world’s leading 
programme to fight criminal activity  
and protect brand safety in digital 
advertising. They have established best 
in class global standards that protect 
the industry from potentially harmful 
threats around fraud, malware and 
brand safety. Obtaining our TAG status  
is recognition that we meet the high 
standards required by TAG and our 
contribution towards fighting criminal 
activity and increasing trust and 
transparency in digital advertising.

VSTAG forum
We continue to actively participate in  
the Vehicle Safe Trading Advisory Group 
(‘VSTAG’), an industry forum we founded 
over 15 years ago. The forum brings 
together the UK’s leading online 
automotive advertising companies, 
advisors from the Metropolitan Police, 
Get Safe Online and Action Fraud to work 
together to reduce online vehicle crime 
and help protect buyers and sellers of 
pre-owned vehicles from fraud.

FCA compliance
Auto Trader Limited, the main trading subsidiary 
of the Group, is authorised by the FCA for 
consumer credit and insurance intermediary 
activities. Our activities primarily relate to 
providing finance and insurance introductions 
to consumers for third parties, be it retailers 
or commercial partners. We are developing 
and trialling consumer journeys for some  
of our regulated activities as part of the 
business’s wider digital retailing proposition 
using the technology of Blue Owl Limited 
(trading as ‘AutoConvert’), a wholly owned 
subsidiary. AutoConvert became an Authorised 
Representative of Auto Trader Limited in 
2022 in respect of consumer credit activities. 

Autorama UK Limited (trading as ‘Vanarama’), 
acquired in 2022, is authorised by the FCA  
for consumer credit and insurance activities.  
The activities relate to brokering vehicle 
leasing to retail and trade customers and  
we also arrange General Insurance Services 
under the trading name Vanarama Insurance 
Services. We are developing and trialling 
consumer journeys where consumers start 
their journey on Auto Trader and complete an 
onward journey with Vanarama.

We have specialist internal resource within  
our Governance, Risk and Compliance  
team with significant experience of working 
in FCA regulated businesses, and we have 
developed a detailed governance framework 
to ensure that we comply with the principles, 
rules and guidance applicable to our 
activities. We have implemented the Senior 
Managers & Certification Regime, which 
came into effect in December 2019. Senior 
Managers at Auto Trader are Nathan Coe, 
Catherine Faiers, Jamie Warner and Claire 
Baty. Certain members of the Operational 
Leadership Team hold Certified Functions. 
Senior Managers at Vanarama are members 
of the company’s board and other members 
of the Vanarama senior leadership team.  
All of these individuals have been assessed 
and certified as Fit and Proper. All employees 
are subject to the Conduct Rules and have 
received appropriate training and guidance. 
We have a comprehensive suite of policies, 
training and monitoring procedures to ensure 
awareness of and compliance with the 
requirements, including financial promotions, 
product change management, complaint 
handling, vulnerable customers and 
transparency. Our Customer Charter outlines 
our commitment to Treating Customers Fairly. 

We also have in place a comprehensive 
implementation plan in respect of ensuring 
our compliance with the FCA’s forthcoming 
Consumer Duty.

46

Auto Trader Group plc  Annual Report and Financial Statements 2023

Business ethics and compliance
We have a zero tolerance approach to bribery, 
corruption and other financial crime within  
our business and/or in any dealings with our 
customers, suppliers and other third parties 
who we deal with in the course of our business. 
We require regular compliance training for  
all Auto Trader employees and contractors, 
including all Board members. We have a well 
established online training and awareness 
programme which includes compliance 
modules for information security, GDPR, 
anti-bribery and corruption, the corporate 
criminal offence of facilitating tax evasion, 
anti-money laundering, modern slavery  
and whistleblowing to ensure all employees 
uphold our ethical standards in their  
day-to-day decision-making and actions, 
remain up to date and are alert to unethical 
practices and potential risks to our consumers 
or customers. We do not conduct business 
with any service provider, customer or supplier 
which does not meet the principles of our 
policies with respect to these areas. 

Human rights
We are opposed to all forms of discrimination 
with respect to employment and occupation, 
modern slavery, human trafficking, forced 
or compulsory labour and child labour,  
in our business and our supply chain. We are 
committed to supporting human rights 
through our compliance with national laws 
and through our internal policies which 
adhere to internationally recognised human 
rights principles. In line with our commitment 
to creating a diverse and inclusive culture, 
our internal policies require respect and 
equal and fair treatment of all persons  
we come into contact with. All employees  
are paid in excess of the Real Living Wage, 
ensuring that all employees and contractors 
working in our offices receive at least the 
Living Wage. We are an accredited Living 
Wage Employer. We safeguard our 
employees through a framework of policies 
and statements including Modern Slavery, 
Gender Pay, Flexible Working, Equal 
Opportunities and Inclusion Policies.

Modern slavery 
We are committed to preventing slavery 
and human trafficking in our business  
and supply chains. We require the highest 
standards of honesty and integrity in all our 
business dealings and relationships. We will 
not tolerate the mistreatment of people in 
our employment and, wherever possible, 
employed in our supply chain. During 2023, 
no incidents of modern slavery or human 
rights abuse have been identified in our 
business or supply chain.

Tax transparency
Auto Trader is committed to being a 
responsible taxpayer acting in a transparent 
manner at all times. Our detailed tax policy 
includes further transparency on our approach 
to risk management and governance. In 2023, 
our total tax contribution was £175.4m  
(2022: £143.5m). Taxes borne by the Group 
totalled £69.4m (2022: £63.8m) and consist 
of corporation tax, employer’s NICs and 
stamp duty. Taxes collected by the Group 
totalled £106.0m (2022: £79.7m) and consist 
of PAYE deductions, employees’ NICs and 
net VAT collected.

Supplier ESG engagement 
We hold ourselves and our suppliers to the 
highest standards of behaviour. We want to 
engage suppliers that share our values and 
collaborate with them to build a stronger, 
more responsible supply chain. We have an 
established supplier engagement strategy 
and the information we collect through our 
supplier engagement/onboarding process 
provides us with greater insight into numerous 
aspects of our suppliers’ performance, 
including Environmental, Social and 
Governance practices such as: how they 
are engaging the communities they are 
based in; what charitable activities they 
are undertaking; how they identify and 
improve diversity and inclusion; what 
governance they have in place to ensure 
good practice and limit instances of 
modern slavery, bribery or breaches of 
other relevant legislation; and sustainability. 
As part of our environmental strategy,  
we have expanded our discussions on 
sustainability with our highest spending 
suppliers to deep dive into understanding 
where our suppliers are on their own 
sustainability journey. We have published  
a supplier code of conduct which outlines 
Auto Trader’s stance on important matters 
and our expectations of our suppliers. 

Grievance reporting  
or escalation procedures
We aim to create a working environment  
in which all individuals enjoy coming to  
work, where they can perform at their best, 
and where they are free from discrimination 
or harassment. 

We foster a culture of open and healthy 
conversations, mutual appreciation and 
respect. We treat any behaviour that 
undermines this aim as totally unacceptable 
and it will not be tolerated. We are committed 
to a culture where staff can freely report  
any issue that needs attention and access 
support via the escalation procedures we 
have in place. Our grievance policy sets out 
both informal and formal avenues for 
addressing concerns.

Whistleblowing 
We are committed to carrying out all 
business activities in an honest and open 
manner and strive to apply high ethical 
standards in all our business dealings.  
We actively cultivate a transparent and 
open culture, encouraging our employees 
to speak up whenever they have concerns, 
if they suspect anything inappropriate  
or experience any serious malpractice  
or wrongdoing in our business. We believe 
this contributes to a fairer and transparent 
marketplace where customers and 
consumers know that we can be trusted. 
We have an internal reporting facility for 
employees to discuss concerns and we also 
operate an anonymous and confidential 
whistleblowing helpline through an 
independent organisation. Reports are 
directed to the Audit Committee Chair  
and the Company Secretary or via the 
independent hotline.

Further information
To find out more about all of our governance  
& compliance policies, please go online:

plc.autotrader.co.uk

careers.autotrader.co.uk

autotrader.co.uk

Auto Trader Group plc  Annual Report and Financial Statements 2023

47

Strategic reportGovernanceFinancial statementsHow we manage risk

 Our risk management arrangements

The Board is collectively responsible for determining the nature and extent of  
the principal risks the Group is willing to take in achieving its strategic objectives.

Risk management and internal control
The Company does not have a separate Risk Committee; instead the 
Board as a whole is collectively accountable for determining the 
nature and extent of the principal risks Auto Trader is willing to take 
in achieving its strategic objectives.  

The Board is also accountable for establishing and maintaining  
the Group’s system of risk management and internal controls.  
It receives regular reports from management identifying and 
evaluating our response to key risks. Our risk management 
framework is described opposite.

Our risk management process
Effective risk management is critical if we are to achieve our strategic 
objectives, to achieve sustainable long-term growth, and ultimately 
to achieve our purpose of Driving Change Together. Responsibly. 

A four-step process is adopted to help us manage our principal  
risks. OLT members are responsible for identifying, assessing, 

mitigating and monitoring risks, and reporting against these risks. 
The Governance, Risk and Compliance function facilitates this process 
and supports the OLT in designing responses to risks, thereby ensuring 
that the response is aligned to the Group’s risk appetite. The risk 
management process can be summarised as follows:

1  Identify risks 

2  Assess and quantify risks 

A top-down and bottom-up approach is used to identify 
principal risks across the business. Whilst the Board has overall 
accountability for the effectiveness of internal control and risk 
management, the day-to-day management of risk is delegated 
to the OLT. Independent support is provided to the OLT by the 
Governance, Risk and Compliance function.

Risks are evaluated to establish the root causes, the impact  
and the likelihood of occurrence. Risks are categorised as:
•  Existential risks, being those which have the potential  

to lead to fundamental change within our organisation  
and wider industry.

•  Operational risks, being those arising out of the existing 

business activities.

•  Emerging risks, being those which relate to new initiatives, 

new products, and new laws and regulations.

EFFECTIVE 
RISK 
MANAGEMENT

4  Monitor and review 

3  Respond to, manage and mitigate risks

The OLT is responsible for monitoring the effectiveness of 
controls and mitigating actions, with continuous independent 
challenge provided by the Group’s Governance, Risk and 
Compliance function, and Internal Audit. The Board reviews the 
Group’s risk register and assesses the adequacy of mitigating 
actions to ensure that risks are being managed in a manner 
consistent with our risk appetite.

After identifying the root cause of a risk, owners must consider 
whether the existing mitigations reduce the risk to an acceptable 
level, with this assessment challenged independently by the 
Governance, Risk, and Compliance function. The level of acceptable 
risk is guided by our Group risk appetite. If the residual level of risk 
after mitigation remains above our risk appetite, then further 
mitigating actions are implemented. 

Risk appetite
The Board has considered the nature and extent of the principal risks Auto Trader currently faces, the potential risks we expose 
ourselves to as we proceed with our strategy, and the wider market, economy and business environment. The Board has set its risk 
appetite accordingly, which can be summarised as follows:

Flexible
Auto Trader acknowledges that, in some 
circumstances, fast-paced and innovative 
development of new products within the 
technology space presents significant 
opportunities and taking advantage of these 
opportunities may result in financial loss.  
We consider the opportunities can outweigh  
the downside risks, and therefore, in pursuit of 
our strategic objectives, we are flexible about 
taking risks which relate to product innovation, 
addressing competitive threats, and/or making 
the most of market opportunities.

Cautious
As we pursue our strategic objectives, we must 
remain cognisant of the potential for them to 
have conflicting impacts on our stakeholders, 
including employees, suppliers and third parties, 
and the environment. Owing to the potential for 
these risks to have significant knock-on impacts 
across a wide range of categories, we are cautious 
about taking risks in relation to such areas.

Averse
We are averse to taking risks which conflict with our 
values; risks which could damage our reputation; 
risks which threaten the security of our systems 
and technology; risks leading to a breach of laws, 
regulations or financial covenants; and/or risks 
which could compromise the organisation’s going 
concern status. Across these categories we  
take all reasonable steps to ensure our business 
activities do not give rise to significant risk of 
damage to our stakeholders, and in pursuing our 
strategic objectives we are averse to exposing 
ourselves to higher levels of risk knowingly.

48

Auto Trader Group plc  Annual Report and Financial Statements 2023

Our risk management framework 
The Group’s principal risks are recorded within a risk register which 
captures details of each risk and the root causes; likelihood of the 
risk occurring; the impact if it does occur; and details of the actions 
being taken to manage the risk. 

The Board considers whether, given the strategy and risk appetite of 
the Group, the mitigations are reducing the risk to an acceptable level.

Driving Change Together. 
Responsibly.

AUTO TRADER GROUP PLC BOARD

AUDIT 
COMMITTEE

THIRD LINE

EXTERNAL 
AUDITOR

INTERNAL 
AUDITOR

OTHER   
EXTERNAL 
ASSURANCE

SUBSIDIARY BOARDS

OPERATIONAL LEADERSHIP TEAM & SENIOR LEADERS

SECOND LINE FORUMS   
AND COMMITTEES

RISK FORUM:  
SCOPE OF RISK FORUM 
INCLUDES CLIMATE

FCA GOVERNANCE 
COMMITTEE

HEALTH & SAFETY 
COMMITTEE

SECOND LINE   
FUNCTIONS

RISK MANAGEMENT

INTERNAL CONTROL

FCA COMPLIANCE

GDPR STEERING

GDPR COMPLIANCE

DISASTER RECOVERY 
STEERING

CYBER SECURITY 
WORKING GROUP

TRUST FORUM

LEGAL TEAM

PROCUREMENT

CYBER SECURITY TEAM

Our risk assessment matrix
The risk landscape has continued to evolve 
over the last 12 months, and we expect 
changes to continue in the coming year.  
Our view in 2023 is that the principal risks to 
Auto Trader are a) those which could result  
in fundamental changes to the automotive 
retail industry, and b) those which could 
prevent us achieving our strategic objectives. 
Accordingly, our strategy is linked intrinsically 
to our principal risks. We have taken great 
strides in the last year to manage these risks. 
Examples include the launch of Deal Builder 
and improvements to our core marketplace 
products. However, to execute our strategy,  
it is crucial we protect ourselves against the 
threats to achieving our strategic objectives.

The following pages provide detail on each  
of our 10 principal risks and how we are 
responding to each risk.

)
n
o
i
t
a
g
i
t
i

m

r
e
t
f
a
(
d
o
o
h
i
l
e
k

i

L

1

1

8

8

3

4

5

5

2

3

4

9

6

9

7

7

2

6

10

10

Business impact (after mitigation)

1.  Automotive economy, market  
and business environment

6.    Failure to innovate: disruptive technologies 

and changing consumer behaviours 

 Current year
 Previous year

2.  Climate change
3.  Employees
4.  Reliance on third parties  

and partners

5.  IT systems and cyber security

7.  Legal and regulatory compliance
8.  Competition
9.  Brand and reputation
10. External catastrophic and geo-political events

Auto Trader Group plc  Annual Report and Financial Statements 2023

49

REMUNERATION COMMITTEEDISCLOSURE COMMITTEENOMINATION COMMITTEECORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY COMMITTEEENVIRONMENTAL STRATEGYSUSTAINABILITY NETWORKENVIRONMENTAL STRATEGY WORKING GROUPNET ZERO  WORKING  GROUPEMPLOYEE GUILDS & NETWORKSCAREER  KICKSTART  NETWORKFAMILY  NETWORKETHNICITY  NETWORKLGBT+  NETWORKDISABILITY & NEURODIVERSITY NETWORK MAKE A  DIFFERENCE  GUILDWOMEN’S  NETWORK WELLBEING  GUILDAGE  NETWORKSOCIAL MOBILITY NETWORKBOARD  ENGAGEMENT GUILDStrategic reportGovernanceFinancial statements 
 
Principal risks and uncertainties

 How we mitigate our principal risks

Identifying, assessing, responding to and monitoring 
the Group’s principal risks.

The Board has carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks 
facing the Group, including those that would threaten its business 
model, future performance, solvency or liquidity. 

The principal risks and uncertainties are detailed in this section. 
Additional risks and uncertainties to the Group, including those that 
are not currently known or that the Group currently deems immaterial, 
may individually or cumulatively also have a material effect on the 
Group’s business, results of operations and/or financial condition.

1   Automotive economy, market and business environment

  Unchanged

Risk and potential impact

Key changes and outlook

How we manage the risk

An adverse change in supply  
and demand in the new/used  
car market could lead to reduced 
retailer profitability and reduced 
retailer wallets, resulting in  
reduced advertising spend.  
Adverse movements in supply  
and demand of vehicles could  
also lead to a contraction in the 
number of retailers. 

In addition, we continue to see  
the movement towards an agency 
model whereby retailers facilitate 
OEM sales directly to consumers. 
This could lead to a loss of revenue 
from our retailer customers.

•  The low level of supply of new vehicles since 2020 has 
continued for much of the last year. However, new car 
registrations in Q1 (January to March) 2023 increased by 18% 
compared to Q1 2022. Looking to the future, more reliable 
supply of new vehicles will be important to the success of 
Autorama’s integration into the Auto Trader Group.

•  The low level of new car supply since 2020 will likely affect 

the availability of used car stock in the coming years.  
In contrast, consumer demand remains high and retailer 
profitability, in the main, remains high. In March 2023,  
used car retail prices increased by 2% year on year,  
being the 36th consecutive month of price growth. 

•  In 2023 some OEMs begin operating an agency model.  

We are aware that each OEM encounters unique challenges  
if they switch to an agency model and we have been working 
with OEMs to develop bespoke solutions. 

•  Overall, the risks posed by changes to the automotive 
economy, market and business environment continue  
to evolve, however metrics and performance indicators 
suggest that we are managing these risks to an acceptable 
level through our strategic actions.

•  We monitor new and used car transactions 
closely, using data from SMMT and DVLA, 
observing behaviour on our marketplace,  
and from engaging closely with our customers 
and consumers.

•  Our agile culture enables us to respond quickly  
to new and emerging threats. We continuously 
develop new products and enhance existing 
products. We are making significant progress 
with our digital retailing strategy which aims  
to bring more of the car buying journey online. 
•  We use our own Auto Trader Retail Price Index  

and valuations data to monitor the pricing trends 
of used cars by trade sellers.

•  We are progressing well with integrating 
Autorama into our business and are now 
leveraging their leasing capabilities. Autorama 
will diversify our business by providing a leasing 
proposition to consumers, as well as helping us  
to achieve our strategy relating to digital retailing 
on new cars.

•  We have also maintained a strong balance sheet, 
and our low leverage should enable us to respond 
in the event of major threats crystallising.

50

Auto Trader Group plc  Annual Report and Financial Statements 2023

Our purpose-driven strategy P10

Being a responsible business P26

OUR STRATEGIC PRIORITIES

  Classified marketplace

  Platform

  Digital retailing

  Being a responsible business

2   Climate change

  Decreasing

Risk and potential impact

Key changes and outlook

How we manage the risk

The automotive industry is intrinsically 
linked to climate change and there  
is increasing pressure from consumers 
and government for the industry  
to reduce its impact on the climate. 
However, failure to deliver on our 
environmental commitments will 
negatively impact our brand as a 
responsible business and may result in 
legal exposure or regulatory sanctions.

Failure to overcome the uncertainty 
created by the shift from internal 
combustion engine (‘ICE’) to electric 
vehicles (‘EVs’) could inhibit their 
take-up, potentially leading to 
changes in buying behaviours. 
Factors include the high purchase 
price of most EVs, potential for 
improvement in public transport,  
new and expanded emissions  
zones, increasing EV running costs, 
and consumer uncertainty over  
the residual value of used EVs.

Changing and more stringent 
regulatory requirements could 
increase our cost base, and 
increased frequency and severity  
of extreme weather events  
could lead to heightened costs, 
including heating/air-conditioning, 
insurance, and cloud infrastructure. 
Extreme weather events could  
also lead to short-term closure  
of retailer forecourts (for example, 
due to flooding).

•  Updates to our website in the last year position us as 

•  We are evolving our product offering and 

front-runners in the switch to EVs and enable us to respond 
to potential changes in OEM and retailer business models.

•  There is still a relatively small amount of data informing  
the residual values of used EVs. We have positioned 
ourselves well by leveraging Autorama’s capabilities, 
providing those consumers switching to EVs for the first 
time a viable alternative to outright purchase. 

•  Despite ongoing uncertainty surrounding EVs, data from 
our website shows the electric share of ad-views has  
a gradual upwards trend. Supply in the used EV market 
increased this year as those EVs purchased on three-  
and four-year agreements enter the used EV market. 
•  Looking ahead, widespread take-up of EVs could be 

affected by: 

 – the availability of public charging for drivers unable  

to access private charging,

 – EV purchase costs, which are still around 37% more 

expensive than ICE equivalents on a like-for-like basis.
 – Increases in EV running costs owing to increased taxation 
and charging costs (especially those EV drivers without 
private charging).

•  Further regulation and legislation are likely, such as the 

introduction of new clean air zones and congestion charges. 

•  At Autorama, some vehicles are pre-registered and held 
temporarily on the balance sheet. Consequently, we 
capture the lifetime emissions of these vehicles when 
calculating the Group’s carbon emissions. This has led  
to a material increase in our reported carbon emissions. 

•  Overall, the risks associated with climate change have 

decreased in the last year owing to the actions we continue 
to take. Nevertheless, looking to the future, the impact  
of climate change means that managing these risks 
effectively remains a key strategic priority. More detail 
about the risks associated with climate change and the 
mitigations is contained on pages 32 and 33.

marketplace to provide consumers with more 
information about EVs. A cross-functional 
working group is focusing on helping consumers 
make more environmentally friendly vehicle 
choices. Our ongoing integration of Autorama 
adds digital retailing and leasing capabilities  
on new cars, including EVs. This places us in an 
optimal position to provide a viable alternative  
to consumers who are anxious about making 
outright purchases. 

•  Our Corporate Responsibility Committee 

oversees our environmental commitments and 
work is ongoing to reduce our carbon emissions 
across all scopes.

•  As part of our climate commitments, we are 

focusing not just on our own carbon footprint,  
but positively supporting the industry. Our 
partnership with the Carbon Literacy Trust,  
for example, provides training and insights  
to employees and external stakeholders.
•  We regularly meet with various government 
departments, including HM Treasury and  
the Department for Transport’s Office for  
Zero Emission Vehicles, to share our data and 
insights to help guide policy around the topic. 

•  The climate records and commitments of suppliers 

is a key factor in our procurement processes.

•  Development and evolution of our digital retailing 
products provides customers and consumers with 
purchasing options should extreme weather events 
lead to short-term retailer forecourt closures.

Auto Trader Group plc  Annual Report and Financial Statements 2023

51

Strategic reportGovernanceFinancial statementsPrincipal risks and uncertainties continued

3   Employees

  Increasing

Risk and potential impact

Key changes and outlook

How we manage the risk

To enable us to achieve our  
strategic objectives it is important  
that we attract, retain and motivate  
a highly skilled workforce, including 
those with specialist skillsets in data 
and technology. 

Delivery of our strategy is also 
dependent on us building a diverse 
and inclusive workforce, and a 
supportive, collaborative culture, 
conducted in a safe environment,  
all of which will enable optimum 
performance from all our employees.

•  Our Glassdoor rating based on anonymous reviews is 4.4 out 
of 5 and in our latest Culture Amp survey, 91% of respondents 
said that they are proud to work at Auto Trader. This year 
our employee turnover has remained low.

•  We now operate a Connected Working model where 

employees are in the office for two ‘fixed’ days per week 
plus an additional ‘flex’ day per week on a day which suits 
them best. The aim of this working model is to increase 
efficiency, collaboration and innovation whilst also 
allowing flexibility and maximising inclusion. 

•  Connected Working also includes a ‘remote first’ policy.  

For periods in July, August, and December, employees can 
work fully remotely to increase flexibility at times when 
there are increased levels of annual leave.

•  The cost of living crisis and skills shortages in the market 
continue to affect workforce costs. We monitor the  
market proactively to ensure that our salaries are fair, 
proportionate and aligned to market rates. In 2022  
we made a cost-of-living payment to all employees  
(except for the OLT and the Board) and increased the  
size of our annual salary review.

•  A values-led culture which is embedded  
throughout the recruitment, induction,  
training and appraisal processes.

•  Long-term incentive plans for senior and key 
staff, including incentives with respect to 
diversity and inclusion and Auto Trader’s 
environmental impact.

•  Regular employee engagement surveys and 

monitoring of Glassdoor ratings. We have regular 
business updates, networks, guilds, and 
all-employee conferences.

•  We continue to monitor the impact Connected 
Working is having on engagement, inclusion, 
employee safety and productivity, with reference 
to both pandemic and pre-pandemic levels.  
Any overseas working during the Remote First 
periods must be reviewed and approved by 
People Operations to ensure the safety of our 
employees, security of our systems and compliance 
with all relevant laws and regulations.
•  Active succession planning and career 

•  In the marketplace, employees have increasing expectations 
of their employers to act in a fair, responsible and sustainable 
manner and we remain committed to ensuring that we 
conduct our business in a morally responsible way. 

development plans to retain and develop our 
executives. Talent development is part of the 
Terms of Reference of the Nomination Committee.
•  Diverse Talent Accelerator, Inclusive Leadership, 

•  Overall, the employee-related risks remain a principal risk 
and we acknowledge that managing this risk effectively  
is crucial to achieving our strategic objectives.

and Continuous Leadership Development 
programmes aim to equip our employees, people 
leaders and future leaders with the skills to lead, 
manage and work within diverse teams.

4   Reliance on third parties and partners

  Decreasing

Risk and potential impact

Key changes and outlook

How we manage the risk

To achieve our strategic objectives, 
we are reliant on partners engaging 
with the changes we are introducing 
to the industry. Getting lenders 
on-board with our digital retailing 
aspirations, for example, is a  
key dependency. 

We also rely on third parties to 
support our technology infrastructure, 
supply of data about vehicles and 
their financing, and in the fulfilment 
of some of our revenue generating 
products. Consequently, it is important 
that we manage relationships with, 
and performance of, key suppliers 
and key strategic partners. 

•  We have implemented a refreshed onboarding and 

monitoring process for critical suppliers. Despite the 
threats posed to our suppliers in the external environment, 
we have not experienced any material disruptions in the 
last year. 

•  As we progress further into digital retailing, we are likely  
to see an increased reliance on third parties. Some of  
the products we intend to launch will rely on partners and 
lenders, and these could be barriers to growth should these 
partners not engage with us. Ensuring that we manage  
our relationships with these third parties will be crucial. 
•  Overall, our significant strategic initiatives in relation to 

platform and commercial data represent good progress  
in reducing the level of reliance we have on third parties. 
However, we remain aware of the importance of our 
partners in achieving our aspirations in digital retailing.

•  Where possible, we limit reliance on single 
suppliers to reduce single points of failure.
•  We have identified key suppliers and have  
plans in place to respond to disruption.

•  Contracts and service level agreements are in 

place with all key suppliers. New relationships go 
through a robust procurement and legal review 
process and are subject to regular review.

•  We carry out due diligence on our key suppliers 
and partners at the onset of the relationship  
and throughout the life of these relationships. 
This includes financial viability, resilience and 
alignment with our values and culture.
•  We seek to develop strong commercial 

relationships with our partners and regularly 
explore ways of working together even more 
effectively. We monitor the performance of 
partners and suppliers to ensure continued 
quality and uptime.

52

Auto Trader Group plc  Annual Report and Financial Statements 2023

5   IT systems and cyber security

  Unchanged

Risk and potential impact

Key changes and outlook

How we manage the risk

As a digital business, we rely on  
our IT infrastructure to provide our 
services. A disruptive cyber security 
and/or business continuity event 
could lead to downtime of our 
systems and infrastructure. 

Execution of our strategy also  
relies on us making appropriate 
investments in secure systems  
and technologies. Failure to invest  
in appropriate technology and 
safeguards could lead to us failing  
to achieve our objectives. 

Delivery of our strategic objectives 
also relies on us using data to provide 
valuable insights to customers.  
A significant data breach, whether 
because of our own failures or a 
malicious cyber-attack, would lead 
to a loss in confidence by the public, 
retailers and advertisers.

•  We have completed a multi-year migration of our applications 
to the cloud. This increases the resilience of our systems and 
the security of our data. 

•  Development of new products carries the threat of cyber-attack 
and with digital retailing the impact of a potential data breach 
is likely to increase. We are therefore developing systems which 
provide not just the best customer and consumer experience, 
but all necessary security to ensure we remain resilient. 

•   Integration of Autorama’s leasing deals onto the Auto Trader 

platform is complex, and we are mindful of IT and cyber 
security threats during the integration. We are also committed 
to continuously reviewing, testing and updating Autorama’s 
IT disaster recovery and business continuity arrangements.

•  Whilst we have used artificial intelligence (‘AI’) for many  

years, the recent emergence of generative AI poses a great 
opportunity for us to enhance our products, customer and 
consumer experience, and to improve efficiency. However,  
it is important we use AI in a manner which does not expose 
us to excessive security, compliance and or reputational risks. 

•    AI could be used by criminals maliciously in future.  

Deepfake technology, for example, increases the risks  
of social engineering against stakeholders. 

•   The cyber security landscape is constantly evolving.  

We continue to make significant investments in safeguarding 
our systems and data, as well as implementing best-in-class 
systems to support the achievement of our strategic objectives.

•  We have a disaster recovery and business 
continuity plan which is regularly reviewed  
and tested.

•  We continuously monitor the availability and 

resilience of processing systems and services. 
The migration to the cloud has improved to the 
efficiency of our systems and improved our ability 
to respond to an incident in a timely manner.
•  We have dedicated security teams, including 

white hat hackers, and carry out regular penetration 
testing of key systems to identify vulnerabilities.
•  All employees are required to undergo IT security 
awareness training on at least an annual basis.
•  We use two-factor authentication for all our car 
retailers and employees to access our network.

•  We have now adopted the National Institute  

of Standards and Technology (‘NIST’) 
Cybersecurity Framework to manage and  
reduce cyber security risks.

•  Our digital retailing teams regularly review  
the IT systems and infrastructure required  
to deliver our strategy.

6    Failure to innovate: disruptive technologies  

and changing consumer behaviours

  Decreasing

Risk and potential impact

Key changes and outlook

How we manage the risk

The automotive industry is changing 
at unprecedented pace. Should we 
fail to innovate our business and 
product offerings, we could lose 
relevance with our key stakeholders, 
including consumers and customers. 
It is crucial that we develop and 
implement new products, services 
and technologies, and adapt to 
changing consumer behaviour 
towards car buying and ownership. 

Failure to provide both customers 
and consumers with the best 
possible products and online  
journey, including an online buying 
experience, could lead to reduced 
website traffic and loss of revenue. 

•  We continue to develop new products in our marketplace, 
platform and digital retailing. In the last year we have 
launched a trial of Deal Builder with a small number of 
retailers. This provides consumers with an omni-channel 
buying journey where they can find, reserve, finance,  
and part exchange online. 

•   Leveraging Autorama’s systems, we launched a leasing 
check-out journey on the Auto Trader website. Providing 
consumers with a leasing option positions us to meet their 
needs as buying behaviours change, particularly those 
consumers wary about buying an EV for the first time. 
•   We have continued to develop our AT Connect solution.  
This online tool leverages our platform and data to  
provide retailers with real-time connections to Auto Trader 
systems which can be used to inform vehicle valuations, 
maintain stock on our website in real-time and access our 
vehicle taxonomy. 

•   Our data has been recognised nationally through the provision 

of our market pricing data to the ONS. We also work with 
government to provide information about EV demand to 
inform potential locations for EV chargers. 

•   Overall, we have continued to manage the risks well over the 
last year and continue to provide new and updated solutions 
to both customers and consumers.

•  Continuous research into changing consumer 

behaviour, regular horizon scanning and 
monitoring of emerging trends, use of external 
resources where needed, and regular contact  
with similar businesses around the world to  
enable peer-to-peer sharing of good practice.

•   An inclusive and diverse workforce enables  
us to maximise creativity and performance, 
leading to innovation.

•   An agile and collaborative culture, as well  
as continuous investment in technology, 
maximises innovation.

•   Dedicated workstreams as part of all our  

strategic priorities. These workstreams are  
aimed at developing the best products to meet  
the needs of the consumer and customer.

Auto Trader Group plc  Annual Report and Financial Statements 2023

53

Strategic reportGovernanceFinancial statementsPrincipal risks and uncertainties continued

7   Legal and regulatory compliance

  Increasing

Risk and potential impact

Key changes and outlook

How we manage the risk

The Group operates in a complex 
regulatory environment. As we 
progress in executing our strategy, 
we are likely to be exposed to 
increased legal and regulatory  
risks, particularly those relating  
to FCA and GDPR. 

There is a risk that the Group,  
or its subsidiaries, fail to comply with  
legal and regulatory requirements. 
This could lead to reputational 
damage, financial or criminal 
penalties and impact on our ability  
to do business.

•  Providing consumers with an online car buying journey  

•  We have dedicated internal expertise responsible 

will increase our exposure to regulatory risks, in particular 
the amount of personal information we collect and in the 
provision of the online finance application journey. 

for identifying, assessing and responding to 
upcoming changes in laws and regulations, and 
we utilise external specialists where necessary.

•  Integrating Autorama exposes us to increased FCA and 
GDPR risks. This relates to both the leasing journey itself,  
as well as the ancillary products offered as part of leasing, 
such as gap insurance. Our compliance teams have been 
working to ensure that Autorama’s policies and procedures 
are compliant. 

•  We have a mature governance framework  
to oversee our legal and regulatory risks. 
Governance forums receive regular internal 
reporting on our compliance with the principles, 
rules and guidance applicable to our regulated 
activities.

•  We are regularly ‘horizon scanning’ to prepare us for 
upcoming changes to regulations and legislation. 
Upcoming legislative and regulatory changes which may 
affect us, albeit to varying degrees, include the UK Online 
Safety Bill Digital Markets, Competition and Consumers Bill, 
Data Protection and Digital Information Bill, the UK Audit 
Reform Bill, FCA Consumer Duty regulations, and changes 
to the UK Corporate Governance Code. 

•  In the last year, in both response to, and in anticipation of, 

changes in regulatory risk, we have increased our resource 
in relation to risk and compliance monitoring, and increased 
headcount in our Governance, Risk and Compliance function. 
Overall, we consider the level of risk has increased.

•  A comprehensive suite of policies is reviewed 

regularly. Additionally, training and monitoring 
ensures awareness of, and compliance with, 
regulatory requirements, including information 
security, data protection, financial promotions, 
product change management, complaints 
handling and vulnerable customers. 

•  The regulated entities within the Group continue 
to comply with the FCA’s Senior Managers & 
Certification Regime. The relevant individuals 
have been assessed and certified as Fit and 
Proper. All employees are subject to the FCA’s 
Conduct Rules and have received appropriate 
training and guidance.

•  We have increased headcount in our Governance, 

Risk and Compliance function.

8   Competition

  Unchanged

Risk and potential impact

Key changes and outlook

How we manage the risk

Our data continues to show that 
there is a low competitive threat  
in our classified marketplace. 
Nevertheless, we remain wary of the 
risk that competitors could develop  
a superior consumer experience or 
superior retailer products. This could 
lead to loss of market share. 

Further, as the automotive industry 
evolves, an agency model could 
change the way that vehicles are 
bought and sold. Under an agency 
model, cars are sold by OEMs directly 
to consumers via retailers. As we 
progress with our own objectives 
surrounding digital retailing, an 
agency model could mean that 
OEMs themselves emerge as a  
direct competitor in the vehicle  
retail industry. Failure to manage  
this emerging threat could inhibit  
our ability to achieve our objectives.

•  Large technology companies such as Facebook, eBay and 
Amazon continue to operate in the automotive marketplace. 
In the last year, however, we maintained our position as the 
UK’s largest and most engaged automotive marketplace 
for new and used cars, with over 75% of all minutes spent  
on automotive classified sites spent on Auto Trader. 

•  On Boxing Day 2022 we launched a new marketing 

campaign which focuses on helping consumers to find the 
right car for them. This was supported by social media and 
digital audio content. We estimated that our advertising 
reached 99% of the UK population between Boxing Day and 
31 March 2023. 

•  In 2023 we worked with certain OEMs to provide them  
with advertising solutions following their switch to an 
agency model. 

•  Continued investment in our brand helps us to 
protect and grow our audience, to ensure that  
we remain the most influential website for 
consumers when purchasing a vehicle. 

•  Working with OEMs to develop solutions to enable 
them to advertise their new car pipeline stock on 
our website.

•  We monitor competitor activity closely through 

monthly reporting and formal quarterly competitor 
reviews, and regularly review this at OLT and 
Board level.

•  We continue to invest in and develop our product 
offering to ensure we offer value to consumers, 
retailers and manufacturers.

•  We work in an agile way which enables us to 

•  Overall, we continue to see retailers and manufacturers 

respond quickly to emerging competitive threats.

evolving their online offerings, and as we diversify our own 
product offering, we broaden our competitive landscape, 
potentially leading to exposure to increased competition.  
It therefore remains imperative that we are innovative 
across our classified marketplace, our platform and  
digital retailing. 

54

Auto Trader Group plc  Annual Report and Financial Statements 2023

9   Brand and reputation

  Decreasing

Risk and potential impact

Key changes and outlook

How we manage the risk

Our brand is one of our biggest 
assets. Our research shows that  
we are the largest and most trusted 
automotive classified brand in the 
UK. Failure to maintain and protect 
our brand, and/or negative publicity 
affecting our reputation could 
diminish the confidence that 
retailers, consumers and advertisers 
have in our products and services. 
This could result in a reduction in 
audience and revenue.

•  Our research shows that Auto Trader has c.90% prompted 
brand awareness with consumers. We are also voted 
regularly as the most influential automotive website  
by consumers in the car buying process. 

•  We are supporting digital retailing product development 

with marketing to ensure that consumers see us as the most 
suitable place to transact online. 

•  Owing to measures and monitoring techniques used by  
our security team, we continue to see very low levels of 
fraudulent and misleading adverts on our website. We use  
a customer watch list which aims to manage our platforms 
proactively in line with our values and relevant regulations, 
to identify and stop customer behaviour that could harm 
consumers, retailers or the Auto Trader brand. 

•  To date, the trial of our Deal Builder product has been 

provided to only a select number of retailers. All retailers 
trialling this new product undergo enhanced checks  
before being granted access, including reviews on 
consumer feedback. 

•  Overall, we consider there to be a decreasing risk to our 

brand and reputation.

•  We have a clear and open culture with a focus  

on trust and transparency.

•  We have a dedicated customer security team, 
who closely monitor our site to identify and 
quickly remove fraudulent or misleading adverts. 
Customer security also work proactively with 
retailers and the wider industry to flag potential 
security concerns.

•  We invest in new and innovative marketing 
campaigns and new ways of engaging car  
buyers to continue to maintain brand awareness, 
and to change perceptions of Auto Trader to  
be a destination for new cars as well as used.

•  To get access to Deal Builder, retailers are 

required to sign up to and adhere to a Seller 
Promise. Seller Promise prescribes minimum 
levels of consumer service and advertising. 

•  Our approach to cyber security and data 
protection helps to protect us from the  
adverse impact of a significant data breach  
or cyber-attack.

•  We have well developed breach reporting and 
crisis management programmes that enable  
us to identify, escalate and appropriately  
handle any emerging issues that could result  
in reputational damage.

10   External catastrophic and geo-political events

  Unchanged

Risk and potential impact

Key changes and outlook

How we manage the risk

In a connected, global industry,  
we are increasingly prone to the 
impacts of external events around 
the globe, as are our customers and 
consumers. We consider there to be  
a threat to the short-to-mid-term 
performance of our business  
posed by external, unpreventable, 
catastrophic and geo-political 
events. Such events could result in 
our customers being unable to trade, 
leading to loss of revenue, stock, 
audience and market share.

•  In the last year, adverse market reaction to UK Government 
policy, the enduring impacts of COVID-19 and the conflict  
in Ukraine have all led to high inflation. Should the resultant 
rise in the cost of living be sustained for a lengthy period,  
it could have an impact on the ownership model of vehicles, 
potentially with a lower volume of vehicles per household. 
However, our exposure to high interest rates is minimal 
owing to our low levels of debt.

•  We monitor external events continuously and 
assess the ways in which our business could  
be impacted, both in the short term and in the 
longer term.

•  Our Crisis Response team includes senior leadership 
and internal experts. Where necessary we also 
have external advisors available to support us  
in our response.

•  It is of paramount importance to the resilience of our 

•  Our business continuity plan, IT disaster  

business that we can anticipate, and respond quickly to,  
the impacts of external events, particularly those which 
impact on our customers. We are therefore continuously 
reviewing our business continuity and crisis management 
arrangements to ensure that they consider the impacts  
of external events. 

•  Overall, we have performed well despite the uncertain 

national economy. Nevertheless, we remain wary of the 
threats posed by external events, and we continue to review 
our crisis and business continuity arrangements regularly. 

recovery plan, and wider crisis management 
arrangements all set out the key steps required 
for us to respond to major events and restore 
operations in the event of downtime.

•  We have identified the key internal stakeholders 

who are responsible for crisis management 
across all areas of the business. We have  
also nominated delegates to minimise single 
person dependencies.

•  Our crisis management arrangements are  
tested regularly via simulated ‘war games’ 
scenarios. All key stakeholders within the 
organisation are involved and we capture  
lessons learned to continually improve our  
crisis management arrangements.

Auto Trader Group plc  Annual Report and Financial Statements 2023

55

Strategic reportGovernanceFinancial statementsPrincipal risks and uncertainties continued

 Viability statement

In accordance with the UK Corporate Governance Code 2018  
(the ‘Code’), the Directors have assessed the prospects and 
viability of the Group over a period significantly longer than  
12 months from the approval of these financial statements.

Assessment of prospects
The Group’s overall strategy and business model, as set out on pages 
10 to 13, and pages 8 and 9, respectively, are central to assessing its 
future prospects. The Group’s aim is to grow both its car buying and 
selling audiences, thereby strengthening its core advertising business. 
It will change how the UK shops for cars by providing the best online 
car buying experience and enabling all retailers to sell online.

As such, key factors likely to affect the future development, 
performance and position of the Group are:

•  data and technology: continuous investment is made in 

developing platform technologies which lead to improvements 
for consumers, retailers and manufacturers;

•  market position: the Group is the UK’s largest digital automotive 
marketplace, with the largest volume of in-market car buyers  
and the most influential website a consumer visits when 
purchasing a vehicle; and

•  people: continued success and growth are dependent on the 

ability to attract, retain and motivate a highly skilled workforce, 
with a particular focus on specialist technological and data skills.

The Board has determined that a period of five years to March 2028 is 
the most appropriate period to provide its viability statement as:

•  it allows consideration of the longer-term viability of the Group;
•  it being more aligned with the Group’s strategic planning process; and
•  it reflects reasonable expectations in terms of the reliability  

and accuracy of operational forecasts.

The Group’s prospects are assessed primarily through its strategic 
planning process. This process includes an annual review of  
the ongoing plan, led by the Group CEO and CFO through the 
Operational Leadership Team and in conjunction with relevant 
functions. The Board participates fully in the annual process and 
has the task of considering whether the plan continues to take 
appropriate account of the external environment including 
technological, social and macro-economic changes.

The output of the annual review process is a set of objectives which 
collectively form our three strategic priorities and our Environmental, 
Social and Governance (‘ESG’) strategy, an analysis of the risks that 
could prevent the plan being delivered, and the annual financial 
budget. The latest updates to the plan were finalised in March 2023, 
which considered the Group’s current position and its prospects 
over the forthcoming years. Progress against these plans is reviewed 
monthly by both the Operational Leadership Team and the Board. 

The Group will be able to 
continue in operation and 
meet its liabilities as they  
fall due over the five-year 
period ending March 2028.

Detailed financial forecasts that consider customer numbers, stock 
levels, ARPR, revenue, profit, cash flow and key financial ratios have 
been prepared for the five-year period to March 2028. Funding 
requirements have also been considered, with particular focus on 
the ongoing compliance with the covenants attached to the Group’s 
Syndicated Revolving Credit Facility (‘Syndicated RCF’). The first 
year of the financial forecasts is based off the Group’s 2024 annual 
financial budget. The following years are prepared in detail and are 
flexed based on the actual results in year one.

The key assumptions in the financial forecasts, reflecting the overall 
strategy, include:

•  continued growth in our core marketplace, as we develop  
our advertising platform and we continue to invest in our  
search experience;

•  growth in digital retailing, as we continue to evolve both  
our products and consumer experience, bringing more  
of the car buying journey online;

•  growth in the use of our data, being the industry standard 

platform and further embedding our data into the industry, 
giving buyers and retailers up-to-date insight; and

•  increase in costs through salaries as the Group continues  

to grow, supporting and developing new products.

These key assumptions are reflected in the Group’s principal risks  
and uncertainties, which are set out on pages 50 to 55. The purpose  
of the principal risks is primarily to summarise those matters that could 
prevent the Group from delivering on its strategy. A number of other 
aspects of the principal risks – because of their nature or potential 
impact – could also threaten the Group’s ability to continue in business 
in its current form if they were to occur. This was considered as part  
of the assessment of the Group’s viability, as explained opposite.

56

Auto Trader Group plc  Annual Report and Financial Statements 2023

Assessment of viability
The output of the Group’s strategic and financial planning process detailed previously reflects the Board’s best estimate of the future 
prospects of the business. To make the assessment of viability, however, additional scenarios have been modelled over and above  
those in the ongoing plan, based upon a number of the Group’s principal risks and uncertainties which are documented on pages 50 to 55.  
These scenarios were overlaid into the plan to quantify the potential impact of one or more of these crystallising over the assessment period. 

While each of the Group’s principal risks has a potential impact and has therefore been considered as part of the assessment, only those 
that represent severe but plausible scenarios have been modelled through the plan. These were as follows: 

Scenario modelled

Scenario 1: Severe economic downturn
Given the increase in the cost of living and steep rise in interest rates, the impact of a severe economic downturn has been 
considered. This would likely suppress consumer confidence, pressuring the used and new car markets, with retailers 
impacted due to an increase in their cost of capital. In the longer term, this landscape could be a catalyst for structural 
changes in the ownership model of vehicles, potentially including a rise in subscription-based models.

Revenue assumptions: Approximately one third of retailers are lost, with underlying ARPR reducing through a loss of stock 
resulting in a 45% decrease in Trade revenue. A 40% decrease in all other revenue streams, including Autorama, was assumed 
due to reduced demand. Modest recovery was assumed for the financial year March 2026. 

Cost assumptions: Cost of sales and marketing decreased in line with revenue.

Scenario 2: Data breaches
The impact of any regulatory fines has been considered. The biggest of these is the General Data Protection Regulation 
(‘GDPR’) fine for data breaches, which was enacted in May 2018. This scenario assumes a data breach resulting in the 
maximum fine (4% of Group revenue), coupled with a significant level of reputational damage to the Group’s brand. 

Revenue assumptions: A severe reduction was modelled through Trade revenue, resulting in an initial 45% decrease in revenue 
driven by lost retailers. A 45% decrease in Consumer Services, Manufacturer and Agency and Autorama revenue was also 
assumed through the loss of consumer and partner confidence. Modest recovery was assumed for the financial year 
March 2025.

Cost assumptions: Cost of sales and marketing decreased in line with revenue.

Links to principal risks

Risk 1: 

 Automotive economy, 
market and business 
environment

Risk 10:   External catastrophic 

and geo-political 
events affecting 
customer and 
consumer behaviours

Risk 5: 

 IT systems and  
cyber security

Risk 7: 

 Legal and regulatory 
compliance

Risk 9:  Brand and reputation

Scenario 3: Banning the sale of diesel cars
The impact of climate change has been considered through the potential ban of diesel cars. The government has outlined 
plans to ban the sale of new conventional petrol and diesel cars from 2030. This scenario assumes the government brings 
forward the ban of diesel cars, and also applies it to used cars, in the financial year to March 2026. This would result in a 
significant impact on stock available as well as a loss of retailers who cannot operate viably without the sale of diesel cars. 

Revenue assumptions: Approximately one third of retailers are lost, with underlying ARPR reducing through a loss of stock, 
resulting in a 40% decrease in Trade revenue. A 16% decrease in Consumer Services revenue was assumed through lost 
private diesel car volumes. A modest impact to Manufacturer and Agency revenue was assumed with Manufacturers well 
progressed into the transition to selling electric vehicles. Autorama revenue decline of 30% due to reduction in volumes. 
Modest recovery was assumed through retailers for the financial year March 2027 and beyond.

Risk 1: 

 Automotive economy, 
market and business 
environment

Risk 2:  Climate change 

Risk 6: 

 Failure to innovate: 
disruptive technologies 
and changing 
consumer behaviours

Cost assumptions: Cost of sales and marketing decreased in line with revenue. 

Scenario 4: Combination of all three scenarios as above
This is seen as a worst-case scenario, and highly unlikely.

All of the above

The war in Ukraine
The war in Ukraine has the potential to materially impact the 
automotive value chain. As Russia is an exporter of key metals  
and other materials used in parts production, and Ukraine makes 
components used in production such as wiring harnesses, there is  
a direct disruption and rising price risk. The supply chain is already 
impacted by semi-conductor supply issues, and there could be a 
further impact to new car transactions. This scenario has not been 
modelled as the Group does not feel there is likely to be significant 
impact than that already seen, however it will continue to monitor 
the situation.

Syndicated Revolving Credit facility (‘Syndicated RCF’)
The above scenarios consider the bi-annual covenants attached  
to the Group’s Syndicated RCF, ensuring thresholds are met. The 
scenarios are hypothetical and severe for the purpose of creating 
outcomes that have the ability to threaten the viability of the Group. 

The results of the stress testing demonstrated that due to the Group’s 
significant free cash flow, access to the Syndicated RCF and the 
Board’s ability to adjust the discretionary share buyback programme, 
it would be able to withstand the impact of any of these scenarios, 
remain cash generative and meet the obligations of its debt facility. 

Viability statement
Based on their assessment of prospects and viability above, the 
Directors confirm that they have a reasonable expectation that  
the Group will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities 
as they fall due over the five-year period ending March 2028. 

Going concern 
The Directors also considered it appropriate to prepare the financial 
statements on the going concern basis, as explained in the Basis  
of preparation paragraph in note 1 to the financial statements.

The Company’s Strategic report, set out on pages 2 to 57,  
was approved by the Board on 1 June 2023 and signed  
on its behalf by:

Nathan Coe
Chief Executive Officer  
1 June 2023

Auto Trader Group plc  Annual Report and Financial Statements 2023

57

Strategic reportGovernanceFinancial statementsGovernance overview

These reports explain our governance policies and procedures in detail 
and describe how we have applied the principles contained in the UK 
Corporate Governance Code 2018 (the ‘Code’).

Percentage of independent Directors 
on the Board: 57.1%
Independent

Non-independent

Independence1

Number of Directors as at 31 March 20232

5

3

Percentage of independent Directors 
on the Board: 62.5%
Independent

Non-independent

Gender diversity

Number of Directors as at 31 March 20232

5

4

4

3

4

4

Percentage of women on the Board: 50.0%

Percentage of women on the Board: 55.6%

Women

Men

Women

Men

Annual General Meeting
Our Annual General Meeting (‘AGM’) will be 
held at 10:00am on Thursday 14 September 
2023 at 4th Floor, 1 Tony Wilson Place, 
Manchester, M15 4FN. Myself and the other 
Directors will join the meeting either in person 
or by telephone. We strongly encourage  
all shareholders to cast their votes by proxy, 
and to send any questions in respect of AGM 
business to ir@autotrader.co.uk.

Ed Williams
Chair 
1 June 2023

Dear shareholders

Compliance with the Corporate 
Governance Code
The reports on the following pages, 
including the Committee reports,  
set out the governance arrangements  
we have in place, and detail how we have 
met the Code requirements. Once again,  
the Company complied with all provisions 
set out in the Code for the period. 

Board succession planning
Succession planning has been a major  
focus area during the year. The Board has 
approved the appointment of Matt Davies  
as Chair Designate with effect from 1 July 2023,  
to succeed me as Chair prior to the conclusion 
of the 2023 AGM. Two of our Non-Executive 
Directors (David Keens and Jill Easterbrook) 
will reach the end of their third three-year 
terms in 2024, the ninth anniversary of Auto 
Trader Group plc’s admission to the London 
Stock Exchange’s official list. Jeni Mundy will 
reach the end of her third three-year term in 
2025. The Nomination Committee report sets 
out in some detail the succession plan for 
these changes, including the overarching 
goals, skills and experience requirements  
and the expected timelines. The Company 
will continue to update on our progress at  
the appropriate time, as suitable candidates 
are identified and appointments are made.

Ethnic diversity3

Number of Directors as at 31 March 20232

1

8

Ethnically diverse 

White

Length of tenure4

Number of Directors as at 31 March 2023

1

4

4

0–3 years

3–6 years 

6–9 years 

1.  Excluding the Chair.
2.  No change from 31 March 2022.
3.  As per the Parker Review, a Director was 

defined as being ethnically diverse if they 
identified as Asian, Black, Mixed or Other.
4.  Refers to the period since appointment 

to the PLC Board.

58

Auto Trader Group plc  Annual Report and Financial Statements 2023

Compliance with the 2018 Code

The Company has complied in full with all 
provisions of the 2018 Corporate Governance 
Code during the year as referenced below:

1

Board leadership and company purpose

The Board is responsible for setting the Group’s purpose,  
for determining the basis on which the Group generates value 
over the long term and developing a strategy for delivering  
the objectives of the Group. The Strategic report, which  
can be found on pages 2 to 57, sets out the Group’s purpose, 
strategy, objectives and business model. Details of how the 
Board assesses and monitors culture can be found on page 62.

The Board’s engagement with employees, shareholders and 
other stakeholders is described in detail on pages 14 to 17 and 
page 62.

2

Division of responsibilities

The responsibilities of the Chair, Chief Executive Officer,  
Senior Independent Director, Non-Executive Directors and 
Company Secretary are set out on page 63. The Board has 
adopted a formal schedule of matters reserved for its 
approval and has delegated other specific responsibilities  
to its Committees. The schedule sets out key aspects of the 
affairs of the Company which the Board does not delegate 
and is reviewed at least annually. Each Committee has 
formally approved Terms of Reference which are reviewed 
and approved at least annually, or more frequently as 
circumstances require. Details are published on our website 
at plc.autotrader.co.uk/investors.

At the date of this report, the Board consists of the Non-Executive 
Chair, five Independent Non-Executive Directors and three 
Executive Directors. Refer to page 64 for details of Board and 
Committee meetings and attendance, and to the biographies  
on pages 60 and 61 for details of Board members’ external 
commitments, all of which were approved by the Board.

A robust corporate governance framework

3

Composition, succession  
and evaluation

The Board has established a Nomination 
Committee, chaired by Ed Williams,  
with all other members comprising 
Independent Non-Executive Directors. 
The main responsibilities of this 
Committee are to keep under review  
the structure, size and composition  
of the Board and its Committees;  
to identify and nominate candidates  
for appointment to the Board; and to 
ensure that there are formal and orderly 
succession plans in place.  

During the year, the Committee focused 
on implementation of the succession plan 
for the Chair and Non-Executive Directors 
who are reaching their nine-year tenure. 
The Committee also led an evaluation 
of the Board, the Committees and each 
individual Director. The work of the 
Committee is described on pages 66 to 69. 
The Board and its Committees have an 
appropriate balance of skills, experience 
and knowledge of the Group to enable 
them to discharge their respective  
duties and responsibilities effectively. 
Biographies of all members of the 
Board appear on pages 60 and 61.

4

Audit, risk and internal 
control

The Board has established an Audit 
Committee, chaired by David Keens  
and comprised entirely of Independent 
Non-Executive Directors. The Chair is not a 
member of the Committee. The Committee 
has defined Terms of Reference which 
include assisting the Board in discharging 
many of its responsibilities with respect  
to financial and business reporting,  
risk management, internal control,  
internal audit and external audit.

The work of the Committee is described 
on pages 70 to 75.

The Company does not have a separate 
Risk Committee; the Board is collectively 
responsible for determining risk 
appetite, and the nature and extent of 
the principal risks it is willing to take in 
achieving its strategic objectives. Refer 
to page 73 for details of the evaluation 
of the risk management and internal 
control framework, and to pages 48 to 
55 for details of risk management and 
the principal risks facing the Company. 

5

Remuneration

The Board has established a 
Remuneration Committee, chaired by 
Jill Easterbrook and comprised entirely 
of Independent Non-Executive 
Directors. The Remuneration 
Committee is responsible for 
determining the Remuneration Policy, 

and for setting remuneration for the 
Executive Directors, the Chair and  
senior employees; for monitoring the 
remuneration policies for the wider 
organisation; and for ensuring the 
alignment of reward with the culture  
of the organisation. The work of the 
Committee is described on pages  
80 to 93. 

Driving Change Together.  
Responsibly.

AUTO TRADER GROUP PLC BOARD

AUDIT 
COMMITTEE

NOMINATION 
COMMITTEE

REMUNERATION 
COMMITTEE

CORPORATE 
RESPONSIBILITY 
COMMITTEE

DISCLOSURE 
COMMITTEE

SUBSIDIARY BOARDS

OPERATIONAL LEADERSHIP TEAM & SENIOR LEADERS

FURTHER DETAIL
For the full detail on how we govern ESG:

Being a responsible business P26

How we manage risk P48

Auto Trader Group plc  Annual Report and Financial Statements 2023

59

EXTERNAL AUDITORINTERNAL AUDITOROTHER  EXTERNAL ASSURANCERISK FORUM – SCOPE OF RISK FORUM INCLUDES CLIMATEFCA GOVERNANCE COMMITTEEHEALTH & SAFETY COMMITTEEGDPR STEERINGDISASTER RECOVERY STEERINGCYBER SECURITY WORKING GROUPTRUST FORUMRISK MANAGEMENTINTERNAL CONTROLFCA COMPLIANCEGDPR COMPLIANCELEGAL TEAMPROCUREMENTCYBER SECURITY TEAMSECOND LINE  FUNCTIONSTHIRD LINEENVIRONMENT STRATEGYSUSTAINABILITY NETWORKAUTOMOTIVE NETWORKNET ZERO  WORKING  GROUPEV WORKING GROUPEMPLOYEE GUILDS & NETWORKSCAREER  KICKSTART NET-WORKFAMILY  NETWORKBAME  NETWORKLGBT+  NETWORKDISABILITY & NEURODIVERSITY NETWORKMAKE A DIFFER-ENCE  GUILDWOMEN’S NET-WORK WELLBEING  GUILDAGE  NETWORKBOARD  ENGAGEMENT GUILDSECOND LINE FORUMS  AND COMMITTEESStrategic reportGovernanceFinancial statementsBoard of Directors

Ed Williams
Chair

Nathan Coe
Chief Executive Officer

Catherine Faiers
Chief Operating Officer

Jamie Warner
Chief Financial Officer

David Keens
Senior Independent  
Non-Executive Director

60

Biography
Ed was appointed as Chair of Auto 
Trader Group plc in February 2015. 

He was the founding Chief Executive 
of Rightmove plc, serving in that 
capacity from November 2000  
until his retirement from the business 
in April 2013. Rightmove plc was 
floated on the London Stock 
Exchange in February 2006. 

Prior to Rightmove, Ed spent  
the majority of his career as a 
management consultant with 
Accenture and McKinsey & Co.

Ed holds an MA in Philosophy, 
Politics and Economics from St 
Anne’s College, Oxford.

Appointed to PLC Board 
February 2015

Independent on appointment?
Yes

External appointments 
•  Baltic Classifieds Group plc

Committee memberships

N

Biography
Nathan was first appointed to  
the Board as Chief Operating  
Officer (‘COO’) in April 2017 and  
as Chief Financial Officer (‘CFO’)  
in July 2017. Nathan was appointed 
Chief Executive Officer (‘CEO’) 
 in March 2020, following the 
announcement of former CEO  
Trevor Mather’s retirement.

Nathan joined Auto Trader in 2007  
to oversee the transition from a 

magazine business to a pure digital 
company. Prior to his appointment 
to the Board, Nathan was the  
joint Operations Director, sharing 
responsibility for the day-to-day 
operations of the business.

Prior to joining Auto Trader, Nathan 
was at Telstra, Australia’s leading 
telecommunications company, where 
he led Mergers and Acquisitions  
and Corporate Development for its 
media and internet businesses.  

He was previously a consultant at PwC, 
having graduated from the University 
of Sydney with a B.Com (Hons).

Appointed to PLC Board 
April 2017

Independent on appointment?
N/A

External appointments 
None

Committee memberships

D

Biography
Catherine joined Auto Trader in 
August 2017 and was appointed as 
Chief Operating Officer (‘COO’) in 
May 2019. Catherine is responsible 
for the day-to-day operations of 
Auto Trader’s business. She is also 
focused on guiding the Group’s 
strategy and development.

Prior to this, Catherine was Chief 
Operating Officer at Addison Lee, 
Corporate Development Director  
at Trainline and a Director at Close 
Brothers Corporate Finance.

Catherine graduated from the 
University of Durham with a  
BA in Economics and is a qualified 
Chartered Accountant, training  
at PwC. 

Appointed to PLC Board 
May 2019

Independent on appointment?
N/A

External appointments 
•  Allegro.eu Group

Committee memberships 
None

Biography
Jamie was appointed Chief 
Financial Officer (‘CFO’) in March 
2020. Prior to this he was Auto Trader’s 
CFO-Designate and Deputy CFO. 
During his time at Auto Trader,  
Jamie has worked in a variety  
of different roles across finance, 
covering commercial finance, 
financial reporting, pricing and 
investor relations.

Jamie initially worked as a freight 
derivatives broker for inter-dealer 
broker GFI. Jamie left to join a start-up 
company, Swapit, developing a 
children’s online swapping and trading 
community, that was subsequently 
acquired by Superawesome.  
He then joined Auto Trader in 2012.

Jamie graduated from Bristol 
University with a BSc in Economics and 
Economic History and is a qualified 
Chartered Management Accountant.

Appointed to PLC Board 
March 2020

Independent on appointment?
N/A

External appointments 
None

Committee memberships

D

Biography
David was appointed as a 
Non-Executive Director on 1 May 2015. 

David was previously Group Finance 
Director of NEXT plc (1991 to 2015) and 
its Group Treasurer (1986 to 1991). He 
was a Non-Executive Director and 
Audit Chair of J Sainsbury plc (2015  
to 2021), and most recently has taken 
up the role as Senior Independent 
Non-Executive Director and Audit 
Chair of Moonpig Group plc. 

Previous management experience 
includes nine years in the UK and 
overseas operations of multinational 
food manufacturer Nabisco (1977  
to 1986) and prior to that seven years 
in the accountancy profession.

David is a member of the 
Association of Chartered Certified 
Accountants and of the Association 
of Corporate Treasurers.

Appointed to PLC Board 
May 2015

Independent on appointment?
Yes

External appointments 
•  Moonpig Group plc

Committee memberships

A

CR

N

R

Auto Trader Group plc  Annual Report and Financial Statements 2023

Biography
Jill was appointed as a Non-Executive 
Director to the Board on 1 July 2015.  
Jill is also a Non-Executive Director  
of Ashtead Group plc, the FTSE 100 
international equipment rental 
company; a Non-Executive Director  
of UP Global Sourcing Holdings plc,  
a FTSE small cap consumer goods 
business; a Non-Executive Director of 
Tracsis plc, an AIM listed provider of 
software, hardware, data analytics/

GIS and services for the transport 
industries; and is Chair of Headland,  
a PR and Communications agency.

Jill brings strong digital experience 
within retail environments to the 
Board. Previously, Jill was a member of 
the Executive Committee at Tesco Plc 
where she held a variety of senior roles, 
and was the Chief Executive Officer  
of JP Boden & Co. She also spent time  
as a management consultant having 
started her career at Marks & Spencer.

Appointed to PLC Board 
July 2015

Independent on appointment?
Yes

External appointments 
•  Ashtead Group plc
•  UP Global Sourcing Holdings plc
•  Verde Bidco Limited (Headland)
•  Tracsis plc

Committee memberships

R

A

CR

N

Biography
Jasvinder was appointed as  
a Non-Executive Director on  
1 January 2022.

within Direct Line including most 
recently Chief Strategy Officer  
and before that, Managing Director 
of Direct Line for Business.

Appointed to PLC Board 
January 2022

Independent on appointment?
Yes

Jasvinder is currently Managing 
Director of Motor at Direct Line Group, 
leading Motor Insurance strategy and 
business delivery across household 
names such as Direct Line, Churchill 
and Privilege, and is a member of the 
Direct Line Group Executive Team.  
Prior to this, she held a number of roles 

Jasvinder is a champion of gender 
diversity and women in top positions  
in business. She has been named on 
Green Park’s BAME 100 Board Talent 
Index, on the Cranfield University Top 
100 women to watch in 2018 list and  
also featured on the Northern Power 
Women list of ‘Top 50 Women to Watch’.

External appointments 
•  UK Insurance Business  

Solutions Limited

Committee memberships

A

CR

N R

Biography
Jeni was appointed as a Non-Executive 
Director on 1 March 2016.

Jeni is currently Visa Inc’s SVP Global 
Head of Merchant Sales and Acquirers 
responsible for driving the growth  
of digital commerce for the world’s 
sellers. She joined Visa in 2018 as  
the Managing Director for UK  
and Ireland. Jeni was previously  
at Vodafone Plc (1998 to 2017).  
Most recently she held Group 

Director roles across product 
management and sales. Prior to  
that she was Chief Technology 
Officer on the UK and New Zealand 
Executive Boards.

Jeni started her career as a 
Telecommunications Engineer  
in New Zealand and holds an MSc  
in Electronic Engineering from  
Cardiff University.

Appointed to PLC Board 
March 2016

Independent on appointment?
Yes

External appointments 
None

Committee memberships

CR A

N R

Biography
Sigga was appointed as a 
Non-Executive Director to the  
Board effective 1 November 2019.

Sigga is currently part of the UK 
executive team at Experian and  
is responsible for their UK Direct  
to Consumer Business. Sigga has 
worked in the financial services 
industry since 2001, pioneering 
digital transformation at both 
American Express and Santander 

UK. She was responsible for the 
development and launch of Asto,  
a Santander Fintech business, 
providing innovative cash flow 
solutions to small businesses.

Sigga holds a doctorate in 
Leadership and Innovation from 
Manchester Business School, an 
MBA from IESE Business School as 
well as a BS degree in Marketing from 
the University of South Carolina.

Appointed to PLC Board 
November 2019

Independent on appointment?
Yes

External appointments 
•  Frumtak Ventures

Committee memberships

A

CR

N R

Biography
Claire joined Auto Trader in  
July 2015 and is Company Secretary 
and Director of Governance.  
She is responsible for corporate 
governance; legal services; 
regulatory compliance;  
customer security; procurement;  
and risk management.

Group plc and prior to that was 
Company Secretary at Centaur 
Media plc.

Claire is a qualified accountant,  
a member of the Institute of 
Chartered Secretaries and 
Administrators and holds an MBA 
from Manchester Business School.

Committee memberships

Claire was previously Deputy 
Company Secretary at Betfair 

D  

Committee memberships 

A   Audit 

CR   Corporate Responsibility

D   Disclosure

N   Nomination

R   Remuneration

  Chair

Jill Easterbrook
Independent  
Non-Executive Director

Jasvinder Gakhal
Independent  
Non-Executive Director

Jeni Mundy
Independent  
Non-Executive Director

Sigga Sigurdardottir
Independent  
Non-Executive Director

Claire Baty
Company Secretary

Auto Trader Group plc  Annual Report and Financial Statements 2023

61

Strategic reportGovernanceFinancial statements