Integrated 
Annual Report 
2023

Re-imagining mining to 
improve people’s lives

Transforming the very nature of 
mining for a safer, smarter, more 
sustainable future.

Using more precise technologies, less 
energy and less water, we aim to reduce our 
environmental footprint for every ounce, carat 
and kilogram of precious metal or mineral.

We are combining smart innovation with 
operational excellence and the utmost 
consideration for our people, their families, 
local communities, our customers, and the 
world at large – to better connect precious 
resources in the ground to all of us who need 
and value them. 

And we are working together to develop 
better jobs, better education and better 
businesses, building brighter and healthier 
futures around our operations in host 
communities and ultimately for billions of 
people around the world who depend on our 
products every day. 

Our metals and minerals help unlock a 
cleaner future for our planet and meet the 
needs of a growing population, from homes 
and electronics, to food and luxuries – these 
are future-enabling products.

Revenue

Underlying EBITDA◊

Operating profit

$30.7 bn

$10.0 bn

$3.9 bn

Underlying earnings per share◊

Profit attributable to equity shareholders

Net debt◊

$2.42

$0.3 bn

$10.6 bn

Total dividends per share

Attributable free cash flow◊

Group attributable ROCE◊

$0.96

$(1.4) bn

16%

Number of fatalities

Total recordable injury frequency rate (TRIFR)

Level 4-5 environmental incidents

3

1.78

0

Cover image
At our Quellaveco copper mine in Peru, around two-thirds of 
the drilling team, and 30% of the blasting team, are women – 
all from the neighbouring Moquegua community.

◊ Alternative Performance Measures

Words with this symbol ◊ are defined in the Alternative Performance Measures 
section of the Integrated Annual Report on pages 318–323. 

$30.7 bn$35.1 bn20232022322023202216%30%20232022$10.0 bn$14.5 bn20232022$3.9 bn$9.2 bn20232022$0.3 bn$4.5 bn20232022$10.6 bn$6.9 bn20232022$(1.4) bn$1.6 bn20232022$2.42$4.97202320221.782.1920232022$0.96$1.98202320220020232022Contents

Strategic Report 

02  Our business at a glance
04  Chairman’s statement
06  Chief Executive’s statement 
08  Our business model
09  Our value chain
10  Purpose to value
11  Creating value for our stakeholders
14  How we make decisions
16  Understanding our stakeholders
20  Our material matters
24  Looking at global trends
29  Reflecting stakeholder views in our 

Board decision making

30  Strategy: portfolio
40  Strategy: innovation
66  Strategy: people
76  Capital allocation
79  Managing risk effectively
86  Key performance indicators
90  Group financial review
94  Copper
100  Nickel
104  Platinum Group Metals (PGMs)
108  De Beers
113  Iron Ore
119  Steelmaking Coal
123  Manganese
125  Crop Nutrients
129  Corporate and other
130  Non-financial and sustainability 

information disclosures and footnotes

132  Disclosures related to the 

recommendations of the TCFD

138  Streamlined energy and carbon reporting

Governance

140  Chairman’s introduction
142  Directors
146  Executive Leadership Team
148  Board roles and responsibilities
151  Board operations
153  Board activity

156  Board effectiveness in 2023
158  Board visits in 2023
161  Stakeholder engagement
164  Sustainability Committee report
166  Nomination Committee report
168  Audit Committee report
178  Directors’ remuneration report
179  Remuneration Committee 

chairman’s introduction

182  At a glance
185  Directors’ remuneration policy
191  Annual report on directors’ remuneration
212  Statement of directors’ responsibilities

Financial statements and other 
financial information

214  Independent auditors’ report
222  Primary statements
226  Notes to the financial statements
304  Financial statements of the 

Parent Company
307  Summary by operation
309  Key financial data
310  Exchange rates and commodity prices

Ore Reserves and Mineral Resources

312  Estimated Ore Reserves
314  Estimated Mineral Resources

Other information

316  Glossary of terms
318  Alternative performance measures
324  Production statistics
327  Quarterly production statistics
328  Non-financial data
330  Directors’ report
334  Shareholder information
335  Other Anglo American publications 

and legal disclaimers

The Strategic Report forms part of the Anglo American plc 
Integrated Annual Report for the year ended 
31 December 2023 and should be read in conjunction 
with the Governance section and Financial Statements 
of the Integrated Annual Report.

Our reporting suite

You can find this report and others, including the 
Sustainability Report, the Climate Change Report, our Tax 
and Economic Contribution Report, and the Ore Reserves 
and Mineral Resources Report, on our corporate website.

 ▶ For more information, visit: 

angloamerican.com/investors/annual-reporting

Social channels

AngloAmerican

@angloamerican

angloamericanplc

angloamerican

Anglo American

Basis of reporting
The Anglo American plc Integrated Annual Report for 
the year ended 31 December 2023 is produced in 
compliance with UK regulations. Additionally, we have 
compiled this report using the Guiding Principles and 
Content Elements set out in the International Integrated 
Reporting Council’s <IR> Framework.

Integrated Reporting aims to demonstrate how 
companies create value sustainably over time, for a 
range of stakeholders – consistent with Anglo American’s 
Purpose, business approach and strategy. This report, 
therefore, includes a comprehensive overview of our 
material matters, in the eyes of our stakeholders, and the 
impact these matters have on the value we create.

Measuring performance
Throughout the Strategic Report we use a range of 
financial and non-financial measures to assess our 
performance. A number of the financial measures are 
not defined under IFRS so they are termed ‘Alternative 
Performance Measures’ (APMs). We have defined and 
explained the purpose of each of these measures on 
pages 318–323, where we provide more detail, including 
reconciliations to the closest equivalent measure under 
IFRS. These APMs should be considered in addition to, 
and not as a substitute for, or as superior to, measures of 
financial performance, financial position or cash flows 
reported in accordance with IFRS.

Units
‘Tonnes’ are metric tonnes, ‘Mt’ denotes million tonnes, 
‘kt’ denotes thousand tonnes, ‘Mct’ denotes million carats 
and ‘koz’ denotes thousand ounces; ‘$’ and ‘dollars’ 
denote US dollars and ‘cents’ denotes US cents.

Forward-looking statements, third-party information and 
Group terminology
This document includes references to the 
Anglo American Group, forward-looking statements 
and third-party information. For information regarding 
the Anglo American Group, forward-looking statements 
and such third-party information, please refer to the IBC 
of this document.

Non-Financial and Sustainability Information Disclosures
Non-financial and sustainability information in this report 
includes subsidiaries and joint operations over which 
the Anglo American Group has management or acts as 
operator. It does not include independently managed 
operations, such as Collahuasi and Samancor, nor does 
it include De Beers' non-managed joint operations in 
Namibia and Botswana, unless specifically stipulated.

We continue to evolve our non-financial disclosures in 
line with emerging recommendations and principles, 
ensuring we continue to comply with the reporting 
requirements contained in sections 414CA and 414CB 
of the Companies Act; the Financial Stability Board's Task 
Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD); 
and the Streamlined Energy and Carbon Reporting 
(SECR) rules. The tables on pages 130 and 132–138 
are intended to guide stakeholders to where the relevant 
non-financial and sustainability information is included 
within our Strategic Report and other externally available 
Anglo American plc publications. 

02

Anglo American plc
Integrated Annual Report 2023

Strategic Report 

Our business at a glance

Anglo American is a leading global mining company with a world 
class portfolio of mining and processing operations and undeveloped 
resources, providing tailored materials solutions for our customers, 
with around 60,000 employees working for us around the world. 

North America
1,200 employees(1)
$102 m wages and benefits paid(2)
$66 m taxes and royalties(3)
$166 m local procurement spend(4)

Chile
4,200 employees(1)
$488 m wages and benefits paid(2)
$503 m taxes and royalties(3)
$3,295 m local procurement spend(4)

South Africa
36,100 employees(1)
$1,628 m wages and benefits paid(2)
$1,210 m taxes and royalties(3)
$4,268 m local procurement spend(4)

Australia/Asia
3,600 employees(1)
$629 m wages and benefits paid(2)
$1,279 m taxes and royalties(3)
$1,687 m local procurement spend(4)

Peru
1,400 employees(1)
$164 m wages and benefits paid(2)
$324 m taxes and royalties(3)
$797 m local procurement spend(4)

Brazil
4,000 employees(1)
$187 m wages and benefits paid(2)
$397 m taxes and royalties(3)
$1,257 m local procurement spend(4)

Europe
2,900 employees(1)
$557 m wages and benefits paid(2)
$459 m taxes and royalties(3)
$953 m local procurement spend(4)

Other Africa
6,500 employees(1)
$385 m wages and benefits paid(2)
$844 m taxes and royalties(3)
$596 m local procurement spend(4)

London

1
United 
Kingdom

Finland

1

1

Canada

Product groups/corporate*

  Copper
   Nickel
   Platinum Group Metals
  De Beers
  Iron Ore
  Steelmaking Coal
   Manganese
   Crop Nutrients
   Marketing hub
   Early-stage project

*  Number within dot denotes number 
of operations, shown by product.

2

Botswana

2

Namibia

Zimbabwe

1

1

Peru

3

Chile

Brazil 2 1

Shanghai

Shanghai

Singapore

Singapore

South Africa
5
1

1

2

Australia 1 5

See page 131 for footnotes.

Our business at a glance

03

Copper

Nickel

PGMs

De Beers

$3,233 million
Underlying EBITDA◊
32%
Group underlying EBITDA◊
826 kt 
Production: Copper

$133 million
Underlying EBITDA◊
1%
Group underlying EBITDA◊
40 kt
Production: Nickel

$1,209 million
Underlying EBITDA◊
12%
Group underlying EBITDA◊
3,806 koz
Production: PGMs 

$72 million
Underlying EBITDA◊
1%
Group underlying EBITDA◊
31.9 Mct
Production (100% basis)(5)

Our business
We provide many of the essential 
metals and minerals that are fundamental 
to the transition to a low carbon economy 
and enabling a cleaner, greener, more 
sustainable world, as well as meeting the 
growing consumer-driven demands of the 
world’s developed and maturing economies, 
from homes and electronics to food and 
luxuries. And we do so in a way that not 
only generates sustainable returns for our 
shareholders over the long term, but that also 
strives to make a real and lasting positive 
contribution to society as a whole.

 ▶ More detailed information and maps can be found 

in the business reviews
See pages 94–129

Iron Ore

Steelmaking Coal

Manganese (Samancor)

Crop Nutrients

$4,013 million
Underlying EBITDA◊
40%
Group underlying EBITDA◊
35.7 Mt
Production: Iron ore – 
Kumba
24.2 Mt 
Production: Iron ore – 
Minas-Rio

$1,320 million
Underlying EBITDA◊
13%
Group underlying EBITDA◊
16.0 Mt
Production: Steelmaking 
coal

$231 million
Underlying EBITDA◊
2%
Group underlying EBITDA◊
3.7 Mt
Production: Manganese ore

$(60) million
Underlying EBITDA◊

Woodsmith is a greenfield 
project

Corporate and other

$(193) million
Underlying EBITDA◊

Our overview video gives a complete 
introduction to what we do and our 
ambitions for the future
See https://www.youtube.com/
watch?v=cYUz_h97X0A 

Strategic Report Integrated Annual Report 2023Anglo American plc04

Anglo American plc
Integrated Annual Report 2023

Strategic Report 
Chairman’s statement

Re-imagining mining to 
improve people’s lives

We have been taking clear steps to improve competitiveness and resilience, 
while continuing to progress our highly attractive growth options. 

The energy transition; an expanding global 
population, with an increasingly aspirant 
middle class; and the need to improve 
agricultural productivity in a sustainable way, 
all require mined products to be delivered on 
an unprecedented scale. Anglo American 
is focused firmly on value-led business 
decisions so that we are set up to deliver 
enduring value for decades to come.

Safety
Safety is our paramount priority, and keeping 
our people safe is an unremitting endeavour. 
So, it was deeply saddening that three 
people died in 2023 following accidents at 
our managed operations: one at our Kumba 
Iron Ore business in South Africa, and two at 
Copper in Chile.

We are devoting ever more time and 
resources to creating an environment where 
serious incidents simply don’t happen. A key 
focus is on Visible Felt Leadership (VFL), 
connecting operational leaders on a one-
to-one or small-group basis around a task or 
activity to ensure that it is done safely. This is 
being complemented by a new Contractor 
Performance Management framework 
designed to provide the foundation for 
safe and stable production by creating 
a physically and psychologically safe 
workplace where employees, contractors 

and suppliers all have the confidence to 
speak up if they have any concerns around 
safety. 

Sustainable mining
Mined products are ever more central to the 
prosperity of our planet and society and 
we recognise our role in ensuring they are 
delivered as sustainably as possible. Our 
Sustainable Mining Plan stretches us across 
the three dimensions of ESG and includes 
our plans to reduce our own greenhouse 
gas (GHG) emissions, reduce fresh water 
abstraction, and deliver net-positive impacts 
in biodiversity wherever we operate. We aim 
to be carbon neutral (Scope 1 and 2 GHG 
emissions) across our operations by 2040 
and have an ambition to at least halve our 
Scope 3 emissions by the same date. 

Notwithstanding a 2% increase in 
production volumes, our total Scope 1 
and 2 GHG emissions were 6% lower 
than in 2022. From April 2023, when our 
new Quellaveco copper mine in Peru was 
supplied with 100% renewable electricity, 
all our operations in South America now 
draw their electricity from renewable 
sources. With our Australia assets moving 
to renewable supply from 2025, we then 
expect to draw around 60% of our global 
grid supply from renewables. In southern 
Africa, where we are developing a regional 

renewable energy ecosystem through our 
partnership with EDF Renewables, known as 
Envusa Energy, we are gathering significant 
momentum in the development of a number 
of wind and solar projects. 

As part of our ambition to reduce our Scope 3 
emissions, we are focusing on hard-to-
abate sectors such as steel – from which 
most of our value-chain emissions derive. 
We have joined forces with steelmakers in 
Europe and Asia to research efficient feed 
materials. As methane emissions from our 
Steelmaking Coal operations represent the 
largest component of our Scope 1 emissions, 
we are also exploring processes such as 
regenerative thermal oxidation to manage 
and abate these emissions. 

Highly attractive portfolio
Anglo American has a highly attractive, 
diversified portfolio, with a number of well-
sequenced growth options, in copper, crop 
nutrients and high quality iron ore. We are 
custodians of some of the world’s most 
valuable, long life mineral deposits – a world 
class set of copper assets with considerable 
growth potential, coupled with platinum 
group metals (PGMs), diamonds and high 
quality iron ore – and crop nutrients coming 
through later in the decade – that distinguish 
us from our diversified peers. The vast 
majority of the portfolio is geared to supplying 
products that are fundamental to enabling 
a low carbon economy and meeting the 
expectations of a growing global population, 
in terms of living standards and food.

“2023 saw a significant 
downturn for both PGMs 
and diamonds, leading to 
weaker financial outcomes. 
Against that background and 
with continuing geopolitical 
turbulence and a number 
of constraints specific to 
our business, we have been 
taking decisive action to 
improve margins and returns 
to ensure the sustained 
competitiveness of our top 
calibre assets.”

Stuart Chambers
Chairman

05

Thanks
I would like to express my appreciation to all 
our employees, the senior leadership team 
and the Board for their outstanding efforts in 
a difficult year. 

Our Strategic Report
Our 2023 Strategic Report, from pages 
2–138, was reviewed and approved by the 
Board on 21 February 2024.

Stuart Chambers
Chairman

Quellaveco’s successful development 
has transformed our exposure to copper, 
a metal critical to economic development 
and implementing the energy transition, and 
we will continue to progress further growth 
options at Los Bronces, Collahuasi and 
Sakatti. In PGMs, our flagship Mogalakwena 
open pit mine presents competitive 
advantage in terms of cost and grade, while 
in north east England, we are developing 
the Woodsmith mine, to introduce a highly 
effective, comparatively low carbon fertiliser 
product called POLY4 to the global industry. 
POLY4’s physical characteristics help solve 
the three interconnected challenges faced 
by the agricultural industry: the increasing 
demand for food from less available land; the 
need to reduce the environmental impact of 
farming; and the deteriorating health of soils.

Operating and financial performance
Buffeted by geopolitical and economic 
headwinds, and their effect on PGMs 
and diamonds revenues in particular, 
Anglo American experienced a much 
more difficult year. A number of temporary 
operational constraints added to a 
considerably weaker financial performance, 
resulting in a poor return for shareholders, 
with a negative Total Shareholder Return 
(TSR) for the year of 36%, compared 
with the FTSE 100 Index average of +8%, 
predominantly reflecting the down cycles 
in the two businesses that differentiate 
Anglo American – PGMs and diamonds.

Group underlying EBITDA decreased by 
31% to $10.0 billion (2022: $14.5 billion), 
reflecting lower prices for certain products 
and global cost inflation. In line with our 
payout-based dividend policy, the Board has 
recommended a final dividend of $0.41 per 
share, equal to 40% of underlying earnings, 
bringing total dividends for the year to 
$0.96 per share or $1.2 billion. 

Chairman’s statement

As we look to 2024 and beyond, the 
management team has taken decisive 
action to improve cost performance and 
cash generation by reconfiguring certain 
production and wider operational plans to 
ensure they are realistic.

Governance 
Free-market systems need a robust 
governance framework if they are to retain 
the trust of investors and society. I believe 
that the full breadth of sustainability 
considerations should always underpin 
this framework and be at the heart of how 
responsible companies do business. Boards 
must take care not to be blown off course 
by short term trends and instead ensure 
that decisions are reached through holistic 
debate and with the company’s values and 
purpose in sharp focus. 

In recent years, our own Board has stepped-
up its engagement level with the company’s 
employees, to further widen its field of view. 
Leading this initiative is the Global Workforce 
Advisory Panel, which currently includes 12 
colleagues drawn from across the Group 
and is chaired by non-executive director 
Marcelo Bastos. In 2023, the panel met on 
three occasions, one of which was in person 
in South Africa. Other Board members and 
myself were also able to engage directly 
with panel members during our Board and 
director site visits.

Our Board
On 1 April 2023, Magali Anderson joined 
the Board as a non-executive director, and 
as a member of the Board’s Sustainability 
Committee. As things stand, four of the 10 
directors on the Board are female and two 
are minority ethnic. Stephen Pearce stepped 
down as finance director after serving on 
the Board for almost seven years and was 
succeeded by John Heasley on 1 December.

I am always keen that our non-executive 
directors experience our operations at 
first hand and engage face to face with 
colleagues. So, it was pleasing to have 
our Board visit the Woodsmith project in 
September 2023, with the Sustainability 
Committee also spending time at Venetia in 
South Africa, the Audit Committee meeting 
with Marketing leaders at our corporate 
office in Singapore, and three non-executive 
directors visiting Steelmaking Coal operations 
in Australia.

Outlook 
There is widespread consensus that 2024 
may be another low growth year for the 
global economy; there is the possibility of 
a mild recession in the US, coupled with a 
torpid Eurozone, albeit with China’s economic 
output forecast to increase by around 
4–5% – which may offer some relief given 
the absolute size of that economy and the 
potential for further stimulus. We also expect 
India’s demographics and growth trajectory 
to play an increasing role in raw materials 
demand over the coming decades. We 
must also overlay the potential for more 
geopolitical dislocations affecting global 
trade given current conflicts and the effects of 
elections across many of the world’s largest 
democracies in 2024.

But looking through these challenging macro 
factors, many mined products continue to 
have strong fundamentals, with supply likely 
struggling to meet demand over the long 
term. With Anglo American set up to be more 
agile and resilient, with an exceptional metals 
and minerals portfolio, and considerable 
growth optionality, we are well positioned to 
capitalise on the irrefutable demand trends 
that will characterise the next several decades. 

Strategic Report Integrated Annual Report 2023Anglo American plc“We have a world class suite 
of assets and a number of 
leading market positions, 
coupled with technical and 
socio-political capabilities, all 
underpinned by disciplined 
capital allocation and organic 
growth options in the right 
products.”

Duncan Wanblad
Chief Executive

06

Anglo American plc
Integrated Annual Report 2023

Strategic Report 
Chief Executive’s statement

A safer, smarter future for mining

We are focused on delivering 
sustainable value through 
operational excellence, our 
differentiated capabilities and 
proactive portfolio choices.

Safety – our first priority
We are unconditional about safety and strive 
continuously to create a workplace where 
every colleague returns home safe and well 
at the end of their working day. ‘Always safe’ 
is our safety vision, and safety is our number 
one value and priority. While our emphasis 
on leadership time in the field helped us 
achieve our best ever total recordable 
injury frequency rate in 2023, it was deeply 
saddening that three colleagues died in the 
year following two accidents at our managed 
operations: at our Kumba Iron Ore business 
and at our Los Bronces copper operation in 
Chile. We extend our deepest condolences to 
their families, friends and colleagues.

In addition to rigorously investigating each 
of these tragic incidents, we are committed 
to sharing the learnings both internally and 
across the industry so that action can be 
taken to help prevent repeats. We are also 
continuing to implement our targeted safety 
strategy, investing in systems and technology, 
standards, and training our people, with a 
particular focus on leaders spending time in 
the field with their teams.

2023 – a volatile backdrop
Over the past 12 months the macro picture 
across geopolitics and the global economy 
has certainly been volatile, with prolonged 
inflationary pressure that has continued to 
impact costs across our industry. Coupled 
with cyclical lows for our PGMs and diamonds 

businesses and temporary operational 
challenges at Kumba, due to third-party rail 
constraints, and at Los Bronces, we have 
reoriented our production profile due to 
lower grades to focus on safe, profitable 
and repeatable volumes. We are ensuring 
that Anglo American is set up to be resilient 
over the longer term to seize the tremendous 
growth opportunities presented by the quality 
of our resource endowments and the major 
demand trends.

We are implementing the right set of actions 
to enhance value both now and longer 
term. By doing so, we are positioned to 
capitalise on our attractive suite of products 
that play such a critical role in enabling: 
decarbonisation; improving global living 
standards; and food security. From the 
foundations of renewed stability and value-
led discipline, the long term outlook has rarely 
looked better.

Focus on value to enhance returns 
Operational stability and cost control 
represent our biggest margin levers, 
supported by sustainable production plans 
that prioritise value over volume and thereby 
enhance margins and returns. Our focus 
has been on achieving safe, repeatable and 
consistent operational performance and 
working towards positioning the majority 
of our assets squarely in the first half of 
their respective cost curves. Against that 
backdrop, we expect to reduce annual run 
rate costs by c.$1 billion and capital spend 
by $1.6 billion over the next three years, while 
also cutting out unprofitable volumes.

We have streamlined our global business 
support activities, removing duplication and 
layers, enabling more effective decision 
making and more efficient service delivery. 

By resetting organisational design, we 
have moved decision making closer to 
the operations to improve both agility and 
accountability and reduce duplication, 
resulting in a 25% reduction in the cost of 
senior head office roles. As part of these 
streamlining initiatives, we have significantly 
concentrated our focus onto those 
technologies and other capabilities that 
bring most benefit to our operations, thereby 
optimising the benefits from our investment in 
FutureSmart Mining™ of recent years.

Operationally, in Chile, for example, we 
are working through a more constrained 
phase of the mine plan and are aiming to 
improve cash flow by reducing production 
and moving to use only the larger and more 
efficient of the two copper concentrators at 
Los Bronces. This is expected to reduce both 
operating and capital costs for the asset 
while preserving optionality for when we are 
through this constrained phase of the mine 
plan. In PGMs, we are focusing on higher 
margin own production through our world 
class processing assets. While in Australia, 
our focus for Steelmaking Coal is on safe and 
stable operations in line with new operating 
protocols and ongoing challenging ground 
conditions at Moranbah.

For 2023 as a whole, we were delighted to 
see our new Quellaveco copper operation 
in Peru ramp up to full capacity in the fourth 
quarter, while ore grades at our copper 
assets in Chile and in nickel were lower, 
as expected. Operationally, both PGMs 
and De Beers performed solidly, albeit 
with downstream prices at cyclical lows. 
Minas-Rio set a number of performance 
records, while Kumba also performed well 
operationally – though limited by third-party 
rail availability.

Group underlying EBITDA decreased by 
31% to $10.0 billion (2022: $14.5 billion), 
reflecting a 13% lower basket price for our 
products and a 4% unit cost increase – a 
strong cost performance that beat inflation. 
Against this backdrop, we delivered a 
return on capital employed of 16% and a 
mining EBITDA margin of 39%. Net debt 
increasing to $10.6 billion, 1.1 x underlying 
EBITDA, reflects the portfolio investments 
we are making in line with our belief in the 
strong long term fundamentals, and a build 
in working capital of $1.2 billion at the year 
end. Reflecting our latest market view of 
global GDP growth and consumer demand, 
we have written down the book value of 
De Beers by $1.6 billion, principally relating to 
goodwill, while also impairing the value of our 
nickel asset in Brazil, Barro Alto, by $0.8 billion. 
Our $1.2 billion total dividend of $0.96 per 
share is in line with our 40% payout policy.

World class portfolio offering growth in the 
right products
We actively manage the portfolio – always 
led by value – to continuously improve 
its overall quality, reduce complexities, 
and ensure that capital is allocated to the 
most value-accretive assets and growth 
opportunities, including those with industry 
partners in respect of adjacent assets where 
there is significant value to be unlocked. 
Each of our assets must pull its weight 
in playing a dynamic role to support the 
portfolio as a whole.

While most industry voice is generally given 
to the metals needed for the increasingly 
urgent transition to cleaner energy, we 
should not forget that uplifting global living 
standards for a still fast growing global 
population requires an unprecedented level 
of economic development. This underlying 
driver will continue to represent the baseload 
of demand growth – with copper and the 
high quality steelmaking ingredients of iron 
ore, steelmaking coal and manganese front 
and centre.

Chief Executive’s statement

Similarly, to feed and provide improved 
nutrition to the world’s population will require 
unparalleled volumes of more effective and 
environmentally sustainable fertiliser – a 
need that we will be well placed to fill as we 
develop a crop nutrients business around a 
truly differentiated product from Woodsmith. 
As we progress Woodsmith’s development 
towards Board approval and continue to firm 
up our views on the enormous potential of our 
product in the market, so we are taking steps 
to identify potential syndication partners 
with a focus on keeping our investment in 
Woodsmith proportionate. This is consistent 
with our approach in relation to multi-billion 
dollar greenfield projects, being to develop 
one at a time and to syndicate for value at 
the right time, as we did with Quellaveco.

Sustainability key to unlocking 
opportunities
One of our greatest challenges as an 
industry is to bridge the clear gap between 
increasing recognition of the need for ever 
greater volumes of mined materials and 
society’s acceptance of the activity required 
to produce them. Our experience in delivering 
improved sustainability outcomes from 
successful projects such as Quellaveco is 
part of the solution and is integral to how we 
make our strategic and investment choices – 
across our current operations and projects in 
design and development – and to unlocking 
enduring value for all our stakeholders.

Building on our FutureSmart MiningTM 
blueprint we established at Quellaveco, 
we are deploying the next generation of 
technology and sustainability innovation at 
Woodsmith, setting a new benchmark for 
modern mining – out of sight, safe, reliable, 
and catering to our customers’ and society’s 
needs. Likewise, we then expect to take these 
learnings to our polymetallic project – Sakatti, 
in Finland, for which we received the all-
important environmental impact assessment 
approval in August 2023. Sakatti is set to be a 

remotely operated, low carbon underground 
mine, thereby contributing to a sustainable 
supply of critical minerals to support the 
energy transition in Finland and the EU. We 
see such capabilities as essential to our and 
the mining industry’s ability to successfully 
develop new supply, particularly as orebodies 
dictate that we operate in more complex 
socio-economic and environmentally 
sensitive areas.

In parallel, we are also moving towards our 
goal of carbon neutral operations by 2040, 
evolving our pathways as we progress, learn, 
and as technologies develop. We have 
transitioned to 100% renewable electricity 
supply across our South America operations, 
with Australia to follow in 2025. In southern 
Africa, where renewable alternatives are not 
yet available at any scale, we are making 
good progress in partnership with EDF 
Renewables to build a 3–5 GW renewable 
energy ecosystem of wind and solar 
generation capacity, designed to tackle 
our largest remaining source of Scope 2 
emissions and support energy reliability and 
grid resilience.

An inclusive and rewarding workplace for 
our people
Our people are critical to all that we do, and 
always front of mind are their safety and 
health, employees and contractors alike. 
We believe, too, in creating an inclusive 
workplace where every colleague can 
bring their whole self to work and fulfil 
their potential. We have a robust strategic 
approach in place which focuses on valuing 
and respecting our diverse colleagues, 
inclusive leadership, providing an involving, 
fair and supportive workplace and having 
a safe, effective and enabling work 
environment.

This year we were awarded a Living Wage 
accreditation that formally recognises 
Anglo American’s status as a committed 

07

global Living Wage employer. We are 
the first mining company to reach this 
milestone. Similarly, I was also pleased that 
Anglo American was recognised in the 
Inclusive Top 50 UK Employers in 2023 for the 
fifth year in a row. 

Outlook
We have fundamentally reorganised and 
reoriented the business during 2023, 
including to shift our production mindset 
to one that is driven by value rather than 
volume and with plans that are both safety-
led and deliverable repeatedly. We have 
been systematically reviewing our assets 
and organisation over the last 18 months to 
drive greater effectiveness and sustainable 
performance in the face of the uncertain 
macro picture that has been emerging – 
and which has had a particularly significant 
impact on PGMs and diamonds.

The actions we have taken combine specific 
asset performance plans and Group-
wide initiatives that we believe will offer 
an evergreen investment proposition that 
generates attractive returns through the 
cycle. Together with our technical capabilities 
and our approach to sustainability, we are 
setting ourselves up to deliver significant 
value upside from our current assets and 
our considerable growth options that are 
concentrated in copper, crop nutrients and 
high quality iron ore, given the structurally 
attractive fundamentals presented by the 
major demand trends.

I’d like to thank the Board for its unwavering 
support and all our workforce for their hard 
work and resilience over the past year. 

Duncan Wanblad
Chief Executive

Strategic Report Integrated Annual Report 2023Anglo American plc08

Anglo American plc
Integrated Annual Report 2023

Strategic Report 

Our business model

Anglo American draws upon a number of key inputs that, through targeted 
allocation, development, extraction and marketing, create sustainable value 
for our shareholders and our diverse range of stakeholders. 

Our inputs

Our value chain

Outputs

Ore Reserves and Mineral Resources
Our high quality, long life mineral assets provide a 
range of organic options for long term value delivery.

Discover

Other natural resources
We aim to effectively manage the water and energy 
requirements of our mining and processing activities.

End of life 
plan

Plan and 
build

Know-how
We use our industry-leading technical, sustainability 
and market knowledge to realise optimal value from 
our assets.

Plant and equipment
We form strong relationships with suppliers, many of 
whom are located in the countries where we operate, 
to deliver tailored equipment and operating solutions.

Financial
A strong focus on productivity, cost discipline 
and working capital management helps deliver 
sustainable positive cash flows, with balanced capital 
allocation to optimise returns.

We invest in those parts of the value 
chain that provide us with the best return 
on our investment, holding ourselves to 
the highest standards through our holistic 
and integrated approach to sustainable 
business practices.

Move and 
market

Mine

We deliver many of the metals and minerals that 
enable a cleaner, greener, more sustainable world 
and that meet the fast growing consumer demands 
of developed and maturing economies. We strive to 
minimise our environmental footprint through our use 
of technologies and bring enduring social benefits 
through our approach, encompassed in our ambitious 
Sustainable Mining Plan. 

Attributable free cash flow

$(1.4) bn
CO2 equivalent emissions 
(Scope 1 and 2)
12.5 Mt

Production in 2023
– Copper: 826 kt
– Nickel (from Nickel and 

PGMs): 61.8 kt

– Platinum: 1,749 koz refined 
– Palladium: 1,269 koz refined 

Group attributable ROCE
16%
Mined product shipped 
by our fleet

>75 Mt

– Rhodium: 226 koz refined
– Diamonds: 31.9 Mct
– Iron ore: 59.9 Mt
– Steelmaking coal: 16.0 Mt 
– Manganese ore: 3.7Mt

Process

▶  For more on the value we create for stakeholders 

See pages 11–13

Governance
Our governance controls ensure we respond effectively to those 
matters that have the potential to cause financial, operational or 
reputational harm, while acting ethically and with integrity.

▶  For more information See pages 139–177

Materiality and risk
Identifying and understanding our material matters and risks is 
critical in the development and delivery of our strategy.

▶  For more information See pages 20–23

How we measure the value we create

Safety 
and health

Socio-political

Environment

People

Stakeholder engagement
Open and honest engagement with our stakeholders is critical 
in gaining and maintaining our social and regulatory licences to 
operate. Working within our social performance framework, it is 
our goal to build and sustain constructive relationships with host 
communities and countries that are based on mutual respect, 
transparency and trust.

▶  For more information See pages 16–19

Production

Cost

Financial

▶  For our pillars of value See pages 86–89

Anglo American plc
Integrated Annual Report 2023

Strategic Report 

Our value chain

Across every aspect of our value chain, we are thinking innovatively about 
how we work to ensure the safety of our people, enhance our sustainability 
performance, and deliver industry-leading margins and returns.

09

Discover
Our geologists search for and discover new sources of 
the minerals that make our modern lives possible. We 
benefit from developing and using world class expertise 
and leading technologies, often that we have developed 
ourselves, to find deposits we can develop and mine in a 
safe and sustainable way.

Plan and build
Before we put a spade in the ground, our geologists 
and engineers work together using virtual mine 
planning systems to design the most effective, cost-
efficient and environmentally sound construction and 
operational mine plan.

Process
By processing, converting and refining our raw materials, 
we produce what our customers need and value. Our 
processing technologies also enable us to reduce energy 
and waste, recycle more water, increase efficiency, drive 
innovation and, by adding value to our products, further 
support economic activity in the areas we mine.

Mine
In extracting the products that we all need in our daily 
lives, we draw on over 100 years of mining experience. 
Safety comes first: our whole way of working is focused 
on keeping our people safe. We plan for the lifecycle of 
the mine and beyond and use our own technologies for 
reducing waste and protecting environments.

Move and market
After processing, we then transport our metals and minerals to where 
they are needed, to our customers. We use the latest technologies 
to co-ordinate and optimise our global shipping needs. And we use 
our scale and detailed knowledge of the demand and uses for our 
products to offer our customers a reliable supply, tailored to their 
requirements and expectations – adding value for them every step 
of the way and, ultimately, for billions of consumers who rely on our 
products every day.

End of life plan
We don’t only plan for the lifecycle of the mine – we 
also take great care to look beyond and determine the 
rehabilitation of the site and the real benefits that will help 
sustain local communities, long after the site is closed.

10

Anglo American plc
Integrated Annual Report 2023

Strategic Report 

Purpose to value

We are guided by our Purpose – re-imagining mining to improve people’s 
lives – to deliver sustainable value for all our stakeholders.

Our Purpose

Our Strategy

Value

Re-imagining 
mining to improve 
people’s lives

Transforming the very nature of 
mining for a safer, smarter, more 
sustainable future.

Our Values
Anglo American’s Values and behaviours 
are at the heart of everything we do. Guided 
by our Purpose and our Values, we enable 
high performance and purposeful action. 
Our Values and the way in which we, as 
individuals, are expected to behave are the 
foundation of our Code of Conduct.

Portfolio

Re-imagining 
mining to improve 
people’s lives

Innovation

People

Guided by our Purpose, our strategy is to 
secure, develop and operate a portfolio 
of high quality and long life mineral 
assets, from which we aim to deliver 
sustainable shareholder returns. We 
achieve this through innovative practices 
and technologies built upon the 
foundations of operational excellence – 
in the hands of our world class people.

Capital allocation

Underpinning our strategy, we have a value-
focused approach to capital allocation, with 
clear prioritisation. Our Sustainable Mining 
Plan outlines ambitious targets that our 
projects must support to ensure a Healthy 
Environment, Thriving Communities and our 
position as a Trusted Corporate Leader.

 ▶ For more on capital allocation

See pages 76–78

Measuring delivery of our strategy

We track our strategic progress holistically – spanning 
non-financial and financial performance using KPIs 
that are based on our seven pillars of value:

People
To create a sustainable competitive advantage 
through capable people and an effective, 
purpose-led, high performance culture

Safety and Health
To ensure our workforce is safe and healthier for 
working with us

Production
To supply and increase volumes of 
profitable products for our customers

Delivering sustainable value 
for all our stakeholders

We are working together to generate 
sustainable and competitive 
shareholder returns by developing 
better jobs, better businesses and 
better education, building brighter and 
healthier futures around our operations 
in host countries and ultimately for 
billions of people who depend on our 
products every day.

– Investors

– Workforce

– Suppliers

– Customers

– Communities

– Host countries

– Natural environment

Balanced reward

Anglo American’s directors’ 
remuneration policy is designed to 
encourage delivery of the Group’s 
strategy and creation of stakeholder 
value in a responsible and sustainable 
manner, aligned to our Purpose. 

The main elements of the remuneration 
package are basic salary, annual bonus 
and Long Term Incentive Plan (LTIP).

Environment
To have a net positive and sustainable impact on 
climate change, water and the natural environment

Cost
To continuously improve our margins and 
competitive position through operational excellence

 ▶ For more on remuneration 
See pages 178–211

Socio-political
To build thriving communities and develop trust as a 
corporate leader

Financial
To deliver industry-leading sustainable returns to 
our shareholders

Creating value for 
our stakeholders

Anglo American is re-imagining mining to 
improve people’s lives.

Mining has a safer, smarter, more sustainable future. 
Using more precise technologies, less energy and 
less water, we aim to reduce our environmental 
footprint for every ounce, carat and kilogram of 
precious metal or mineral.

We are combining smart innovation with operational 
excellence and the utmost consideration for our 
people, their families, local communities, our 
customers and the world at large – to better connect 
precious resources in the ground to all of us who 
need and value them.

And we are working together to develop better jobs, 
better education and better businesses, building 
brighter and healthier futures around our operations 
in host countries and ultimately for billions of people 
around the world who depend on our products 
every day.

Our metals and minerals help unlock a cleaner 
future for our planet and help meet the needs of a 
growing population, from homes and electronics, 
to food and luxuries – these are future-enabling 
products.

11

Investors

Workforce

Delivering sustainable financial returns

Underpinning our strategy, we have a value-focused 
approach to capital allocation, with clear prioritisation: 
sustaining capital to maintain asset integrity; 
payment of base dividends; and then the allocation 
of discretionary capital to either growth investments, 
upgrades to our portfolio, or additional returns to 
shareholders.

▶  For more information

Visit angloamerican.com/investors

People are at the heart of our business, and that 
means our first priority is always workforce safety

Our people are critical to all that we do. And always 
front of mind is the safety and health of our employees 
and contractors; we train, equip and empower our 
people to work safely every day. We believe, too, that 
creating an inclusive and diverse working environment 
and culture that encourages and supports high 
performance and innovative thinking gives our 
business a competitive advantage.

▶  For more information

Visit angloamerican.com/employees

$1.2 bn

$4.1 bn

Total returns to shareholders

Total wages and benefits paid

*  Calculated using average share price of 

$30.69 for the year ended 31 December 2023.

4.2%*

Dividend yield

Strategic Report Integrated Annual Report 2023Anglo American plc12

Anglo American plc
Integrated Annual Report 2023

Strategic Report 
Creating value for our stakeholders

Communities

Natural environment

Suppliers

Helping to create thriving communities

Protecting our natural environment

Responsible sourcing aligned to our Purpose

We are committed to delivering a lasting, positive 
contribution to host communities, beyond the life 
of our mines. This starts with understanding and 
responding to their needs and priorities. We manage 
the relationship with host communities through our 
social performance system, the Social Way, and aim 
to drive shared value through our Sustainable Mining 
Plan commitments.

We apply holistic thinking to address the 
interconnectivity of nature, the environment and 
the ecosystems in which we operate as we work 
towards delivering positive biodiversity outcomes 
and addressing global challenges such as 
climate change.

Some of the targets we have set include:

Our approach to responsible sourcing defines the 
minimum sustainability requirements and decent 
work principles required by our 13,000+ suppliers. 
Our vision is to create a more inclusive supply chain 
as we seek to generate more equitably shared and 
sustainable prosperity in host countries, where over 
70,000 jobs are supported by our procurement 
worldwide.

▶  For more information
Go to pages 60–65

–  To be carbon neutral across our operations 
(Scope 1 and 2 GHG emissions) by 2040

▶  For more information
Go to pages 64–65

$148 m

Total Community Social Investment (CSI)

139,308

Total number of jobs supported off site

–  Net-positive biodiversity outcomes across our 

managed operations

–  Reducing absolute fresh water withdrawals by 
50% in water scarce areas by 2030, relative to 
the 2015 baseline.

$13.0 bn

spent with local suppliers in 2023

91%

of total supplier spend of $14.4 bn

Creating value for our stakeholders

13

Stay up to date
For more on our performance in the year, see the video link.
Visit youtube.com/watch?v=XFbvv9KvAbs 

Customers

Host countries

Understanding our customers’ needs 

Playing our role in society

We work closely with our customers, who are 
increasingly interested in sourcing responsibly 
mined materials. In 2022, we met our Sustainable 
Mining Plan target of 50% of our mining 
operations to be audited against recognised 
responsible mining certification systems and 
are on course to have all our operations audited 
by 2025. In 2023, our Minas-RIo iron ore and 
Barro Alto nickel mines in Brazil were assessed 
against the Initiative for Responsible Mining 
Assurance’s (IRMA) mining standard, achieving 
the IRMA 75 level of performance. In South 
Africa, our Amandelbult and Mototolo PGMs 
mines scored IRMA 50 and 75, respectively.  In 
addition, two operations have undergone the 
Responsible Jewellery Council certification and 
we have adopted the Copper Mark certification 
at Los Bronces and El Soldado.

▶  For more information

Visit angloamerican.com/about-us

Anglo American contributes to economies and 
society both directly and indirectly, through the taxes 
and royalties we pay, the jobs we create, the local 
workforces we upskill, the local business opportunities 
we generate, and the education and community 
health initiatives we support.

▶  For more information

See our Sustainability Report 2023

$5.1 bn

Total taxes and royalties borne and taxes collected

▶  For more information

See our Tax and Economic Contribution Report 2023

Strategic Report Integrated Annual Report 2023Anglo American plc14

Anglo American plc
Integrated Annual Report 2023

Strategic Report 

How we 
make 
decisions

In line with best-practice 
corporate reporting, 
Anglo American’s Integrated 
Annual Report includes a 
comprehensive assessment of 
the principal risks we face, as 
well as those matters that we and 
our stakeholders believe have a 
material bearing on the success 
of the business in the near and 
long term – beginning with safety 
and environmental sustainability.

By engaging with our stakeholders and 
being aware of their perspectives, and 
by understanding the risks we know 
we face, we are better placed to make 
informed decisions that help support 
the delivery of our strategy.

Insightful and considered strategic 
decision making

Insights

Strategy

Board review

Capital allocation

Stakeholder 
engagement and 
topics raised
▶  See pages 16–19

Material matters
▶  See pages 20–23

Global trends 
▶  See pages 24–28

Principal risks
▶  See pages 79–85

To secure, develop and 
operate a portfolio of high 
quality and long life mineral 
assets, from which we will 
deliver leading shareholder 
returns. We achieve 
this through innovative 
practices and technologies 
built upon the foundations 
of operational excellence 
– in the hands of our world 
class people – towards our 
common Purpose.

 ▶ For more on our Strategy

See page 10

Underpinning our strategy, 
we have a value-focused 
approach to capital allocation, 
with clear prioritisation: 
sustaining capital to maintain 
asset integrity; payment of 
base dividends; and then the 
allocation of discretionary 
capital to either growth 
investments, upgrades to our 
portfolio, or additional returns 
to shareholders. All of our 
capital allocation decisions 
consider sustainability issues 
and impacts.

 ▶ For more information on our capital 

allocation approach
See pages 76–78

–  Chief executive and the 

Executive Leadership Team 
formulate the Group’s long 
term strategy. 

–  In addition to regular 

discussion on strategic topics, 
the Board dedicates a full 
meeting to a discussion of the 
Group’s strategy, addressing 
critical short, medium and 
long term issues.

–  Board approves critical 
strategic decisions and 
endorses the Group’s 
strategy.

–  Board reviews progress 

of delivery of the Group’s 
strategic goals, as well as 
periodic business strategic 
reviews.

 ▶ For more on Board activity
See pages 153–155

How we make decisions

15

The duties of directors with regard to 
ensuring there is effective dialogue between 
the Group and its shareholders and 
stakeholders are broadening in scope, while 
society’s expectations of company boards 
also continue to grow. At Anglo American, 
those matters considered by the Board 
and our stakeholders to be of material 
importance, and the views of our 
stakeholders in relation to those matters, 
are integral to the Board’s discussions and 
decision making, including in relation to the 
Group’s strategy and its evolution.

Determining what is important
Identifying and evaluating matters that are of 
common material interest to our stakeholders 
and to our business, and understanding 
how they may affect our ability to create 
value over time, are integral to our planning 
processes and help support the delivery of 
Anglo American’s strategy.

At the heart of decision making
Consideration of the wide spectrum of 
stakeholder and environmental interests 
is firmly embedded into Anglo American’s 
culture, governance structures and 
management systems and is guided by 
our Purpose. Stakeholder concerns and 
considerations therefore feature prominently 
in the discussions of our Board meetings and 
those of its committees.

The Board, through its role in setting the 
tone from the top, provides leadership to 
the Group and is responsible for promoting 
and safeguarding the long term success 
of the business, supporting the Executive 
Leadership Team in its formulation and 
implementation of the Group’s strategy.

Chairman Stuart Chambers (left) in conversation with Crop Nutrients CEO Tom McCulley during 
the Board’s visit to the Woodsmith site in north east England in September 2023.

Strategic Report Integrated Annual Report 2023Anglo American plc16

Anglo American plc
Integrated Annual Report 2023

Strategic Report 

Understanding our 
stakeholders

Healthy stakeholder relationships help us to better engage about how our 
business decisions, activities and performance are likely to affect or be 
of significant interest to our stakeholders, and provide the opportunity to 
co-create effective and lasting solutions to business and other challenges.

Investors
Our shareholders own the business, and 
their continued support is key to its long 
term sustainability. Regular meetings and 
occasional site visits with the investor and 
financial analyst community inform and help 
to shape our strategy, including our value-
based approach to capital allocation.

Employees
Our people are critical to all that we do and 
are essential to our commercial success. 
We have more than 90,000 employees and 
contractors working for us around the world. 
We support labour rights, including the right 
to freedom of association and collective 
bargaining.

Communities
Building mutually respectful relations with 
the communities around our operations is 
essential to gaining and maintaining our 
licence to operate. We strive to deliver long 
term and sustainable economic growth 
and social progress to host communities, 
including beyond the life of our mine. 

Suppliers and contractors
We work with suppliers to deliver tailored 
equipment, services and other solutions to 
enable best-in-class operating performance 
while remaining cost competitive. Our 
responsible sourcing programme defines the 
sustainability requirements expected of our 
13,000+ suppliers.

Customers
We work closely with our customers to 
address their raw material needs in a way 
that is tailored to their requirements and 
expectations. With presence across key 
commercial hubs and close market contact, 
we have the industry understanding to 
provide the solutions customers want.

Civil society (NGOs, faith groups 
and academia)
Engagement with the elements that make 
up civil society brings a unique ethical and 
sustainability lens to our business. The cross-
sector relationships we forge with NGOs 
and other groups enable us to be a more 
responsive and effective development player. 

Governments and multilateral institutions
Our proactive relationships at local, national 
and international levels help us to be more 
effective in understanding areas of mutual 
interest and priority, including in relation to 
the evolution of regulation and permitting, 
infrastructure financing and debottlenecking, 
and maintaining our licence to operate. 

Industry associations
Our advocacy role on the international stage, 
including our work with industry related 
organisations ranging from IRMA and the 
TNFD, to the Minerals Councils of South Africa 
and Australia, is helping to make mining safer, 
cleaner, more sustainable and more attuned 
to the modern world’s expectations of the 
mining industry of the future.

Understanding our stakeholders

17

Investors

How we engage

Employees

How we engage

Communities

How we engage

The Group, through its investor relations team, has an 
active engagement programme with its key financial 
audiences, including institutional shareholders. In 
October 2023, the investor relations team also hosted a 
site visit to our Woodsmith polyhalite fertiliser project for 
sell-side analysts and our largest shareholders. 

Significant concerns raised by a shareholder are 
communicated to the Board. The Board receives a 
briefing at each meeting from the investor relations 
team. The chairman also hosts meetings with some of 
the Company’s largest institutional investors through 
the year.

What was important to our stakeholders in the year

–  Operational performance (including safety)

–  Near-term outlook for our products

The Group undertakes global employee engagement 
surveys, the results of which are communicated to the 
Executive Leadership Team and the Board. The Group’s 
Global Workforce Advisory Panel meets during the 
year to discuss a range of topics. Feedback from the 
meetings is shared with the Board and the Executive 
Leadership Team.

Every business has formal points of contact for union 
engagement, and material matters are routinely 
reported to various boards. In 2023, we had one 
dialogue session with IndustriALL Global Union. In South 
Africa, our Tripartite structure (comprising South African 
businesses, recognised trade unions, the Department 
of Mineral and Energy Resources and industry councils) 
met to continue its focus on topics primarily related to 
health and safety. A similar structure has been formed at 
our Steelmaking Coal business in Australia. 

–  Sustainability, including climate change (strategy, 

targets and progress), water, nature and biodiversity, 
and safety

What was important to our stakeholders in the year

–  Physical and psychological safety and health

–  Progress of major projects, including Woodsmith

–  Job security

–  Executive management transition

–  Organisation and workforce restructuring

–  The future of work

Our Social Way engagement requirements and 
commitment to local accountability that forms part of 
our Sustainable Mining Plan are at the heart of how 
we engage with local communities. We aim to always 
engage proactively, meaningfully and respectfully 
with all of our stakeholders in relation to impacts and 
risk and to maximise socio-economic development 
opportunities. The principles of informed consultation 
and participation are at the heart of our stakeholder 
engagement activities, focusing on an in-depth 
exchange of views and information in an organised and 
iterative process that is tailored to different stakeholders, 
including vulnerable groups. 

The Sustainability Committee receives a report on 
social performance and community issues at each 
meeting. The Board is also updated via presentations 
from business leaders and visits operations, which 
usually include engagement with local community 
representatives.

The Social Way Policy sets out requirements for the 
management of grievances and incidents with social 
consequences. All incidents with Level 4–5 social 
consequences are reported to, and discussed by, 
the Board.

What was important to our stakeholders in the year

–  Community health and safety

–  Livelihoods and job creation

–  Land access, displacement and resettlement

–  Local accountability forums

–  Grievances and incidents with social consequences

–  Cultural heritage

–  Collaboration in emergency preparedness planning

Strategic Report Integrated Annual Report 2023Anglo American plc18

Anglo American plc
Integrated Annual Report 2023

Strategic Report 
Understanding our stakeholders

Suppliers and contractors

Civil society (NGOs, faith groups and 
academia)

How we engage

How we engage

Customers

How we engage

The Group engages with suppliers through several 
channels, including: supplier events; host community 
procurement forums; supplier capability development 
initiatives; various digital platforms; and our responsible 
sourcing programme.

Material matters are reported to the Board through 
the chief executive’s reports. Material supply contracts 
are approved by the Board. Reports to the Board 
from business leaders contain updates on contractor 
management.

What was important to our stakeholders in the year

–  How to mitigate the risk of modern slavery and labour 

rights abuses within the supplier network

–  Stimulating local manufacture of mining goods 

and increasing procurement opportunities for host 
community suppliers

The Group’s engagement includes one-on-one 
interactions (including with Executive Leadership Team 
members); various multi-stakeholder initiatives and 
partnerships; addresses at civil society gatherings; 
and open and ongoing dialogue on tax transparency, 
the future of resource taxation and responsible mining 
practices. The Group hosts accountability dialogues on 
the UN’s Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), which 
bring together a cross-section of stakeholders around 
our performance related to SDGs. Any key concerns or 
trends from these engagements are reported to relevant 
executive and/or Board structures.

Anglo American participates in the global Mining and 
Faith Reflections Initiative and the South African multi-
faith ‘courageous conversations’ initiative, and also 
has longstanding partnerships with NGOs such as 
TechnoServe, Fauna & Flora International, Right to Care, 
HBGI and The Global Fund.

–  Promoting transparency and access to information

What was important to our stakeholders in the year

–  Protecting the safety, health, well-being, human rights 

–  Climate change and Just Transition

and dignity of workers employed by contracting 
companies and suppliers

–  Understanding how suppliers can help us meet our 

Sustainable Mining Plan goals including commitments 
to decarbonisation to meet our Scope 3 ambitions

–  Respect for human rights

–  The future of resource taxation

–  Our impact on water and biodiversity

–  Avoiding/mitigating environmental harm

–  Investing in social and community development

–  Industry transparency and reporting initiatives

–  Critical raw materials supply chains

–  Ethical value chains/product provenance

–  Free, prior and informed consent

Our Marketing business engages with customers 
through direct personal engagements and via business 
and industry forums.

The CEO of Marketing provides an annual update to the 
Board on the Group’s marketing strategy and activities, 
including customer engagement. The Board also 
receives a regular update on commodity markets from 
the Marketing team.

What was important to our stakeholders in the year

–  Delivery of product on agreed timing and terms

–  Decarbonisation roadmap and carbon management 

solutions

–  Assurance that products have been responsibly mined 

or sourced

–  Collaboration opportunities

–  Participation in responsible mining certification 

systems

–  Price risk management in an inflationary environment

–  Continued engagement around key industry shifts

 
Understanding our stakeholders

19

Governments and multilateral 
institutions

Industry associations

How we engage

How we engage

The Group participates in more than 130 industry 
associations worldwide. An audit of our memberships 
is undertaken and published biennially. The Group’s 
participation is directed by our Government and 
International Relations Policy. The chief executive reports 
any matters of significance to the Board.

What was important to our stakeholders in the year

–  Contributing constructively in business initiatives, with 
the aim of enhancing the collective business interest

–  Contributing to shared responses to challenges faced 
by governments and societies in host jurisdictions and 
markets

–  General knowledge sharing on our approach to 

managing material issues

The Group engages proactively with host governments 
at both local and national levels, as well as with 
other governments in countries of strategic interest 
– both directly and through industry bodies, and via 
participation in inter-governmental and multilateral 
processes.

The Board receives regular updates on key geopolitical 
factors relevant to the Group’s operating and broader 
strategic interests, as well as updates on government 
engagements.

What was important to our stakeholders in the year

–  Stable, secure supply of responsibly sourced 

critical raw materials for the energy transition in an 
increasingly challenging geopolitical context

–  Wider sustainability and development agenda, 

including climate change

–  Contribution to national and international 

developmental priorities

–  Taxation policy, including national and international tax 
reforms related to digitalisation, globalisation and the 
environment against a backdrop of challenging fiscal 
scenarios for many governments

–  Permitting of new technology for transformational 

change

–  Compliance with mining licence and related 

requirements

Supervisors Jimmy Ip Lam (left) and Cristobal Ortiz at our 
Integrated Remote Operation Centre (IROC) in Santiago, Chile, 
which enables operation at Los Bronces copper mine, 67 km away, 
to be controlled in an integrated way, and in real time.

Strategic Report Integrated Annual Report 2023Anglo American plc20

Anglo American plc
Integrated Annual Report 2023

Strategic Report 

Our material matters

Determining what is important
Identifying and evaluating matters that are of common material interest to our 
stakeholders and to our business, and understanding how they may affect our 
ability to create value over time, are integral to our planning processes and help 
support the delivery of Anglo American’s strategy.

We identify our material matters through an 
externally facilitated materiality assessment, 
which we expect to carry out every two to 
three years. 

In previous years, we have sought to identify 
economic, social and environmental factors 
that were important to both Anglo American 
and our stakeholders. This year, however, 
we conducted a robust, stakeholder-driven 
double materiality assessment that seeks to 
capture the key material issues that impact 
society and the environment (external) and 
impact Anglo American (internal).

In 2023, our materiality assessment 
incorporated externally facilitated in-depth 
interviews with a range of internal and 
external stakeholders, supplemented by 
an internal survey sent to managers across 
the Group, and extensive desktop research. 
A third-party-led validation workshop then 
took place where subject matter experts were 
asked to validate the matters identified as 
most impactful on both Anglo American and 
wider society. The final materiality matrix was 
then approved by the Group‘s leadership and 
the Board.

Understanding our stakeholders
Healthy stakeholder relationships help us 
to better communicate how our business 
decisions, activities and performance are 
likely to affect or be of significant interest to 
our stakeholders, and provide the opportunity 
to co-create effective and lasting solutions to 
business and other challenges.

Anglo American’s stakeholders include host 
communities, governments, our workforce, 
customers, business partners, multinational 
organisations, industry peers, broader civil 
society, trade unions, trade associations and 
suppliers, in addition to our shareholders who 
own the business. In some instances, we work 
with representatives from multi-stakeholder 
initiatives to provide a more collaborative and 
holistic view on the issues facing our industry.

Beyond the materiality process, we 
continually engage with our stakeholders at 
global, national and local levels to develop 
long term mutually beneficial relationships 
and respond to society’s most pressing 
challenges.

 ▶ For more information on how we engage with our 

stakeholders
See pages 16–19

Our material matters

21

H
G
H

I

t
c
a
p
m

I

l

i

a
c
o
S
/

l

a

t
n
e
m
n
o
r
i
v
n
E

Material matters in 2023
The matters identified through our materiality 
process are naturally numerous and wide-
ranging and can cover a number of topics 
and issues. Some also intersect with specific 
principal risks facing the Group, as identified 
in the Group Risk Register. Principal risks 
are those risks, or combination of risks, 
that would threaten the business model, 
future performance, solvency or liquidity of 
Anglo American and are shown with the 
following symbol (‡). 

 ▶ For more information on our principal risks

See pages 81–85

The material matters shown in the matrix 
are those that relate to sustainability 
outcomes, including across the three pillars of 
environment, social and governance (ESG). 
We are aware that there are numerous 
macro-economic and operational factors 
that can also impact both our stakeholders 
and Anglo American and these are 
discussed fully in the following pages of the 
Strategic Report:

▶  Looking at global trends see pages 24–28

▶  Group financial review see pages 90–93

▶  Business performance reviews see pages 94–129

Economic impact on 
producer countries

Proactive policy 
advocacy approach

Diversity, equity and inclusion

Mineral residue 
management

Economic development 
of communities

Climate resilience/ 
adaptation‡

Attraction, retention 
and engagement 
of workforce

Community and 
indigenous rights

Human and 
labour rights

Community health 
and education 
development

Resource 
re-use/recycling

Biodiversity 
and land 
management

Community consultation 
and engagement‡

Greenhouse gas 
emissions and 
renewable energy‡

Water use, quality 
and availability‡

Safety, health and 
well-being of the 
workforce

Responsible mine closure 
and regeneration

Training and upskilling 
opportunities

W
O
L

LOW

Responsible 
product offering

Responsible 
supply chain

Business ethics, 
governance, 
transparency

Business Impact

Bribery and 
corruption‡

Cybersecurity 
and data privacy‡

HIGH

Strategic Report Integrated Annual Report 2023Anglo American plc 
 
 
22

Anglo American plc
Integrated Annual Report 2023

Strategic Report 
Our material matters

To better demonstrate and communicate how 
our material matters link to our Sustainable 
Mining Plan, we have mapped each material 
matter to the plan’s relevant Critical Foundations 
and Global Sustainability Pillars. 

Critical Foundations

SMP elements

Material matters

Zero mindset

Safety, health and well-being of the workforce‡

Leadership
and culture

Business ethics, governance and transparency‡

Attraction, retention and engagement of workforce

Bribery and corruption‡

Cybersecurity and data privacy‡

Training and upskilling opportunities

Read more

Page 68

Page 74

Page 72

Page 74

Page 34*

Page 72

Inclusion 
and diversity

Diversity, equity and inclusion

Page 72

Human rights

Human and labour rights

Governance
and policies

Group standards and processes**

Compliance with legal requirements**

Pages 64–72

Page 47*

Page 47*

*  Page reference relates to the Sustainability Report 2023. For more information, see our Sustainability Report 2023 www.angloamerican.com/sustainability-report-2023
** While Group standards and processes and Compliance with legal requirements were not identified in our materiality analysis, they form part of the Critical Foundations of our 

Sustainable Mining Plan. We, therefore, include an overview of these topics in our Sustainability Report.

Our material matters

23

Global Sustainability Pillars

SMP elements

Material matters

Climate resilience and adaptation‡

Greenhouse gas emissions (GHGs) and renewable energy‡

Healthy
Environment

Biodiversity and land management

Water use, quality and availability‡

Mineral residue management‡

Resource re-use/recycling

Thriving
Communities

Community and indigenous rights

Community consultation and engagement‡

Economic development of communities

Community health and education development
Responsible mine closure and regeneration

Proactive policy advocacy approach

Responsible product offering

Responsible supply chain

Economic impact on producer countries

Trusted
Corporate
Leader

Read more

Page 50

Page 54

Page 57

Page 58

Page 59

Page 70*

Page 85*

Page 60

Page 60

Page 62
Page 88*

Page 93*

Page 47

Page 64

Page 63

*  Page reference relates to the Sustainability Report 2023. For more information, see our Sustainability Report 2023 www.angloamerican.com/sustainability-report-2023

Strategic Report Integrated Annual Report 2023Anglo American plc24

Anglo American plc
Integrated Annual Report 2023

Strategic Report 

Looking at 
global trends

In considering the evolution of our long term 
strategic context, we identify and analyse a 
wide range of trends that are likely to influence 
our business. 

We assess trends in terms of their potential impact on 
the value of our business while also considering the 
value created for, and impact on, all our stakeholders 
and the timeframe over which they could develop in 
significance. We recognise that individual trends do not 
unfold in isolation and that when they converge, there is 
potential for more pronounced effects.

Our strategy positions us well to navigate the many 
dimensions of our external context and, as trends 
develop, is flexible enough to allow us to adapt as 
required. Our high quality and diversified portfolio of 
assets, relentless approach to operational delivery, and 
talented people – combined with business decisions 
guided by our Purpose – set us up to take advantage of 
commercial and other opportunities, thereby unlocking 
our full potential for sustainable value creation.

1. Climate change and the environment

What are they?
Climate change is one of the defining 
challenges of our time and there is increasing 
focus across society on efforts to reduce 
carbon dioxide (CO2) emissions and other 
greenhouse gases (GHGs). There is also 
growing awareness of the implications of 
climate change and the need to mitigate 
and adapt to its possible impacts across 
the economy.

The global response includes a transition 
towards renewable power generation, 
battery storage, electrification of transport, 

development of low carbon industrial 
processes and changes to agricultural 
practice. There is also a move towards more 
efficient use of materials and building more 
sustainable and/or circular supply chains.

At the same time, many countries are 
tightening air quality standards to mitigate 
other harmful emissions, while there is an 
increasing focus on measures to protect 
water supplies, biodiversity and local 
ecosystems.

Looking at global trends

25

We are enhancing our systematic 
assessment of climate change physical 
risks across our operations and under 
different climate trajectories. This supports 
the ongoing refinement of our response and 
mitigation plans to identified material risks.

 ▶ For more on our Portfolio

See pages 30–39

 ▶ For more on our approach to climate change

See pages 49–57

What does it mean for our industry?
Increased demand for the metals and 
minerals essential to the low carbon 
transition and broadening awareness of the 
vital role that mining must play
Low carbon technologies, such as renewable 
power generation infrastructure and electric 
vehicles (EVs) powered by batteries and 
fuel cells, generate additional demand for 
many metals, including copper, nickel, PGMs 
and steelmaking raw materials (iron ore, 
steelmaking coal and manganese). Longer 
term, evolution away from carbon emitting 
technology could introduce downside 
demand risk for some materials. For example, 
while increased demand for battery electric 
vehicles poses a downside risk to demand for 
the PGM-containing catalytic converters used 
in internal combustion engine (ICE) vehicles, 
it is offset by hybrids, which require similar 
quantities of PGMs, and longer term, by fuel 
cell electric vehicles.

A focus on reducing the GHG footprint of 
the mining value chain, including for carbon 
intensive downstream sectors such as the 
steel industry
Steel will remain an essential building block 
of the modern economy, irrespective of 
pressure to develop lower carbon methods 
of steel production. Pathways to decarbonise 
the steel industry include technologies like 
electric arc furnaces that will favour higher 
quality steelmaking coal and iron ore (such 
as that produced by our operations), as well 
as the increased use of recycled material.

Adoption of circular economy practices
The mining industry has a role to play 
in supporting the development of more 
sustainable supply chains for basic raw 
materials. This includes an industry drive to 
support the sustainability performance of 
our downstream value chains to ensure raw 
material supply.

Supply side constraints
Increased regulatory scrutiny on all aspects 
of mining, from water use to environmental 
impacts, means that projects will be more 
costly and difficult to deliver.

Anticipating and preparing for the impacts 
of physical risks 
Mining operations, their value chains and 
their broader social and environmental 
networks are already experiencing the 
impacts of climate change, including 
increased incidences of drought conditions, 
flooding, wildfires and supply chain 
disruptions. Identifying and assessing risks 
and putting in place mitigating measures to 
effectively respond to weather events, water 
stress and threats to biodiversity enhance 
the resilience of the industry and support 
surrounding communities.

Delivering value through our strategy
We produce many of the metals and minerals 
that are essential to the low carbon transition, 
including copper for EVs and renewable 
energy capacity, nickel for EV batteries, and 
PGMs for hydrogen fuel cells and green 
hydrogen production.

In recent years, the commissioning of our 
Quellaveco copper mine, our development 
of a Crop Nutrients business focused on a 
comparatively low carbon fertiliser product, 
and our progress towards developing a 
number of other copper and wider metals 
projects, together represent the latest phase 
of improving the quality and nature of our 
portfolio towards future-enabling products.

We have a target to be carbon neutral 
(Scopes 1 and 2) across our operations 
by 2040, with a 30% reduction (against a 
2016 baseline) by 2030. We aim to achieve 
this through efficiency improvements, 
transitioning to renewable power supply 
across our operations and implementing 
several low carbon technologies through our 
FutureSmart Mining™ programme.

In addition, we have an ambition to reduce 
our Scope 3 (value chain) emissions by 50% 
by 2040. Emissions from the steel value chain 
make up most of our Scope 3 emissions and 
we are working closely with our customers 
and the broader industry to help achieve this 
ambition.

Strategic Report Integrated Annual Report 2023Anglo American plc26

Anglo American plc
Integrated Annual Report 2023

Strategic Report 
Looking at global trends

2. Macro-economics and demographics

What are they?
Several developing economies, most 
notably China, have experienced a period 
of rapid urbanisation and industrialisation 
over the past two decades, resulting in an 
unprecedented number of households 
entering the wealthier middle class.

More recently, the economic fallout of the 
pandemic and energy security challenge has 
impacted poverty reduction efforts in some 
regions, increasing levels of inequality. 

Several countries and regions are expected 
to experience greater economic maturity in 
the coming decades, particularly India, south 
east Asia, South America and Africa.

In the developed world and globally, 
consumption patterns may also change due 
to changing demographics, fertility rates and 
ageing populations.

What does it mean for our industry?
As the global population grows (at least 
for the next four decades; current rate 
c.70 million per year) and as economies 
develop, so the need for food supply and 
infrastructure (e.g. housing and transport) 
grows, resulting in higher demand for 
crop nutrients, steel and base metals. 
Likewise, as disposable incomes increase, 
demand for metals used in a wide array of 
consumer products will increase, as well as 
for diamonds. Metals are also essential for 
economic development, itself an enabler 
of decarbonisation.

Delivering value through our strategy
Anglo American has a diversified product 
portfolio, increasingly focused on products 
that enable lower carbon economic 
development and that serve the needs 
of the expanding global consumer class.

We have exposure to some of the largest 
resource bases in both PGMs and diamonds. 
We also have world class copper assets in 
Collahuasi, Quellaveco and Los Bronces. 
We have exposure to nickel through 
Barro Alto and as a co-product of our 
PGMs mines. Our high quality iron ore and 
steelmaking coal assets are well placed to 
support demand for cleaner steelmaking, 
and we expect our Crop Nutrients business 
to be well positioned to support sustainable, 
high yielding, low carbon, organically 
certified food production.

 ▶ For more on Portfolio
See pages 30–39

 ▶ For more on Innovation
See pages 40–65

Looking at global trends

27

3. Emerging technologies

What does it mean for our industry?
Technology will play a major role in 
identifying new mineral deposits, managing 
costs of production, improving productivity 
and minimising the environmental impact 
of mining.

Innovation in materials science has the 
potential to significantly impact demand, 
presenting both opportunities and risks for 
metals and materials. For example, there is 
growing potential for the use of PGMs in fuel 
cells and for applications in medical science.

Blockchain technologies, enabling secure, 
centralised and transparent data, will change 
the nature of industry supply chains, and 
will support the needs of our customers and 
consumers, for whom the provenance of 
materials is increasingly important.

Delivering value through our strategy
Our participation across the value chain 
allows us to apply our innovations in 
technology and sustainability more widely, 
looking beyond upstream production to 
examine other opportunities in the value 
chains in which we participate. For example, 
in 2023 we launched ValutraxTM, a proprietary 
digital traceability solution designed to 
provide customers with greater assurance 
about the provenance of the products they 
purchase. De Beers is equally a pioneer in 
blockchain-based traceability with its Tracr™ 
platform, applying the technology to the 
diamond value chain.

 ▶ For more on our ValutraxTM digital traceability 

technology
See page 47

What are they?
New technologies constantly emerge, 
focused on improving existing solutions, 
solving global challenges, or addressing 
society’s unmet needs. These have the 
potential to significantly disrupt the status 
quo in some sectors of the economy, while 
unlocking opportunities for new products 
and services.

Essential areas of technological 
development include those related to 
digital and big data, the application of 
automation and artificial intelligence, and 
the opportunities presented by blockchain 
and digital finance.

Meanwhile, innovation in the materials 
sciences will continue to influence 
applications for metals and minerals. 
This could create both demand upside 
through new use cases and downside 
risk from substitution.

Increasing sustainability challenges, 
notably access to water and clean energy, 
are often at the heart of these emerging 
technologies.

Strategic Report Integrated Annual Report 2023Anglo American plc28

Anglo American plc
Integrated Annual Report 2023

Strategic Report 
Looking at global trends

4. Geopolitical shifts

What are they?
China’s economic growth has shifted 
the balance of economic and political 
influence eastwards. A resulting shift 
in patterns of global trade has seen 
the emergence of new regional trade 
agreements, as well as more widespread 
use of protectionist trade measures.

In the aftermath of the pandemic, 
geopolitical instability has intensified, 
highlighted by Russia's invasion of 
Ukraine and conflict in the Middle East. 
This period has also been marked by 
shifts in the structure of global alliances.

Rising inequality, high levels of inflation, 
stagnant economic growth and a perceived 
failure of governments to deliver meaningful 
improvements in quality of life have, in some 
countries, led to an increase in populism, 
polarisation and protest, weakening 
democratic norms and government 
functioning. This has further increased 
geopolitical, political and policy uncertainty.

What does it mean for our industry?
The realignment of regional trading blocs 
and greater socio-political complexity can 
shift centres of demand, and consequently, 
the flow of raw materials to them. Trade 
restrictions and interstate conflict can impact 
strategically important raw materials, bringing 
a renewed focus on supply chain resilience 
and alternative sources of supply. This offers 
challenges and opportunities to the mining 
industry as new sources and routes are found 
while the world adjusts.

In countries where sources of mineral 
supply are located, governments can 
introduce both certainty and uncertainty to 
the legislative and regulatory environment. 
At the same time, constitutional change can 
lead to delays in licensing and permitting 
and to tax regime changes, which can 
affect operational continuity and influence 
investment in those countries.

Reigniting economic growth and combating 
the threat of stagflation will reduce the 
attractiveness of zero sum, ‘beggar thy 
neighbour’ economic policies. This will require 
increased investment and global capital 
formation. Mining can play an essential role in 
this by supplying the materials at the heart of 
economic development.

Delivering value through our strategy
Our successful track record of developing 
and operating projects in multiple 
jurisdictions makes Anglo American a 
partner of choice for countries looking to 
develop their natural mineral deposits. 
Our innovation-led pathway to sustainable 
mining – FutureSmart Mining™ and, within 
it, our Sustainable Mining Plan – helps us 
to work with governments to advocate 
for progressive regulatory frameworks 
that encourage and support investment 
in modern, sustainable mining. We have 
sought to invest, over many years, in long 
term relationships and sustainable economic 
development within host communities so that 
we have the relationships in place to manage 
periods of complexity.

Our Marketing business focuses on providing 
tailored materials solutions for our customers 
and, by drawing together our longstanding 
relationships, market insight and analytics 
capability, we can respond to demand shifts 
and redirect flows to fulfil the needs of our 
customers and stakeholders.

 ▶ For more on Innovation
See pages 40–65

Reflecting stakeholder views in our Board decision making

29

Reflecting stakeholder views 
in our Board decision making

Anglo American has long understood the role of its business in 
society. This is encapsulated in our Purpose as: re-imagining 
mining to improve people’s lives.

We consider workforce engagement to be 
a priority for every leader at Anglo American 
and we run regular surveys available to 
all employees to identify areas where, for 
example, we need to do more to ensure that 
colleagues feel cared for and respected. Our 
Global Workforce Advisory Panel aims to give 
employees more of a voice in the boardroom 
so their views can be better understood 
and considered when decisions are being 
made about the future of the business. In 
2023, the panel met three times – with one 
of the meetings taking place in person – 
and the panel chair, non-executive director, 
Marcelo Bastos, shared the key messages 
from those meetings with the Board and the 
Executive Leadership Team. The People and 
Governance sections of this report provide 
more detail on these engagements and 
explain the resultant outcomes.

 ▶ For more information on our 

Global Workforce Advisory Panel
See pages 161–162

Anglo American provides many of the 
metals and minerals our modern society 
needs, combining integrity, creativity and 
innovation with due consideration for all 
our stakeholders to better connect precious 
resources to the people who need and value 
them. We work together to provide people 
with better jobs, a better education and better 
businesses, and we are building brighter and 
healthier futures around our operations, in 
host countries and ultimately for billions of 
people around the world who depend on our 
products every day.

Our Values
Safety; Care and Respect; Integrity; 
Accountability; Collaboration; and Innovation 
shape our culture and guide our behaviour, 
and are fundamental to creating enduring 
benefit for all our employees, shareholders 
and stakeholders in a way that demonstrably 
improves people’s lives.

Understanding our employees 
Our people are critical to everything we do. 
We create safe, inclusive and diverse working 
environments that encourage and support 
high performance and innovative thinking. 
We are acutely aware that to get the best 
from our people we need to understand their 
viewpoints and address any concerns they 
may raise about working for us. 

Section 172 statement 
The Anglo American plc Board is 
cognisant of its legal duty to act in good 
faith and to promote the success of the 
Group for the benefit of its shareholders 
and with regard to the interests of a 
broad range of stakeholders. These 
include the likely consequences of 
any decisions we make over different 
time horizons; the need to foster the 
relationships we have with all our 
stakeholders; the interests of our 
employees; the impact our operations 
have on the environment and local 
communities; and the desire to maintain 
a reputation for high standards of 
business conduct. The new directors 
appointed to the Board in 2023 received 
tailored, individual briefings on these 
duties, and the Board received updates 
in 2023.

As a major global mining company, the 
Board understands that our wide range 
of stakeholders (identified on page 16) 
is integral to the sustainability of our 
business, underpinning our social licence 
to operate. In addition, the Board is 
conscious that expectations around our 
performance and contribution to society 
– from local to global – are both diverse 
and continuously evolving.

By listening to, understanding and 
engaging with our stakeholders, the 
Board endeavours to live up to their 
expectations, by staying true to our 
Purpose, acting in accordance with our 
Values, and supporting management in 
the delivery of our strategy.

Stakeholder considerations are integral 
to the discussions at Board meetings and 
the decisions we make take into account 
any potential impacts on them and the 
natural environment. Like any business, 
we are aware that some of the decisions 
we make may have an adverse impact 
on certain stakeholders.

The Board holds management to 
account for the delivery of our 
Sustainable Mining Plan – a key 
component of our FutureSmart Mining™ 
programme. We are committed to a 
series of ambitious medium and longer 
term goals that are aligned with the 
UN’s SDGs. These goals are designed 
to make a comprehensive and lasting 
contribution that we expect will positively 
transform how our stakeholders 
experience our business.

The Board and its committees took a 
broad range of factors and stakeholder 
considerations into account when 
making decisions in the year. Decisions 
are made within the context of the long 
term factors that may impact the Group, 
including key competitive trends and 
disruptions; technology capability; and 
climate change considerations. For more 
detail on Board activity in the year, see 
pages 153–155. For more on the global 
trends that influence the mining industry 
and our business, see pages 24–28, 
and for more on our approach to climate 
change, see pages 49–57. 

The Board (through its Sustainability 
Committee) monitors progress towards 
our Sustainable Mining Plan targets and 
how these may affect future decision 
making. 

Strategic Report Integrated Annual Report 2023Anglo American plc30

Anglo American plc
Integrated Annual Report 2023

Strategic Report 

Portfolio

The quality and long life of our mineral assets are the 
foundations of our global business. We actively manage 
our asset portfolio to improve its overall competitive 
position, providing metals and minerals essential for a 
cleaner, greener, more sustainable world and that meet 
the needs of a growing global population, from homes 
and electronics, to food and luxuries.

Portfolio

31

Hydrogen in the driving seat 

The global response to climate change, 
particularly the decarbonisation of energy, 
transport and industry, is driving a major and 
accelerating transition.

The growing role of hydrogen
Hydrogen is increasingly being seen as a key enabler of 
this transition. It is a clean, versatile, energy carrier of almost 
infinite supply that can be employed in sectors where 
emissions are hard to abate, such as heavy-duty transport, 
chemicals, steel, cement, aviation and shipping.

Mining has a critical role to play in supplying many of the 
metals and minerals needed to decarbonise the global 
economy. Anglo American is a leading producer of PGMs 
such as platinum, palladium and rhodium, which will 
continue to be used in internal combustion engine (ICE) 
vehicles’ catalytic converters to ‘scrub’ noxious exhaust 
gases. And, as a major producer of the platinum, along with 
sister metal iridium, needed as a catalyst in fuel cells and 
electrolysers, we have been an early supporter of fuel cell 
electric vehicles (FCEVs) and an advocate of, and investor in, 
the emerging hydrogen economy.

Hydrogen – opening up the market for FCEVs 
As global energy demand continues to grow and consumers 
look for alternatives to fossil fuel powered transport, electric 
vehicle (EV) adoption is growing rapidly. The International 
Energy Agency estimates that EVs will have a 35% share of 
the global vehicle car market by 2035. A range of electric 
vehicle technologies will likely be required to meet the 
expected demand and breadth of applications, with some 
more suited to battery electric vehicles (BEVs) and others to 
FCEVs. 

FCEVs work by chemically fusing hydrogen gas (stored in 
a fuel tank within the vehicle) with oxygen from the air to 
produce electricity that is used to power an electric motor 
– with the only waste product being water. One major 
advantage of FCEVs over BEVs is their quick refuelling time, 
as well as their longer range. Fuel-cell refuelling is similar to a 

conventional filling-station experience; a vehicle can be filled 
in a few minutes for a range of 500 kilometres or more for 
most FCEVs. 

FCEVs are particularly well suited to vehicle fleets, such as 
taxis and buses, as well as to heavy-duty trucks that require 
long range and rapid refuelling times. Increasingly, FCEVs 
are being seen as the preferred option for long-haul trucks, 
because batteries – which would represent most of the 
weight, and take up most of the space, in such vehicles – 
would be too big, heavy, and costly. This is particularly 
relevant given growing concerns about the global availability 
of battery critical raw materials. 

3 million

kilometres completed by H2 Moves Berlin 
FCEV taxis across 250,000 customer journeys

Aligning with our strategy to help accelerate zero-emission 
transport through the deployment of PGMs-enabled 
hydrogen FCEVs, Anglo American has driven several 
initiatives. In China, we launched the Foshan FCEV project 
which aims to deliver three hydrogen refuelling stations and 
deploy 500 multi-model FCEVs by the end of 2026. We also 
co-launched a BMW iX5 FCEV demonstration project with 
BMW and Sasol at the South Africa Green Hydrogen Summit, 
held in Cape Town, in October 2023.

FCEV taxis on the streets of Berlin 
In Germany, we launched H2 Moves Berlin, together with 
Toyota Germany and leading taxi operator SafeDriver 
Group-ENNOO, at the end of 2022. H2 Moves Berlin makes 
use of Berlin’s well developed existing hydrogen-refuelling 
infrastructure and the Uber ride-hailing platform to operate 
the country’s largest hydrogen-powered FCEV fleet. On 
track to expand to as many as 200 vehicles, the taxis have 
now driven some 3 million kilometres and completed over 
250,000 customer journeys.

“Passengers are very enthusiastic about the comfort 
and sustainability that FCEVs can provide. Our drivers 
and their cars cannot afford to be off the road, and they 
appreciate the driving performance of an electric car 
with the range and refuelling speed of a combustion 
engine. As a fleet operator looking to minimise vehicles’ 
downtime while delivering zero-emission mobility, FCEVs 
simply make sense.” 

Thomas Mohnke
Managing Director of the SafeDriver Group 

President and Managing Director of Toyota Germany, André 
Schmidt, comments: “H2 Moves Berlin proves that alternative 
drivetrains and everyday use go hand in hand. These 
milestones underline the reliability of hydrogen-powered 
vehicles – and everyone benefits from reducing air and noise 
pollution on Berlin’s streets.” 

Next steps
Many governments are looking to hydrogen to support 
their decarbonisation objectives, and the focus now is on 
overcoming the barriers that currently exist to deploying 
hydrogen more widely. These include improving the cost-
competitiveness of producing zero carbon hydrogen using 
renewable energy, building supporting infrastructure and 
the necessary supply chains, as well as promoting scale 
deployment in key industries. Anglo American is working 
with third parties such as car makers and liaising with 
governments to actively support the hydrogen economy.

Anglo American’s head of market development, Benny 
Oeyen, says: “The successful deployment of hydrogen-
powered taxis in Berlin demonstrates FCEVs’ performance in 
high usage, real-life driving conditions, and we are continuing 
to support Germany’s emerging ecosystem of hydrogen-
powered transport. Looking further ahead, and afield, 
Anglo American is identifying additional light-duty FCEV 
deployment opportunities in Europe, China, the US, and 
South Africa.” 

Strategic Report Integrated Annual Report 2023Anglo American plc32

Anglo American plc
Integrated Annual Report 2023

Strategic Report 
Portfolio

Unique portfolio supplying 
three major demand trends

The outlook for demand for many mined metals and minerals has rarely 
looked better due to three major demand trends: the urgent need to 
decarbonise the global economy; the pull for improved living standards 
from a growing and urbanising global population; and the need for 
greater food security and nutritional standards as available productive 
farmland struggles to keep up.

60

new copper mines the size 
of Quellaveco needed 
by 2040 to enable the 
energy transition

1

3.5 tonnes 

of copper per MW of electricity 
are required in solar PV panels – 
compared with c.1 tonne per MW in 
conventional electricity production

2

4.6 Mt

forecast annual 
consumption of nickel 
in battery electric 
vehicles compared 
with 0.5 Mt in 2022 

3

1. Copper is critical to decarbonisation, 
in particular to the transition of the global 
energy system. Increased electrification will 
lift electricity demand significantly, requiring 
greater investment in copper intensive 
electricity grids. Furthermore, electricity 
generation will shift from carbon intensive 
to renewable sources, which require many 
times more copper per unit of electricity 
supply. 

2. Nickel has become a crucial metal in the 
global transition to green energy. It is a key 
component in lithium-ion batteries that are 
commonly used in EVs. High nickel content 
batteries offer greater energy density and 
longer range, making EVs more viable for 
widespread adoption. Nickel is also integral 
to the production of other green energy 
technologies, including solar panels and 
wind turbines.

3. Demand for PGMs will continue to be 
driven by low and zero-emission transport, 
on the back of more stringent global 
emissions legislation. The demand for ICE 
vehicles is expected to grow in developing 
countries owing to the significant costs 
related to BEVs and their supporting 
infrastructure. PGMs demand is expected 
to be augmented by emerging new 
applications, including hydrogen fuel cell 
electric transport.

 
Portfolio

But, as an industry, we need to transform the 
way we operate – by re-imagining processes 
and technologies to minimise our physical 
footprint while maximising our positive social 
impact. Anglo American’s diverse portfolio 

and innovation-led approach through our 
FutureSmart Mining™ programme positions 
us to live up to our Purpose and meet the 
world’s needs in a safe and responsible way.

140 bn tonnes 

The amount of steel required to deliver the equivalent 
living standards across the whole world as currently 
enjoyed by the developed world, from a current 
global stock-in-use base of c.34 billion tonnes

4

33

0.5 bn

The forecast growth of the 
global upper and middle classes 
by 2030

10 bn

The number of people to feed 
sustainably by 2050 based on 
a projected global population 
growth of up to 2 billion people 
over the next 25 years

5

6

4. Steel is essential for almost all 
infrastructure, including the low carbon 
economy – literally in the case of the 
electricity grid and wind turbines which 
won’t stand up without steel. While new 
clean steelmaking technologies are in 
development, the amount of primary 
iron units required is largely unaffected. 
Furthermore, technologies that require less 
or no steelmaking coal will take many years 
to reach scale and, therefore, high quality 
steelmaking coal will be required to support 
infrastructure development for decades 
to come.

5.The demand for ethically sourced natural 
diamonds is expected to continue to 
grow, particularly in the fast-developing 
economies of Asia. The world’s upper 
and middle classes are forecast to grow 
by 0.5 billion by 2030, with an associated 
30% increase in spending to an estimated 
$50 trillion annually.

6. Feeding a predicted global population 
of nearly 10 billion by 2050 will require 
up to a 40% increase in crop production. 
But, despite the intense pressure to raise 
agricultural output, there is a growing 
awareness that this has to be achieved 
using less land and with less impact on 
the environment. Our low carbon POLY4 
fertiliser product is perfectly placed to play a 
significant role to help farmers improve crop 
yield and quality, while improving soil health.

3-5%

Increase in crop yields through 
the use of POLY4 – the fertiliser 
product from our Woodsmith 
polyhalite project 

Strategic Report Integrated Annual Report 2023Anglo American plc 
34

Anglo American plc
Integrated Annual Report 2023

Strategic Report 
Portfolio

Anglo American is a leading global mining company and 
our products are the essential ingredients in almost every 
aspect of modern life. 

Our portfolio of world class operations, 
development projects and undeveloped 
resources provides many of the metals and 
minerals that enable a cleaner, greener, 
more sustainable world through a lower 
carbon global economy and that meet the 
fast growing consumer-driven demands of 
developed and maturing economies. We are 
a responsible producer of copper and nickel, 
PGMs, diamonds (through De Beers), and the 
steelmaking ingredients of high quality iron 
ore and steelmaking coal. In recent years, 
the commissioning of our new Quellaveco 
copper project, our development of a 
Crop Nutrients business focused on a low 
carbon fertiliser product, and our progress 
towards developing a number of other 
copper and wider metals projects, together 
represent the latest phase of improving the 
quality and nature of our portfolio towards 
future-enabling products.

The scale and diversity of our portfolio 
allow us to optimise our financial resources, 
technical expertise and supplier relationships 
to deliver on our potential, for the benefit of 
all our stakeholders. The portfolio’s depth and 
breadth create a measured risk profile that 
is financially resilient in a low carbon world, 
and support sustainable returns through 
spreading our investments across diverse 
asset geographies and end markets.

Building strategic advantage
The primary source of competitive advantage 
in the mining industry is owning high quality, 
large scale, long life mineral assets, and 
operating them more effectively (productivity) 
and efficiently (cost) than other comparable 
assets. There is then room for further 
enhancement when those assets deliver 
products into structurally attractive markets.

The evolution of the Anglo American portfolio 
is guided by our strategy. Specific choices 
with respect to our portfolio are governed by 
a set of strategic principles. These principles 
also inform our capital allocation and 
investment appraisal processes, ensuring 
consistency of strategic decision making 
across the Group, as we work towards 
embedding climate-related and broader 
sustainability considerations at each stage.

In assessing our asset portfolio, the strategic 
principles we consider include:

–  The stand-alone quality of individual 

assets, including their relative cost position, 
asset life and growth potential

–  Our global competitive position within the 

individual product groups

–  The asset’s specific role and contribution to 

the portfolio as a whole

–  The additional value potential generated 

through leveraging our internal capabilities.

A future-enabling portfolio*

Production mix from 
long term portfolio

●  Copper

●  High quality Iron Ore

●  Nickel

●  PGMs

●  Steelmaking Coal

●  Manganese

●  Diamonds

●  Crop Nutrients

*  Based on attributable copper equivalent production 
which is calculated using long term parameters. 
Future production levels, based on information available 
at December 2023, are indicative and subject to final 
approval.

Our product groups
Future-enabling metals and minerals 
constitute approximately 85% of current 
production. That trend is set to continue in 
the coming years as we bring new copper 
production on stream and introduce low 
carbon fertiliser into our global customer 
offering. 

Copper
Anglo American has a world class position 
in copper, built around its interests in three of 
the world’s largest copper mines. In Chile, we 
have interests in Collahuasi (44% interest in 
the independently managed joint operation) 
and Los Bronces (a 50.1% owned and 
managed operation), with Reserve Lives of 
74 and 33 years, respectively – all tier one 
assets. Quellaveco copper mine, located in 
Peru, started production in mid-2022. It has 
one of the world’s largest untapped copper 
orebodies and is expected to add around 
300,000 tonnes per annum of copper 
equivalent production (100% basis) on 
average in the first 10 years of production. 
The significant resource base of these assets 
underpins our future near-asset growth 
opportunities, in addition to the polymetallic 
Sakatti deposit, which is being evaluated 
extensively by our Projects team in Finland.

Copper is critical to decarbonisation, in 
particular to the transition of the global 
energy system. The transition from fossil fuel 
energy production to electrified and 
renewable alternatives relies on a reliable 
and significantly increased supply of copper, 
including the transformation of energy grids 
and distribution, as well as the transition to 
hybrid and electric vehicles.

Portfolio

35

Across the copper mining industry, many 
companies are expected to struggle to 
increase production to meet longer term 
demand growth, as declining grades 
and more challenging physical and 
environmental conditions, along with tougher 
licensing and permitting requirements, are 
expected to limit the industry’s ability to 
deliver new copper supply.

Nickel
Anglo American produces two types of 
nickel. Our Barro Alto and Codemin nickel 
assets (both 100% owned) are located in 
Brazil and produce ferronickel, the majority of 
which is used in the production of high quality 
stainless and heat resistant steels. Our PGMs 
operations produce nickel as a co-product, 
amounting to 21,800 tonnes in 2023. This 
co-product – battery grade nickel – can be 
used in lithium-ion batteries that are integral 
to multiple carbon abatement technologies, 
including BEVs.

Platinum Group Metals (PGMs)
Our PGMs business (held through an 
effective 79.2% interest in Anglo American 
Platinum Limited) is a leading producer of 
PGMs — platinum, palladium, rhodium, iridium 
and ruthenium. We mine, process and refine 
the PGM basket of five precious metals from 
its high quality resource base, located in the 
biggest known PGM deposit in the world – 
the Bushveld Complex in South Africa. We 
also own and operate Unki mine – one of 
the world’s largest PGM deposits outside of 
South Africa, on the Great Dyke in Zimbabwe. 
Our flagship mine, Mogalakwena, is designed 
to be one of the world’s highest margin PGM 
producers, in part due to being the only large 
open pit PGM mine that exists.

We are continuing to reposition the business 
around a leaner, best-in-class operating 
footprint at our Mogalakwena, Amandelbult 
and Mototolo mines in South Africa, and 

well as increasing hardness; electrical 
conductivity; and corrosion, acid and wear 
resistance. It can also be incorporated 
into the production of stainless steel; for 
example, steel with 4–5% molybdenum 
content is often used in the manufacture 
of marine and chemical equipment. 
Downstream, molybdenum’s applications 
include its use in the manufacture of jet 
engines for aircraft, automotive engine 
parts, power-generation turbines, drills 
and saws. 

Molybdenum’s other main applications 
are in the chemical industry, where it is 
used in catalysts and lubricants, including 
as a catalyst in petroleum refineries to 
help remove sulphur from natural gas 
and refined petroleum products. Other 
important applications include the 
electrical and electronics, medicine, 
fertiliser, and paint sectors. 

Next steps
Quellaveco’s technical vice president, 
Justo Enriquez, comments: “We have now 
installed a digital twin so that, using smart 
sensors, we can digitally replicate the 
entire process of extracting molybdenum 
– including its functionality, features, and 
behaviour – in a virtual environment. This 
will optimise the safety and efficiency of 
the molybdenum plant, putting our people 
out of harm’s way. In the eight months 
of operation it has completed, the plant 
has delivered very reliable results, with 
excellent recovery percentages achieved. 
And, as a Peruvian, I am pleased that our 
flagship Quellaveco mine is adding to 
Peru’s production of this important, future-
enabling metal.”

Outside Quellaveco copper mine’s molybdenum plant warehouse, a flotation concentrator operator’s 
radio allows him to stay in touch at all times with his team in the flotation area.

Molybdenum – another valuable 
product from Quellaveco

Quellaveco, one of the world’s most 
technologically advanced mines, which 
we commissioned in mid-2022, now has 
a new plant that has been producing 
molybdenum since April 2023. Once 
constructed, the facility completed its 
testing regime and started production in 
under a month – an industry record.

Molybdenum is only found in small 
proportions in Quellaveco’s copper-
bearing ore, but there is enough of it to 
make its processing into a concentrate 
of around 52% purity commercially 
viable. To separate it from the copper, the 
molybdenum goes through a flotation 
process, before being dried, bagged as 
a powder and dispatched to end-users. 
Although relatively simple and compact, 
the processing facility is equipped 

with state-of-the-art technology and 
automated processes, which are 
controlled remotely from the Integrated 
Operations Centre. The plant, which 
is now operating at full capacity, is set 
to produce more than 5,000 tonnes of 
contained molybdenum annually, on 
average, over the next five years.

Molybdenum’s properties and many uses
Molybdenum is a silver-grey metal that 
is usually extracted as a by-product of 
copper and tungsten mining. Its melting 
point of 2,610°C is one of the highest of 
all the elements, a characteristic that gives 
molybdenum many valuable uses.

Demand from the steelmaking industry 
accounts for around 80% of the total 
consumption of molybdenum. Its primary 
use is as a valuable alloying agent, with 
the metal improving the strength of steel 
at high pressures and temperatures, as 

Strategic Report Integrated Annual Report 2023Anglo American plc36

Anglo American plc
Integrated Annual Report 2023

Strategic Report 
Portfolio

Unki mine in Zimbabwe, alongside our joint 
operation interest in the Modikwa mine in 
South Africa.

Demand for PGMs is forecast to remain 
healthy, helped by the ongoing trend towards 
cleaner-emission vehicles, driven by more 
stringent global emissions legislation. Strong 
demand from the automotive industry is likely 
to be augmented by growing opportunities 
for emerging new applications, including 
hybrid (which require similar quantities of 
PGM loadings as ICE vehicles) and hydrogen 
fuel cell electric transport. Meanwhile, 
emerging economies, such as India, offer 
the potential of developing, from a relatively 
low base, into significant platinum jewellery 
markets. The versatility of the basket of 
metals is highlighted too in the breadth of 
applications for the lesser-known PGMs.

We are well positioned to proactively 
stimulate demand for PGMs, including 
through targeted campaigns in emerging 
jewellery markets; through direct investment 
in a number of companies developing new 
technologies that are expected to drive 
industrial demand for PGMs; and creating 
new investment demand for these precious 
metals as a store of value.

Diamonds
De Beers is a global leader in diamonds, 
producing around a third of the world’s 
rough diamonds, by value, across four 
countries: Botswana, Canada, Namibia 
and South Africa. Within its portfolio, 
De Beers (Anglo American: 85% interest), 
in partnership with the Government of the 
Republic of Botswana – through a 50:50 joint 
operation known as Debswana – has one 
of the richest diamond mines in the world at 
Jwaneng, and one of the largest resources, in 
terms of total carats, at Orapa.

De Beers’ major diamond mining assets have 
large, long life and scalable resources and 
we are continuing to invest in the existing 
operations to extend mining activities. The 
Cut-9 expansion of Jwaneng will extend the 
life of the mine and, in South Africa, Venetia 
is transitioning to an underground operation, 
extending the life of mine to 2045.

The lack of significant kimberlite discoveries 
globally over recent years, combined with 
the ongoing trend of growth in consumer 
demand for diamond jewellery in both 
mature and developing markets, points to 
good prospects for the diamond business 
in the long term, despite the current short 
term challenges being experienced across 
the industry. The continued investment in 
diamond mining support technologies will 
enhance De Beers’ portfolio of high quality 
and high margin assets, and the ability of 
the business to flex production to prevailing 
demand.

Through its differentiated rough diamond 
distribution model, which includes 
Sightholders, De Beers has a range of 
insights into its customers’ demand patterns. 
The company seeks to stimulate consumer 
demand for diamonds through its retail 
brands and through its participation in the 
Natural Diamond Council. Rigorous ethical 
standards are underpinned by De Beers’ Best 
Practice Principles (BPP) programme, while 
the business also provides source assurance 
through its proprietary Tracr™ blockchain 
platform.

Although diamonds have a limited role in 
the transition to a low carbon economy, 
our mined diamond production is highly 
aligned with a low carbon future – aiming 
to be carbon neutral by 2030 – while 
continuing to contribute significantly to 
the local economies that host our mines, 

most notably in Botswana and Namibia. 
De Beers has a longstanding commitment to 
sustainability and environmental protection 
and restoration.

Iron Ore
Steel is an essential material for almost all 
infrastructure and provides the backbone 
of the low carbon economy and wider, 
long term socio-economic development. 
Steelmaking is currently carbon intensive, but 
our high quality iron ore and steelmaking coal 
products support efficient – and therefore 
lower emitting – steelmaking today and are 
well positioned to support the transition of the 
sector to lower carbon production methods 
centred around the use of hydrogen.

Anglo American’s iron ore operations provide 
customers with high iron content ore, a large 
percentage of which is direct-charge product 
for steelmaking blast furnaces. In South 
Africa, we have a 69.7% shareholding in 
Kumba Iron Ore, whose Sishen and Kolomela 
mines produce high grade and high quality 
lump ore and also a fine ore.

In Brazil, our Minas-Rio operation (100% 
ownership), consisting of an open pit mine 
and beneficiation plant, produces a high 
grade pellet feed product, with low levels 
of contaminants. The iron ore is transported 
through a 529 km pipeline to the iron ore 
handling and shipping facilities (50% owned) 
at the port of Açu.

As steel producers in China and elsewhere 
face ever-tighter emissions regulation and 
are seeking ways to make their furnaces 
cleaner and more efficient, so the demand 
for higher quality iron ore products increases. 
The lump iron ore produced from Kumba’s 
operations commands a premium price, 
owing to its excellent physical strength and 
high iron content (63–65% average Fe 

content), as well as its suitability for lower 
carbon, direct reduction steelmaking. 
Minas-Rio’s pellet feed product also 
commands a premium price, as its ultra-low 
contaminant levels and high iron content 
(c.67% Fe content) are sought after by steel 
producers who are seeking to minimise 
emissions while boosting productivity. 

Steelmaking Coal
We are the world’s third largest exporter of 
steelmaking coal and our operations, located 
in Australia, serve customers throughout Asia, 
Europe and South America. 

Our steelmaking coal assets, located in 
Queensland, include the Moranbah and 
Grosvenor mines (both 88% ownership). 
The mines are underground longwall 
operations and produce premium 
quality hard coking coal. More stringent 
environmental and safety regulations have 
led to a requirement for many steel producers 
to run cleaner, larger and more efficient blast 
furnaces which, combined with a number 
of mine closures in recent years, results in 
increased global structural demand for high 
quality coking coal, such as that produced by 
our Australian mines.

Manganese
We have a 40% shareholding in the 
Samancor joint venture (managed by 
South32, which holds 60%), with operations 
based in South Africa and Australia.

Alongside copper, manganese is a 
critical material, enabling the growth of 
concentrated solar energy and the increased 
penetration of battery technology. Nickel-
manganese-cobalt is one of the leading 
battery technologies.

Portfolio

37

non-diesel-powered vehicles and 
equipment; low CO2 emissions and water 
usage; and zero waste generation.

But it’s all in the permitting
As with many potential new mining 
projects around the world, permitting is 
a long and detailed process. This is no 
different for Sakatti, as it is located on land 
designated as ‘Natura 2000’ territory – 
a network of protected areas covering 
Europe’s most valuable and threatened 
species and habitats. For example, the 
need to protect the region’s unique 
biodiversity has restricted the amount of 
exploration drilling that we can do; we 
have safeguarded reindeer-migration 
routes; and purchased forestry land in 
compensation for our planned activities.

In order to progress the project towards 
development, Anglo American has 
engaged closely with local and national 
government, as well as a continuous 
dialogue – guided by our Social Way 
– with local communities and other 
interested parties.

The appropriateness of this approach 
was endorsed in August 2023 when 
the Lapland Centre for Economic 
Development, Transport and the 
Environment approved Sakatti’s 
environmental impact assessment 
(EIA), marking a major milestone for 
the development of Sakatti. The EIA 
process, initiated in 2017, and rooted 
in extensive baseline studies since the 
orebody’s discovery in 2009, received 
recognition for its level of detail, 
particularly in hydrogeological modelling 
and water management, and for its 
overall comprehensiveness. The EIA also 
covered factors such as extractive-waste 

management, noise, vibration, dust, 
socio-economics, Sakatti’s use of eDNA to 
identify reindeer movement, stakeholder 
engagement and logistics.

What’s next? 
We are making progress on several fronts. 
Notably, we are carrying out further work 
to augment the existing studies in order 
to secure a Natura 2000 derogation from 
the Finnish government, given the location 
of Sakatti in an ecologically sensitive 
area. At the same time, we are continuing 
to explore the orebody, progress the 
technical studies and engage with 
stakeholders.

“Without secure and 
sustainable access to the 
necessary raw materials, our 
ambition to become the first 
climate-neutral continent is 
at risk … Without critical raw 
materials, we will not lead the 
digital decade and will not be 
able to develop our defence 
capabilities either.”

Ursula von der Leyen
President of the European Union, 
State of the European Union 
address 2022

Geologist, Emil Andersson, inspects a drill core at our Sakatti polymetallic project in northern Finland.

Sakatti – a significant source of 
future-enabling minerals

The Sakatti orebody is located in Finnish 
Lapland. It is primarily a nickel-sulphide 
deposit, though it contains an array of 
other metals, including copper, cobalt, 
platinum and palladium, gold, and silver. 
Its high copper-equivalent grade of c.4% 
marks it out as one of the most promising 
sources of copper and nickel – two metals 
critical to the battery and automotive 
value chain – in the heart of Europe.

A FutureSmart mine
At Sakatti, Anglo American is planning its 
next generation of the FutureSmart mine 
– an underground mine that will reflect 
the company’s integrated approach 
to delivering improved sustainability 
outcomes through technology and 
innovation. Many of the mine’s operations 
will be conducted remotely and 
autonomously; use renewable energy; 
not require wet tailings storage; and have 
only a small on-surface footprint. It will 
be distinguished by its fully electronic, 

Strategic Report Integrated Annual Report 2023Anglo American plc38

Anglo American plc
Integrated Annual Report 2023

Strategic Report 
Portfolio

Crop Nutrients
Anglo American is progressing the 
development of the Woodsmith project 
in the north east of England to access the 
world’s largest known deposit of polyhalite, 
a natural mineral fertiliser product containing 
potassium, sulphur, magnesium and calcium. 

Our fertiliser product – known as POLY4 – 
will be exported to a network of customers 
overseas from our port facilities at Teesside. 
As we develop the mine and associated 
infrastructure, we are also developing 
demand for its product. POLY4 continues to 
demonstrate the significant benefits of its 
multi-nutrient, low chloride characteristics on 
a wide variety of crops at commercial scale. 
Beyond its crop yield and quality benefits, 
the value of the product is also expected to 
be enhanced by its positive environmental 
properties – a comparatively low carbon 
footprint (given minimal processing 
requirements), its natural ability to improve 
soil health, and its suitability for organic use. 

This long life, tier one asset fits well with 
our established strategy of securing and 
developing world class assets, particularly 
in the context of Anglo American’s trajectory 
towards products that support a fast growing 
global population – in this case, to meet ever 
growing demand for food – and enable a 
cleaner, greener, more sustainable world. 

Portfolio update
We continue to seek to refine and upgrade 
the quality of our asset portfolio, including 
reducing its complexity, to ensure that our 
capital is deployed effectively to generate 
enhanced and sustainable returns for our 
shareholders over the long term.

Anglo American has transformed the quality 
and performance of its portfolio over the 
last decade, producing significantly more 
physical product from a far smaller number 
of larger and higher quality assets. 

Portfolio management
During 2023, our focus was on progressing 
the Woodsmith polyhalite project.

Woodsmith is a large scale, long life, tier 
one fertiliser project being developed in 
north east England, with a final design 
capacity of c.13 Mtpa of polyhalite ore, 
subject to studies and approval. Polyhalite 
is a naturally occurring mineral that, via a 
simple granulation process, is converted to a 
multi-nutrient product – POLY4 – an organic, 
comparatively low carbon, environmentally 
responsible crop nutrition solution that 
contains four of the six key nutrients that 
all plants need for healthy growth. The 
project will add greater diversity and long 
term value-adding growth to the portfolio, 
in a low risk jurisdiction. Core infrastructure 
activities of shaft sinking and tunnel boring 
continue to progress well. In parallel, and as 
previously communicated, we are enhancing 
the project’s configuration to accommodate 
higher production volumes of c.13 Mtpa, 
an optimised phased development, and 
to enable more efficient, scalable mining 
methods over time. The required studies are 
progressing well. Following conclusion of 
the study programme, we expect the project 
to be submitted for Board approval in the 
first half of 2025, with first product to market 
expected in 2027. Capital expenditure in 
2023 was $0.6 billion and is expected to be 
c.$0.9 billion in 2024. 

In October 2022, Anglo American formalised 
a partnership with EDF Renewables (EDFR) 
to form a new jointly owned company, 
Envusa Energy, with the aim of developing 
a regional renewable energy ecosystem 
(RREE) in South Africa. Significant progress 
has been made in the pathway to deliver 
wind and solar power to our operations in 
the country, where the RREE is expected to 
meet 100% of Anglo American’s operational 
power requirements, as well as support 

Construction progress of the material transport tunnel that will connect the Woodsmith mine site to the 
materials handling and port infrastructure.

the resilience of the local electricity 
supply systems and the country’s wider 
decarbonisation. 

 ▶ For more on progress of our regional renewable energy 

efficiency and returns, cognisant of balancing 
current macro-economic uncertainties 
with the compelling longer term supply and 
demand dynamics.

partnership
See page 55

Future growth
Anglo American offers an attractive long 
term organic growth profile with significant 
optionality focused on future-enabling 
metals and minerals, predominantly in 
copper, crop nutrients and high quality iron 
ore. Quellaveco alone increased our global 
production base by 10%(6) and serves as the 
cornerstone of our sequence of value-adding 
potential growth projects. We are sequencing 
options appropriately, based on capital 

The fundamental demand picture for mined 
metals and minerals is ever stronger as most 
of the world’s major economies accelerate 
their decarbonisation efforts and as the 
global population increases and continues 
to urbanise. We aim to keep growing our 
business into that demand, drawing on the 
range of margin-enhancing organic options 
within our business.

39

in the geological past. The opportunity lies 
in the discovery potential in this vast, still 
poorly explored, covered search space. 
Anglo American’s discovery portfolio includes 
many district-scale holdings that are partially 
or wholly covered. Deeply buried mineral 
deposits are commonly not accessible using 
traditional open-pit mining methods. 

The tilt towards new covered search 
spaces brings with it the opportunity to turn 
‘under cover’ discoveries into safe, highly 
efficient underground operations with a 
minimal surface footprint that is harmonious 
with the landscape and with local 
communities. Current such examples include 
finding further mineral deposits deeper 
underground at our near-asset Los Bronces 
underground copper project in Chile, and our 
discovery of polymetallic ores at Sakatti in 
northern Finland.

Discovery
Discovery and Geosciences, including our 
exploration activities, is consolidated and 
centrally co-ordinated, covering near-asset 
and greenfield discovery activities, projects 
and operations. The integrated team 
represents a strategic differentiator, enabling 
the detailed understanding of our world class 
assets to inform our pursuit of discoveries.

Anglo American was founded on world class 
mineral discoveries. Building on the Group’s 
strategy and long track record of discovery 
success, we continue to shape a global, 
diversified, risk-balanced portfolio focused 
on new discovery search spaces and mineral 
system thinking. This effort is enhancing our 
position as a discoverer of superior-value 
deposits that have the potential to improve 
materially our production profile, over time.

Quality discovery portfolio
We are concentrating on the discovery of 
mineral deposits in existing and new district-
scale positions that are capable of delivering: 

–  Sustainable returns to the business, on a 

material scale

–  Further improved diversification and 

optionality for the business, especially 
with respect to future-facing products 
that will enable a cleaner, greener, 
decarbonised world. 

Our robust and diverse discovery portfolio 
includes:

Near-asset discovery projects
Our near-asset discovery projects are 
focused on the district-scale mineral 
tenure around Anglo American’s existing 
operations. Innovative geoscientific thinking 
and sustained effort have yielded notable 
discoveries over the past years that continue 
to grow and provide development optionality 
with further drilling. For example, production 

Portfolio

from the Los Bronces Underground discovery 
(Copper Chile) gives the operation an 
option to replace future lower grade ore 
by accessing higher grade ore from a new 
underground section of the mine. Continued 
drilling of this discovery has increased 
contained copper in Mineral Resources by 
160% to c.45 million tonnes since these 
were first reported in 2009. Similarly, drilling 
at the Northern Limb of the Bushveld 
complex (South Africa) is helping to enhance 
optionality by materially increasing the 
confidence in Mineral Resources that support 
a potential underground development 
pathway. In other districts such as Quellaveco 
(Peru), and Sakatti (Finland), additional 
copper and PGM prospects respectively 
have been identified and are currently 
being evaluated.

Greenfield discovery projects
Greenfield discovery projects are those that 
identify and secure district-scale mineral 
tenure covering strategic, highly prospective 
search space in established and frontier 
settings. Our greenfield discovery focus 
includes copper, nickel, PGMs and diamonds. 
The mineral-system focus also brings the 
potential for co/by-products, including gold, 
cobalt, silver, molybdenum and zinc. The 
Group has active greenfield programmes 
in Australia (Queensland and Western 
Australia), Canada, Greenland, South 
America (Brazil, Chile, Ecuador and Peru), 
Europe and sub-Saharan Africa (Angola, 
Botswana, Namibia and Zambia).

Taking Discovery under cover
While many explorers limit their search to 
traditional and now well-explored search 
spaces, Anglo American’s Discovery function 
recognises the strategic significance in 
exploring for mineral deposits concealed 
beneath younger rocks and sediments 
deposited after the mineral deposits formed 

Strategic Report Integrated Annual Report 2023Anglo American plc40

Anglo American plc
Integrated Annual Report 2023

Strategic Report 

Innovation

Across every aspect of our business, we are thinking 
innovatively to ensure the safety of our people, to 
enhance the sustainability of our business, and to deliver 
enduring value in its many forms for all our stakeholders.

Innovation

41

CPR and HDS – transforming 
the future of tailings 

The mining industry uses significant amounts 
of water and energy in its processing of ore. 
Traditionally, much of this water has been combined 
with ‘fines’ (finely crushed rock) to form a slurry 
material known as ‘wet’ tailings. 

These frequently require large, expensive tailings storage 
facilities, or TSFs – which present the mining industry with 
potentially catastrophic risks from tailings dam failure. During 
the past decade, two major such failures have tragically 
occurred within the mining industry, causing significant loss 
of life and environmental damage. 

With more than 80% of Anglo American’s operations being 
situated in water-constrained areas, along with the huge 
expense involved in constructing, maintaining and monitoring 
wet TSFs, there has been a clear imperative to identify 
alternative solutions – to conserve water and energy, and to 
remove risk.

Anglo American has been trialling and developing two 
technologies: coarse particle recovery (CPR) and hydraulic 
dewatered stacking (HDS). CPR allows the separation of the 
valuable ore from larger-size rock particles to be processed – 
grains of sand rather than fine dust. This reduces the amount 
of energy required to crush and grind the ore, and saves 
water since the resulting tailings are free draining, allowing for 
greater water recycling and instead delivering unsaturated, 
drier tailings for storage. HDS is a newer, complementary, 
technology, patented by Anglo American, developed from 
the company’s experience with CPR in base-metal sulphide 
operations. HDS is an engineered co-disposal method which 
combines free-draining sands from CPR and other processes 
in a layered ‘sandwich’ for the ‘dry’ stacking of material 
traditionally regarded as waste. 

Following an 18-month pilot period at our El Soldado copper 
mine’s technology-testing hub in Chile, the two processes, 
working in tandem with each other, have accelerated 
dewatering times significantly and yielded water recoveries 
of around 80%, while considerably lowering the liquefaction 
risk of stored tailings, as well as delivering significant energy 
savings. Moreover, with a reduced and dry, re-usable area 
needed for tailings storage, mine closure-related activities 
can be carried out in months, rather than years, and the land 
can be repurposed for community benefit, as appropriate.

c. 80%

Water recoveries of around 80% 
at our El Soldado CPS/HDS trial

What’s next?
From being piloted at El Soldado, full-scale CPR plants are 
at an advanced stage of construction at Mogalakwena 
(PGMs) and Quellaveco (Copper), which was completed and 
handed over to operations in November 2023. Additionally, 
an HDS demonstration trial has just been completed on a 
portion of an existing TSF at Mogalakwena; and both types 
of plant are being planned elsewhere in the Group. Looking 
further afield, we have established an HDS Working Group to 
lead our outreach to other industry participants – from original 
equipment manufacturers to other mining groups – to create 
opportunities for CPR and HDS across the mining industry.

Neatly landscaped hydraulic dewatered stacking (HDS) tailings at 
El Soldado. The tailings are able to be remediated into dry and 
economically viable land following the mine’s closure.

“Safe storage and management of tailings are essential 
if mining is to maintain its licence to operate. Through 
repurposing the so-called ‘waste’ stream, we are 
changing the mindset on tailings from being one of 
risk management, to considering it as a recycling 
opportunity, avoiding sterilisation of large tracts of land, 
with significant benefits in the areas of processing, safety, 
sustainability, safety, and public accountability.”

Phil Newman
Anglo American Lead – Innovation

Strategic Report Integrated Annual Report 2023Anglo American plc42

Anglo American plc
Integrated Annual Report 2023

Strategic Report 
Innovation

Our approach 
to innovation

Across every aspect of our business, from mineral 
exploration to delivering our products to our customers, we 
are thinking innovatively to ensure the safety of our people, 
to enhance the sustainability of our business, and to deliver 
enduring value in its many forms for all our stakeholders.

e -i m a

R

g

n

i

t

e

k

r

a

M

g i n i n g   m i n i n g to improve people's liv
O p e r a ting Model

e

s

Innovation

F
u
t
u
r
e
S
m

art MiningT

M

The combination of operational improvements provided 
by the stable platform of our Operating Model and through 
FutureSmart Mining™ – our innovation-led pathway to 
sustainable mining – is fundamentally changing the way 
we extract, process and market metals and minerals, 
together providing our next step-change in operating and 
financial performance.

Innovation

43

Marketing

Operating Model

Our Marketing business optimises the value from our 
mineral assets and product offerings. We do this by fully 
understanding and addressing our customers’ specific 
needs and optimising our capabilities in the financial 
and physical markets to drive the right commercial 
decisions across the value chain – from mine to market.

 ▶ For more information
See pages 47–48

We believe we can build a long term sustainable 
competitive advantage by securing access to 
the best resources and through operating assets 
more effectively (productive) and more efficiently 
(cost competitive) than our competitors.

Our Operating Model is the foundation to support us 
by providing structure, stability and predictability in the 
way that we plan and execute every task. Planned 
work is inherently safer and more cost effective than 
unplanned work.

FutureSmart Mining™

FutureSmart Mining™ is our blueprint for the future of 
our business. The intrinsic links between technology 
and many of our sustainability outcomes are driving 
the innovations that will transform the nature of 
mining and how our stakeholders experience our 
business. A future in which broad, innovative thinking, 
enabling technologies and collaborative partnerships 
are helping to shape an industry that is safer, more 
sustainable and efficient, and better harmonised with 
the needs of host communities and society. This is 
about transforming our physical and societal footprint.

Technology
Through step-change technologies and digitalisation, 
our mining operations are becoming safer and more 
water- and energy-efficient. FutureSmart Mining™ 
is enhancing our performance across the entire 
mining value chain, from the discovery of new mineral 
deposits, to mining equipment and processing 
techniques, to tailoring products to our customers.

 ▶ For more on technology and digitalisation

See pages 44–45

P101 is our asset productivity programme that 
builds on the stability provided by our Operating 
Model. It is about improving the performance of our 
most value-accretive mining and other processes 
to best-in-class benchmarks in terms of safety, 
efficiency and productivity.

 ▶ For more information

See page 48

Sustainability
Our Sustainable Mining Plan, integral to FutureSmart 
Mining™, is built around three Global Sustainability 
Pillars and sets out our commitment to stretching 
goals – driving sustainability outcomes through 
technology, digitalisation and our innovative approach 
to sustainable economic development.

Our Sustainable Mining Plan is designed to be a 
flexible, living plan and we will continue to evolve it 
as we learn and make progress and as technologies 
develop, while also ensuring it stays relevant and 
suitably stretching, in tune with our employees’ 
and stakeholders’ ambitions for our business. We 
are currently exploring a number of areas of the 
Sustainable Mining Plan that we feel may benefit 
from being updated to align more closely with 
our stakeholder expectations or deliver improved 
sustainability outcomes and will update the plan when 
we have developed these options more fully.

 ▶ For more on our Sustainable Mining Plan

See page 46

Strategic Report Integrated Annual Report 2023Anglo American plc44

Anglo American plc
Integrated Annual Report 2023

Strategic Report 
Innovation

Technology

By integrating technology and data 
intelligence with our Sustainable 
Mining Plan commitments, we are 
creating new systems that optimise 
value for our stakeholders. We expect 
this integrated and holistic approach 
to deliver increasingly significant 
safety, environmental and social 
benefits, while reinforcing the ethical 
credentials of our products.

FutureSmart Mining™ has systemic thinking 
at its core – with additional value being 
realised through multiple new technologies 
working together. The framework for our 
approach to technology and digitalisation is 
set out as follows:

of transportation and lowers our energy 
footprint, with 30% less mass transported 
to high intensity downstream smelters. 

The sensor fusion loop in South Africa has 
been used to support BOS operations 
globally, enabling the development of 
intellectual property on selective mining 
and ore sorting. 

tailings was slurry commissioned in 
November 2023, and early signs are 
promising. In ‘tails scavenging’ mode, 
it is projected to add c.12,000 tonnes 
of copper production per annum.

Concentrating the Mine™

We are optimising mining processes 
through technologies that target the 
required metals and minerals more 
precisely, with reduced water, energy 
and capital intensity, and producing 
less waste. These technologies include 
bulk ore sorting (BOS), coarse particle 
recovery (CPR), fines flotation, dry 
processing and novel classification, 
with their implementation integrated 
into resource development planning.

WaterSmart Mine

With more than 80% of our assets 
located in water scarce areas, we must 
reduce our dependence on water and 
associated tailings facilities. We will 
always need water, but we can get 
closer to full recovery recycling. Through 
an integrated system of technologies, 
including CPR and hydraulic dewatered 
stacking (HDS), we are reducing fresh 
water usage, moving to closed loop 
and, potentially, the ultimate aim of fresh 
water-less processing in our operations, 
thereby eliminating the need for 
saturated tailings storage; instead 
creating stable, dry, economically viable 
land available for re-purposing for the 
benefit of stakeholders. 

Progress in 2023
A full-scale BOS unit is operational at our 
PGMs’ Mogalakwena North concentrator 
(c.70% of complex feed). The unit is 
configured to reject waste prior to entering 
the concentrator, increasing plant feed 
grade.

A modular ultrafines recovery plant was 
installed at Mogalakwena to address 
the industry-wide challenge of reducing 
ultrafine mineral losses. Results of the trial 
indicate that the use of ultrafines recovery 
technology significantly increases product 
grades at equivalent metal recoveries. 
In 2024, ultrafine recovery modules will 
be implemented at Mogalakwena and 
Amandelbult. The project allows for ease 

Progress in 2023
The HDS pilot at Copper’s El Soldado mine 
received its first CPR sand in November 
2022. Water recovery has already been 
measured at c.80% (our initial target), and 
dewatering is continuing. The tailings are 
currently being measured as unsaturated, 
which is critical for the impact of the project. 
The trial is still ongoing and is expected 
to continue into the third quarter of 2024. 
A brownfield trial to assess benefits from 
water quality and quantity improvements 
started at Mogalakwena in the first quarter 
of 2023.

A full-scale CPR plant has been 
constructed at the Mogalakwena North 
concentrator. The project is currently in the 
commissioning and optimisation phase. 
Construction of a full-scale CPR plant at 
Quellaveco (Copper) to treat flotation 

Modern Mine

Safety is our number one priority and we 
are committed to achieving zero harm, 
so that all of our colleagues return home 
safely, every day. We are developing 
a new generation of engineered 
controls to reduce exposure to risk in 
work processes. We are using existing 
modernisation technologies, introducing 
remotely operated machinery, such as 
automated drilling and blasting, and 
continuous hard rock cutting, to remove 
people from harm’s way. 

Intelligent Mine

We are transforming how we make best 
use of data, through integrated digital 
tools for planning, simulation, execution 
and monitoring, from resource definition 
to the output of processing plants. 
Our integrated digital transformation 
platform is bringing the full mining 
value chain together in a digital form 
to help our people make data-driven 
decisions in the most efficient manner, 
predicting outcomes and driving 
safety, environmental and productivity 
improvements.

Innovation

Progress in 2023
A full-scale continuous hard rock cutting 
system was installed underground at 
our Mototolo PGMs mine. It is remotely 
operated, and consists of continuous 
cutting and material transport with 
integrated ground support.The system 
provides a number of benefits, including: 
improved productivity; a safer working 
environment, with fewer people working in 
the production stopes area, and reducing 
ore dilution. During 2024, the system 
will contribute to production at Mototolo 
and demonstrate a pathway to transition 
from conventional to fully mechanised 
operations in steeply dipping, narrow, 
tabular orebodies.

Progress in 2023
During 2023, we made considerable 
progress on the digitalisation of our 
business – bringing digital technologies to 
our mines to make them safer, to connect 
our people and support their productivity. 
Our digital strategy is based around 
connecting what we can – our vehicles, 
machinery, equipment and plants – to 
our control systems to help us automate 
processes and continuously monitor and 
improve them.

We run a range of advanced automation 
initiatives for the business:

Advanced Process Control (APC)
In 2023, we made significant progress 
on our multi-year programme, delivering 
on average three new ‘virtual controllers’ 
a week across our mines and plants. At 
Quellaveco, where we have one of the 
largest single site APC systems in the 
world, we have added the automation of 
the CPR plant and the new molybdenum 
recovery plant. 

45

Anglo American’s first fleet of 30 
autonomous mining trucks is fully 
operational at our Quellaveco copper 
mine in Peru, where they are working 
alongside six autonomous production drills 
controlled from the Integrated Operations 
Centre (IOC) some 20 km by road from 
the mine. During 2023, control of the 
autonomous truck system transitioned to 
the operations centre. 

APC allows us to tune the controllers using 
historical data to provide predictive insights, 
increasing the speed of the tuning process 
and stabilising operations by mitigating 
the impact of variability from individual 
operator preference. 

Digital twins 
Over the past few years, we have 
introduced digital twins that allow us to 
comprehensively model many of our 
plants. These twins allow us to produce 
virtual copies of our major infrastructure 
for the purpose of scenario analysis, 
operator training and detailed virtual 3D 
reconstructions of plant infrastructure 
to improve operational maintenance 
planning. Our twins are linked to our plant 
control systems and maintenance planning 
systems to support hazard reduction and 
minimise plant downtime. These models 
are also used to tweak and adjust variables 
– at a fraction of the cost of making 
changes on our installed infrastructure. 

Machine learning
We leverage machine learning to harness 
our data, including from a range of 
geoscience sources, such as soil samples, 
drill results and chemical assays. 

Machine learning allows us to model 
complex processes and we are using 
this capability across the business. For 
example, we are applying machine 
learning to deliver a step-change in our drill 
core interpretation practices using Assisted 
Core Logging (ACL). 

ACL uses advanced sensing, machine 
robotics, the interconnectedness of 
in-field equipment and the scalability 
of cloud-based computing to improve 
the efficiency of our drilling workflow, 
augmenting expert knowledge with 
machine learning. Geologists are now 
able to search for similar textural patterns 
across multiple cores and log numerous 
zones simultaneously. This has reduced 
the time it takes create a lithology log by 
approximately 90%. 

Strategic Report Integrated Annual Report 2023Anglo American plc46

Anglo American plc
Integrated Annual Report 2023

Strategic Report 
Innovation

Our Sustainable 
Mining Plan

Our Sustainable Mining Plan, integral to FutureSmart Mining™, is built 
around our Critical Foundations and three Global Sustainability Pillars 
and sets out our commitment to stretching goals – driving sustainability 
outcomes through technology, digitalisation and our innovative 
approach to sustainable economic development.

Environment

Social

Governance

Healthy Environment

Thriving Communities

Trusted Corporate Leader

t
n
e
m
e
g
a
g
n
e
d
n
a
p
h
s
r
e
n
t
r
a
P

i

Climate change
2030: Reduce absolute Scope 1 and 2 GHG emissions by 
30%, relative to the 2016 baseline; improve energy efficiency 
by 30%; carbon neutral at 8 sites

2040: Carbon neutral at all operations; reduce Scope 3 
emissions by 50%, relative to the 2020 baseline

Biodiversity
2030: Deliver net-positive impact (NPI) on biodiversity across 
our managed operations

Water
2030: Reduce absolute withdrawal of fresh water by 50% in 
water scarce areas, relative to the 2015 baseline
 ▶ For more information See pages 49–58

Health and well-being
2030: Relevant SDG3 targets for health to be achieved in our 
host communities (operations to be halfway to target by 2025)

Education
2025: Host community schools to perform within top 30% of 
state schools nationally 

2030: Host community schools to perform within top 20% of 
state schools nationally

Livelihoods
2025: Three jobs supported off site for every job on site

2030: Five jobs supported off site for every job on site
 ▶ For more information See pages 60–65

Accountability
2030: Establish open and accountable dialogue with host 
communities and wider society, leading to greater mutual 
trust and recognition of the benefits/challenges of mining

Policy advocacy
2030: Recognition of our leadership in policy advocacy. 
Strong levels of engagement in policy debates

Ethical value chains
2025: All operations to undergo third-party audits against 
responsible mine certification systems
 ▶ For more information See pages 90–101 of our 

Sustainability Report 2023

i

P
a
r
t
n
e
r
s
h
p
a
n
d
e
n
g
a
g
e
m
e
n
t

Collaborative Regional Development

Our innovative partnership model to catalyse independent, scalable and sustainable economic development 
in regions around our operations – the objective being to improve lives by creating truly thriving communities 
that endure and prosper well beyond the life of the mine.
▶  For more information See pages 61–62

Our Critical Foundations

These form the common and minimum requirements for each of our operations and our business as a whole. 
The Critical Foundations are essential to the long term credibility and success of both the Sustainable Mining 
Plan and our social licence to operate.

Zero 
mindset
▶  For more information 
See pages 66–70

Leadership 
and culture
▶  For more information 
See pages 70–75

Inclusion 
and diversity
▶  For more information 

See page 72

Human 
rights
▶  For more information 

See page 64

Group standards 
and processes
▶  For more information 
See page 50 of our 
Sustainability Report 2023

Compliance with
legal requirements
▶  For more information 
See page 48 of our 
Sustainability Report 2023

 
 
 
 
Our Marketing business
Our Marketing business optimises the value 
from our mineral assets and product offerings 
for the benefit of all our stakeholders, 
with a focus on shaping long term, direct 
commercial relationships that place the 
expectations of our customers firmly at the 
centre of our approach.

Whether from our own mine portfolio or 
sourced through complementary third-party 
production, we offer a reliable supply of 
essential resources to our customers and 
the industries they support, which are key 
to the development of a cleaner and more 
connected future.

By understanding, addressing and 
anticipating our customers’ specific needs, 
and evolving our capabilities in the financial 
and physical markets, we are taking an active 
role in building customised solutions and 
successfully bringing them to the industries 
we serve.

Our approach in action
Across our activities, we harness the 
potential of our diversified portfolio to 
provide a commercial offering that responds 
to customer requirements, is supported 
by consistently high quality service, and 
reflects society’s increasing expectations for 
responsible production and sourcing.

Our trading activities have continued to 
evolve, allowing us to use our scale and 
market insight to help ensure security of 
supply and mitigate risk. Through our third-
party sourcing framework, we can flex and 
expand our supply capabilities, responding to 
evolving industry demand while also helping 
partners bring their resources to market and 
extend their reach. 

We endeavour to match our commitment to 
reliable supply with robust assurance around 
responsible production, prioritising ethical 
decision making across our entire supply 

Innovation

47

an at-a-glance view of key data – from 
provenance and carbon emissions 
intensity to safety and the social impact 
of our operations.

Looking ahead
Paul Ward, executive head of base 
metals marketing, comments: “We know 
that in their purchasing decisions, our 
customers value Anglo American’s 
longstanding reputation as a leader in 
sustainable mining, and our commitment 
to responsible business practices. 
Through driving greater transparency 
across the entire production and 
logistics chain, Valutrax™ allows our 
customers direct access to indicators 
that determine their compliance with 
requirements in their specific industries 
or jurisdictions, and to then make the 
appropriate decisions in support of their 
sustainability strategies and other value 
drivers. Already, Valutrax™ is available to 
customers purchasing Anglo American 
ferronickel, copper concentrates and 
iron ore mined products, with plans under 
way to integrate mined products from our 
other businesses.” 

Product manager – digital and innovation, 
marketing, Maya Sturm: adds “ What 
started as a blockchain initiative has 
become so much more than the 
underlying technology. Valutrax™ has 
required us, as a business, to be very 
clear about our strategy with regard to 
traceability and transparency. It sets the 
foundation of what we want to do in this 
space, which is to collaborate with our 
customers and reinforce our commitment 
to sustainable, responsible mining.”

ValutraxTM, developed by our Marketing Team, provides customers with a comprehensive picture 
of a product’s origin and sustainability credentials.

Driving greater value chain 
visibility  

At Anglo American, our Sustainable 
Mining Plan outlines our vision to be 
part of a value chain that supports and 
reinforces positive human rights and 
sustainability outcomes. 

With the ever-growing focus on 
sustainability, customers want to feel 
reassured by understanding the ethical 
origins of the products they buy. That 
is why Anglo American is a founding 
member of the Initiative for Responsible 
Mining Assurance (IRMA) and plays a 
leading role in the Responsible Jewellery 
Council (RJC), which bring together 
a range of stakeholders to help provide 
independent assurance around the 
provenance of the metals and minerals 
we mine and market. Taking this further, 
our Group businesses have initiatives 
of their own – such as Copper, PGMs, 
Iron Ore, Nickel and De Beers aligning 

with internationally recognised assurance 
standards for the responsible sourcing, 
production and refining of their products. 

Valutrax™
In November 2023, Anglo American 
launched Valutrax™, a digital traceability 
platform developed by our Marketing 
business, to drive greater transparency 
across our value chain. Valutrax™ is 
an easy-to use, single point of access 
platform that is designed to provide 
customers with relevant sustainability 
data and policies about the metals and 
minerals they buy from us. 

How does it work?
Valutrax™ uses proven blockchain 
technology to build a decentralised 
system that is immutable and fully 
auditable, and gives participating 
customers access to a comprehensive 
view of a product’s core information via 
a user-friendly portal. A digital label can 
be downloaded for each delivery, offering 

Strategic Report Integrated Annual Report 2023Anglo American plc48

Anglo American plc
Integrated Annual Report 2023

Strategic Report 
Innovation

chain. With reference to Anglo American’s 
Responsible Sourcing Standard, we are 
building a consistent and comprehensive 
approach to sustainability screening, due 
diligence and post-deal management of 
sustainability risks and opportunities so that, 
when buying Anglo American products, 
our customers know that our processes are 
underpinned and guided by our Values and 
focus on Ethical Value Chains.

We also recognise the value of independent 
assurance to verify these aspects of our 
performance, against which we can test 
our internal criteria for alignment with best 
practice, as demonstrated by our goal to 
have all our operations assessed against an 
independent, globally recognised, third-
party mining standard by 2025. Our support 
for the Initiative for Responsible Mining 
Assurance (IRMA) and the Responsible 
Jewellery Council (through De Beers) are 
key examples of this approach in action. In 
2023, our Minas-Rio iron ore and Barro Alto 
nickel mines in Brazil were assessed against 
IRMA’s comprehensive mining standard and 
achieved the IRMA 75 level of performance – 
the first iron ore and nickel mines in the world 
to complete an IRMA audit. And in South 
Africa, our Amandelbult and Mototolo PGM 
mines scored IRMA 50 and 75 respectively, 
following our Unki PGMs mine in Zimbabwe, 
which also achieved IRMA 75 in 2021.

Work continues on developing digital 
solutions that can help us trace the journey 
of our products – part of our efforts to drive 
visibility of the provenance and value chain, 
of the metals and minerals we produce. 
In 2023, we launched Valutrax™, our 
proprietary digital traceability solution. 
Built on blockchain, it provides a single 
point of access to core information about 
our products, helping to trace metals and 
minerals from source to customers through 
a tailored selection of key provenance and 
sustainability indicators. 

Collaborating across industry to 
decarbonise our value chain
As part of the Group’s ambition to reduce 
our Scope 3 emissions by 50% by 2040, 
we are focusing on hard-to-abate sectors 
such as steel – from which most of our value 
chain emissions derive. We are working with 
steelmakers in Europe and Asia to research 
efficient feed materials – capitalising on the 
premium physical and chemical qualities 
of our minerals, including iron ore pellets 
and lump iron ore. These premium products 
are suited for use in the direct reduced iron 
(DRI) process, a technically proven and 
significantly less carbon intensive steel 
production method. In 2023, we continued 
building our network of collaboration with 
steelmakers to include Sweden’s H2 Green 
Steel, Singapore’s Meranti Steel and China’s 
Baosteel.

We continue to make headway in our 
roadmap to deliver on our ambition to 
achieve carbon neutrality by 2040 for our 
controlled ocean freight with the delivery and 
launch of eight of our 10 dual-fuelled Ubuntu 
dry bulk carriers. The fleet cuts emissions by 
up to 35% when running on LNG, coupled 
with advances in ship design and technology. 
The final two vessels will be delivered in the 
first quarter of 2024. The shipping team 
continues to explore alternative fuels and 
newer technologies that drive greater 
efficiencies and safety onboard our vessels.

We have developed trading capabilities 
which allow us to deliver carbon 
compensation projects and offsets for 
our customers, which can be packaged 
together with our existing product and 
service portfolio to meet our clients’ needs. 
Finally, through focused investment, industry 
collaborations and stakeholder engagement, 
we are looking to unlock the potential of 
technology development, materials science 
and circularity to discover, accelerate and 

scale-up climate positive innovations for long 
term decarbonisation, with a focus on those 
industry sectors which most contribute to our 
Scope 3 emissions profile.

Making targeted interventions for new and 
sustainable demand 
We continue to nurture additional sources of 
sustainable demand for our products, with 
a focus on PGMs. Our integrated approach 
includes advancing, financing and backing 
new technologies, from the spark of an idea 
through to commercialisation, to create and 
sustain scale. 

Beyond our wide-ranging, long-lasting focus 
on developing the hydrogen economy – from 
promoting the adoption of hydrogen-fuelled 
solutions for the electrification of transport 
to researching the use of hydrogen as a 
reductant in steel production – our efforts 
to capitalise on the unique qualities and 
unparalleled versatility of PGMs continue 
to grow in a variety of future-focused 
applications. These include investing in the 
development of palladium-containing lithium 
battery technologies; support for the creation 
of new materials and technologies, such as 
alloys and 3D printing, to serve industries 
ranging from jewellery to aerospace; and 
programmes aimed at accelerating the 
adoption of PGM-containing memory chips 
to enable low energy consumption and high 
performance computing. 

Operating Model
We believe we can build a long term 
sustainable competitive advantage by 
securing access to the best resources 
and through operating assets safely, more 
effectively (productive), and more efficiently 
(cost-competitive) than our competitors.

The Anglo American Operating Model is the 
foundation that provides structure, stability 
and predictability in the way that we plan 
and execute every task. Planned work is 

inherently safer and more cost-effective than 
unplanned work. We have implemented the 
Operating Model across all managed assets 
and cemented a strong foundation for safe 
and sustainable business performance. 

We continue to build organisation 
capability across the core disciplines of 
operational planning, work management 
and performance improvement, supported 
by a comprehensive set of advanced 
learning resources which enable all our 
employees to understand, adopt and sustain 
our Operating Model.

P101
P101 is our asset productivity programme 
that builds on the stability provided by 
our Operating Model. It improves the 
performance of the most value-accretive 
processes in our value chain to achieve 
best-in-class benchmarks in terms of 
safety, efficiency and productivity. Our 
programmatic approach seeks to identify, 
prioritise and ultimately eliminate operational 
instability and system constraints that prevent 
the realisation of full value from assets. 

FutureSmart Mining™
FutureSmart Mining™ has systemic thinking 
at its core – with the greatest value being 
realised through multiple new technologies 
working together. We envisage a much-
reduced environmental footprint from new 
ways of mining, including by using a number 
of precision mining technologies and data 
analytics, while our collaborative approach 
to regional economic development and our 
ambitious global stretch goals, aimed at 
delivering improvements to areas such as 
health and education, are at the heart of how 
we will create truly sustainable and thriving 
communities.

We are working on a number of key initiatives 
that show our FutureSmart Mining™ 
approach in action, including:

–  Envusa Energy – our regional renewable 

energy ecosystem in South Africa.

–  Coarse Particle Recovery (CPR) – the 

innovative flotation process, which permits 
material to be ground to a larger particle 
size, allowing the early rejection of coarse 
waste and greater water recovery, has 
enabled a 16% increase in copper 
production without the need for additional 
energy at El Soldado. Additional CPR units 
have been installed at Quellaveco and 
Mogalakwena, with further deployment 
planned at other operations.

–  Hydraulic Dewatered Stacking (HDS) – we 
have successfully demonstrated HDS at 
the El Soldado mine which, combined with 
CPR, can help deliver significant water 
savings and reduce the need for wet 
tailings. 

–  SandLix™ – our novel heap leach process, 

currently in development, allows heap 
leach treatment of low-grade, complex 
ores, including chalcopyrite. By optimising 
particle size, temperature and chemistry 
for each ore, highly permeable heaps are 
formed and precisely controlled to achieve 
high copper recoveries. The process has 
roughly half the water and energy intensity 
of flotation and smelting and produces 
no wet tailings. The technology has been 
proven at laboratory scale and the current 
focus is on scale-up.

Climate change
Climate change is one of the defining 
challenges of our time and our commitment 
to being part of the solution to climate 
change is embedded across the business. 
We continue to align our portfolio with 
the needs of a low carbon world; we are 
transforming our operations towards 
carbon neutrality; we are pushing for 
decarbonisation along our value chains; 

Innovation

and we are considering carefully the social 
and wider environmental inter-relationships 
associated with our decarbonisation journey.

Approach and policies
Mining’s critical enabling role in providing 
the metals and minerals needed for a low 
carbon world is increasingly recognised. 
Against this backdrop, we know that 
understanding the implications of climate 
change for our business is imperative and 
as such, we consider climate change to be 
a principal risk. Being resilient as a company 
however, is not enough. We also recognise 
our responsibility to understand the impact 
of our business, to minimise our footprint 
and maximise the value we create for all our 
stakeholders. Doing so is right for the long 
term sustainability of our business and the 
right thing for society. 

Our aim is to increasingly entrench our 
climate change strategy across the business. 
Informed by robust analysis and constant 
engagement with stakeholders, we continue 
to work to align our asset and product 
portfolio with the needs of a low carbon 
world; we are re-orientating our operations 
towards carbon neutrality – and doing so in 
a value accretive way; we are pushing for 
decarbonisation along our value chains; 
and we are considering carefully the social 
and wider environmental interrelationships 
associated with our decarbonisation 
journey – doing what we can to support 
a Just Transition.

In 2015, we demonstrated our commitment 
to the Paris Agreement through our signature 
of the Paris Pledge for Action. That pledge 
demonstrates our willingness to work to 
support efforts in meeting and exceeding the 
ambition of governments to keep the world 
on a trajectory that limits the global warming 
temperature rise to well below 2°C.

49

Governance
Anglo American applies a principled and 
consistent approach throughout our climate 
change governance and management 
systems.

At Anglo American, the Board approves the 
Group’s strategy on climate change. Climate-
related activities, including decarbonisation 
plans are discussed by the Board throughout 
the year as standalone agenda items and 
as part of strategic discussions. The Board 
is updated on progress against our targets 
through management reports at each 
scheduled Board meeting. The Board’s 
Sustainability Committee is responsible for 
addressing climate change-related topics. 
The Committee oversees, on behalf of the 
Board, material policies, processes and 
strategies designed to manage safety, health, 
environment, social and climate-related risks 
and opportunities.

Matters relating to climate change are 
included in quarterly reports to the Committee 
at each of its meetings and as dedicated 
items on its agendas throughout the year. 
The chairman of the Sustainability Committee 
provides a summary of the Committee’s 
discussions at Board meetings, which 
addresses the most material issues raised by 
the Committee. Other non-executive directors 
on the Board regularly attend meetings of the 
Committee, at the invitation of the chair.

 ▶ For more information and the work of the Board and its 

committees
See pages 139–177

Executive remuneration
For senior leaders, a proportion of their 
variable pay each year is tied to the 
delivery of climate-related goals. This 
is predominantly incorporated into the 
performance measures through the Group 
Long Term Incentive Plan (LTIP). The LTIP 
is awarded to our most senior leaders 

across Anglo American, in total around 
400 employees across our jurisdictions. 

We have linked 20% of the 2023 LTIP to 
environmental, social and governance 
(ESG) measures, specifically the delivery 
of our 2030 Sustainable Mining Plan goals. 
This is broken down as follows: renewable 
energy production from approved projects 
(8% of award); all mines assured against a 
recognised responsible mine certification 
(6% of award); social responsibility measure 
on the number of off site jobs we help 
to create in the communities where we 
operate (6% of award).

In addition to the measures as outlined 
above for the 2023 LTIP, a portion of our 
in-flight 2021 and 2022 LTIPs is also linked 
to climate-related measures. For 2021, 
this includes reducing our GHG emissions. 
For 2022, it includes a renewable energy 
production target, with three sites to have 
approved renewable energy projects in 
operation by the end of 2024.

 ▶ For more information on our executive remuneration

See pages 178–211

Assessing climate-related risks
The scientific evidence of human-induced 
climate change is clear. However, the longer 
term impacts to our business remain subject 
to extreme uncertainty. As a consequence, our 
risk management processes embed climate 
change in the understanding, identification 
and mitigation of risk. We have aligned 
ourselves with the Task Force on Climate-
related Disclosures (TCFD) recommendations 
on climate-related risks and we are 
committed to disclosing in alignment with the 
recommendations of the UK’s Transition Plan 
Taskforce.

We assess risks to support the achievement 
of our business objectives and consider 
them against our risk appetite – the nature 

Strategic Report Integrated Annual Report 2023Anglo American plc50

Anglo American plc
Integrated Annual Report 2023

Strategic Report 
Innovation

and extent of risk Anglo American is 
willing to accept in relation to the pursuit 
of our strategic objectives. We look at risk 
appetite from the context of severity of the 
consequences should the risk materialise, 
likelihood of the risk materialising, any 
relevant internal or external factors 
influencing the risk and the status of 
management actions to mitigate or control 
the risk. If a risk exceeds our appetite, it will 
threaten the achievement of objectives and 
may require a change to strategy. Risks that 
are approaching the limit of the Group’s risk 
appetite may require management actions 
to be accelerated or enhanced to ensure the 
risks remain within acceptable levels.

The main physical climate-related risks that 
have the potential to affect the continued 
operation of our assets include the 
availability of water, operating temperatures 
and the exposure to extreme weather events. 
In addition, the context within which the 
business operates may change as the world 
transitions to a lower carbon economy; this 
could include access to finance or changes 
in demand for our products. 

Testing our resilience
While the exact future pathway is uncertain, 
we expect climate change to affect 
the mining industry through risks and 
opportunities in two broad areas:

–  Transition risks/opportunities: The 

potential impact on demand for different 
products, given assumptions on the 
regulatory, technological and behavioural 
changes in both the transition to a low 
carbon economy (e.g. lower-carbon 
power generation) and the mitigation of 
the impact of climate change (e.g. carbon 
capture and storage). Second-order 
impacts to adapt to climate change are not 
considered, such as measures to manage 
temperature changes or rising sea levels. 

Outlook for mining commodity profit pools (Indexed 2050 vs 5 year average (2019–2023))

Highly 
positive 
>3.0x(1)

Positive 
2.0x

Neutral
1.0x

Negative
0.0x

Current levels

Copper

Nickel

Iron ore(2)

SMC(3)

PGMs

POLY4(4)

Diamonds

n Reference pathway, 2.5°C   n 1.5°C

(1)  Maximum impact shown is 3x, some products may see a greater impact (e.g. nickel and polyhalite).
(2)  Global iron ore market.
(3)  Seaborne steelmaking coal market.
(4)  Early view on nascent market.

–  Physical risks/opportunities: The potential 
impact on our operations and surrounding 
communities from both acute extreme 
weather events and chronic shifts in climate 
patterns and the required adaptations to 
minimise these effects.

 ▶ For more on Anglo American’s principal risks, including 

Climate change
See pages 79–85

 ▶ For our TCFD disclosures
See pages 132–137

Transition risks and opportunities in a 
1.5°C scenario
To consider potential transition impacts 
and inform our strategic choices, we  
have used the Wood Mackenzie Energy 
Transition Outlook (ETO) as the reference 
case scenario, one that is expected to result 
in 2.5°C warming. We contrast this with 
the Wood Mackenzie Accelerated Energy 
Transition (AET) scenario which limits an 
increase in global warming to 1.5°C. Our 
judgement is that these two scenarios cover 
the appropriate range of outcomes within 

which to assess the impacts of transition 
risks. The Wood Mackenzie scenarios do 
not, however, include agriculture, forestry 
and other land use (AFOLU) developments 
and emissions. To account for this, we 
have supplemented the Wood Mackenzie 
forecasts with various scenario outlooks 
vetted by the IPCC for AFOLU. 

 ▶ For more information on our climate scenario work

See our Climate Change Report 2023, Resilience to 
transition impacts section

Low carbon transition risks and opportunities*

Innovation

51

AA impact and 
impact timing

Description of impact

Commodity

Industry change

AA impact and 
impact timing

Description of impact

An accelerated use of scrap steel would limit demand growth for 
primary iron ore

PGMs

Increased demand for 
catalytic converters

Commodity

Industry change

Iron ore

Increased collection 
and use of scrap steel

Shift to direct reduced iron 
(DRI)

Increased steel demand

Shift to low carbon direct reduced iron – electric arc furnace (DRI-
EAF) routes will rapidly grow demand for higher quality iron ore 
pellet feed

Steel is critical in the construction of power generation facilities and 
the grid, contributing to the growth in demand for iron ore

Steelmaking 
coal

Increased collection 
and use of scrap steel

An accelerated use of scrap steel would limit demand growth for 
steelmaking coal

Copper

Maturing of carbon capture 
and storage (CCS)

Shift to DRI

Lack of maturing of CCS

Increased steel demand

Growth in power 
demand and increase 
of renewables

Shift to electric vehicles

Lower energy intensity of 
development

Reduced demand for 
personal vehicles

Increased collection and 
use of scrap copper

Nickel

Increased demand for 
batteries

High-quality steelmaking coal will remain a key input into steel 
production in the short to medium term and adoption of CCS/CCUS 
could support demand in the long term

An emphasis on decarbonising steel supply chains could move 
the production methods away from steel-using blast furnaces and 
towards other methods

Limited development and deployment of CCS could accelerate the 
shift to EAF and away from blast furnace iron

Steel is critical in the construction of power generation facilities and 
the grid, contributing to the demand for steelmaking coal

Copper is a key material used in renewable power generation and 
the necessary expansion of power grids

Copper is a key material for enabling increased electrification 
across sectors including the shift from ICE vehicles to BEVs

As energy efficiency improves, energy intensity of development 
decreases. This decreased energy intensity could have a negative 
impact on copper demand, which is a central commodity in power 
generation

Greater adoption of public transportation, ride sharing and other 
mobility levers could limit demand for personal vehicles

A greater than expected improvement in scrap collection could 
offset demand growth for primary copper

Nickel is widely used in lithium-ion batteries which are, in turn, 
used in multiple carbon abatement technologies, including BEVs 
and could provide a solution for energy storage in the context of 
intermittent power generation

Shift to hydrogen economy

Growth in heavy-duty 
FCEVs

Increased demand for 
hybrid vehicles

Shift to battery electric 
vehicles 

Reduced demand for 
personal vehicles

Polyhalite

Decreasing crop land 
availability

Increasing efforts to 
decrease emissions from 
farming

Diamonds

Evolving consumer 
preferences

With potential further tightening of air quality legislation, PGMs play 
a crucial role in reducing pollution from ICE vehicles, through PGM-
containing catalytic converters. This is expected to be an interim 
step towards more comprehensive transportation decarbonisation

As intermittent renewable power generation accounts for an 
increasing share of power grids, hydrogen is a potential energy 
storage solution. PGMs will play a major role across the upstream, 
midstream and downstream segments of the hydrogen value 
chain. PGMs are required upstream for polymer electrolyte 
membrane (PEM) electrolysis; the synthesis, dehydrogenation 
and cracking in the midstream; and the separation, purification and 
compression downstream

As FCEVs become necessary to decarbonise heavy-duty vehicles, 
demand for PGMs is expected to grow

Hybrid vehicles, which contain similar quantities of PGMs as ICE 
vehicles, are expected to play a role in the decarbonisation of 
vehicles, even in the longer term

An accelerated shift away from ICE vehicles towards BEVs poses 
a downside risk for PGMs which are contained in ICE catalytic 
converters and in FCEVs

Greater adoption of public transportation, ride sharing and other 
mobility levers could limit demand for personal vehicles

As reforestation efforts grow, available land for crop development 
will decrease, leading to an increase in fertiliser use to improve 
crop yield 

Polyhalite may also support efficient use of nitrogen fertilisers to 
reduce excess nitrous oxide soil emissions, as well as reverse the 
degradation of soil and the resultant carbon emissions. All else 
being equal, the lower carbon nature of polyhalite may justify a 
price premium over higher emission alternatives

Across scenarios, there is high uncertainty related to future 
consumer behaviours and attitudes to diamond jewellery as well as 
historical cyclicity in demand, although we expect carbon neutral 
diamond producers, such as De Beers, to benefit from evolving 
consumer preferences. However, these factors are not directly 
influenced by the differences across the scenarios. Due to this, we 
believe that the net impact on rough diamond demand is likely to 
be immaterial across scenarios

Change to low or no nickel 
batteries

Reduced demand for 
personal vehicles

Maturing of battery 
recycling

Uncertainty of battery chemistry outlook introduces downside 
demand risk if low or no nickel battery cathode chemistries become 
the preferred technological pathway

Key

Greater adoption of public transportation, ride sharing and other 
mobility levers could limit demand for personal vehicles

As secondary battery supply reaches scale, demand growth for 
primary nickel could slow

Risk 

Opportunity

Short term = 0–5 years 
Medium term = 5–15 years
Long term = 15+ years**

Short to medium

Short to long

Medium to long

Long

Neutral

*  This table only includes risks we consider to be of sufficient magnitude to require monitoring.
** Long term time frame of 15+ years chosen to align to typical time frame for commodity supply 

response to major demand shifts.

Strategic Report Integrated Annual Report 2023Anglo American plc52

Anglo American plc
Integrated Annual Report 2023

Strategic Report 
Innovation

The evolution of the industry sectors our 
products serve could create risks and 
opportunities for our portfolio. Similarly, the 
technological developments that underpin 
the transition of each sector could also 
present risks and opportunities for our 
products. For example, the speed and 
technology mix of the transition towards low 
carbon vehicles – specifically, the mix of BEVs, 
FCEVs and hybrid vehicles – will impact 
the outlook for the PGMs we produce. The 
table on page 51 summarises the risks and 
opportunities we have identified between 
the reference case and the 1.5°C scenario 
against which we have assessed our 
resilience.

Resilience to a low carbon temperature 
pathway
In assessing our resilience to alternative 
climate scenarios, we pressure test 
whether our strategy is robust and our 
financial position resilient across those 
climate scenarios. We consider a number 
of dimensions and assess risks identified 
against our internal risk appetite threshold. 
We test resilience on a first-order effect basis, 
meaning that we do not include any adaptive 
measures we may take as we see indications 
of industry shifts or the effects of megatrends. 
This assessment therefore shows a ‘worst 
case scenario’ test of our resilience because, 
in reality, we would be able to shift the focus, 
capital and effort of the business depending 
on the nature of the transition risk. 

Through this assessment, we have concluded 
that our business is resilient in the 1.5°C 
pathway. Our profit pools remain attractive 
and our diversified portfolio allows us to make 
changes and grow as needed as the world 
transitions. We are committed to playing a 
role in supporting, and our portfolio contains 
several materials critical to, the transition to a 
low carbon economy. Our balance sheet, free 
cash flows and value of the business remain 

robust – both at the 2050 scenario end-point 
and throughout the transition period.

Across the two scenarios, we assessed 
cash flow development through to 2050. 
We expect our cash flow to remain resilient 
under both the reference pathway and the 
1.5°C pathway, while the range of cash flow 
change across the scenarios falls within our 
risk tolerance, giving us confidence in our 
business resilience.

While we have assessed the strategic and 
financial resilience of our portfolio under 
1.5°C and 2.5°C scenarios, it should 
be noted that these scenarios are not used 
for financial reporting purposes as no single 
scenario is representative of management’s 
best estimate of the likely assumptions that 
would be used by a market participant when 
valuing the Group’s assets.

Physical risk – adapting to a changing 
climate
Our global footprint means we operate in 
places which are experiencing differing 
effects of climate change. To understand 
and monitor these risks and plan for any 
necessary short, medium, and long term 
adaptive measures, we have established a 
robust Physical Climate Change Risk and 
Resilience (PCCRR) framework. Our PCCRR 
framework combines top-down climate 
change projection models with bottom-up 
assessments of the local vulnerabilities and 
adaptive capacities to anticipate emerging 
impacts. This builds upon and standardises 
work undertaken previously at our sites 
on physical climate risk, as detailed in our 
2022 Climate Change Report. Our aim is to 
ensure that the resilience of our operations, 
communities and partners today continues 
into the future.

Underpinning our process are robust, 
science-based climate analytics. 
Utilising multiple blended global climate 

models, dynamically downscaled to our 
operating sites, we obtain future climate 
change projections across a broad set 
of climate variables for our chosen future 
scenarios.

Aligning the model’s outputs with the on-
the-ground reality, we also assess historical 
weather data for each site, in addition to 
any extreme weather events that may have 
already occurred. In regions where previous 
predictive climate change assessments 
have been undertaken, we compare the 
results with our own model outputs. To further 
increase accuracy, where comprehensive 
site-based weather data sets already exist, 
we establish these as the baseline from 
which we project the percentage change 
over both the life of that facility and for 20 
years beyond (or at maximum until 2100) 
to include closure. We also seek to identify 
the particular vulnerabilities and adaptive 
capacities of the region and site, in order to 
complete a holistic local context assessment. 

Implementing our PCCRR framework
To facilitate the implementation of our 
framework, we have split it into two phases. 
Phase one is a high level risk screening using 
the SSP5 (~4.4°C) scenario, to ensure that 
we identify and prioritise all plausible risks. 
The most significant risks identified proceed 
through to phase two of the framework, 
involving a secondary assessment to aid 
understanding and quantification against 
SSP2 (~2.7°C).

We model SSP1 (~1.8°C) as a best-case 
scenario, although we believe that this 
appears to be a low likelihood pathway. 
As a result, we do not use this scenario in our 
present planning. 

Operational resilience
During 2023, our focus has been on 
embedding adaptation and climate 
resilience into our operations and processes. 

By doing so, we are deepening our 
understanding of the impacts of climate 
change across our entire value chain, 
helping us identify how best to prepare to be 
more operationally resilient in response to a 
changing climate. We rolled out our updated 
PCCRR risk screening process at our Sishen 
iron ore operation in South Africa and also 
began implementing the framework at our 
nickel and iron ore operations in Brazil. Our 
intention is that all sites will complete phase 
one of the updated process by the end of 
2024 and phase two of the framework by the 
end of 2025.

 ▶ For more on the key physical risks facing our assets

See page 53 

Water and tailings risk
Most of our operations are in water scarce 
regions – such as Chile and Peru; southern 
Africa; and Australia. Yet operations in these 
regions can also experience extreme 
precipitation events – both our steelmaking 
coal operations in Australia and Kumba’s iron 
ore sites in South Africa have been exposed 
to serious flooding in recent years, impacting 
production. 

Our initial work to determine physical 
climate change risks at our sites confirmed 
that water is the greatest risk factor at 
most of our operations; there is likely to be 
either too much or too little. In recognition, 
we established the need for quantified 
assessments of the impacts of climate 
change on water balances and flood risk at 
each site, to allow for a tailored approach to 
climate change-related water management 
across all operations. In 2023, we initiated an 
update of asset water balances and flood 
risk models with climate change projections, 
starting with sites that have Very High 
and Extreme Consequence Classification 
Ratings, as defined by the Global Industry 
Standard on Tailings Management (GISTM) 
– 12 facilities across eight of our operations. 

The findings have been incorporated into 
our design basis and are part of all current 
and future water management assessments. 
Further information on our GISTM approach 
and our results can be found on page 68 of 
our 2023 Sustainability Report. 

Community resilience
The impacts of climate change will also affect 
the lives and livelihoods of host communities 
around our operations. Our responsibility 
is to support our operations with the tools 
to understand how climate change could 
affect vulnerabilities in host communities, 
exacerbate or create new impacts and 
present opportunities for us to proactively 
support those closest to our operations 
to adapt.

Driven through our existing Social 
Performance management system – the 
Social Way – we are integrating climate-
related social and community impacts into 
individual site management approaches. 
The inclusion of a community climate 
vulnerability risk assessment considers 
how host communities can build climate 
resilience and adaptation measures and 
how Anglo American and its partners 
can support their development and 
implementation. This includes refining our 
approaches to social and human rights 
risk and impact identification and analysis, 
livelihood-based vulnerability assessments 
using a sustainable-livelihoods model, and 
building informed consultation through 
stakeholder engagement.

Logistics
Part of our PCCRR process includes working 
with our logistics partners to assess the 
vulnerabilities of our logistics routes, which 
are in some cases already facing climate-
related impacts. For example, the rail line 
from our Sishen mine to the Saldanha port, 
critical to our Kumba iron ore operations 
in South Africa, is a bottleneck that continues 

Innovation

Identified potential hazards in 
2050: managed operations and key 
greenfield projects
The following is based on a top-down 
hazard assessment, conducted in 2023, 
using climate hazard metric projections for 
the SSP5–8.5 scenario in the year 2050. 
We use this scenario to inform phase one of 
our PCCRR process, to ensure we capture 
all potential risks, i.e. the potential impacts 
resulting from a particular hazard. These 
risks are further studied in phase two against 
the SSP2–4.5. scenario to ascertain risk 
significance. We have full, detailed hazard 
assessments for each of our assets across 
all three SSP temperature scenarios detailed 
above, in five-year increments from 2020 
until the year 2100. Below is a simplification 
of this data for reporting purposes.

53

Finland

Canada

UK

Peru

Brazil

Zimbabwe

Australia

Chile

South Africa

Physical hazard

Change in hazard

Extreme weather events

Increase in average annual precipitation

>15%  

Extreme change

Water stress/drought

Wildfires

10% –15%  Significant change

Extreme heat (days over 35°C)

Rise in average annual temperature

5%–10%  Material change

Key physical climate change risks 
across our operations
Through the PCCRR assessments conducted 
to date, we have identified a range of 
risks that are relevant across many of our 
sites. Most of the risks arising are already 
impacting our operations today, and 
we recognise that over the next decades, 
their likelihood and consequence will be 
exacerbated by climate change. Through 
the site level PCCRR work, we are improving 
controls and implementing adaptation 
actions to address these risks and continue 
to strive for resilience in the context of a 
changing climate. 

Change in annual precipitation
–  Change in availability of water 

–  Ecological impacts

Water stress/drought
–  Disruption from lack of access to water for operations
–  Impact on ecosystems and agriculture
–  Reduced community access to water 
–  Compromised viability of vegetation on rehabilitation
–  Challenges managing dust impacts

Extreme weather events
–  Operational disruption from heavy winds, lightning, 

heavy rains

–  Inadequate design parameters on key infrastructure 

(tailings, dams, water treatment etc)

–  Rehabilitation stability impacted through intense 

rains

–  Delays at ports due to impacts on docking and 

loading and offloading operations

Extreme heat
–  Increased heat exposure leading to reduction in 
workforce efficiency and increase in fatigue
–  Exceeding equipment design criteria leading to 

breakdowns and downtime

–  Increase in energy consumption for ventilation 

and cooling

–  Impact on railways (rail buckling)

Rise in average annual temperature
–  Impact on ecosystems, ecological shifts
–  Potential spread of pests/diseases to wider ranges

Wildfires
–  Safety and health risks
–  Impact on biodiversity and communities

Strategic Report Integrated Annual Report 2023Anglo American plc54

Anglo American plc
Integrated Annual Report 2023

Strategic Report 
Innovation

to cause disruptions. Analysis of our internal 
data on the current causes indicates 
that over the period 2020–2022, 21% 
of the disruptions on the Sishen-Saldanha rail 
were weather related. The projected increase 
in extreme weather across South Africa will 
further increase the pressure on this railway, 
potentially increasing the rate of wash-
aways, derailments and traffic stoppages 
due to extreme temperatures and excessive 
rainfall. Engagement with Transnet, the entity 
managing the railway, has therefore been 
initiated to explore the climate resilience of 
the railway. 

A strategy to deliver a future-enabling 
portfolio
The evolution of Anglo American’s portfolio is 
guided by our strategy. Specific choices with 
respect to our portfolio are governed by a set 
of strategic principles. These principles also 
inform our capital allocation and investment 
appraisal processes, ensuring consistency 
of strategic decision making across the 
Group, and embedding climate-related 
considerations at all stages.

In addition to these principles, we also 
assess the alignment with and resilience of 
our portfolio and opportunities to a range 
of long term trends including, critically, the 
implications of climate change. We explore 
how the world might develop under a 
range of climate change pathways and the 
potential outcomes for mining profit pools 
and for our business.

Our portfolio comprises future-enabling 
products that support the transition to a 
cleaner, greener, more sustainable world and 
that cater to demand trends of a growing 
global population. Our growth capital 
expenditure is earmarked for projects in 
key future-enabling metals and minerals, 
including copper, polyhalite and high quality 
iron ore.

Allocating capital to achieve our targets
Anglo American’s Purpose to re-imagine 
mining to improve people’s lives is brought 
to life in the composition of our portfolio, 
supplying materials that enable a more 
sustainable, lower carbon future and the 
demand to improve living standards and 
nutrition for a growing global population. 
We draw on multiple sources to judge the 
contribution that individual assets would 
make to the portfolio under different climate 
scenarios and, amongst other things, this 
informs the way that we allocate capital. As a 
result, the mix of our portfolio is predominantly 
towards future-enabling metals and minerals. 
More than 90% of our growth capital 
expenditure is allocated to projects in these 
future-enabling products.

Ensuring the continued resilience of our 
portfolio to the physical impacts of a 
changing climate is also a key priority 
in our allocation of capital. Investments 
in maintaining this resilience are driven 
by our continuing climate change risk 
management processes and, for example, 
include investments related to reducing 
the consumption of fresh water where it is 
expected to become scarcer, or where there 
is a risk of future disruption owing to flooding. 
These investments are subject to the Group’s 
robust investment evaluation criteria and to 
technical and financial assurance. 

Carbon pricing
Our major investments take into account the 
potential future cost of carbon by embedding 
forward-looking carbon price assumptions, 
which are developed in conjunction 
with leading external providers and are 
differentiated by geography and time horizon, 
into our multi-faceted investment decision 
making considerations. The aim is to reflect 
our best estimate of the level of carbon 
pricing likely to prevail in the respective 
jurisdictions over time. We forecast carbon 

prices to be between $20 and $95 per tonne 
on a 2023 real basis across regions by 2030. 
This approach ensures that project returns 
are evaluated on a realistic basis alongside 
consideration of a project’s impact on carbon 
abatement and portfolio resilience to the 
effects of climate change.

Accounting judgements and estimates 
Climate change potentially impacts a 
number of the judgements and estimates 
made when preparing the Group’s financial 
statements. Potential impacts arise in three 
principal areas: physical risk such as extreme 
weather events; transition risk as demand 
shifts between products; and the Group’s 
climate ambitions, as the financial impact 
(both risks and opportunities) of climate 
targets is reflected in operational decisions 
and cost structures.

The estimation of recoverable amount for 
the Group’s non-current assets is currently 
the only judgement or estimate which is 
materially impacted by climate change. 
Further information about this estimate, 
together with additional information in other 
areas which may be impacted in the medium 
to long term, can be found on pages 234–
236 of this report. 

 ▶ For more information on how we allocate capital

See pages 76– 78

Our pathway to operational carbon 
neutrality by 2040
Achieving our target of carbon neutrality(7) 
across our operations is a complex, multi-
dimensional challenge. It begins from a 
clear and detailed understanding of current 
emissions sources. This understanding 
allows us to take decisions on the best 
means of abatement. The target of a 30% 
reduction in Scope 1 and 2 GHG emissions 
by 2030 is an interim target on our journey to 
carbon neutrality.

Progress in 2023
In 2023, our total Scope 1 and 2 emissions 
decreased by 6% to 12.5 Mt CO2e (2023: 
7.5 Mt CO2e and 5.0 Mt CO2e respectively, 
2022: 8.3 Mt CO2e and 5.0 Mt CO2e 
respectively). This equates to a 7% reduction 
compared with the 2016 baseline on which 
our 2030 target is set. The emissions intensity 
of our production (Scopes 1 and 2) reduced 
by 4% compared with 2022 (2023: 5.8 t 
CO2e/t CuEq and 6.1 t CO2e/t CuEq).

Compared with 2019, when our emissions 
peaked, we have delivered a 26% reduction 
in our total Scope 1 and 2 emissions (2019: 
16.8 Mt CO2e) and a19% reduction in our 
emissions intensity.

Improvements in the management of 
methane in our steelmaking coal business 
have made the largest contribution to this 
reduction in emissions. Completing the  
roll-out of renewable energy in South 
America in 2023 was also a significant 
milestone. Nevertheless, the associated 
Scope 2 emissions reductions were offset 
by an increase in electricity consumption 
in South Africa, as a result of restarting a 
number of processing plants initially shut 
down in 2022.

Progress to 2030
Scope 1 – methane
Methane emitted from our Australian 
steelmaking coal operations makes up the 
largest component of the Group’s Scope 
1 emissions. In 2023, we reduced our 
methane emissions by 19% to 3.8 Mt CO2e 
(2022: 4.7 Mt CO2e). 

We have two predominant categories of 
methane emissions: rich gas, which we 
capture and use for power generation 
and ventilation air methane (VAM). As we 
mine deeper, we are producing more gas, 
including both rich gas and VAM.

The reduction seen in 2023 has been 
achieved primarily through improved 
operational practices aiming to eliminate 
venting of rich gas by leveraging improved 
infrastructure. This has also allowed us to 
increase further the beneficial use of gas with 
third parties. Our aim is to eliminate methane 
venting from our operations, while safe to 
do so.

We have invested significantly, c.$100 million 
per annum, in methane pre-drainage 
infrastructure at our underground 
steelmaking coal operations. In 2023, across 
these operations, we abated approximately 
60% of methane emissions, including 
5.3 Mt CO2e emissions through the capture 
and delivery of methane to gas-fired power 
stations with our partner and third-party 
operator, EDL. These power stations have an 
electricity generation capacity of 145 MW – 
enough to power more than 100,000 homes 
in Queensland each year.

The remaining 40% of methane emissions 
are principally in the form of lower 
concentration VAM. The lower concentrations 
make it more difficult to capture and use 
safely than rich gas. Through concept studies, 
we are increasing our levels of confidence of 
how we can manage these emissions in an 
economic, safe, and technologically viable 
way. A frontrunning technology is the use of 
regenerative thermal oxidation (RTO), which 
has now progressed to the pre-feasibility 
stage. RTO is an air pollution control process 
that destroys hazardous air pollutants, volatile 
organic compounds and odorous emissions 
created through industrial processes. A key 
feature of the process is regenerative heat 
recovery, which makes the system extremely 
fuel efficient.

 ▶ For more on how we are capturing methane at our 

steelmaking coal operations
See page 56

Innovation

Scope 1 – energy efficiency
Our electrification programme and the 
transition away from fossil fuels will contribute 
to the energy efficiency of our operations. 
The technologies we deploy through our 
FutureSmart Mining™ programme and our 
continued focus on improving operational 
and production efficiencies are reducing 
energy demand and costs and helping us 
avoid GHG emissions. These technologies, 
underpinned by our energy and CO2 
management (ECO2MAN) programme, 
are pivotal to ensuring continuous energy 
management and optimisation at our sites.

In 2023, our energy consumption increased 
by 7% to 89.0 m GJ (2022: 83.3 m GJ). This 
increase was driven mainly by the ramp-
up of our Quellaveco operation towards 
full production, anticipated as part of our 
updated trajectory, which was supplied by 
100% renewable energy sources. 

Scope 2 – powered by renewables
In 2023, we sourced 53% of our electricity 
supply from renewable sources. We are 
committed to working towards decarbonising 
the balance of our electricity supply via the 
use of power purchase agreements and  
self-developed generation at site.

With our Quellaveco operation in Peru 
reaching 100% renewable energy through 
its supply partnership with Engie in April 
2023, all our South American operations 
(Brazil, Chile and Peru) are now powered by 
100% renewable electricity. Building on this 
progress, as announced last year, we have 
secured 100% renewable supply to meet all 
our electricity needs in Australia from 2025. 
Partnering with the Queensland government-
owned provider of electricity and energy 
solutions, Stanwell Corporation, we will 
effectively remove all Scope 2 emissions from 
our Steelmaking Coal business. This new 

55

agreement brings significant environmental 
benefits and is net present value (NPV) 
positive compared with our current energy 
mix, while underwriting a large investment in 
650 MW renewable energy generation for 
Queensland, materially impacting emissions 
in the region. 

Climate change performance
Scope 1 emissions 2023

 7.5Mt CO2e
(2022: 8.3 Mt CO2e)

This means that from 2025, we expect 
to be drawing approximately 60% of 
our global electricity requirements from 
renewable sources, transforming our Scope 2 
emissions profile.

Scope 2 emissions 2023

 5.0 Mt CO2e
(2022: 5.0 Mt CO2e)

In October 2022, Anglo American formalised 
a partnership with EDF Renewables 
(EDFR) to form a jointly owned company, 
Envusa Energy. Envusa Energy is expected 
to develop a regional renewable energy 
ecosystem in South Africa with the aim 
of meeting 100% of Anglo American’s 
operational power requirements, with excess 
electricity aimed to be supplied to the grid to 
add capacity.

Scope 3 emissions 2023*

96 Mt CO2e
(2022: 105 Mt CO2e)

Anglo American GHG emissions 2023

Scope 1 (Mt CO2e)

Scope 2 (Mt CO2e)

● CO2e from fugitive emissions from coal mining
● CO2e from methane flaring
● CO2e from processes
● CO2e from fossil fuel consumption

● Australia

● South Africa

● Other

*  Scope 3 emissions include each of the 15 categories included in the Greenhouse Gas Protocol’s methodology.

Strategic Report Integrated Annual Report 2023Anglo American plc3.40.40.43.30.64.20.156

Anglo American plc
Integrated Annual Report 2023

Strategic Report 
Innovation

Envusa Energy has made significant progress 
in the delivery of its mature pipeline of more 
than 600 MW of solar and wind power to 
our operations. Financial close on the three 
projects that form the Koruson 2 project 
on the border of the Northern and Eastern 
Cape provinces in South Africa is expected 
in the first quarter of 2024. Once operational, 
Koruson 2 aims to supply 520 MW of 
renewable power (240 MW of solar and two 
140 MW wind projects) to our operations, 
displacing 12% of our global Scope 2 
emissions, approximately 1.5 Mt CO2e.

Anglo American’s businesses with 
operations in South Africa (Anglo American 
Platinum, Kumba Iron Ore, and De Beers) 
have committed to 20-year electricity 
offtake agreements with Envusa Energy. 
These agreements will see Anglo American 
Platinum receiving 461 MW of supply, 
Kumba’s Kolomela mine 11 MW, and 
De Beers’ Venetia mine 48 MW. All projects 
are to reach commercial operation 
during 2026. 

On-site solar projects at both our Sishen 
(65 MW) and Unki (35 MW) operations are 
also progressing, targeting the end of 2024/
early 2025 to commence construction, with 
a mature pipeline of additional projects 
following shortly thereafter.

In 2023 Envusa Energy was also granted a 
licence to trade electricity in South Africa.

Progress to 2040
Transitioning from diesel consumption is 
a notable challenge; we have therefore, 
prepared a technology development 
roadmap, including hydrogen, battery 
and other forms of diesel fuel alternatives. 
Working in conjunction with First Mode, as 
announced in 2022, we are developing 
multiple pathways to deliver operational 
decarbonisation, comparing technologies 
across different time horizons. We remain 

A frontrunner is our engineering study 
using regenerative thermal oxidation 
(RTO), which has now progressed to the 
pre-feasibility stage. RTO is an air pollution 
control process that destroys hazardous 
air pollutants, volatile organic compounds 
and odorous emissions created during 
industrial processes. A key feature of the 
process is regenerative heat recovery, 
which makes the system extremely fuel 
efficient. 

We are also partnering with Low Emission 
Technology Australia to study possible 
solutions for VAM abatement as well 
as actively participating in several 
industry methane management forums 
and supporting the UN Environmental 
Programme’s International Methane 
Emissions Observatory measurement 
trials through 2023. 

Steelmaking coal – stronger for longer
CEO of our Steelmaking Coal business, 
Daniel van der Westhuizen, comments: 
“Methane emissions represent the largest 
component of Anglo American’s Scope 
1 emissions, and how successful we 
are in methane mitigation will be crucial 
to meeting our goal of reducing our 
Scope 1 and 2 GHG emissions by 30% 
by 2030. This process must be ongoing 
because even in low-carbon pathways, 
steelmaking coal is likely to remain a key 
input into steel until at least the 2040s.” 

Gas plant at Grosvenor. Around 60% of the methane gas from our underground coal mines is captured, 
and then supplied to Queensland’s electricity grid.

Capturing and recycling methane

Coal mining everywhere creates methane 
emissions. Methane is produced during 
the coal mining process when the 
gas, which is trapped in coal seams, 
is released. At our Steelmaking Coal 
operations in Queensland, Australia, we 
encounter two predominant sources 
of methane emissions: rich gas, which 
we seek to capture and use for power 
generation, and ventilation air methane 
(VAM). Given the limits of current 
technology, however, the low methane 
concentrations in VAM cannot currently 
be captured for beneficial use. 

As part of our constant endeavour to 
improve safety, Anglo American since 
2006 has been capturing methane, 
a greenhouse gas (GHG) some 80 

times more potent than carbon dioxide 
(CO2) over a 20-year period. Methane is 
being captured at Moranbah, Grosvenor 
and Capcoal mines’ underground 
coal seams through a series of shafts 
and pipeline networks. The methane-
capture infrastructure, which includes 
third-party-owned power stations on 
our sites, captures around 60% of the 
methane produced, which is supplied to 
power generators for the production of 
electricity for the grid, powering 100,000 
Queensland homes. This reduces 
emissions by around 5.3 Mt CO2e per year.

Ventilation air methane (VAM) 
abatement
Initial concept studies have been 
undertaken to identify the best 
approaches to VAM abatement 
and methane emission reduction. 

Innovation

57

technology agnostic in our drive to evolve 
and transform our operations. We are 
also looking at options to transition mining 
underground in various operating regions 
and are developing electrified, lower impact 
equipment and mining methods to help 
deliver sustainable and profitable operations.

Our approach to emissions reduction has 
always been guided by the mitigation 
hierarchy: Avoid – Reduce – Substitute – 
Sequester – Inset – Offset. In anticipation of 
the fact that we do not yet see a pathway 
to absolute zero for our Scope 1 and 2 
emissions, we are working to address our 
harder-to-abate residual emissions in line 
with this hierarchy, while permanent solutions 
are sought.

 ▶ For more on our carbon abatement projects

See pages 33–37 of our Climate Change Report 2023

Scope 3 – our commitment to decarbonising 
our value chains
Anglo American remains committed to 
working across value chains to reduce 
emissions. We have set an ambition to reduce 
our Scope 3 emissions by 50% by 2040, on 
an absolute basis, against a 2020 baseline. 
Each year we improve our understanding of 
how decarbonisation can be achieved across 
our value chains and the role we can play in 
supporting this.

In 2023, our Scope 3 emissions reduced 
by 8% compared with 2022 (2023: 
95.8 Mt CO2e; 2022: 104.5 Mt CO2e; 2021: 
98.5 Mt CO2e). This equates to a reduction 
of 17%, compared with our 2020 baseline. 
No changes were made to our Scope 3 
methodology when calculating our emissions 
for 2022 and 2023.

We continue to make progress in reducing 
emissions from our primary source of Scope 
3. The processing of our iron ore remains the 
largest contributor to our emissions profile, 
with category 10 emissions from steelmaking 

accounting for 50.9 Mt CO2e, or 47% of total 
emissions, in 2023 (2022: 47.8 Mt CO2e and 
54% of total emissions; 2021: 47.2 Mt CO2e 
and 52% of total). The emissions intensity of 
our iron ore* has fallen by 5% in 2023 versus 
the 2020 baseline.

adoption of less carbon intensive production 
technologies, such as in the DRI and electric 
arc furnace (EAF), using Anglo American’s 
premium quality iron ore products from 
Kumba Iron Ore’s mines in South Africa and 
Minas-Rio in Brazil.

To deliver on our ambition of reducing 
Scope 3 emissions by 50% by 2040, we are 
focused on collaborating with our highest 
emitting customers and supplier partners to 
work towards a common goal of emissions 
reduction through efficiency savings and 
technological advancements. 

Steel is a critical foundational material for 
almost all infrastructure and will provide 
the backbone of the low carbon economy 
and wider, long term socio-economic 
development. In 2023, an estimated 
1.9 billion tonnes of crude steel were 
produced globally. 

Despite increased interest in the use of 
recycled steel in the industry, c.70% of steel 
production is dependent on primary iron 
ore supplies. This is expected to remain at 
around 60% out to 2050. The steel industry 
is continuing to develop and grow new 
technologies to provide lower carbon 
steel and iron. This includes the use of 
more efficient processing, natural gas and 
hydrogen fuelled DRI, which are reliant on 
high-quality iron ore feed. We are growing 
our share of high-quality pellet feed and 
premium lump ore to support the scaling of 
these technologies and lower emissions from 
the steelmaking industry. 

In 2023, we agreed several MoUs with 
our customers, including H2 Green Steel, 
Meranti Green Steel and Baosteel, with a 
focus on reducing emissions within the steel 
value chain. These new MoUs join ongoing 
MoUs with counterparties including Nippon 
Steel, Salzgitter, and Thyssenkrupp. The 
collaborations focus on accelerating the 

Our activities with suppliers and our 
operations contributed approximately 5% 
of Anglo American’s Scope 3 footprint 
in 2023, predominantly through the 
procurement of mining equipment, services 
and capital goods. 

We have set an ambition to achieve carbon 
neutrality across our controlled ocean freight 
activities by 2040, with an interim 30% 
reduction in emissions by 2030. Emissions 
reductions up to 2030 will largely come 
from existing or emerging technology. We 
anticipate a large proportion of the reductions 
will come from existing alternative fuels, such 
as LNG and biofuels, with the rest coming 
from energy-saving devices and commercial 
optimisation strategies, wherever applicable. 

 ▶ For more on how we are decarbonising our 

shipping fleet 
See pages 36–37 of our Climate Change 
Report 2023

Protecting our natural environment 
Protecting our natural environment is 
material to us and is increasingly expected 
by our stakeholders and society. As 
custodians of the land and ecosystems 
around our operations, we seek to improve 
the footprint of our operations and direct 
our efforts towards delivering positive 
and lasting environmental outcomes for 
host communities and our wide range 
of stakeholders. Our environmental work 
involves protecting the biodiversity of areas 
in which we operate, accounting for and 
optimising our water use, supporting the 
circular economy throughout the value chain 
and across our business, and addressing 
quality of the air around our operations.

Our approach and policies
Our approach to the environment is a 
blend of helping nature by protecting and 
restoring it, while simultaneously investing 
in innovative technology and nature-based 
solutions to mitigate impacts, develop a 
circular economy, drive sustainable value 
chains and create an enabling policy 
environment to address challenges and 
unlock opportunities.

Our Sustainable Mining Plan outlines our 
strategic approach to sustainability and 
upholds our commitment to being stewards 
of the natural environment in which we 
operate. 

In particular, the Sustainable Mining Plan 
focuses on a mindset of causing zero harm 
to the environment and delivering a net 
positive impact (NPI) for biodiversity and, 
at the same time, a lasting positive legacy 
for society. We also look beyond what we 
can achieve alone, collaborating globally 
with a diverse range of partners to develop 
and implement sophisticated solutions 
that support our sustainability goals. We 
believe that delivering positive outcomes 
for the environment in turn delivers positive 
outcomes for people and our business. This 
is consistent not only with our Purpose and 
our Sustainable Mining Plan, but also with 
the UN SDGs and Kunming-Montreal Global 
Biodiversity Framework.

Our approach is to prioritise the environment 
throughout the lifespan of our operations. We 
look at the entire ecosystem to understand 
the intertwining relationships of people, 
nature, climate, air, water, land and the 
economy.

Aligned with our Purpose, Values, and 
internationally recognised safety, health and 
environmental standards (ISO 45001 and 
14001), our Safety, Health and Environmental 

* Intensity based on dry metric tonnes sold.

Strategic Report Integrated Annual Report 2023Anglo American plc58

Anglo American plc
Integrated Annual Report 2023

Strategic Report 
Innovation

(SHE) Policy embodies three guiding 
principles: zero mindset; no repeats; and non-
negotiable minimum standards. Our SHE 
Way V.2 is the tool we use to manage and 
improve performance across safety, health 
and the environment.

We classify environmental incidents on five 
levels, according to their impact. Our chief 
executive reports all Level 3–5 incidents (from 
moderate to significant) to the Board, which 
discusses them through its Sustainability 
Committee. 

 ▶ For more information on the SHE Policy 

Visit angloamerican.com/policies-and-data

Governance
The Board’s Sustainability Committee 
has oversight of the Group’s nature and 
biodiversity related programmes of work 
and is updated on a pre-planned schedule 
and, as needed, on progress against those 
programmes and delivery of targets.

Progress against the Group’s biodiversity 
management programmes is included in the 
chief executive’s scorecard on a quarterly 
basis.

The chief executive’s scorecard offers a 
succinct, yet comprehensive view of our 
business performance closely aligned with 
Anglo American Operating Model principles. 
It is a management tool used by the chief 
executive to track business performance 
through a focused set of financial and  
non-financial measurements. Each business, 
asset and function are also responsible to set 
their own scorecard aligned with the Group 
scorecard and report against performance 
on a quarterly basis to the Executive 
Leadership Team. The Group scorecard is 
shared with the Board and performance 
against sustainability metrics shared with the 
Sustainability Committee of the Board.

Land rehabilitation (reshaping and seeding 
completed) performance is embedded in 
our executive remuneration arrangements 
and is reflected in executive director bonus 
payouts. This metric is also subject to external 
assurance as part of the year end reporting 
process.

Performance
In 2023, our managed operations completed 
905 hectares of rehabilitation out of a 
planned 1,124 hectares. The completion 
target was missed due to inclement weather 
and difficulty in sourcing sufficient seed 
resources.

In 2023, we saw no Level 3 and above 
environmental incidents. We were also not 
issued with any material environment-related 
fines.

Water
Mining remains a water-intensive industry 
and we anticipate global water supplies to 
remain stressed amid the ongoing impact 
of climate change and variability, with 
increasing extreme weather events. To 
address these challenges, we have made 
water stewardship an integral part of how 
we operate across all our sites, including 
our target of a 50% reduction in fresh water 
withdrawals in water scarce areas by 2030, 
relative to the 2015 baseline. 

Approach and policies
Our approach to water management is 
embedded in our business plans and aligned 
with the Social Way, which recognises 
that access to water is a priority for our 
stakeholders. We are guided in our work 
by our Group Water Policy and the Group 
Water Management Standard. The standard 
incorporates water issues into the lifecycle 
of any project, from site selection and early 
studies, through design to operation, closure 
and post-closure.

In Limpopo province, South Africa, a water pipe undergoes inspection at the south concentrator plant at 
our Mogalakwena PGMs mine, which regularly experiences prolonged periods of drought.

Governance
The Board’s Sustainability Committee has 
oversight of the Group’s water-related 
programmes of work and is updated on a 
pre-planned schedule and, as needed, on 
progress against those programmes and 
delivery of targets. Progress against our 
water targets is also included in the chief 
executive’s quarterly scorecard.

Fresh water withdrawal data is subject to 
external assurance as part of the year end 
reporting process.

Performance
Our fresh water withdrawals (for target 
sites) increased by 6% to 38,040 megalitres 

(ML) (2022: 35,910 ML), reflecting a rise in 
dewatering required for mining to progress 
into new areas at our Kolomela iron ore mine 
in South Africa, increased water demands 
due to higher operational requirements for 
the underground operations at Moranbah-
Grosvenor steelmaking coal mine in Australia, 
and higher precipitation at Los Bronces 
copper mine in Chile. Such annual variability 
is expected until such time as major fresh 
water savings and replacement projects are 
completed. 

Mineral residue management
The management and storage of waste 
rock and processed mineral residue 
remains a critical issue for the global mining 

industry. Mineral residue management 
presents us with social, safety and 
environmental challenges throughout the 
lifecycle of our mining operations and, as 
such, we welcome the introduction of the 
comprehensive Global Industry Standard on 
Tailings Management (GISTM).  In 2023, we 
made significant progress towards bringing 
our 12 tailings storage facilities (TSFs) that 
are currently within the two highest potential 
consequence categories into conformance 
with the GISTM, while also working to develop 
and implement technological solutions 
– including enhanced and standardised 
control systems – across our operations.

Our approach and policies
Our Group Mineral Residue Facilities and 
Water Management Structures Standard and 
Policy address the risks of both processed 
mineral residue and water management 
facilities, as well as waste rock dumps. The 
standard sets out requirements for design, 
monitoring, inspection and surveillance of our 
processed mineral residue facilities, which we 
follow as a minimum requirement practice 
in each jurisdiction where we operate. It is 
aligned with current best practice, including 
the requirements of the GISTM where 
applicable.

As a member of the ICMM, Anglo American 
has adopted the ICMM Conformance 
Protocols that enable progress towards 
conformance with the GISTM to be assessed. 

We make available publicly our Processed 
Mineral Residue Facilities and Water 
Management Structures Standard, and Policy, 
which have been approved by the Board and 
include all the technical requirements of the 
GISTM. 

 ▶ To view the full standard and policy

Visit angloamerican.com/esg-policies-and-data/
download-centre

Innovation

Governance
To ensure proper management and oversight 
of our TSFs, we seek to build in additional 
lines of internal and external operational 
support and assurance.

As part of our GISTM implementation, 
Anglo American requires the appointment of 
an accountable executive who is responsible 
for safety and emergency management at 
each TSF. An accountable executive has 
been appointed at all managed operations 
and the majority of our non-managed 
operations.

The GISTM also requires the appointment 
at each TSF of an internal engineer to be 
the competent person responsible for the 
integrity of a facility, known as the responsible 
tailings facility engineer (RTFE); and an 
external engineer, known as the engineer of 
record (EoR), which entails the engagement 
of a specialist engineering firm. All of our TSFs 
with a consequence rating of ‘major’ have an 
RTFE and EoR in place.

In addition, the GISTM requires an 
independent tailings review board (ITRB) to 
be in place for additional oversight. All major 
TSFs have appointed an ITRB.

Our Risk, Assurance and Governance 
Policy implements a model based on the 
‘three lines of defence model’: the first line 
comprises of the accountable executive, 
RTFE and EoR, who own and manage the 
risk. The second is an internal corporate 
team, which provides expertise and support, 
and challenges the assumptions of the 
first line. Conformance with the standard 
and associated technical specifications is 
approved by the accountable executive, 
then verified and reported to the technical & 
operations director, the chief executive, and 
the Board and Sustainability Committee. 
An independent third line is provided 
by Anglo American’s internal audit 

59

Mogalakwena PGMs mine in South Africa is piloting the first brownfield application of hydraulic 
dewatered stacking (HDS) tailings at Anglo American.

function, which could include external and 
independent consultants based on the 
objectives of the audit. Findings are reported 
to the Board’s Audit Committee.

We have made very significant progress 
towards conformance with the GISTM over 
the past three years, building upon our 
already high technical standards. 

 ▶ For more information and disclosure 
Visit angloamerican.com/tailings

Performance
Anglo American played an active role in the 
multi-stakeholder process of developing the 
GISTM, which covers standards and practices 
over the entire tailings facility lifecycle and 
sets a high bar for the mining industry to 
achieve strong social, environmental and 
technical outcomes. The GISTM is intended 
to be applied to existing and future tailings 
facilities, wherever they are found, and to 
whomever operates them.

We are continuing to work towards full 
conformance with the requirements of the 
GISTM, as well as the social and community 
aspects that are already encompassed in our 
comprehensive Social Way management 
system. As set out in our 2023 GISTM 
disclosure, we are addressing the few 
outstanding areas for the tailings facilities 
with Very High and Extreme Consequence 
Classification Ratings, and have set out the 
work needed to get us there. 

 ▶ To view our Tailings database

Visit angloamerican.com/esg-policies-and-data/
tailings-summary/tailings-database

Strategic Report Integrated Annual Report 2023Anglo American plc60

Anglo American plc
Integrated Annual Report 2023

Strategic Report 
Innovation

Playing our role in society
As a global business, we see it as our role to 
make a positive contribution to society. We 
are continuing to implement our industry-
leading social performance management 
system for the global extractive sector, the 
Anglo American Social Way. It represents 
a comprehensive and innovative approach to 
how we interact with host communities that 
prioritises respect and mutual benefit for all 
stakeholders.

Through our Collaborative Regional 
Development (CRD) approach, we work 
to catalyse independent, scalable and 
sustainable economic development in 
regions around our operations to support 
our Sustainable Mining Plan commitments. 
We also transparently and continuously 
engage stakeholders to collaboratively find 
solutions to the most pressing issues of our 
time. We set our standards high, embedding 
them into our Code of Conduct. We also 
have high expectations of our suppliers, and 
provide guidance and support to emerging 
companies to meet those expectations, 
ensuring we address sustainability matters 
throughout the entire value chain.

Engaging with local communities
Engaging with local communities plays a 
pivotal role throughout the lifecycle of a 
mine, from exploration through to project 
development, the production phase and 
finally mine closure.

By understanding community concerns 
and actively involving residents, indigenous 
groups and other local stakeholders in 
decision making processes, we identify the 
best ways to share the benefits of mining with 
the communities that host our operations.

Our approach and policies
The Social Way provides a social 
performance management framework 
for all Anglo American-managed sites, at 

all phases of development. Aligned with 
our Purpose and our strategic business 
objectives, the Social Way embeds 
international standards and best practice 
and sets out clear minimum requirements to:

–  Engage with affected and interested 

stakeholders 

–  Avoid, prevent, and, where appropriate, 
mitigate and remediate adverse social 
impacts 

–  Maximise development opportunities. 

The Social Way emphasises the integration of 
social performance into our core operational 
planning and processes, including our 
Operating Model and Sustainable Mining 
Plan. The Social Way Management System 
is one of the main vehicles through which we 
are working to achieve some of our ambitious 
Sustainable Mining Plan commitments. We 
have made the Social Way publicly available 
for other companies to use, and, just as 
importantly, so stakeholders know what our 
standards are and what they can expect of us.

Our Sustainable Mining Plan site-level local 
accountability goal has been incorporated 
into our Social Way stakeholder engagement 
requirements. 

Governance
Progress against the Group’s implementation 
of the Social Way, including local 
accountability strategies and mechanisms, 
is included in the chief executive’s scorecard 
on a quarterly basis and is reviewed by the 
Board’s Sustainability Committee at least 
annually. Incidents with social consequences 
are also reported to the chief executive and 
Sustainability Committee.

The Social Way requires an integrated 
and cross-disciplinary approach to the 
management of social performance at 
site level.

Performance
Due to internal organisational change and 
the resultant need to respond to an internal 
assurance efficiency review, our 2023 Social 
Way assurance programme was completed 
via self-assessment, rather than third-party 
review. The site level self-assessments were 
supported by a verification exercise with 
the relevant members of the business and 
Group Social Impact team to stress-test the 
results and gaps, and support improvement 
planning. Data from this exercise shows 
that 73% of Social Way requirements had 
been implemented across relevant sites. 
Although sites are assessed annually against 
all requirements applicable to their context, 
for consistency during the transition period, 
this metric reflects performance against the 
Social Way foundational requirements.

Grievances and incidents
We define a grievance as a complaint 
from an external stakeholder relating to the 
site, its policies, activities, real or perceived 
impacts, or the behaviour of its employees or 
contractors. Grievances are an expression of 
dissatisfaction with the company on the part 
of stakeholders. 

Incidents with social consequences are the 
unwanted events related to site activities 
that have an adverse impact on the health 
and safety, economic welfare, personal and 
political security and/or cultural heritage 
of stakeholders. An incident with social 
consequences may arise from a site’s 
technical failure or accident, or a failure to 
anticipate, prevent or mitigate an impact.

Our objective is to avoid incidents, but 
also to encourage stakeholders to raise 
their grievances or concerns with us in a 
free and open manner. Because of this, 
while we keep a track of the number of 
grievances received, we do not use this as 
a performance indicator. An increase in the 
number of grievances may reflect greater 

confidence that grievances will be heard 
and acted upon. As a metric of performance, 
we prefer to focus on the number of actual 
incidents with social consequence. We rate 
the seriousness of incidents according to the 
consequences experienced by stakeholders, 
the most significant being Level 5.

In 2023, we recorded one incident with social 
consequences (2022: zero).

Economic development of local 
communities
We are committed to working with other 
businesses and organisations that support 
local economies. This includes, but is 
not restricted to, helping businesses and 
organisations to strengthen the skills and 
capabilities needed to enable an area to 
diversify its economic activities beyond 
mining and become more resilient. Partnering 
with governments, communities, other private 
sector companies, academia, financial 
development institutions and NGOs through 
our CRD work, we jointly identify opportunities 
for long term social and economic 
development, which we then collectively 
deliver.

Sustainable job creation
Our approach and policies
Our operations are often located in remote or 
rural areas with limited alternative economic 
activities and high levels of unemployment, 
particularly youth unemployment. 
Joblessness dominates many domestic 
policy agendas and is a frequently cited 
issue in community consultations. It also 
represents a major financial pressure on the 
fiscal resources of many countries in which 
we operate.

We seek to ensure residents in host 
communities have access to employment 
opportunities that will allow them to 
improve their standard of living and their 
livelihoods. The nature of mining, involving 

Innovation

61

the stewardship of finite resources, means 
that transitions are an integral part of our 
work, especially with respect to mine closure. 
Creating off site non-mining-related job 
opportunities is particularly important in 
mitigating risks to changing workforce skill 
and quantum.

The socio-economic contribution we make to 
the communities in which we operate takes 
various forms:

–  The royalties and taxes we pay (and 

collect on behalf of governments) add 
economic value to a country

–  Business operations that deliver economic 

value to communities, enhanced by 
policies on inclusive procurement, local 
recruitment and supporting local suppliers

–  Long-running socio-economic 
development interventions, in 
collaboration with local partners, 
which address local needs, building 
and strengthening sustainable local 
economies that are less dependent on our 
mines.

Taking a long term view, we design our 
operations and community development 
initiatives so that communities and 
economies continue to thrive, particularly 
after our mines have closed.

Governance
The Thriving Communities pillar of our 
Sustainable Mining Plan includes a 
livelihoods stretch target to support five jobs 
off site for every job on site by 2030. We have 
an interim target to achieve three jobs off site 
for every job on site by 2025. The Group’s 
off site jobs supported ratio is included 
in the chief executive’s scorecard that is 
reviewed on a quarterly basis, and is then 
reviewed and discussed by the Sustainability 
Committee.

grow and scale up, and then matching 
them with potential impact investors. 

Delivering impact in southern Africa – 
and beyond
Anglo American’s impact investment 
manager, Emma Parker, comments: 
“Our PGMs business is exploring how it 
could modify the IFN standard operating 
model to deliver greater impact in South 
Africa’s Limpopo province. We have 
already taken a close interest in several 
promising companies in Limpopo, and 
are building our network there through 
initiatives like roadshows and our 
recent impact investment conference 
in Polokwane, which brought together 
impact and sustainable investors. We are 
also partnering with banks and non-bank 
credit providers to support host-region 
business growth by making available 
affordable debt funding to businesses in 
non-mining sectors, thereby unlocking 
value, impact and jobs.

“Since 2021, we've identified a pipeline of 
businesses with operations in South Africa, 
Namibia, Botswana, Zimbabwe, Zambia 
and Chile and brought them together with 
a network of impact investors seeking 
social investment opportunities. We’ve 
provided technical assistance to more 
than 80 social and environmental impact 
companies in our operating markets, 
supported 22 companies to close deals 
with a cumulative value of $25.5 million, 
and projected to support over 13,000 
livelihoods. 

“And we are just getting started. Our plans 
are to expand our geographic reach and 
we are now implementing a pilot in Peru 
and planning a Brazil pilot in 2024. We 
see huge potential to expand the IFN’s 
scope and influence.” 

Taking onions to market in Limpopo province, South Africa. Agriculture is a key area where the IFN is 
helping to make a real difference, at scale, to economic upliftment.

Our Impact Finance Network – 
uplifting regional economies

How to foster lasting and sustainable 
socio-economic development in the 
poorer, mainly rural, regions around 
mining operations is a constant challenge 
for the mining industry. 

At Anglo American, we have longstanding 
experience in the business of uplifting 
communities and improving people’s 
lives. Aligned and closely integrated 
with the goals of our Sustainable Mining 
Plan, and our innovative Collaborative 
Regional Development partnership 
model, our Impact Finance Network 
(IFN) is our tailored technical assistance 
and matching programme designed to 
mobilise third-party impact capital to 
create positive, sustainable social and 
environmental change in host countries 
and regions around our mines. 

Helping high-impact entrepreneurs
Impact investing is thriving. It is estimated 
to be worth $1.2 trillion globally. There 
are, however, still significant barriers that 
prevent the flow of capital to impact 
enterprises: for instance, entrepreneurs 
often lack knowledge and experience in 
presenting their businesses to potential 
investors, which makes closing impact-
investing deals challenging for both 
businesses and investors. 

That is why the IFN is partnering with 
experienced enterprise-development 
consultants such as Impact Capital Africa 
and Edge Growth in southern Africa, and 
Fundación Chile and Andes Impact in 
Chile and Peru. Concentrating primarily 
on jobs and opportunities ‘beyond the 
mine’, the IFN is helping to accelerate 
the process of supporting enterprises to 
become ‘investment ready’ by identifying 
impact businesses with the potential to 

Strategic Report Integrated Annual Report 2023Anglo American plc62

Anglo American plc
Integrated Annual Report 2023

Strategic Report 
Innovation

The off site jobs supported ratio is embedded 
in our executive remuneration arrangements, 
with the executive director and senior 
management LTIP arrangements, including 
targets related to achievement of the ratio.

The off site jobs supported ratio is subject to 
external assurance as part of the year end 
reporting process.

Performance
By the end of 2023, we had supported 
139,308 jobs through socio-economic 
development programmes since the launch 
of our Sustainable Mining Plan in 2018. In 
2023, we supported 2.4 off site jobs for every 
on site job (2022: 1.8).

Community development – education 
and health
We recognise that living our Values and 
achieving our Purpose of re-imagining 
mining to improve people’s lives requires us to 
be innovative, inclusive and ambitious in our 
support for host communities.

We are committed to supporting local 
community education and health owing to its 
direct impact on both our workforce and their 
families. By investing in local education and 
health capacity and preventative healthcare 
measures, we can help secure a more stable 
and supportive operational environment and 
help foster positive relationships with local 
stakeholders.

Our approach and policies
Community education
Our approach to community engagement 
and working in partnership with host 
communities and other stakeholders to 
deliver education programmes is guided by 
the Social Way.

As part of the Thriving Communities pillar of 
our Sustainable Mining Plan, we aim to drive 
systemic and long term gains through our 
education goals. We believe that education 
is essential to address the triple evils of 
poverty, inequality and unemployment 
because it increases students’ abilities 
to access economic and employment 
opportunities while preparing them with 
the skills for the future.

Our vision in education is for all children 
in host communities to have access to 
excellent education and training. We have 
established targets of helping schools in host 
communities to perform within the top 30% of 
public (state) schools nationally by 2025 and 
within the top 20% by 2030. To achieve this, 
we aim to enhance school governance and 
education practices and, provide the space, 
didactic tools and technological solutions to 
deliver quality education.

Our education programmes focus primarily 
on eight countries: South Africa, Zimbabwe, 
Peru, Brazil, Chile, the UK, Australia and 
Canada. We are also exploring programmes 
for Botswana and Namibia as part of 
De Beers’ Building Forever goals. 

Community health
Our approach to community health is 
informed by guidance and investment 
targeting that are aligned to the World Health 
Organization’s (WHO) whole of society 
approach to community health. 

Community health programmes involve, 
but extend beyond, our workforce and their 
dependants to support the wider community, 
which means that targeted individuals 
do not necessarily have a connection to 

Anglo American, as these initiatives view 
our communities holistically and strive to 
achieve equitable access. All stakeholder 
engagement processes are conducted in line 
with the Social Way. 

Governance
Community education and health
Progress against our community education 
and health targets are included within the 
chief executive’s quarterly scorecard and 
shared with the Sustainability Committee as 
required.

Performance
Community education
We continue to make progress against our 
Sustainable Mining Plan targets for host 
community education. 

In 2023, we continued to focus on 
implementing proactive education 
programmes that deliver measurable 
impacts and outcomes tailored to the 
unique needs of young learners in each 
host community. A key area of focus for our 
work during the year, particularly in South 
Africa, has been on driving the long term 
sustainability of our programmes through 
supporting parental and school leadership 
involvement, and providing ICT resources to 
students and communities.

Community health
As part of the Thriving Communities pillar 
of our Sustainable Mining Plan, we plan to 
achieve prioritised SDG 3 targets for health 
in host communities by 2030. We also have 
an interim milestone where all our operations 
should be halfway to closing the gap 
between the baseline and our 2030 target. 

In order to achieve this stretch goal, a 
robust process of prioritisation of relevant 
SDG 3 sub-goals was undertaken in each 
host community, and three priorities per 
community were identified. Progress is 
being made towards the 2025 milestone, 
with programmes in place to address 
identified health priorities by the close of 
2025. Our operations in Australia, Canada, 
South Africa, the UK and Zimbabwe already 
have fully functional programmes in place. 
Priority regions for 2024 include Brazil, Chile 
and Peru.

The economic value we add
By employing people, paying and collecting 
taxes, spending money with suppliers 
and undertaking community and social 
investments, we make a significant positive 
contribution to both host communities and 
their regional and national economies. Most 
of these are in developing countries. Thanks 
to the multiplier effect, our total economic 
contribution extends far beyond the direct 
value we add. And our contribution does 
not stop there, with payments to providers of 
capital also providing returns to lenders and 
shareholders.

In 2023, we distributed $26.8 billion of cash 
value to our stakeholders, as detailed in the 
charts on page 63.

 ▶ For more information

See our Tax and Economic Contribution Report 2023

Innovation

Women from the local Gweru community. The work Unki is doing in Zimbabwe is helping to strengthen 
both local community-health and education systems.

Unki – Enhancing communication 
and information around health 
services

Southern Africa continues to suffer from a 
challenging combination of widespread 
poverty, high unemployment, elevated 
levels of HIV infection, and prevalent 
violence against women. This is taking 
a heavy toll on people’s everyday lives, 
with health and education systems in 
particular experiencing many challenges.

Forging partnerships to strengthen 
health and education systems
In Zimbabwe, health issues, including 
HIV and other sexually transmitted 
diseases, and lack of capacity in, and 
under-delivery by, health systems are 
serving to undermine both the state 
and its people. To help address the 
situation, Anglo American is working with 
government and third-party institutions to 
improve equitable access to quality care, 

and to support individuals to seek care 
when they need it. To this end, our Unki 
PGMs mine is working with the Ministry 
of Health and Child Care, the Zvandiri 
NGO, and the National AIDS Commission 
in supporting children and adolescents 
living with HIV to improve health outcomes 
through peer and family support, and 
health systems strengthening.

Building capacity on the ground
In the rural Shurugwi district community 
around Unki, there are high levels of 
school drop-out, particularly in the case 
of girls. This makes girls vulnerable to 
negative sexual and reproductive health 
outcomes – a situation aggravated by the 
transient nature of Shurugwi’s contractor 
and migrant workforce. To help keep 
pupils in schools longer, and boost their 
life chances, Unki has invested $2.8 million 
in education in Shurugwi through a 
programme named Step-Up. 

Working in conjunction with community 
organisations and NGOs, Unki is not only 
building physical infrastructure such as 
classrooms and bringing solar power to 
schools, but is also funding peer-to-peer 
social behaviour change communication, 
counselling and information programmes 
for Shurugwi’s children and youth. Sexual 
and reproductive health information is 
particularly important in this respect, 
and there is a strong emphasis on peer-
counselling for girls and young women, 
who are able to meet up and participate 
in social and behaviour-change 
communication programmes designed 
to strengthen their agency to prevent 
HIV and pregnancy, and enhance their 
physical and mental health. Adolescent 
boys, migrant/contract workers and 
artisanal miners are also benefiting from 
community health initiatives that use 
peer mentors and role models to help 
provide psychological and social support, 
as well as clinical support, to enable 
HIV and sexual and reproductive health 
associated testing and access to care. 

Anglo American’s Head of Community 
Well-being, Alexandra Plowright 
comments: “The work we are doing 
in strengthening community health in 
Zimbabwe is inextricably interwoven with 
our determination to boost the country’s 
education systems. We are working 
with young women to support them to 
access information and knowledge that 
can inform health seeking behaviour, 
particularly on sexual and reproductive 
health issues that concern them, and 
on ensuring they get the counselling 
and advice needed to empower them 
to take control of their future.”

Cash value distributed to stakeholders(1)

Employees

$ billion

Taxes and royalties

Suppliers (including capital investment)

Community social investment

Providers of capital

63

15%

19%

53%

1%

12%

Total

26.8

(1)   Computational discrepancies may occur due to rounding.

Social investment
In 2023, our Community Social 
Investment (CSI) reached $148 million 
(2022: $175 million), which represents 2% of 
underlying earnings before interest and taxes 
(EBIT), less underlying EBIT of associates and 
joint ventures. 

Since the beginning of the pandemic in 
2020, we have increased our CSI investment 
and slightly readjusted our funding priorities, 
investing more in health.

Anglo American Foundation
The Anglo American Foundation puts youth 
at the heart of everything it does, giving 
young people the tools to create positive 
impact within their communities and around 
the world. The Foundation believes a green 
and fair future relies on an empowered, 
supported and engaged generation 
to unlock their full potential and seize 
sustainable economic opportunities.

Together with its partners, the Anglo 
American Foundation works closely with 
young people to understand the challenges 
they face and collaborate on innovative 
approaches to drive transformative change. 

Strategic Report Integrated Annual Report 2023Anglo American plc4.05.114.40.13.264

Anglo American plc
Integrated Annual Report 2023

Strategic Report 
Innovation

Human rights
Consistent with our Values, we are committed 
to respecting human rights across every 
area of our business. We embed human 
rights as a foundation of the approaches 
and standards that we apply throughout our 
business and value chains.

Our approach and policies
Consistent with our commitments, we have 
enshrined human rights as one of the critical 
foundations of our Sustainable Mining Plan. 
Respect for human rights is stated explicitly in 
our Code of Conduct and is reflected in our 
Values. Specific commitments are expressed 
in our Group Human Rights Policy, which is 
aligned with the UN Guiding Principles on 
Business and Human Rights (UNGPs).

Our commitment to human rights is further 
expressed through our being a signatory 
to the UN Global Compact, the Voluntary 
Principles on Security and Human Rights, and 
the Business Network Commitment on Civic 
Freedoms and Human Rights Defenders.

Due diligence is central to Anglo American’s 
approach to human rights. It includes the 
following four components: assessing 
potential and actual human rights impacts; 
integrating and acting on the findings from 
the assessment to prevent, mitigate or 
remediate the impacts identified; tracking the 
effectiveness of the actions taken to address 
impacts; and communicating externally 
about how impacts are addressed.

As part of the ongoing process to identify 
and manage key human rights risks, we 
have integrated due diligence into existing 
standards that apply to our critical risks and, 
increasingly, business activities that cut 
across several risk areas.

The primary Group standards and policies 
that support due diligence for salient issues 
– particularly for those matters where there 
is heightened risk of causing or contributing 
to adverse human rights impacts – include 
the Social Way, SHE Way, Responsible 
Sourcing Standard for Suppliers, Responsible 
Commodity Sourcing Policy and the Group 
Security Policy, as well as several labour-
related policies (such as the inclusion and 
diversity; and anti-bullying, harassment and 
victimisation policies).

Human rights considerations are also 
routinely incorporated into due diligence 
for sourcing, origination, and business 
development opportunities, as well as 
divestments. Increasingly, contracts with 
other counterparties, such as joint ventures, 
include ESG and human rights clauses.

Human rights considerations were 
integrated throughout the development of 
our Contractor Performance Management 
Framework, including the specification of 
minimum labour rights standards. 

We recognise and are committed to the 
ongoing work required to ensure that our 
policies and practices are fully aligned with 
these and other external commitments we 
have made.

 ▶ For more on our Contractor Performance Management 

Framework 
See page 68

Governance 
A human rights update is presented to the 
Executive Leadership Team and the Board’s 
Sustainability Committee at least annually, 
with additional topics presented as the need 
arises. The Board also approves the Modern 
Slavery Statement.

Adverse impacts on labour rights in the 
workplace outside of safety and health – 
such as discrimination, bullying, victimisation 
and harassment – are reported through 
YourVoice or human resources processes, 
but not currently categorised using the same 
1–5 severity levels. 

Human rights metrics are considered at those 
operating sites which are undergoing IRMA 
assurance assessments. Our internal Social 
Way assessments also include human rights 
reviews.

Performance
Incidents and grievances can be reported in 
various ways, including through YourVoice, 
operational grievance mechanisms and 
internal reporting processes. Since human 
rights touches on almost every aspect of 
human life, a number of incidents relate 
in some way to human rights. Our focus is 
therefore on incidents with the most severe 
actual or potential human rights impacts. 
Such incidents are generally categorised 
as incidents with Level 4–5 safety, health, 
environment or social consequences. 
In 2023, there were three recordable 
occupational safety losses of life, which 
constitute the most severe human rights 
impact. On social consequences, there 
was one significant Level 4 incident which 
involved the loss of life of a contractor, a 
community member, who was working off site 
in support of a livelihood programme. There 
were no health or environmental incidents 
with a human rights impact in 2023. 

 ▶ For more on YourVoice

See page 74

Supply chain
Our approach to responsible sourcing 
is aligned to our Purpose. We expect all 
suppliers to meet applicable laws – while 
sharing our commitment to improve people’s 
lives, society and our environment. Our 
programme defines minimum sustainability 
requirements and decent work principles 
required by our 13,000+ suppliers. This 
allows us to prioritise ethical decision making 
when selecting and managing the suppliers 
we work with, and to support and uphold 
fundamental human rights through our 
supply chain.

Our approach and policies
We require our suppliers to comply at a 
minimum with relevant laws and applicable 
industry regulations. We also expect them 
to meet Anglo American’s policies, site 
requirements and other supply conditions, 
including those outlined in our Responsible 
Sourcing Standard. The standard sets out 
our conditions for working with our business. 
This includes our expectations of suppliers in 
relation to protecting the health and safety 
of workers and the environment, respecting 
labour and human rights, contributing to 
thriving communities, and ethical business 
conduct. It clarifies steps that suppliers must 
take to comply with the standard.

65

Innovation

Our Inclusive Procurement Standard seeks 
to provide guidelines that will ensure our 
employees and contractors are involved in 
sourcing decisions. It works to adequately 
equip and advance meaningful inclusion of 
host communities and other marginalised 
groups into our supply chain to generate 
shared, sustainable prosperity in those 
communities. The standard ensures 
an effective, consistent approach and 
commitment towards inclusive procurement 
across all our operations.

Governance
Our supply chain leadership team tracks 
a number of performance metrics on a 
monthly basis across inclusive procurement 
and responsible sourcing. These include, 
procurement spend with host community 
suppliers, the number of high-risk suppliers 
where responsible due diligence was 
conducted, the number of high risk issues 
under management, and the number of 
small- and medium-sized suppliers on 
capacity development programmes.

Performance
In 2023, our operations spent approximately 
$14.4 billion ($14.8 billion) with suppliers, of 
which $13.0 billion was with local suppliers 
(2022: $13.6 billion). Our expenditure with 
designated suppliers (Black Economic 
Empowerment in South Africa, Indigenous 
communities in Canada and Aboriginal 
Suppliers in Australia) was $3.7 billion 
(2022: $3.4 billion), representing 26% of total 
supplier expenditure, including $2.4 billion 
with host communities in the direct vicinity of 
our operation (2022: $1.9 billion).

Global supply chains can generate 
economic growth and contribute significantly 
to social development – many businesses, 
therefore, seek to diversify sources of supply 
or further integrate into new jurisdictions or 
local economies. However, as some markets 
or regions may not have safe workspaces 
and labour protection as a non-negotiable 
imperative, there is an increased risk 
of potential for human rights violations, 
including the use of child labour, modern 
slavery, forced labour and human trafficking. 

In their onboarding process, suppliers are 
required to confirm agreement to, and may 
be required to provide further evidence 
of, compliance with Anglo American 
policies – including Inclusive Procurement, 
Business Integrity, Safety, Environment, 
and Responsible Sourcing. As part of the 
contracting process, these requirements are 
included in supplier agreements. We also 
require suppliers to provide information and 
attestations on a range of ESG topics.

Global CSI expenditure by type(1)

Community development

$m

Education and training

Health and welfare

Water and sanitation

Other

Institutional capacity development

Sports, art, culture and heritage

Disaster and emergency relief

Environment

Total

148

(1)  Discrepancies may occur due to rounding.

Global CSI expenditure by region(1)

Africa

Americas

United Kingdom

Rest of World

Australia

Total

(1)  Discrepancies may occur due to rounding.

$m

148

43%

24%

11%

8%

7%

2%

3%

2%

1%

54%

37%

5%

3%

1%

Strategic Report Integrated Annual Report 2023Anglo American plc63351612114332805674166

Anglo American plc
Integrated Annual Report 2023

Strategic Report 

People

Our people are critical to all that we do. The partnerships 
we build, both within Anglo American and with our 
stakeholders – locally and globally – are central to 
maintaining our regulatory and social licences to operate 
and our commercial success.

People

67

A more engaged and inclusive 
approach to safety leadership

Central to our Purpose is our relentless endeavour 
to keep our people safe and well. 

So, alongside our introduction of new technologies that 
are making Anglo American a safer and healthier place to 
work, we are building a stronger safety culture, based on the 
established concept of Visible Felt Leadership (VFL), to help 
leaders, at all levels, demonstrate in a personal way how 
much they care about their teams’ safety and well-being in 
the workplace. 

At Anglo American, we see VFL as an active, practical and 
highly visible expression of living our Values, connecting, 
in the field, on a one-to-one or small-group basis around 
a task or activity, and ensuring that it is done safely and 
effectively. Unlike traditional ‘top-down’ interventions, which 
were generally regarded by both leaders and front line 
workers as “looking to see what’s wrong”, our approach 
to VFL recognises people for doing the right things, and 
encourages them to stand up for safety and speak up if they 
see something that doesn’t look or feel right.

VFL is central to improving safety
Applying the concept of VFL provides the opportunity for 
leaders to see for themselves what is really happening on the 
front line, to understand and influence employee behaviours, 
and help to instil a safety ethic. These conversations enable 
managers and supervisors alike to demonstrate their team 
commitment, foster understanding, break down barriers, and 
are vital to building greater trust with our workforce. 

When we ask our leaders to engage directly with front line 
personnel, we want to create not just physical, but also 
psychological safety. By encouraging our operational leaders 
to create a psychologically safe working environment, our 
workforce feels more empowered to speak up about unsafe 
work practices and to stop unsafe work. As well as improving 

At our Minas-Rio iron ore mine in Brazil, senior manager – operations, 
Bruno Cipriani, talks with members of his team about the day’s 
operational plans.

overall safety, this approach brings further benefits such as 
enhanced levels of engagement, better morale, and higher 
productivity.

How VFL is being implemented 
Building a safety culture in any organisation can be a slow 
and painstaking task – and it demands more of everyone’s 
time. So, how is the time our leaders spend in the field, an 
essential component of this, being rolled out?

At a Group level, we are monitoring our newly introduced 
Leadership Time in Field key performance indicator (KPI) 
which now forms part of management bonus structures for 
all sites. That said, the focus is on leaders spending quality 
time in the field engaging in a meaningful way rather than 
on collecting data. For example, following a VFL engagement, 
the information collected, which may include critical safety 
aspects such as the identification of high-potential hazards, 
is captured in a central system for any necessary follow-up 
actions and further analysis. 

Since introducing the KPI, we are seeing a more encouraging 
overall improvement in our total recordable injury frequency 
rate (TRIFR), and this correlates well with the greater amount 
of quality time being spent by our leadership with the frontline 
at site level.

Next steps 
We are exploring how best to use various technology options 
such as data analytics and artificial intelligence (AI) to help 
identify safety trends across the organisation and to measure 
the impact of leadership time in the field across our sites 
and operations. 

Roll-out of a new mobile app to leaders is under way; 
this will make capturing records of VFL engagement and 
communicating insights gained in the field a more efficient 
process. We have also introduced an operational guide 
to provide additional guidance and support to leaders in 
conducting meaningful, quality VFL engagements that 
support the culture shift we are looking for.

“Visible Felt Leadership (VFL) is a key component of 
improving our safety culture. What distinguishes it today 
from earlier approaches is the greater amount of time 
leaders, at all levels of the organisation, spend in the field 
– and the fact that it is interactive, in that it encourages 
two-way dialogue with colleagues to speak up for safety. 
VFL is also underpinned by the latest developments in 
technology, which are able to identify potential hazards 
and incidents, along with safety trends, and capture 
them on a central data base. This is allowing us to 
measure VFL’s impact across the company and to get a 
comprehensive perspective of the positive difference it is 
making at our operations.”

Tony Brock
Group Head of Safety, Health and Environment

Strategic Report Integrated Annual Report 2023Anglo American plc68

Anglo American plc
Integrated Annual Report 2023

Strategic Report 
People

Safety comes foremost in everything 
we do; we train, equip and empower 
our people to work safely every 
day. We believe, too, that creating 
an inclusive and diverse working 
environment and culture that supports 
high performance and innovative 
thinking gives our business a 
competitive advantage. 

Adopting a zero mindset
Anglo American’s number one value is 
safety, and it is our first priority, always. We 
are committed, and believe it is possible, to 
stop our people from being harmed at work 
and strive to create an environment where 
everybody, everywhere comes home safe at 
the end of their working day.

In 2023, we renewed our focus on three key 
safety levers: supporting operational leaders 
to spend more time in the field; using our 
Operating Model principles to deliver planned 
work, with risk identification and mitigation at 
the heart of that work; and implementing our 
new Contractor Performance Management 
framework across the business.

Governance
Site general managers are accountable 
for the delivery of safe and responsible 
production, and ensuring that minimum 
occupational safety expectations, as laid out 
in our policies and procedures, are met.

Business safety data is reviewed by the 
Executive Leadership Team on a monthly 
basis, and is then reviewed and discussed by 
the Board and its Sustainability Committee at 
each meeting.

Safety performance continues to be 
embedded in our executive remuneration 
arrangements, with the short term incentives 
of the executive directors impacted by safety 

performance across the Group, as outlined 
in our Remuneration Report and determined 
by our Remuneration Committee. Executive 
director bonus payouts reflect performance 
for Group TRIFR and Operational Excellence 
in Safety metrics – comprising Visible Felt 
Leadership (VFL) time in field and scheduled 
maintenance activities.

Group safety performance
It is with deep sadness that we report three 
colleagues – all contractors – lost their lives 
in work-related incidents at our managed 
operations in 2023. These losses leave a 
lasting impact on many lives and serve as a 
constant reminder to be unconditional about 
safety, every day. 

Total number of fatal injuries and fatal injury 
frequency rate (FIFR) 2019–2023

Fatal injuries 

FIFR

Safety data (fatal injuries and TRIFR) is 
subject to external assurance as part of the 
year end reporting process.

Our approach and policies
Our overarching approach to safety is 
incorporated in our Safety, Health and 
Environmental management framework, 
covered in our SHE Policy and SHE Way. 

 ▶ For more information on the SHE Policy 

Visit angloamerican.com/policies-and-data

Contractor performance management
To deliver safe, responsible production, 
we know that we need to be better at how 
we work with our contractors and how we 
support their safety on our sites, ensuring 
they feel valued and respected as a critical 
contributor to everyone’s safety.

As part of our broader Elimination of 
Fatalities programme, we worked with our 
Supply Chain function to build an integrated 
Contractor Performance Management 
(CPM) framework. Launched in 2023, this 
framework will support the implementation 
of an industry best-practice approach to 
contractor performance management 
across our business, focusing on the delivery 
of improved risk-based planning and work 
execution. 

The CPM framework incorporates people, 
processes and systems and provides the 
foundation for safe and stable production 
by helping to create a psychologically and 
physically safe, healthy and productive work 
environment for everyone who works for us.

Nico Molwagae was fatally injured in 
February 2023, in a drilling incident at 
Kolomela iron ore mine in South Africa 
and, in August 2023, Jorge Navarrete and 
Gerardo Cariman were fatally injured while 
investigating a communication failure in an 
electrical room at Los Bronces copper mine 
in Chile. Both incidents were investigated 
by independent experts and actions were 
agreed to mitigate the risks identified and to 
prevent these types of tragic incidents from 
reoccurring.

We have made solid progress in our safety 
journey, recording our lowest TRIFR of 1.78 in 
2023 (2022: 2.19). 

Lost time injuries, medical treatment cases and 
TRIFR 2019–2023

Injuries 

TRIFR

Health
Our concern for the health of our workforce 
extends throughout and beyond the 
workplace. While the threat of the Covid-19 
pandemic may have lessened, we continue 
to build on the important lessons learned. We 
are now focusing on preparedness measures 
that will ensure our resilience to future health 
threats.

A crucial aspect of our work in 2023, 
therefore, has been a continued focus on 
strengthening individual health, including the 
physical and mental well-being, and quality 
of life, of every employee and contractor, their 
families and host communities.

Governance
Site general managers, supported by 
occupational health and hygiene managers, 
are accountable for ensuring that minimum 

TRIFRLost time injuriesMedical treatment cases2019202020212022202302505007501,0001,2501,50000.511.522.533.5FIFRFatal injuries2019202020212022202302468100.0000.0050.0100.0150.0200.0250.0300.03569

New cases of occupational disease
2019–2023

occupational health expectations, as laid out 
in our policies and procedures, are met.

Business occupational health data is 
reviewed by the Executive Leadership 
Team on a quarterly basis, and is then 
reviewed and discussed by the Board and its 
Sustainability Committee at each meeting.

Occupational health performance is 
embedded in our executive remuneration 
arrangements. Executive director short 
term incentives reflect performance for total 
number of employees potentially exposed 
to noise over the occupational exposure limit 
(OEL), total number of employees potentially 
exposed to inhalable hazards over the OEL, 
and total number of employees potentially 
exposed to carcinogens over the OEL.

Occupational health data is subject to 
external assurance as part of the year end 
reporting process.

Our approach and policies
Our overarching approach to health 
is covered by the SHE Policy and SHE 
Way, our Safety, Health and Environment 
management framework. 

In 2023, we continued to implement our 
Health and Well-being strategy in line with 
the World Health Organization (WHO) 
Healthy Workplace model and framework 
covering employee health. This strategy, 
supported by our WeCare well-being and 
livelihoods support programmes, requires us 
to work together to support our people and 
achieve our health and well-being goals.

Our many years of work with employees 
and host communities on HIV/AIDS and TB, 
and some four years on Covid-19, have 
positioned us to extend our learnings from 
managing communicable diseases to 
non-communicable diseases, a major focus 
in 2023. We are committed to delivering 

People

effective interventions that reduce health 
risks, including occupational disease-
causing exposures and addressing unhealthy 
lifestyles such as smoking, excess alcohol 
consumption and poor nutrition.

Our Global Mental Wellness Framework
Our Global Mental Wellness Framework 
is a key part of our Health and Well-being 
strategy and outlines our approach to 
supporting the mental health of our 
colleagues.

Under the framework, we have focused on 
making immediate mental health support 
available to our people when they need it. 
We have trained more than 500 employee 
mental health first aiders to ensure coverage 
across our global operations. We also offer 
counselling, available through employee 
assistance programmes, while using apps 
and other platforms to provide additional 
options for relaxation and mindfulness that 
aid mental wellness. 

Workplace Health Standard
Our standard defines the minimum 
workplace health requirements aimed at 
preventing harmful workplace exposures and 
related occupational illness, and improving 
the wellness of our workforce. An enhanced 
Total Health Standard was approved in 
January 2024, replacing our previous 
Workplace Health Standard. We expect all 
operations to complete a self-assessment 
against the new standard in 2024.

The Total Health Standard continues 
to require each operation to provide all 
personnel, including contractors, any 
information, instruction, training or supervision 
that is necessary to enable them to perform 
their work without risk to health. It extends the 
focus to workplace welfare requirements and 
health promotional activities and requires 
operations to create links between these 
efforts to community health activities. 

Performance
Occupational disease
In 2023, there were 15 reported new cases 
of occupational disease, of which 14 were 
related to noise exposure (2022: 5, all related 
to noise exposure). A significant challenge 
in reporting occupational disease is that 
many hazards do not cause immediate 
symptoms or measurable health harms. 
Occupational disease is often not detectable 
or definable until many years after exposure. 
This means cases reported in a given year 
are most likely to reflect accumulated past 
working conditions. This latency challenge 
underscores the importance of long term 
environment monitoring, comprehensive 
worker occupational health surveillance, 
and proactive risk assessment – preventative 
management strategies that are an ongoing 
focus at Anglo American.

Occupational exposures
We target a year-on-year reduction in 
workforce occupational hazard exposure. 
Reduction targets are set taking into 
consideration operational risk profiles and 
delivery of work plans within an annual cycle, 
thus ensuring that the targets we set drive 
continuous improvement.

At the beginning of 2023, we changed the 
definition of our occupational exposure 
metrics to reduce the threshold of definitions 
of exposure to inhalables and carcinogens in 
line with the Occupational Health and Safety 
Act 85 (1993) South Africa. This change to 
the reporting basis has led to an increase in 
the number of exposure incidents captured, 
resulting in 2023 data being incomparable to 
that reported in 2022.

Although it is not possible to compare year-
on-year exposure levels, there has been 
a reduction in the number of employees 
exposed to occupational hazards above the 
occupational exposure limit over the course 

Strategic Report Integrated Annual Report 2023Anglo American plcOtherMusculoskeletal disorderRespiratory diseaseNoise-induced hearing loss201920202021202220230102030405070

Anglo American plc
Integrated Annual Report 2023

Strategic Report 
People

of 2023. Occupational noise exposure 
enhancements were driven by acoustic 
improvements at both PGMs and Copper. 
Advancements in relation to employees 
exposed to inhalables and carcinogens were 
largely driven by enhanced local exhaust 
ventilation controls at our PGMs processing 
operations and retrofitting of diesel exhaust 
after-treatment systems on a range of diesel-
powered equipment at our underground 
operations.

Non-communicable diseases
Having exceeded our 2022 non-
communicable disease goal of assessing 
62.5% of the global workforce for 
cardiovascular risk factors, including smoking, 
heart health and obesity, we have increased 
our target to have assessed 90% of our 
employees over a rolling three-year period by 
the end of 2026.

Heart disease is a common non-
communicable disease, with enormous 
impacts on our people and host 
communities. It is the leading cause 
of premature death and shortened life 
expectancy in most of our operating 
countries. However, it is also preventable and 
treatable when diagnosed properly and in a 
timely manner. Hence, in 2023, we continued 
our Healthy Hearts programme, including 
offering all employees annual health checks 
and a heart health score to help them make 
informed decisions about their health and 
lifestyles. We have also expanded the scope 
of the healthy heart score to incorporate 
other cardiovascular risk factors such as 
blood cholesterol, alcohol consumption, 
physical activity and hours of sleep.

Managing HIV and TB
One of the top-line pathways towards 
meeting the UNAIDS goal of ending the AIDS 
epidemic by 2030 includes the 95-95-95 
treatment target: 95% of people living with 
HIV knowing their HIV status; 95% of people 
who know their status on treatment; and 
95% of people on treatment with suppressed 
viral loads.

Our HIV Workplace programme in South 
Africa, which is informed by the UNAIDS 
targets, covers the three interlinked areas 
below: 

–  The enabling environment: addressing 
social and structural barriers to HIV 
prevention, testing and treatment

–  Treatment targets and service access: 

achieving the 95-95-95 treatment targets 
and improving access to reproductive 
health services

–  Service integration: expanding the service 

offering for people living with HIV to 
ensure access to mental health support, 
preventing and addressing gender-
based violence, and management of 
communicable and non-communicable 
diseases.

Infection numbers continue to rise in many 
of the countries where we operate, and we 
recognise that the collective effort of also 
addressing social issues can help to reverse 
this trend.

Under our community health and well-being 
programme, there are multiple initiatives 
designed to increase access to treatment 
and testing that are being implemented 
across geographies, with a focus on southern 
Africa. These initiatives are guided by the 
SDG framework, prioritising the SDG 3 goals 
which are relevant to each host community. 

In 2023, 88% of our employees in southern 
Africa knew their status (2022: 90%), with 
95% (2022: 89%) of those employees living 
with HIV on anti-retroviral therapy at the end 
of the year. We recorded 124 new cases of 
HIV and no HIV/AIDS-related deaths. 

In 2023, the TB incidence rate was 313 per 
100,000 compared with 154 per 100,000 
in 2022, reversing the downward trend 
witnessed up to the emergence of the 
Covid-19 pandemic. In addition to the work 
we are doing to meet the 95-95-95 treatment 
targets for HIV/AIDS, we are intensifying our 
TB screening and prevention therapies, 
including community-wide health screening 
to identify individuals with active TB disease.

Helping our people thrive
We aim to attract the best people in the 
industry, putting them into the right roles 
to suit their talents, and meet our business 
objectives – now and into the future. 
Empowering our employees through 
professional and personal development 
opportunities, we give them the support 
they need to thrive and, by continuously 
engaging with our employees, we are able to 
build relationships based on trust. Living our 
Values, we aim to be an inclusive workplace 
where everyone – without exception – can 
bring their full selves to work. 

Attracting, retaining and developing our 
talent
Governance
The Group people & organisation director 
is accountable for the delivery of our talent 
work programmes, managed though 
the Group head of talent. The Executive 
Leadership Team is updated on talent 
management and succession on a regular 
basis, with a particular focus on succession 
planning and diversity of the talent pool. 
Executive appointments and succession 
plans are reviewed by the Nomination 
Committee and the Board as appropriate.

Our Global Workforce Advisory Panel
Our Global Workforce Advisory Panel 
helps the Board to better understand the 
views of our workforce, in line with the 
recommendations of the UK Corporate 
Governance Code. The Panel is currently 
made up of 12 employees, representing 
the countries where the Group has a 
significant presence. Panel members are 
nominated using agreed criteria set out in 
its terms of reference and selected to ensure 
representatives throughout the organisation 
are appropriately balanced across the areas 
of gender, ethnicity, age and seniority. In 
2023, the panel met on three occasions – 
one of which was in person in South Africa 
– and the panel chair, non-executive director, 
Marcelo Bastos, shared the key messages 
from those meetings with the Board and 
Executive Leadership Team.

People

Featured in Crop Nutrients’ bespoke cybersecurity classroom is apprentice Lydia Kynman.

Our Crop Nutrients business – 
a cybersecurity incubator

Helping to revitalise the local economy
Woodsmith, the biggest mining 
project in the UK in decades, makes 
Anglo American a major new employer 
in an area of north east England that 
has long suffered from limited well-paid 
job opportunities. We are committed 
to creating significant employment 
opportunities outside, and ultimately 
beyond the mine, so we are engaging 
with key stakeholders to support the 
creation of new high-value jobs by 
stimulating growth in key regional growth 
sectors, such as tourism, the bio economy 
and cybersecurity.

Cybersecurity – a regional growth 
opportunity
The region around the Woodsmith project 
has distinct cybersecurity advantages, 
including, most notably, GCHQ, the UK’s 
intelligence, security and cyber agency, 
which has a satellite ground station near 
Scarborough, about 30 kilometres from 
the Woodsmith mine site. Leveraging 
on this, Anglo American is determined 
to enhance the region’s standing in the 
business-critical field of cybersecurity. 
Consequently, over the past few years, 
we have supported GCHQ’s National 
Cyber Security Centre (NCSC), including 
collaborating with the NCSC to open the 
world of cybersecurity to schoolchildren 
and young people and develop 
a cybersecurity network within the region.

71

Our approach and policies
Our Organisation Model
Our Organisation Model ensures we have 
the right people in the right roles doing 
the right work, with clear accountabilities 
and minimal duplication of work. Along 
with our Values and our Operating Model, 
the Organisation Model supports the 
delivery of positive outcomes through a 
set of structures, systems and processes. 
The model creates consistency in how we 
approach organisational issues, by providing 
a common language and approach about 
organisations and management. 

To support Organisation Model capability 
development, we have created enhanced 
learning materials that are available for all 
employees through our Learn+ platform, 
complemented by tailored workshops with 
leaders across the business. 

Our performance management programme, 
Team+, creates the conditions for high 
performing teams where every member takes 
accountability not only for their individual 
success, but also for the success of the team. 
This is supplemented with regular feedback 
conversations to ensure that all employees 
are clear on what is expected of them and 
how they are performing.

Employee engagement and workplace 
relations
The strategy that governs our employee 
relations and engagement efforts has 
five pillars: trade unions, HR excellence, 
psychological safety, physical safety and 
authentic leadership.

Developing cybersecurity expertise 
from within
As part of our plans to help to boost the 
skills of a local workforce through our 
ongoing apprenticeship programme 
– as well as our work in schools to 
promote careers in science, technology, 
engineering and maths – we identified 
that there was a pressing need to train 
people in cybersecurity ourselves, so that 
we have the talent, both within our own 
business and across the region. 

In November 2021, Anglo American 
launched its own cybersecurity two-year, 
Level 4, apprenticeship programme to 
teach trainees how to thwart a range 
of cybersecurity threats and also learn 
general business skills, while gaining 
valuable experience of working in 
a large multinational organisation. 
The programme started out with one 
apprentice, Billy Chambers. While Billy 
continued into his second year, a new 
cohort of seven apprentices joined 
the programme. During that period, 
we also invested in a state-of-the-art 
cyber classroom in Crop Nutrients’ 
headquarters in Scarborough.

Billy became our first cybersecurity 
graduate in November 2023. There are 
now 13 apprentices in the programme: 
six in year one and seven in year 
two. We aim to recruit another four 
apprentices in 2024. 

A final word comes from Olivia Procter, 
an apprentice in the 2nd-year cohort: 
“Cybersecurity is opening up the world 
for me … To be able to do this in a global 
organisation, but staying so close to 
home in Scarborough, is fantastic.”

Strategic Report Integrated Annual Report 2023Anglo American plc72

Anglo American plc
Integrated Annual Report 2023

Strategic Report 
People

Mental wellness questions form a part of 
our regular employee engagement surveys. 
The data from these surveys is also used 
to establish progress in our Inclusion and 
Psychological Safety indexes, as well as to 
analyse gaps where we can focus initiatives 
to improve safety and inclusion for all our 
people.

We take a decentralised approach to 
working with trade unions, works councils 
and other representative bodies, enabling 
our businesses to address specific issues and 
concerns affecting them. 

We continue to engage with IndustriALL, 
the global union federation, on topics 
such as health, safety and gender based 
violence; our Sustainable Mining Plan and the 
UN SDGs; our Code of Conduct; and policy 
matters of shared interest. 

Following on from the success of the South 
African Tripartite Structure – a partnership 
between the mining regulator, organised 
labour and industry councils to jointly address 
health and safety issues in the workplace, 
our Steelmaking Coal business launched a 
similar structure in March 2023. 

Promoting a learning culture
We strive to enable a continuous learning 
culture and a passion for breakthrough 
performance and innovative thinking, driven 
by agile people development approaches 
that unlock the full capabilities of our people.

Learn+, our main learning platform, offers a 
single, user-friendly interface that makes it 
easy for our employees to access a growing 
range of online learning resources. This 
learning experience platform feeds from 
other areas to provide learning experiences, 
with a focus not only on what people learn, 
but how learning can be delivered in the line 
of work, at the time of need.

Performance
Talent attraction
In 2023, our focus on refining our talent 
attraction model extended beyond 
leveraging external platforms. We prioritised 
the development of the candidate 
experience and the crucial role of our Talent 
Acquisition team as ambassadors for 
Anglo American. 

Our strategy moved beyond recruitment 
by aligning Talent Acquisition and Talent 
Management functions more closely. 
This integration drives an ‘internals first’ 
philosophy, which leverages our talent 
management and succession planning 
processes, while delivering on our career 
proposition for our employees. In 2023, 
59% of new hires came from our internal 
talent pool (2022: 44%).

Our graduate development programme is 
intentionally designed to recruit and develop 
the future leaders of Anglo American. In 
2023, we increased our global graduate 
intake by 41% in response to future demand 
planning. 

In addition to our graduate programme, 
we also offer internships, apprenticeships 
and vacation work experience across our 
operating regions. In the UK, a cybersecurity 
apprenticeship aligned to the UK government 
cybersecurity skills framework was launched 
in 2021, and continues to run successfully. 

Our Marketing business also runs a highly 
successful internship for our China and 
Singapore offices, while our Australian and 
South African businesses have a strong track 
record of offering meaningful vacation work 
for students engaged in Science, Technology, 
Engineering and Maths (STEM) related 
undergraduate studies. 

 ▶ For more information on our cyber security 

apprenticeship scheme
See page 71

Learning and development
In 2023, Anglo American invested $60 million 
in direct training activities (2022: $69 million).

There were also no reported incidents of 
under-age or forced labour at our operations 
during 2023.

Users of our Learn+ platform conducted 
51,339 searches during the year, the 
large majority of which targeted non-role-
specific skills. Of those, there was a heavy 
skew towards user-level technical skills, 
such as support for commonly used office 
software applications. In addition, a total 
of 607,659 learning course completions 
(comprising e-learning, virtual classroom 
and classroom learning) were recorded on 
our global Learning Management System, 
covering a range of topics across technical, 
non-technical and compliance courses – a 
29% increase on 2022.

Employee engagement
Our Pulse survey was launched in April 2023, 
aimed primarily at our more senior and 
functional colleagues. Over 8,000 colleagues 
answered questions covering engagement, 
advocacy, accountability, collaboration, 
and communication. This survey suggested 
an employee engagement score of 90%, 
consistent with previous global surveys. The 
findings were shared with the Executive 
Leadership Team, country CEOs, and their 
respective HR leadership teams. 

Our employee voluntary turnover rate for 
the year was 3.5% (2022: 3.6%). New 
hires represented 12% of our permanent 
employees in 2023, compared with 14% in 
the prior year.

Labour relations
Approximately 71% of our permanent 
workforce was represented by worker 
organisations and covered by collective 
bargaining agreements. During 2023, there 
were no recorded incidents of industrial 
action at our managed operations.

Several successful wage agreements were 
concluded during the year at our businesses 
and operations, resulting in acceptable salary 
increases and productivity improvements. 
Other engagements with unions in South 
Africa related to consultation on our 
restructuring process. 

An inclusive and diverse environment
We continue to strive for a workplace culture 
that is fair and supportive; where the well-
being of our people is prioritised and all 
colleagues feel able to contribute fully and 
thrive at work, regardless of gender, sexual 
orientation, age, race, ethnicity, religion, 
national origin or disability, including mental 
wellness. We also recognise our responsibility 
to positively influence and contribute towards 
progress on inclusion and diversity issues 
within our broader sector and work closely 
with bodies such as the ICMM and Women in 
Mining to help achieve this.

Governance
Across our businesses and functions, we 
have inclusion and diversity employee 
representatives who provide inputs into 
the Inclusion and Diversity Working Group. 
The working group is made up of senior 
representatives from each of our businesses 
and Group functions. It also includes heads 
of people & organisation and is chaired 
by the people & organisation director. All 
feedback from the working group, including 
progress on inclusion and diversity targets 
and initiative highlights, is reported to the 
Board and chief executive on a quarterly 
basis by the people & organisation director.

People

Tania Alvarez Pulleches supervises drilling and blasting operations at Quellaveco from the safety 
of the Integrated Operations Centre (IOC), several kilometres away from the blasting area.

Quellaveco – where women are 
helping to shape the future 

Quellaveco is widely regarded as Peru’s 
most technically advanced mine to date. 
It is a highly digitalised and automated 
operation, with all data integrated and 
accessible in real time. This is transforming 
the way we mine, transport and process 
the copper-bearing ore, and is creating a 
far safer workplace. 

And females from local communities are 
showing the way
What is less well-known is the growing 
role of women in shaping this new work 
environment. In an industry that has been 
overwhelmingly male-dominated in the 
past, things are changing. At Quellaveco, 

from the outset, there has been a focus on 
training females from the neighbouring 
Moquegua community so that they are 
able to take up roles in all areas of the 
business – from starter positions to senior 
management. Today, women represent 
around 22% of the mine’s workforce – 
including 30% of leadership roles.

A day in the life of an all-women 
drilling team
Females – nearly all Moqueguans – make 
up around 65% of the mine’s drilling 
controllers, while some sub-teams are 
composed entirely of women. A typical 
day starts at the Integrated Operations 
Centre (IOC), several kilometres away 
from the designated blasting area in the 
open pit. Here, Blasting technical assistant 

Melody Echegaray prepares the drilling 
plan for the day, including determining the 
drill sequencing. She inputs all the data on 
an in-house-developed Work Execution 
Platform app, which is downloaded 
by the drilling team on to their mobile 
phones. The drilling team then carries 
out both a remote and on-site check of 
all in-pit equipment needed, as well as 
verifying that the area to be blasted meets 
all of Quellaveco’s safety standards. 
Once this has been completed, Drone 
operator Aynne Anchante conducts an 
aerial topographic survey to confirm that 
conditions are suitable. 

At the IOC, each drill rig controller, who 
can monitor up to six rigs simultaneously, 
directs the autonomous drilling machines 
to make holes for explosives. A specialist 
explosives company, Enaex (where 
the workforce comprises about 30% 
women), then fills the drill holes with 
explosives, sets detonators and initiates 
the blasting protocol – while a drone is 
again employed to record the blasting 
operation.

A new world in mining opens up
Melody Echegaray comments: 
“Anglo American has opened our eyes 
to what we, as women, can achieve in 
the future. The company is giving us the 
opportunity and the tools to succeed in 
jobs we never thought would ever be 
open to us.” Those sentiments are echoed 
by Aynne Anchante, who says: “Before 
Quellaveco came into being, many of us 
had only low-paid jobs such as cleaners 
or working in the hospitality business. Now 
we work in a place where there is a culture 
of encouraging continuous learning and 
upskilling and promoting female talent.” 

73

Anglo American’s inclusion and diversity 
team is responsible for the overall monitoring 
and delivery of Group-wide targets, initiatives 
and policies. Our agile reporting mechanisms 
allow us to capture progress quickly and in 
detail.

Our approach and policies
We strive to achieve our aims through an 
emphasis on inclusion, diversity and well-
being. This approach is governed by a suite 
of policies that we regularly update and 
supplement to ensure continued alignment 
with current best practice. Our Inclusion 
and Diversity Policy is supported by our 
Global Enabling You Strategy; Group Policy 
on Bullying, Harassment and Victimisation; 
and our Group Policy on Recognising and 
Responding to Domestic Violence. Other 
aspects of our approach are captured in our 
Group Family Friendly and Carer Leave Policy 
and Group Flexible Working Policy. These 
policies and initiatives across inclusion and 
diversity are helping to build psychologically 
and physically safe work environments.

Our zero-tolerance approach
We are committed to eliminating all forms 
of bullying, harassment and victimisation 
across our organisation, through our 
global policy and Stand Up for Everyone 
campaign. All reported incidents are 
anonymised and shared with the highest 
level of the organisation. Our zero-tolerance 
approach extends to include domestic 
violence and abuse that might occur outside 
the immediate workplace. We provide 
mandatory bullying, harassment and 
victimisation training for our colleagues to 
ensure they are aware of our zero-tolerance 
approach, are familiar with our reporting 
structures, and feel confident to act as 
inclusion and diversity advocates. 

Strategic Report Integrated Annual Report 2023Anglo American plc74

Anglo American plc
Integrated Annual Report 2023

Strategic Report 
People

Performance
By the end of 2023, we exceeded our 
consolidated target of 33% female 
representation across the business for our 
management population*, reaching 34%. 
However, for female representation for 
those on the Executive Leadership Team 
and for those reporting into an Executive 
Leadership Team member, we achieved 
25% and 29%, respectively. The company is 
committed to building female representation 
in our Executive Leadership Team and those 
reporting to them. We have seen positive 
improvements year on year on other key 
performance metrics such as the percentage 
of women in the workforce which increased 
to 26% in 2023 (2022: 24%).

At 31 December 2023, there were four 
female directors and six male directors 
serving on the Board. In 2023, on average, 
the Group had 30 female senior managers 
and 71 male senior managers and 14,959 
female and 44,941 male employees. 

We report on our gender pay gap in 
UK operations, in line with legislative 
requirements. As of 5 April 2023, our UK 
average (mean) gender pay gap for 
Anglo American Services (UK) Ltd was 
32% and our median pay gap was 23% 
(2022: 39% mean and 29% median). This 
was primarily due to the high representation 
of men in the most senior management roles 
in our UK head office – an issue mirrored 
across our sector, and one that we continue 
to address.

At year end, the proportion of our permanent 
employees aged under 30 was 11%, 70% 
were aged between 30 and 50, and the 
remaining were over 50 years of age.

In South Africa, historically disadvantaged 
South Africans held 85% of our management 
positions (2022: 71%).

Building a purpose-led culture
We understand that ethical reputation is 
a critical asset for building trust with our 
stakeholders. We expect our employees and 
business partners alike to show integrity, care 
and respect for colleagues, communities 
and the environment in which we operate, 
by acting honestly, fairly, ethically and 
transparently when conducting our business. 
These non-negotiable foundations are 
central to our Code of Conduct and Business 
Integrity Policy.

Our Code of Conduct is an example of our 
Values in action. Serving as a single point 
of reference for everyone associated with 
us, it brings together in one place, and in a 
clear way, the commitments and standards 
that determine how we conduct business. 
It explains the basic requirements and 
behaviours we all need to live up to every day.

Governance
Anglo American’s chief executive is 
accountable for the Code of Conduct and 
for ensuring that its related policies are 
implemented. 

The Group Compliance Committee assists 
the Board, the Board’s Audit Committee and 
Executive Leadership Team in overseeing the 
implementation of an annual compliance 
management programme that supports 
building and sustaining a culture of 
compliance with business-integrity-related 
policy requirements.

Regular updates are provided to the Group 
Compliance Committee on progress against 
businesses compliance management plans.

Our approach and policies
Our Code of Conduct
We recognise that our responsibilities and 
commitments as a business must extend 
above and beyond compliance if we are to 
build relationships of trust with stakeholders. 
Our overriding approach to the ethical 
business conduct that underpins our 
reputation as a reliable and dependable 
partner is outlined in our Code of Conduct.

Our Code of Conduct also serves as a guide 
that directs us to policies, standards and 
further information sources that can support 
us, and all those associated with us, to 
choose to do the right thing.

Business integrity
Our Business Integrity Policy sets out the 
standards of ethical business conduct that 
we require at every level within our business – 
including our subsidiaries and those joint 
operations we manage – in combating 
corrupt behaviour. For non-managed joint 
operations, we seek to influence the adoption 
of a framework commensurate with the 
requirements of our policies and procedures 
and, at a minimum, to comply with local laws 
and associated requirements. In line with 
this approach, our intention is that industry 
associations of which we are a member work 
on a similar basis. 

Anglo American is a signatory of the UN 
Global Compact and is committed to its 
10 principles of business, including fighting 
corruption, extortion and bribery. We use our 
annual performance in the Business Conduct 
and Ethics categories of the Dow Jones 
Sustainability Index and Sustainalytics as an 
opportunity to benchmark best practice and 
continuously improve our internal processes 
and level of disclosure. 

*  Management includes middle and 

senior management across the Group.

Whistleblowing
Our Whistleblowing Policy sets out our 
approach to reporting issues and concerns 
confidentially or, if preferred, anonymously. 
Anglo American does not tolerate any form 
of retaliation against anyone raising or 
helping to address a concern. This policy 
also outlines the availability and use of our 
YourVoice confidential reporting service, 
which empowers employees, contractors, 
suppliers and other stakeholders to raise 
concerns anonymously about potentially 
unethical, unlawful or unsafe conduct or 
practices that conflict with our Values and 
Code of Conduct. YourVoice is operated by 
an independent multilingual whistleblowing 
service provider.

Performance
Using YourVoice
During 2023, we received 1,403 reports 
through YourVoice, a 29% increase over 
2022. The increase can be attributed to 
several awareness initiatives, including 
running an ‘Action for Integrity’ campaign in 
August 2023 to raise the awareness and use 
of the YourVoice channel. 

An independent investigation team reviews 
the allegations. In 2023, 25% of those 
received were substantiated or partially 
substantiated. Corrective actions were 
taken against substantiated allegations 
in accordance with our policies, resulting 
in 182 sanctions against employees and 
contractors, which include 55 exits from the 
organisation. 

People

Benchmarking anti-corruption initiatives
Our collaboration with the Transparency 
International Corporate Anti-Corruption 
Benchmark continued, and we used the 
result of its annual benchmarking to support 
improvement efforts. 

Engaging and training our people
We developed and launched a new 
online training module for employees at 
the manager level. This module on Doing 
Business with Integrity, combined several 
business integrity-related topics providing 
practical examples and showing the 
connections between the compliance areas. 
By the end of 2023, 12,355 of our colleagues 
had completed the training. 

Breakdown of YourVoice reports received (%)(1)

People
Bullying, harassment, victimisation and other related matters

Employment, personnel policy and other people-related matters

37%

Legal and regulatory
(including corruption, fraud and criminal activity)

Other

Safety and health

Suppliers and procurement

Information security and data privacy

Social and environment

(1) Computational discrepancies may occur due to rounding. 

26%

18%

8%

5%

5%

1%

1%

75

At Anglo American we strive to enable a continuous learning culture, and unlock our people’s full 
capabilities. Studying our Code of Conduct in the Johannesburg office is Zimele team assistant 
Thozama Lucky Khumalo.

Strategic Report Integrated Annual Report 2023Anglo American plc 
 
76

Anglo American plc
Integrated Annual Report 2023

Strategic Report 

Capital allocation

Underpinning our strategy, we have 
a value-focused approach to capital 
allocation, with clear prioritisation: 
first to sustaining our operations 
and maintaining asset integrity 
(including Reserve Life); secondly to 
the base dividend to our shareholders, 
determined on a 40% underlying 
earnings-based payout ratio. 

A strong focus on capital discipline
All remaining capital is then allocated to 
discretionary capital options in line with 
strategic priorities, which include organic 
and inorganic growth options, as well as 
additional shareholder returns. In all cases, 
discretionary projects are robustly assessed 
against financial and non-financial metrics, 
including their delivery of net-positive benefit 
to our shareholders and the communities 
in which we operate, and their ability to 
improve and upgrade our portfolio in line with 
the transition to a low carbon economy and 
global consumer demand trends. 

Capital allocation is prioritised to ensure we 
maintain balance sheet flexibility, with our 
near term objective to ensure the Group’s 
net debt does not exceed 1.5 x underlying 
EBITDA, using bottom of the cycle pricing, 
without there being a clear plan to recover. 
Further detail on balance sheet discipline 
and our credit can be found on page 93. 

Capital is allocated in support of the 
execution of our strategy. Our Sustainable 
Mining Plan outlines ambitious targets 
that our projects must support to ensure a 
healthy environment, thriving communities 
and Anglo American’s position as a trusted 
corporate leader. 

 ▶ For more on our Sustainable Mining Plan

See page 46

Surplus capital is returned to shareholders 
in the form of either special dividends or 
through a share buyback programme. 

During 2023, we have taken deliberate 
action to right size our capital expenditure, 
as part of our broader cost and capital 
discipline efforts to improve cash generation. 
Significant capital savings of c.$1.6 billion 
were identified across 2024–2026, while still 
prioritising the integrity of our operations and 
investments in high quality organic growth 
optionality in the portfolio.

Sustaining capital
We continue to focus on capital discipline 
and sustaining capital efficiency, while 
maintaining the operational integrity of all 
our assets. Sustaining capital comprises 
stay-in-business, capitalised development 
and stripping, and life-extension expenditure, 
less the proceeds from disposals of property, 
plant and equipment. 

p it a l

a

2. C

o

m

m

it

m

e

n

t

t

o

b

a

s

e

d

i

v

i

d
e
n
d

Balance sheet 
flexibility

ustainin g c

r s
e
t
f
 a
w
o
fl 
h
s
a
C

.

1

3. Discretionary capi t a l

s 

n

  o p t i o

Future project 
options

Portfolio 
upgrade

Additional 
shareholder returns

 
 
 
 
 
We expect sustaining capital expenditure 
of c.$4.5 billion in 2024 to reduce to 
c.$4.0 billion in 2026 as a result of the 
cost out efforts. The 2024–2026 spend 
includes our c.$0.6 billion share of the 
remaining construction of the Collahuasi 
desalination plant and $0.5–0.7 billion per 
annum expenditure on life-extensions. Life-
extensions primarily relate to the ongoing 
Venetia underground project at De Beers 
and the underground development of our 
Mogalakwena PGMs mine.

Commitment to base dividends 
Our clear commitment to a sustainable 
base dividend remains a critical part of the 
overall capital allocation approach and is 
demonstrated through our dividend policy 
of a 40% payout ratio based on underlying 
earnings, paid each half year.

Our dividend policy provides shareholders 
with increased cash returns upon 
improvement in earnings, while retaining 
balance sheet flexibility during periods of 
lower earnings. 

Shareholder returns
In line with the Group’s established dividend 
policy to pay out 40% of underlying earnings, 
the Board has proposed a final dividend of 
$0.41 per share (2022: $0.74 per share), 
equivalent to $0.5 billion (2022: $0.9 billion). 

Discretionary capital options
Strict value criteria are applied to the 
assessment of Anglo American’s organic 
growth options, which are strategically 
focused on copper, crop nutrients and high 
quality iron ore, and support our sustainability 
commitments.

Capital allocation

For major greenfield projects, we will 
sequence their development to prevent 
overlap of peak construction and will look to 
syndicate at the right time, for value.

Woodsmith is a large scale, long life, tier 
one fertiliser project being developed in 
north east England, with a final design 
capacity of c.13 Mtpa of polyhalite ore, 
subject to studies and approval. Polyhalite 
is a naturally occurring mineral that, via a 
simple granulation process, is converted to a 
multi-nutrient product – POLY4 – an organic, 
comparatively low carbon, environmentally 
responsible crop nutrition solution that 
contains four of the six key nutrients that 
all plants need for healthy growth. The 
project will add greater diversity and long 
term value-adding growth to the portfolio, 
in a low risk jurisdiction. Core infrastructure 
activities of shaft sinking and tunnel boring 
continue to progress well. In parallel, and as 
previously communicated, we are enhancing 
the project’s configuration to accommodate 
higher production volumes of c.13 Mtpa, 
an optimised phased development, and 
to enable more efficient, scalable mining 
methods over time. The required studies are 
progressing well. Following conclusion of 
the study programme, we expect the project 
to be submitted for Board approval in the 
first half of 2025, with first product to market 
expected in 2027. Capital expenditure in 
2023 was $0.6 billion and is expected to be 
c.$0.9 billion in 2024. 

We continue to progress permitting and 
studies on organic growth opportunities, 
primarily within our high quality copper 
business, that will further enhance our 
portfolio.

77

This new solar plant, and the hydrogen plant (nearing completion) it will supply, is making  Mogalakwena 
a strategically important centre for hydrogen production in South Africa’s developing hydrogen valley.

The recently commissioned fifth ball mill at 
the independently managed joint operation, 
Collahuasi, is the first step of this growth 
pathway, adding c.15 ktpa, with ramp-up 
expected to conclude in the second quarter 
of 2024. Additional debottlenecking options 
to further increase production remain under 
study and are expected to add c.25 ktpa 
(44% share) between 2025–2028. Further 

expansions are in early-stage study to 
increase plant capacity beyond 210 ktpd, 
delivering up to c.150 ktpa of copper from 
c.2032 (44% share).

Strategic Report Integrated Annual Report 2023Anglo American plc78

Anglo American plc
Integrated Annual Report 2023

Strategic Report 
Capital allocation

Allocating capital for a sustainable future 
Our capital allocation process underpins 
the execution of our strategy and our goal to 
become a leader in sustainable mining – with 
over 90% of our growth capital expenditure 
allocated to future-enabling products.

Our major investments take into account the 
potential future cost of carbon by embedding 
forward-looking carbon price assumptions, 
which are developed in conjunction 
with leading external providers and are 
differentiated by geography and time horizon, 
into our multi-faceted investment decision 
making considerations. The aim is to reflect 
our best estimate of the level of carbon 
pricing likely to prevail in the respective 
jurisdictions over time. We forecast carbon 
prices to be between $20 and $95 per tonne 
on a 2023 real basis across regions by 2030. 
This approach ensures that project returns 
are evaluated on a realistic basis alongside 
consideration of a project’s impact on carbon 
abatement and portfolio resilience to the 
effects of climate change. 

Ensuring the continued resilience of our 
portfolio to the physical impacts of a 
changing climate is a key priority in our 
allocation of capital. These investments, for 
example in infrastructure related to managing 
water where it is expected to become scarcer, 
or where there is a risk of future disruption 
due to flooding, are driven by our risk 
management processes. These investments 
are subject to the Group’s investment 
evaluation criteria, and to independent 
technical and financial assurance. 

An example of how we tailor our approach 
to capital allocation for our decarbonisation 
goals is the sourcing of electricity. In 
jurisdictions where there is a plentiful supply 
of renewable power, we have negotiated 

renewable power purchase agreements 
with suppliers. More than 60% of our global 
electricity supply will be sourced from 
renewables from 2025 without significant 
capital expenditure on power generation 
infrastructure. The transition to these 
renewable arrangements not only contributes 
to our emissions reduction targets, but also 
represents a significant source of economic 
value given the increasingly competitive cost 
of renewable energy and volatility of fossil-
based energy supply. 

Where we deploy capital in pursuit of 
sustainability goals, we seek to do so in a way 
that, wherever possible, generates economic 
returns, and we consider syndicating our 
investment where appropriate. For example, 
in partnership with EDF Renewables, we have 
formed Envusa Energy to develop a regional 
renewable energy ecosystem (RREE) in 
South Africa. The ecosystem is expected to 
meet our operational electricity requirements 
in South Africa through the supply of 3–5 GW 
of 100% renewable electricity (solar and 
wind) and storage by 2030, with excess 
electricity supplied to the grid to help improve 
its capacity. The work is progressing well 
and we expect to reach a key milestone 
– financial close – on the three Koruson 2 
(K2) projects in the first quarter of 2024. We 
have provided for community participation 
and secured project financing debt that 
is consistent with high quality renewable 
energy projects. 

This syndicated structure will help manage 
both our risk and total capital deployed, 
while enabling a significant reduction in our 
Scope 2 emissions.

 ▶ For more on Envusa
See pages 55–56

Capital expenditure
$ million

Stay-in-business

Development and stripping

Life-extension projects

Proceeds from disposal of property, plant and equipment

Sustaining capital

Growth projects

Total capital expenditure

2023

2,902

920

598

(16)

4,404

1,330

5,734

2022

2,558

1,010

582

(7)

4,143

1,595

5,738

Group capital expenditure
Capital expenditure remained in line with 
prior year at $5.7 billion as higher sustaining 
capital was offset by reduced growth capital.

Sustaining capital expenditure increased 
to $4.4 billion (2022: $4.1 billion), driven 
by additional stay-in-business expenditure 
for Copper Chile related to the Collahuasi 
desalination plant project, the new tailings 
filtration plant for Minas-Rio (Iron Ore) in Brazil, 
and increased expenditure at Quellaveco as 
it transitioned into operations.

Growth capital expenditure of $1.3 billion 
primarily related to the Woodsmith project 
and the remaining spend on completing 
Quellaveco. This was lower than the prior 
year (2022: $1.6 billion) as the Quellaveco 
project was successfully delivered in July 
2022, and reached commercial production 
levels in June 2023.

Managing risk effectively 

The effective management of risk is integral to good management practice 
and fundamental to living up to our Purpose and delivering our strategy. By 
understanding, prioritising and managing risk, Anglo American safeguards 
our people, our assets, our values and reputation, and the environment, 
and identifies opportunities to best serve the long term interest of all our 
stakeholders. As understanding our risks and developing appropriate 
responses are critical to our future success, we are committed to an effective, 
robust system of risk identification, and an effective response to such risks, 
in order to support the achievement of our objectives.

How does risk relate to our strategy?
Risks can arise from events outside of our 
control or from operational matters. Each of 
the risks described on the following pages 
can have an impact on our ability to deliver 
our strategy. 

Viability statement
Context
An understanding of our business model 
and strategy is key to the assessment of our 
prospects. Our strategy is to:

–  Secure, develop and operate a portfolio 
of high quality and long life assets safely, 
effectively and efficiently to deliver 
sustainable and competitive shareholder 
returns

–  Apply a clear set of technical, sustainability 

and commercial capabilities to deliver 
competitive advantage from the portfolio, 
from discovery through to delivering 
products to customers

–  Create an inclusive and diverse working 

environment to encourage and support a 
high performance culture.

Details of our business model are found on 
pages 8–9 and more information on our 
strategy is provided on page 10.

Continued geopolitical and macro-
economic uncertainty were the key drivers 
of the price volatility experienced across 
our diversified product portfolio in 2023, 
most pronounced in PGMs and diamonds 
(predominantly driven by mix), contributed 
to a 13% decrease in the Group’s realised 
basket price across all products. Against 
that background, the Board maintains a 
cautious appetite for major new projects 
and investments. Large greenfield projects 
will be considered for syndication with 
other investors at the appropriate stage of 
a project’s development, and for value, as a 
means of reducing our risk profile and capital 
requirements.

The assessment process and key 
assumptions
Assessment of the Group’s prospects is 
based upon the Group’s strategy, its financial 
plan and principal risks. During 2023, the 
focus was on driving efficiencies through 
regaining operational stability and targeted 
incremental performance improvement, 
upgrading the quality of our portfolio in order 
to improve cash flow generation, maintaining 
a strong balance sheet and creating 
sustainable value through disciplined 
allocation of capital.

A financial forecast covering the next three 
years is prepared based on the context of the 
strategic plan and is reviewed on a regular 
basis to reflect changes in circumstances. 
The financial forecast is based on a number 
of key assumptions, the most important of 
which include product prices, exchange 
rates, estimates of production, production 
costs and future capital expenditure. In 
addition, although planned as part of the 
ordinary course of business, the forecast 
does not assume the renewal of existing debt 
or the raising of new debt. A key component 
of the financial forecast and strategic plan 
is the life of asset plans created for each 
operation, providing expected annual 
production volumes over the anticipated 
economic life of mine.

The principal risks are those that we believe 
could prevent the Group from delivering its 
strategic objectives. A number of these risks 
are deemed catastrophic to the Group’s 
prospects, including the impacts of a tailings 
dam failure, fire and slope wall failure risks, 
and have been considered as part of the 
Group’s viability.

79

Assessment of viability
The assessment of viability has been made 
with reference to the Group’s current position 
and expected performance over a three-year 
period, using budgeted product prices and 
expected foreign exchange rates. Financial 
performance and cash flows have then been 
subjected to stress and sensitivity analysis 
over the three-year period using a range of 
severe, but plausible, downside scenarios. 
Scenarios were selected for stress testing 
based upon an assessment of the Group’s 
principal risks, and each includes a risk 
deemed catastrophic to the Group. Risks 
chosen for modelling were those considered 
to have the greatest financial impact upon 
the Group’s financial statements, and have 
been linked to the principal risks below. The 
scenarios tested include:

–  Phased product price reductions of up 

to 30% from conservative budget prices 
(Principal Risk 2)

–  Operational incidents that have a 

significant impact on production at key 
sites in the Group (Principal Risks 1, 6 
and 12)

–  The impact of a cyber attack upon the 
Group’s key information technology 
systems (Principal Risks 3, 6 and 12)

–  Market and product developments 

affecting demand for diamonds (Principal 
Risks 2 and 13)

–  Technology developments in the 

automobile industry affecting demand for 
PGMs (Principal Risks 2 and 13)

–  The impact of a reduction in water supply in 
Chile, being a physical risk associated with 
climate change (Principal Risks 7 and 10)

–  Logistics constraints on certain operations 
in South Africa impacting sales (Principal 
Risk 12).

Strategic Report Integrated Annual Report 2023Anglo American plc80

Anglo American plc
Integrated Annual Report 2023

Strategic Report 
Managing risk effectively

The Group’s liquidity (defined as cash 
and undrawn committed facilities) was 
$13.2 billion, comprising cash and cash 
equivalents of $6.1 billion (see note 21 to 
the Consolidated financial statements), and 
undrawn committed facilities of $7.2 billion 
(see note 25 to the Consolidated financial 
statements) as at 31 December 2023. 
The most severe scenario considered by 
management, albeit unlikely, considers 
the combined financial impact of pricing 
and production downsides throughout the 
assessment period, and an operational 
incident materialising at the start of the 
assessment period. This scenario would 
result in negative attributable free cash 
flows over the assessment period. The 
Group has a range of management actions 
available in such a scenario to preserve 
resilience, including accessing lines of credit 
(including bank and debt capital markets), 
reducing capital expenditure, reviewing 
capital allocation and production profiles, 
and raising debt while maintaining the 
shareholder return policy.

Viability statement
The directors confirm they have a reasonable 
expectation that the Group will continue in 
operation and meet its liabilities as they fall 
due for the next three years. This period has 
been selected as the volatility in commodity 
markets makes confidence in a longer 
assessment of prospects highly challenging.

Emerging risks
We define an emerging risk as a risk that 
may become a principal risk in time but is 
not expected to materialise in the next five 
years. Emerging risks that are currently being 
monitored are:

–  Failure to replace Ore Reserve depletion 
in key businesses through exploration, 
projects or acquisitions

–  Liabilities incurred as a result of 

environmental harm

–  Failure to deliver certain elements of the 
Sustainable Mining Plan, which could 
cause reputational damage, threaten the 
organisation’s licence to operate, affect 
future growth, and may also result in 
increased costs and a negative effect on 
the Group’s financial results

–  Unexpected mine-closure liabilities that 
have the potential to increase costs.

The above risks are closely monitored and 
actively managed to minimise their threat.

Principal risks
We define a principal risk as a risk or 
combination of risks that would threaten 
the business model, future performance, 
solvency or liquidity of Anglo American. In 
addition to these principal risks, we continue 
to be exposed to other risks related to 
currency, inflation, community relations, 
environment, litigation and regulatory 
proceedings, changing societal expectations, 
infrastructure and human resources. These 
risks are subject to our normal procedures to 
identify, implement and oversee appropriate 
mitigation actions, supported by internal 
audit work to provide assurance over the 
status of controls or mitigating actions. These 
principal risks are considered over the next 
three years as a minimum, but we recognise 
that many of them will be relevant for a longer 
period. The principal risks and uncertainties 
facing the Group are unchanged from those 
reported in 2022.

–  Future demand for metals and minerals 

deviating from assumptions as a result of 
efforts to reduce global warming

 ▶ For more on principal risks

See pages 81–85

Catastrophic risks
We also face certain risks that we deem 
catastrophic risks. These are very high 
severity, very low likelihood events that could 
result in multiple fatalities or injuries, an 
unplanned fundamental change to strategy 
or the way we operate, and have significant 
financial consequences. We do not consider 
likelihood when assessing these risks, as the 
potential impacts mean these risks must be 
treated as a priority. Catastrophic risks are 
included as principal risks.

 ▶ For more on catastrophic risks

See page 81

Risk appetite
We define risk appetite as ‘the nature and 
extent of risk Anglo American is willing 
to accept in relation to the pursuit of its 
objectives’. We look at risk appetite from 
the context of severity of the consequences 
should the risk materialise, any relevant 
internal or external factors influencing the risk, 
and the status of management actions to 
mitigate or control the risk. A scale is used to 
help determine the limit of appetite for each 
risk, recognising that risk appetite will change 
over time.

If a risk exceeds appetite, it will threaten 
the achievement of objectives and may 
require a change to strategy. Risks that are 
approaching the limit of the Group’s risk 
appetite may require management actions 
to be accelerated or enhanced to ensure the 
risks remain within appetite levels.

For catastrophic and operational risks, our 
risk appetite for exceptions or deficiencies 
in the status of our controls that have safety 
implications is very low. Our internal audit 
programme evaluates these controls with 
technical experts at operations and the 
results of that audit work will determine 
the risk appetite evaluation, along with 
the management response to any issues 
identified.

 ▶ For more on the risk management and internal control 

systems and the review of their effectiveness
See pages 176–177

Summary
Our risk profile evolved in 2023, mainly due to 
external factors. Macro-economic uncertainty 
remained as a result of the Russia – Ukraine 
conflict, global inflation and weak economic 
growth in key markets. The regulatory 
environment in which we operate remains 
impacted by political and societal changes 
in key countries, which could affect future 
production and delay the deployment of new 
technologies to support future production 
and sustainability objectives. Operationally, 
reliance on third-party infrastructure 
and power supply remain ongoing risks, 
particularly in South Africa. Climate change 
remains one of the defining challenges of 
our era and our unequivocal commitment to 
being part of the global response presents 
both opportunities and risks. A number of 
our principal risks are directly or indirectly 
related to climate change and our strategies 
to reduce its impact on our business, and the 
planet.

Our catastrophic risks are the highest priority 
risks, given the potential consequences.

Principal risks

Pillars of value

Safety and health

Socio-political

Production

Financial

Environment

People

Cost

81

1. Catastrophic and natural catastrophe risks

2. Product prices

3. Cybersecurity

We are exposed to the following risks we deem as potentially 
catastrophic: tailings dam failure; geotechnical failure; 
mineshaft failure; and fire and explosion.

Root cause: Any of these risks may result from inadequate 
design or construction, adverse geological conditions, 
shortcomings in operational performance, natural events 
such as seismic activity or flooding, and failure of structures or 
machinery and equipment.

Impact: Multiple fatalities and injuries, damage to assets, 
environmental damage, production loss, reputational 
damage and loss of licence to operate. Financial costs 
associated with recovery and liability claims may be 
significant. Regulatory issues may result and community 
relations may be affected.

Mitigation: Technical standards exist that provide minimum 
criteria for design and operational performance requirements, 
the implementation of which is regularly inspected by 
technical experts. Additional assurance work is conducted to 
assess the adequacy of controls associated with these risks.

Risk appetite: Operating within the limits of our appetite. 

Commentary: These very high impact but very low frequency 
risks are treated with the highest priority.

Pillars of value:

Global macro-economic conditions leading to sustained low 
product prices and/or volatility.

Root cause: Factors that could contribute to this risk include 
a deep and protracted slowdown in economic growth, 
armed conflict involving major world powers, trade wars 
between major economies and a disrupted recovery from the 
Covid-19 pandemic.

Impact: Low product prices can result in lower levels of cash 
flow, profitability and valuation. Debt costs may rise owing to 
ratings agency downgrades and the possibility of restricted 
access to funding. The Group may be unable to complete 
any divestment programme within the desired timescales or 
achieve expected values. The capacity to invest in growth 
projects is constrained during periods of low product prices – 
which may, in turn, affect future performance.

Mitigation: Maintaining a conservative balance sheet, 
proactive management of debt and the delivery of cash 
improvement and operational performance targets are 
the key mitigation strategies for this risk. Regular updates 
of economic analysis and product price assumptions are 
discussed with the Executive Leadership Team and Board.

Loss or harm to our technical infrastructure and the use 
of technology within the organisation from malicious or 
unintentional sources.

Root cause: Attacks motivated by fraud, ransomware, and/or 
access to sensitive data or information. 

Impact: Theft or loss of intellectual property, financial losses, 
increased costs, reputational damage, operational disruption 
and compromise of safety systems.

Mitigation: We have a dedicated Global Information 
Management Security team with appropriate specialist 
third-party support to oversee our network security. We 
have aligned to the internationally recognised NIST 
Cybersecurity Framework, as well as ISO 27001 in sensitive 
areas. Additionally, we employ the IRAM2 risk assessment 
methodology to large scale projects and maintain an 
ongoing cyber awareness programme across the Group.

Risk appetite: Operating within the limits of our appetite.

Commentary: During 2023, our controls responded as 
planned and no cyber attack attempt resulted in significant 
impacts for Anglo American. 

Risk appetite: Operating within the limits of our appetite.

Pillars of value:

Commentary: Macro-economic conditions remain uncertain; 
that may result in price volatility in the products mined, and 
marketed, by Anglo American.

Pillars of value:

Strategic Report Integrated Annual Report 2023Anglo American plc82

Anglo American plc
Integrated Annual Report 2023

Strategic Report 
Principal risks

4. Political

Political decisions, events or conditions in locations where 
Anglo American operates or transacts could affect our ability 
to conduct normal business and meet anticipated profit or 
performance targets.

Root cause: Geopolitical disputes between major economic 
countries, regional and national political tensions. The 
effectiveness of national governance in countries in which 
we operate may be compromised by corruption, weak policy 
framework and ineffective enforcement of the law.

Impact: Global supply chains may be impacted by the threat 
of or actual disputes between major economies. Regional 
and national political tensions may result in social unrest 
affecting our operations and employees. Uncertainty over 
future business conditions leads to a lack of confidence in 
making investment decisions, which can influence future 
financial performance. Increased costs can be incurred 
through additional regulations or economic contributions to 
government, while the ability to execute strategic initiatives 
that reduce costs or divest assets may also be restricted, all of 
which may reduce profitability and affect future performance. 
These may adversely affect the Group’s operations or 
performance of those operations.

Mitigation: Anglo American has an active engagement 
strategy with governments, regulators and other stakeholders 
within the countries in which we operate, or plan to operate, 
as well as at an international level. We make significant 
efforts to contribute to public policy objectives such as socio-
economic development to demonstrate the broader value 
of our presence. We assess portfolio capital investments 
against political risks and avoid or minimise exposure to 
jurisdictions with unacceptable risk levels. We actively monitor 
regulatory and political developments at a national level, as 
well as global themes and international policy trends, on a 
continuous basis. See pages 16–19 for more detail on how 
we engage with our key stakeholders.

Risk appetite: Operating within the limits of our appetite.

Commentary: Global economic conditions can have a 
significant impact on countries whose economies are 
exposed to mining products, placing greater pressure on 
governments to find alternative means of raising revenues, 
and increasing the risk of social and labour unrest. 

Pillars of value:

5. Community and social relations

Failure to maintain healthy relationships with local 
communities and society at large.

Root cause: Failure to identify, understand and respond to 
community and societal needs and expectations.

Impact: A breakdown in trust with local communities and 
society at large threatens Anglo American’s licence to 
operate, potentially leading to increased costs, future growth 
being impacted, business interruption and reputational 
damage.

Mitigation: The Anglo American Social Way is our integrated 
management system for social performance, adopted 
and implemented at all managed sites. In addition, the 
commitments we have made as part of the Thriving 
Communities pillar of our Sustainable Mining Plan will deliver 
tangible and valued benefits to host communities.

Risk appetite: Operating within the limits of our appetite.

Commentary: Through the Social Way, we ensure that 
policies and systems are in place at all Anglo American 
managed sites to support effective engagement with 
communities, avoid or minimise adverse social impacts, and 
maximise development opportunities. For further information 
on how we engage with key stakeholders, see pages 
16–19. For more information on our Sustainable Mining Plan 
commitments, see page 46.

Pillars of value:

Principal risks

83

Pillars of value

Safety and health

Socio-political

Production

Financial

Environment

People

Cost

6. Safety

Failure to eliminate fatalities.

Root cause: Fatalities may result from operational leaders, 
employees and contractors failing to apply safety rules 
and poor hazard identification and control, including 
non-compliance with critical controls.

Impact: A fatal incident is devastating for the bereaved 
family, friends and colleagues. Over the longer term, failure 
to provide a safe working environment threatens our licence 
to operate.

Mitigation: All operations continue to implement safety 
improvement plans, with a focus on: effective management 
of critical controls required to manage significant safety 
risks; learning from high potential incidents and hazards; 
embedding a safety culture; and leadership engagement 
and accountability. Our Elimination of Fatalities Taskforce 
oversees targeted improvement initiatives to further improve 
safety performance. 

Risk appetite: Operating within the limits of our appetite.

Commentary: During 2023, there were three work-related 
fatalities in our managed operations. Management remains 
fully committed to the elimination of fatalities.

Pillars of value:

7. Climate change

8. Corruption

Climate change is one of the defining challenges of our era 
and our commitment to being part of the global response 
presents both opportunities and risks.

Root cause: We are committed to the alignment of our 
portfolio with the needs of a low carbon world in a responsible 
manner; however, different stakeholder expectations 
continue to evolve and may not always be aligned. Long 
term demand for metals and minerals mined and marketed 
by Anglo American may deviate from assumptions based 
on climate change abatement initiatives. Changing weather 
patterns and an increase in extreme weather events may 
impact operational stability and our local communities. Our 
Scope 1 and 2 carbon emission reduction targets are partly 
reliant on new technologies that are at various stages of 
development, and our Scope 3 reduction ambition is reliant 
on the adoption of greener technologies in the steelmaking 
industry.

Bribery or other forms of corruption committed by an 
employee or agent of Anglo American.

Root cause: Anglo American has operations in some 
countries where there is a higher prevalence of corruption.

Impact: Potential criminal investigations, adverse media 
attention and reputational damage. A possible negative 
impact on licensing processes and valuation.

Mitigation: A comprehensive anti-bribery and corruption 
policy and programme, including risk assessment, training 
and awareness, with active monitoring, are in place.

Risk appetite: Operating within the limits of our appetite.

Commentary: A Group Compliance Committee oversees the 
organisation’s anti-bribery management system to ensure its 
continuing suitability, adequacy and effectiveness.

Impact: Potential loss of stakeholder confidence, negative 
impact on reputation, financial performance and valuation.

Pillars of value:

Mitigation: We have articulated our climate change plans, 
policies and progress and engage with key stakeholders to 
ensure they understand them. Our Sustainable Mining Plan 
includes operation-specific and Group targets for reductions 
in carbon emissions, power and water usage. 

Risk appetite: Operating within the limits of our appetite.

Commentary: For more information on our Sustainable 
Mining Plan and approach to climate change, see pages 46 
and 49–57, and for further information on how we engage 
with key stakeholders, see pages 16–19. 

Pillars of value:

Strategic Report Integrated Annual Report 2023Anglo American plc84

Anglo American plc
Integrated Annual Report 2023

Strategic Report 
Principal risks

9. Regulatory and permitting

10. Water

11. Pandemic

Failure to comply with permitting and other mining 
regulations.

Root cause: Regulations impacting the mining industry are 
evolving as a result of political developments, changes in 
societal expectations and the public perception of mining 
activities. Failure to comply with management processes will 
threaten the ability to adhere to regulations and permits.

Impact: Delays to projects and disruption to existing 
operations may impact future production, delays in 
deploying new technologies that support future growth and 
sustainability objectives, legal claims and regulatory actions, 
fines and reputational damage.

Mitigation: All operations must comply with our Minimum 
Permitting Requirements, which is a management system to 
ensure necessary permits and other regulatory requirements 
are identified and embedded in life of asset plans and 
management routines. Through our Sustainable Mining Plan, 
we make considerable efforts to meet community aspirations 
for socio-economic development and carefully manage the 
environmental impacts of our business to avoid causing harm 
and nuisance.

Risk appetite: Operating within the limits of our appetite.

Commentary: Annual assessments of compliance with 
the Anglo American Minimum Permitting Requirements are 
undertaken, as well as periodic independent audits.

Pillars of value:

Inability to obtain or sustain the level of water security 
needed to support operations over the current life of asset 
plan or future growth options.

Root cause: Poor water resource management or 
inadequate on site storage, combined with reduced water 
supply at some operations as weather patterns change, 
can affect production. Water is a shared resource with local 
communities and permits to use water in our operations are 
at risk if we do not manage the resource in a responsible and 
sustainable manner.

Impact: Loss of production and inability to achieve cash flow 
or volume improvement targets. Damage to stakeholder 
relationships or reputational damage can result from failure to 
manage this critical resource.

Mitigation: Various projects have been implemented at 
operations most exposed to this risk, focused on: water 
efficiency; water security; water treatment; and discharge 
management; as well as alternative supplies. New 
technologies are being developed that will reduce water 
demand.

Risk appetite: Operating within the limits of our appetite.

Commentary: This continues to be a risk to the majority of our 
operations. For more information on our Sustainable Mining 
Plan, see page 46.

Pillars of value:

Large scale outbreak of infectious disease increasing 
morbidity and mortality over a wide geographic area.

Root cause: Human population growth, urbanisation, 
changes in land use, loss of biodiversity, exploitation of 
the natural environment, viral disease from animals, and 
increased global travel and integration are all contributory 
causes of health pandemics.

Impact: As has been witnessed by the Covid-19 pandemic, 
widespread consequences include the physical and mental 
health and well-being of our people and local communities; 
economic shocks and disruption; social unrest; an increase in 
political stresses and tensions; a rise in criminal acts; and the 
potential for increased resource nationalism. 

Mitigation: Anglo American actively monitors global 
pandemic-potential diseases. In the event of a pandemic, our 
Group Crisis Management Team is activated at an early stage 
to direct the Group’s response, prioritising the well-being 
of our people, their families and our host communities, and 
ensuring the continuity of the operations. 

Risk appetite: Operating within the limits of our appetite.

Commentary: For more information on how we support the 
health and well-being of our workforce, see pages 68–70.

Pillars of value:

Principal risks

85

Pillars of value

Safety and health

Socio-political

Production

Financial

Environment

People

Cost

12. Operational performance

13. Future demand

Unplanned operational stoppages affecting production and 
profitability.

Demand for metals and minerals produced and marketed by 
Anglo American may deviate from our assumptions.

Root cause: We are exposed to risks of interruption to power 
supply and the failure of critical third-party owned and 
operated infrastructure; e.g. rail networks and ports. Failure 
to implement and embed our Operating Model, maintain 
critical plant, machinery and infrastructure, and operate in 
compliance with Anglo American’s Technical Standards, will 
affect our performance levels. Our operations may also be 
exposed to natural catastrophes and extreme weather 
events.

Impact: Inability to achieve production, cash flow or 
profitability targets. There are potential safety-related risks 
associated with unplanned operational stoppages, along 
with a loss of investor confidence.

Mitigation: We maintain ongoing engagement with critical 
power and infrastructure suppliers and have appropriate 
business continuity and emergency preparedness plans. 
Implementation of our Operating Model and compliance 
with Technical Standards, supported by operational risk 
management and assurance processes, are key to the 
mitigation against this risk. Regular tracking and monitoring 
of progress against the underlying production plans is 
undertaken. 

Root cause: Technological developments and/or product 
substitution leading to reduced demand, growth in the 
circular economy and shifts in consumer preferences.

Impact: Potential for negative impact on revenue, cash flow, 
profitability and valuation.

Mitigation: Regular reviews of production and financial plans, 
as well as longer term portfolio decisions, are based on 
extensive research. Our businesses invest in marketing and 
other activities to enhance the inherent value of the products 
we produce, including building consumer confidence in the 
ethical provenance of our products. 

Risk appetite: Operating within the limits of our appetite.

Commentary: We monitor new business opportunities in line 
with our strategy to secure, develop and operate a portfolio 
of high quality and long life mineral assets, from which we will 
deliver leading shareholder returns. Our Ethical Value Chain 
commitments within the Trusted Corporate Leader pillar of 
our Sustainable Mining Plan ensure we operate in line with 
stakeholder expectations for responsible mining. For more 
information on our ethical value chains and responsible 
mining certification, see pages 64–65.

Risk appetite: Operating within the limits of our appetite.

Pillars of value:

Commentary: In 2023, some of our operations in South Africa 
were impacted by power outages, water supply issues and 
logistics constraints. 

Pillars of value:

Strategic Report Integrated Annual Report 2023Anglo American plc86

Anglo American plc
Integrated Annual Report 2023

Strategic Report 

Key performance indicators

Safety and health

Strategic element: Innovation, People

Environment

Strategic element: Innovation

Work-related 
fatal injuries(8)

Target: Zero

ER

Total recordable injury 
frequency rate(8)

ER

New cases of 
occupational disease(8)

Target: Year-on-year reduction

Target: Year-on-year reduction

GHG emissions(8)

ER

Energy consumption(8)

ER

Target: Reduce absolute emissions by 
30% by 2030, relative to 2016 baseline

Target: Improve energy efficiency by  
30% by 2030, relative to 2016 baseline

Number of work-related 
fatal injuries

TRIFR

NCOD

Measured in million tonnes 
of CO2 equivalent emissions

Measured in million GJ

Workforce noise 
exposure(8)

ER

Workforce inhalable 
hazard exposure(8)

ER

Target: Year-on-year reduction

Target: Year-on-year reduction

Fresh water withdrawals(8)

ER

Target: Reduce the absolute withdrawal 
of fresh water in water scarce areas by 
50%, relative to the 2015 baseline

Level 4-5 
environmental incidents(8)

Target: Zero

Employees potentially exposed to 
noise > 85 dBA

Employees potentially exposed to 
inhalable hazards over OEL

Measured in million ML

Number of Level 4-5 
environmental incidents

 ▶ For full description and calculation methodology

See pages 316–317

ER

KPIs with this symbol are linked to executive remuneration; for more 
information, see the Remuneration report on pages 178–211.

32224202320222021202020191.782.192.242.142.21202320222021202020191551630392023202220212020201919,17323,17930,83233,25329,598202320222021202020195333171,7961,9942,1512023202220212020201938,04035,91036,88837,24742,52720232022202120202019000002023202220212020201912.513.314.515.416.920232022202120202019898384788320232022202120202019 
Key performance indicators

87

Socio-political

Strategic element: Innovation

People

Strategic element: People

Social Way 
implementation(9)

Target: Full implementation of the Social 
Way by end 2022

Taxes and royalties borne 
and taxes collected(3)

Voluntary labour turnover

Women in management

Target: <5%

Target: 33% by 2023

In 2023, 73% of Social Way 
requirements fulfilled

Spend in $ billion 

Percentage of full-time employees

Women in management 
(B5 and above) (%)

Jobs supported off site(10)

ER

Local procurement(4)

Women in workforce

Cumulative number of jobs 
supported off site

Spend in $ billion 

Women as a percentage 
of total workforce

Strategic Report Integrated Annual Report 2023Anglo American plc139,308114,534104,86092,39720232022202120205.15.97.13.820232022202120207366492320232022202120203.53.63.52.82.92023202220212020201934323127242023202220212020201926242323212023202220212020201913.013.610.010.09.12023202220212020201988

Anglo American plc
Integrated Annual Report 2023

Strategic Report 
Key performance indicators

Production

Production volumes

Copper equivalent production 2023 vs 2022: 2% increase

Strategic element: Portfolio, Innovation

Copper – thousand tonnes

Nickel – thousand tonnes

PGMs – thousand ounces (5E+Au)

De Beers – million carats (100% 
production)

Iron ore (Kumba) – million tonnes 
(wet basis)

Iron ore (Minas-Rio) – million 
tonnes (wet basis)

Steelmaking coal (export coking 
and PCI) – million tonnes

31.934.632.325.130.8202320222021202020198266646476476382023202220212020201940.039.841.743.542.6202320222021202020193,8064,0244,2993,8094,4412023202220212020201935.737.740.937.643.12023202220212020201924.221.622.924.123.12023202220212020201916.015.014.916.822.920232022202120202019Key performance indicators

89

Cost

Strategic element: Portfolio, Innovation

Financial

Strategic element: Portfolio, Innovation

Unit cost of production

Copper equivalent unit cost 2023 vs 2022: 4% increase in $ terms

Attributable return on 
capital employed (ROCE)

ER

Underlying earnings per 
share (EPS)

ER

Copper – c/lb

Nickel – c/lb

PGMs – $/PGM ounce

Group attributable ROCE (%)

Group underlying EPS – $

De Beers – $/carat

Kumba – $/tonne (wet basis)

Iron Ore Brazil – $/tonne (wet basis)

Attributable free 
cash flow(11)

ER

Group attributable free cash flow 
($ billion)

Steelmaking Coal – $/tonne

Strategic Report Integrated Annual Report 2023Anglo American plc715958576320232022202120202019414039313320232022202120202019333524212120232022202120202019121107105866320232022202120202019166154120113126202320222021202020195415133773343802023202220212020201996893786871370520232022202120202019163043171920232022202120202019(1.4)1.67.81.22.3202320222021202020192.424.977.222.532.752023202220212020201990

Anglo American plc
Integrated Annual Report 2023

Strategic Report 

Group financial review

Anglo American’s profit attributable to equity shareholders 
decreased to $0.3 billion (2022: $4.5 billion). Underlying earnings 
were $2.9 billion (2022: $6.0 billion), while operating profit was 
$3.9 billion (2022: $9.2 billion).

Financial performance

Underlying EBITDA◊ ($ billion)

Operating profit ($ billion)

Production volumes increased by 2% on a 
copper equivalent basis, primarily driven by 
the ramp-up of our Quellaveco copper mine 
in Peru, a strong operational performance 
at our Minas-Rio iron ore operation in Brazil, 
as well as higher production from our 
Steelmaking Coal operations in Australia. 
Production was lower at De Beers, as the 
Venetia mine transitions from open pit to 
underground operations, and at PGMs 
due to lower production from the Kroondal 
joint operation (now sold) and planned 
infrastructure closures at Amandelbult. Lower 
grades impacted production at Los Bronces 
(Copper Chile).

Underlying EBITDA◊
Group underlying EBITDA decreased 
by $4.5 billion to $10.0 billion (2022: 
$14.5 billion) due to lower commodity 
prices and inflationary cost pressures, 
which increased our input costs. As a result, 
the Group Mining EBITDA margin of 39% 
was lower than the prior year (2022: 47%). 
A reconciliation of ‘Profit before net finance 
costs and tax’, the closest equivalent IFRS 
measure to underlying EBITDA, is provided 
within note 2 to the Consolidated financial 
statements.

Underlying earnings◊ ($ billion)
Profit attributable to equity shareholders of the Company 
($ billion)

Basic underlying earnings per share◊ ($) 

Basic earnings per share ($)

Total dividend per share ($)

Group attributable ROCE◊

Underlying EBITDA reconciliation 2022–2023 
$ billion

2023

10.0

3.9

2.9

0.3

2.42

0.23

0.96

16%

2022

14.5

9.2

6.0

4.5

4.97

3.72

1.98

30%

14.5(4.8)1.0(0.7)(0.1)0.110.02022PriceForexInflationNet cost and volumeOther2023Underlying EBITDA◊ by segment

Reconciliation from underlying EBITDA◊ to underlying earnings◊

Group financial review

Copper

Nickel

PGMs

De Beers

Iron Ore

Steelmaking Coal

Manganese

Crop Nutrients

Corporate and other

Total

2023

3,233

133

1,209

72

4,013

1,320

231

(60)

(193)

9,958

4,417

1,417

3,455

2,749

378

(44)

(440)

14,495

Price
Average market prices for the Group’s 
basket of products decreased by 13% 
compared to 2022, reducing underlying 
EBITDA by $4.8 billion. The PGMs basket 
price decreased by 35%, primarily driven by 
rhodium and palladium, which decreased 
by 58% and 37% respectively. Alongside 
this, the weighted average realised price 
for steelmaking coal reduced by 14%,  
and the De Beers consolidated average 
realised price for diamonds fell by 25%, 
predominantly driven by mix. 

Foreign exchange
Favourable foreign exchange benefited 
underlying EBITDA by $1.0 billion, primarily 
reflecting the favourable impact of the 
weaker South African rand on costs.

Inflation
The Group’s weighted average CPI was 5% 
in 2023 as inflation continued to increase in 
all regions, albeit lower than the 8% in 2022. 
The impact of CPI inflation on costs reduced 
underlying EBITDA by $0.7 billion (2022: 
$0.9 billion).

Net cost and volume
The net impact of cost and volume was a 
$0.1 billion decrease in underlying EBITDA, 
driven by lower sales volumes at De Beers 
due to weaker market sentiment, and 
lower sales at Copper Chile primarily as a 
result of lower grades and ore hardness at 
Los Bronces impacting production and costs. 
In addition, above-CPI inflationary pressures 
contributed to higher costs across the Group, 
particularly in South Africa at both PGMs 
and Kumba. These were largely offset by 
the ramp-up of volumes at Quellaveco and 
improved sales at Minas-Rio due to higher 
production volumes. 

Underlying earnings◊
Group underlying earnings decreased to 
$2.9 billion (2022: $6.0 billion), driven by 
the lower underlying EBITDA, partly offset 
by a corresponding decrease in income 
tax expense and earnings attributable to 
non-controlling interests.

2022

2,182

Underlying EBITDA◊

381

Depreciation and amortisation

Net finance costs and income tax expense

Non-controlling interests

Underlying earnings◊

Depreciation and amortisation
Depreciation and amortisation 
increased by 10% to $2.8 billion (2022:  
$2.5 billion), largely due to Quellaveco 
commencing commercial production in June 
2023, as well as a higher carrying value 
of our Steelmaking Coal assets due to the 
impairment reversal recognised in 2022.

Net finance costs and income tax expense
Net finance costs, before special items 
and remeasurements, were $0.6 billion 
(2022: $0.3 billion). The increase was 
principally driven by the impact of higher 
floating interest rates on the Group’s 
interest expenses.

The underlying effective tax rate (ETR) 
was higher than the prior year at 38.5% 
(2022: 34.0%), impacted by the relative levels 
of profits arising in the Group’s operating 
jurisdictions as well as the revaluation 
of deferred taxes in Chile following the 
enactment of the Mining Royalty Bill during 
the year, which contributed a 1.2 percentage 
point increase to the Group’s ETR. The tax 
charge for the year, before special items and 
remeasurements, was $2.3 billion (2022: 
$3.6 billion), reflecting lower profit before tax.

91

2022

14,495

(2,532)

(4,307)

(1,620)

6,036

2023

9,958

(2,790)

(3,126)

(1,110)

2,932

Non-controlling interests
The share of underlying earnings attributable 
to non-controlling interests of $1.1 billion 
(2022: $1.6 billion) principally relates to 
minority shareholdings in Kumba (Iron Ore), 
Copper and PGMs.

Special items and remeasurements
Special items and remeasurements (after 
tax and non-controlling interests) are a net 
charge of $2.6 billion (2022: net charge 
of $1.5 billion), principally relating to the 
impairments after tax and non-controlling 
interests of $1.6 billion recognised in 
De Beers and $0.5 billion recognised in 
Barro Alto (Nickel).

Full details of the special items and 
remeasurements recorded are included 
in note 9 to the Consolidated financial 
statements.

Strategic Report Integrated Annual Report 2023Anglo American plc92

Anglo American plc
Integrated Annual Report 2023

Strategic Report 
Group financial review

Net debt◊
$ million

Opening net debt◊ at 1 January

(6,918)

Underlying EBITDA◊ from subsidiaries and joint operations

Working capital movements

Other cash flows from operations

Cash flows from operations

Capital repayments of lease obligations

Cash tax paid
Dividends from associates, joint ventures and financial asset 
investments

Net interest(1)

Dividends paid to non-controlling interests

Sustaining capital expenditure

Sustaining attributable free cash flow◊

Growth capital expenditure and other(2)

Attributable free cash flow◊

Dividends to Anglo American plc shareholders

Acquisitions and disposals

Foreign exchange and fair value movements

Other net debt movements(3)

Total movement in net debt◊

Closing net debt◊ at 31 December

2023

9,241

(1,167)

41

8,115

(309)

(2,001)

382

(727)

(978)

(4,404)

78

(1,463)

(1,385)

(1,564)

200

21

(969)

(3,842)

2022

13,370

(2,102)

621

11,889

(266)

(2,726)

602

(253)

(1,794)

(4,143)

3,309

(1,724)

1,585

(3,549)

564

(238)

(1,438)

(3,697)

(10,615)

(3,076)

(6,918)

(1) 

Includes cash outflows of $403 million (2022: outflows of $14 million), relating to interest payments on derivatives hedging net debt, which are included in cash 
flows from derivatives related to financing activities. For more information, please refer to note 21 to the Consolidated financial statements.

(2)  Growth capital expenditure and other includes $133 million (2022: $129 million) of expenditure on non-current intangible assets. 
(3) 

Includes the purchase of shares (including for employee share schemes) of $274 million; Mitsubishi’s share of Quellaveco capital expenditure of $129 million; 
other movements in lease liabilities (excluding variable vessel leases) increasing net debt by $120 million; and contingent and deferred consideration paid in 
respect of acquisitions completed in previous years of $128 million. 2022 includes the purchase of shares under the 2021 buyback programme of $186 million; 
the purchase of shares for other purposes (including for employee share schemes) of $341 million; Mitsubishi’s share of Quellaveco capital expenditure of 
$446 million; other movements in lease liabilities (excluding variable vessel leases) decreasing net debt by $33 million; and contingent and deferred 
consideration paid in respect of acquisitions completed in previous years of $165 million.

Net debt◊
Net debt (including related derivatives) 
of $10.6 billion increased by $3.7 billion 
since 31 December 2022, which includes 
a working capital cash outflow of 
$1.2 billion, primarily due to a reduction in 
payables. The Group generated sustaining 
attributable free cash flow of $0.1 billion. 
Further funding includes growth capital 
expenditure of $1.3 billion and dividends 
paid to Anglo American plc shareholders of 
$1.6 billion. Net debt at 31 December 2023 
represented gearing (net debt to total 
capital) of 25% (2022: 17%). Net debt to 
EBITDA ratio of 1.1x (2022: 0.5x) remains 
well within our target range of <1.5x at the 
bottom of the cycle.

Cash flow
Cash flows from operations
Cash flows from operations decreased to 
$8.1 billion (2022: $11.9 billion), reflecting 
a reduction in underlying EBITDA from 
subsidiaries and joint operations, and 
a working capital build of $1.2 billion 
(2022: build of $2.1 billion). Payables 
reduced by $0.8 billion, largely driven by 
the impact of lower PGM prices on the 
valuation of the Purchase of Concentrate 
(POC) creditor as well as the PGM customer 
prepayment. Receivables increased by 
$0.4 billion led by higher price and volume 
across Iron Ore and Copper. Inventory 
was flat in the year, with price and volume 
led reductions at PGMs offsetting a build 
at De Beers driven by weak demand for 
diamonds and the impact of logistics 
constraints on Kumba’s inventory levels.

Bond maturity profile
$ billion

93

Capital expenditure
Capital expenditure remained in line with 
prior year at $5.7 billion as higher sustaining 
capital was offset by reduced growth capital.

 ▶ For more detail on capital expenditure

See page 78

Attributable free cash flow◊
The Group’s attributable free cash flow 
decreased to an outflow of $1.4 billion 
(2022: inflow of $1.6 billion), mainly 
due to lower cash flows from operations 
of $8.1 billion (2022: $11.9 billion) and 
an increase in net interest to $0.7 billion 
(2022: $0.3 billion). This was partially offset 
by decreased tax payments of $2.0 billion 
(2022: $2.7billion) and a reduction in 
dividends paid to non-controlling interests 
to $1.0 billion (2022: $1.8 billion).

Shareholder returns
In line with the Group’s established dividend 
policy to pay out 40% of underlying earnings, 
the Board has proposed a final dividend of 
$0.41 per share (2022: $0.74 per share), 
equivalent to $0.5 billion (2022: $0.9 billion). 

Acquisitions and disposals
Net cash inflows on disposals of $0.2 billion 
principally relate to the settlement of the 
deferred consideration balance relating to 
the sale of the Rustenburg operations (PGMs) 
completed in November 2016.

Balance sheet
Net assets decreased by $2.3 billion 
to $31.6 billion (2022: $34.0 billion), 
reflecting dividend payments to Company 
shareholders and non-controlling interests 
as well as foreign exchange movements, 
partially offset by the profit in the year, 
which was impacted by the impairments 
at De Beers and Nickel.

Group financial review

Attributable ROCE◊
Attributable ROCE decreased to 16% 
(2022: 30%). Attributable underlying EBIT 
decreased to $5.4 billion (2022: $9.7 billion), 
reflecting the impact of lower realised prices 
for the Group’s products and inflationary 
cost pressures. Average attributable 
capital employed increased to $33.2 billion 
(2022: $32.0 billion), primarily due to capital 
expenditure, largely at Quellaveco and 
Collahuasi (Copper), and shipping vessel 
lease additions and revaluations (Corporate 
and Other), partly offset by the reduction in 
capital employed following the De Beers and 
Nickel impairments recorded in 2023.

Liquidity and funding
Group liquidity stood at $13.2 billion (2022: 
$16.1 billion), comprising $6.1 billion of cash 
and cash equivalents (2022: $8.4 billion) and 
$7.2 billion of undrawn committed facilities 
(2022: $7.7 billion). 

During the first half of 2023, the Group issued 
$2.0 billion of bond debt. In March 2023, the 
Group issued €500 million 4.5% Senior Notes 
due 2028, €500 million 5.0% Senior Notes 
due 2031 and, in May 2023, $900 million 
5.5% Senior Notes due 2033. These were 
swapped to US dollar floating interest rate 
exposures in line with the Group’s policy.

Consequently, the weighted average maturity 
on the Group’s bonds was broadly in line with 
the prior year at 7.4 years (2022: 7.7 years).

In the second half of 2023, the Group 
refinanced its $4.7 billion revolving credit 
facility maturing in March 2025, to a one year 
$1 billion facility maturing in November 2024, 
and a $3.7 billion five year facility maturing in 
November 2028.

Strategic Report Integrated Annual Report 2023Anglo American plc0.71.20.61.51.20.91.80.50.70.50.80.50.50.9Existing bondsNew issuance20242025202620272028202920302031203220332050205294

Anglo American plc
Integrated Annual Report 2023

Strategic Report 

Copper

From our three mining operations in Chile 
and our newly commissioned Quellaveco 
mine in Peru, we produce copper, essential to 
modern living and the future of clean energy 
and transport. Our products include copper 
concentrate, copper cathode and associated 
by-products such as molybdenum and silver. 

Management team

Ruben Fernandes  
Regional Director, Americas

Patricio Hidalgo 
CEO, Anglo American, Chile

Adolfo Heeren 
CEO, Anglo American, Peru

Quellaveco

Collahuasi

El Soldado

Los Bronces

Chagres

Sakatti

Finland

Chile and Peru

Key

Copper operations

Early-stage project

Smelter

Copper Chile

Copper

2023 summary

2
Fatalities 

1.14
TRIFR

$1,452 m

Underlying EBITDA

31%
Mining EBITDA margin

507 kt

Production volume

On-site monitoring stations help to build a comprehensive picture of environmental conditions facing 
our operations. 

Predictive environmental monitoring 
– shaping a new era for mining

Today, mining and processing operations 
are far safer, cleaner and less polluting than 
they were just a few years ago. Much of 
this can be attributed to the development 
and widespread adoption of digital 
technologies which provide operators 
with dynamic new tools to predict and 
mitigate risks, while also being able to 
continuously monitor mining’s impact on 
the environment. 

Predictive environmental monitoring (PEM) 
is a form of data management to identify 
trends and patterns to predict future 
environmental outcomes. It is proving to 

be a valuable tool to assist in maintaining 
compliance with increasingly stringent 
environmental legislation, as well as in 
anticipating, and consequently avoiding or 
minimising, production-related constraints.

Improving operational and environmental 
outcomes at Chagres
At our Chagres copper smelter in Chile, 
PEM allows control-room operators to input 
a range of climate, environmental and 
operational information, collected from 
our internal monitoring stations. They are 
then able to apply data analytics, machine 
learning and artificial intelligence (AI) 
tools to create a comprehensive picture of 
conditions facing the operation, and then 
build predictive models of future effects.

95

One of PEM’s many benefits is that day-
to-day mining operations can be planned 
more accurately. This has brought greater 
certainty and stability to our processes, and 
has led to a significant reduction in copper 
production losses. 

Patricio Rojas, smelting superintendent, 
comments: “Because most copper-
ores are sulphur-based, their smelting 
releases sulphur dioxide (SO2), which has 
many harmful effects, along with noxious 
particulate matter. At Chagres, therefore, 
a key aim is to reduce dust emissions at 
source so that they do not spread to the 
surrounding communities and agricultural 
areas. Since implementing PEM, we 
have not had to shut down the smelter 
due to environmental conditions, or any 
exceedances in our emissions. And, 
importantly, being able to better manage, 
and reduce, environmental dust – and to be 
able to demonstrate this to the authorities 
and the local community – has led to a rise 
in stakeholder trust.”

Next steps
PEM is an essential part of our Sustainable 
Mining Plan, and we will continue to extend 
it across the Group. This includes rolling 
out our operational emissions dashboards 
and forecasting tools, covering noise, 
vibration, particulates and other types of 
emissions, as part of our holistic approach 
to environmental management and to 
support positive health outcomes for our 
workforce and for the communities that 
neighbour our operations.

Strategic Report Integrated Annual Report 2023Anglo American plc96

Anglo American plc
Integrated Annual Report 2023

Strategic Report 
Copper

Our business
In Chile, we have interests in two major 
copper operations: a 50.1% interest in 
Los Bronces mine, which we manage 
and operate, and a 44% share in the 
independently managed Collahuasi mine; 
we also manage and operate the El Soldado 
mine and the Chagres smelter (50.1% 
interest in both).

Safety
Copper Chile, tragically, had two work-
related fatalities in 2023. Jorge Navarrete 
and Gerardo Cariman, both employed by 
a contracting company, were fatally injured 
while investigating a communication failure in 
an electrical room situated in a remote area 
of Los Bronces mine. A team of independent 
experts performed a full investigation and 
actions were agreed to mitigate the risks 
identified. 

As part of the response to the incidents 
and, aligned with the Group-wide focus on 
improving safety performance, the Copper 
CEO launched an Integrated Safety Plan 
for all Chilean operations, as well as an 
Integrated Safety Office to provide guidance, 
governance, and oversight for the successful 
implementation of the plan. 

Some key initiatives of the plan include:

–  Golden rules commitments were reinforced 

to employees and contractors

–  Leadership interventions were conducted 
across all sites to review Priority Unwanted 
Events to assess the effectiveness of safety 
routines and operational risk management 
processes

–  A 60-day safety plan was completed for 

all sites, including 35 field training sessions 
with the participation of more than 1,300 
employees and contractors

–  A catastrophic-risk taskforce was initiated, 
covering fire, electrical hazards, structural 
integrity risks and a pipeline integrity review. 

Despite the fatal incidents, Copper Chile’s 
TRIFR decreased by 20% to 1.14 (2022: 
1.42). The TRIFR significantly improved 
following the introduction of the measures 
described above. 

An emergency response taskforce was 
established and monitoring procedures are 
in place to ensure it performs properly. Safety 
routines are also being set up to ensure 
continuity of work already under way as 
part of the Integrated Safety Plan, including 
monitoring actions defined during the setting-
up of the catastrophic risk taskforce and the 
technical standards governance review.

A number of other safety initiatives continue 
to be implemented, including reviewing 
and redefining safety routines, second-line 
assurance, improvements to the quality of 
Learning from Incidents investigations, and 
digital control monitoring of safety initiatives. 

Environmental performance
At Copper’s Chilean operations, energy use 
decreased by 3% to12.6 million GJ (2022: 
13.0 million GJ), reflecting the decrease 
in production. Scope 1 GHG emissions 
remained consistent with the previous year 
at 0.4 Mt CO2e (2022: 0.4 Mt CO2e). 

While GHG emissions were in line with the 
prior year, Copper Chile no longer records 
any Scope 2 GHG emissions, with all Chilean 
copper operations being wholly supplied 
by renewable power sources since 2021, 
resulting in an overall c. 60% reduction in 
GHG emissions over the period. 

The decrease in energy use primarily reflects 
the reduction in copper production from 
Los Bronces mine.

2023 results – Copper Chile

Production volume (kt)

Sales volume (kt)(1)(2)

Unit cost (c/lb)(1)(3)

Group revenue – $m(1)(4)

Underlying EBITDA – $m(1)

Mining EBITDA margin(5)

Underlying EBIT – $m(1)

Capex – $m(1)

Attributable ROCE

Fatalities

TRIFR

Energy consumption – million GJ
GHG emissions – Mt CO2 equivalent
Total water withdrawals – million m3

Employee numbers

2023

507

505

200

4,615

1,452

31%

893

1,268

22%

2

1.14

12.6

0.4

32.6

2022

562

563

157

4,991

1,952

40%

1,387

1,217

32%

0

1.42

13.0

0.4

34.9

4,000

4,400

(1)  Results by asset and the consolidated results for Copper can be found in the Summary by operation on pages 

307–308.

(2)  Excludes 444 kt third-party sales (2022: 422 kt). 
(3)  C1 unit cost includes by-product credits.
(4)  Group revenue is shown after deduction of treatment and refining charges (TC/RCs). 
(5)  Excludes impact of third-party sales.

Financial performance
Underlying EBITDA decreased by 26% to 
$1,452 million (2022: $1,952 million), driven 
by lower sales and higher unit costs. C1 unit 
costs increased by 27% to 200 c/lb (2022: 
157 c/lb), reflecting the impact of lower 
production, cost inflation and a stronger 
Chilean peso, partially offset through cost 
control and higher by-product credits.

Capital expenditure increased by 4% to 
$1,268 million (2022: $1,217 million), mainly 
driven by expenditure at Collahuasi on the 
desalination plant and the fifth ball mill.

Markets

Average market price 
(c/lb)
Average realised price 
(Copper Chile – c/lb)

2023

2022

385

399

384

386

The differences between the market 
price and the realised prices are largely a 
function of provisional pricing adjustments 
and the timing of sales across the year. 
At Copper Chile, 114,500 tonnes of copper 
were provisionally priced at 386 c/lb at 
31 December 2023 (31 December 2022: 
166,900 tonnes provisionally priced at 
379 c/ lb).

 
 
 
Copper prices were relatively stable 
during 2023, with LME prices averaging 
385 c/ lb, down 4% from last year (2022: 
399 c/lb). Concerns over China’s property 
sector weighed on market sentiment and 
copper prices, masking the solid underlying 
demand growth from China during the 
year, particularly from electric vehicles 
and the renewable energy sector. Copper 
prices remained sensitive to fluctuations 
in the strength of the US dollar throughout 
much of 2023, with prices benefiting in 
December from expectations that US 
interest rates have now peaked. Copper 
demand is well supported by ongoing global 
decarbonisation efforts and the infrastructure 
associated with the energy transition. 
However disruptions, mostly from social and 
environment concerns, continue to impact 
global mine supply.

Operational performance
Copper production of 507,200 tonnes 
was 10% lower than the prior year (2022: 
562,200 tonnes), due to lower grades and 
ore hardness at Los Bronces.

At Los Bronces, production decreased by 
20% to 215,500 tonnes (2022: 270,900 
tonnes), due to lower ore grade (0.51% vs 
0.62%) and continued ore hardness, as 
well as an electrical sub-station fire that 
interrupted plant facilities' power supply for 
16 days. The unfavourable ore characteristics 
in the current area of mining will continue to 
affect the operation until the next phase of 
the mine, where the grades are expected to 
be higher and the ore softer. Development 
work for this phase is now under way and is 
expected to benefit production from early 
2027 (refer to ‘Operational outlook’ below for 
further details).

At Collahuasi, Anglo American’s attributable 
share of copper production increased 
marginally to 252,200 tonnes (2022: 

Copper

251,100 tonnes), due to planned higher 
grades (1.17% vs 1.11%) and the ongoing 
commissioning of a fifth ball mill that started 
at the end of October, partially offset by lower 
copper recovery.

Production at El Soldado decreased by 2% 
to 39,500 tonnes (2022: 40,200 tonnes). 
Planned higher grades were offset by 
an existing geotechnical fault that was 
exacerbated by record levels of rain during 
the third quarter, resulting in the temporary 
closure of the mine. The production impact 
was partially mitigated by processing lower 
grade ore from stockpiles.

Chile´s central zone, where Los Bronces 
is located, faced dry conditions during 
the first half of the year followed by heavy 
precipitation. The increase in precipitation 
and the decision to place the smaller and less 
efficient of the two plants at the Los Bronces 
operation (the ‘Los Bronces plant’) on 
care and maintenance during 2024, has 
significantly reduced the risk in relation to 
water availability for Los Bronces in 2024. 
For Collahuasi, which is located in the north of 
the country, the outlook for 2024 remains dry; 
a desalination water solution is expected to 
be operational from 2026.

Operational outlook
Los Bronces
Los Bronces is currently mining a single 
phase impacted by ore hardness, and with 
expected lower grades. Additional mining 
phases and intermediate ore stockpiles that 
would typically provide operational flexibility 
have not been developed as a result of 
delays in mine development, permitting and 
operational challenges.

While the operation works through the 
challenges in the mine, and until the 
economics improve, the older, smaller 
(c.40% of production volumes) and more 

costly Los Bronces processing plant will 
be placed on care and maintenance from 
mid-2024. This value over volume decision 
will enable the business to significantly 
reduce operating costs and improve 
competitiveness, at both the mine and the 
plant, reduce overheads, and reduce capital 
spend, as well as reduce reliance on external 
water sources (such as transportation via 
truck). The expected annualised unit cost 
saving from this action is c.30–40 c/lb.

The development of the first phase of the 
Los Bronces integrated water solution is 
also ongoing, which will secure a large 
portion of the mine’s water needs through a 
desalinated water supply from the beginning 
of 2026.

Los Bronces remains a world class copper 
deposit, accounting for more than 2% of 
the world’s known copper resources. The 
environmental permit for the Los Bronces 
open pit expansion and underground 
development was issued by the authorities 
in November 2023. Development work for 
the next higher grade, softer ore phase of 
the mine, Donoso 2, is now under way and is 
expected to benefit production and unit costs 
from early 2027. Pre-feasibility studies for 
the Los Bronces underground expansion are 
ongoing and are expected to be finalised in 
mid-2025.

Collahuasi
Collahuasi is a world class orebody with 
significant growth potential. Near term 
grades are expected to be c.1.05% TCu, 
with the exception of 2025, where the 
grade temporarily declines to c.0.95% 
TCu. Various debottlenecking options are 
being studied that are expected to add 
c.25,000 tonnes per annum (tpa) (our 44% 
share) between 2025–2028. Beyond that, 
studies and permitting are under way for a 
fourth processing line in the plant and mine 

97

expansion that would add up to 150,000 tpa 
(our 44% share). Timing of that expansion is 
subject to the permitting process; assuming 
permit approval in 2027, first production 
could follow from c.2032.

A desalination plant is currently under 
construction that will meet a large portion 
of the mine’s water requirements when 
complete in 2026, and has been designed to 
accommodate capital-efficient expansion as 
the fourth processing line project progresses.

El Soldado
Following the exacerbation of the 
geotechnical fault at El Soldado by the heavy 
rainfall in 2023, the mine plan was revised in 
the third quarter of 2023. Production in 2024 
is expected to be broadly comparable to 
2023, before declining to 30,000–35,000 tpa 
as the mine reaches end of life by mid-2028. 
Following receipt of the environmental permit 
for phase 5, options are being evaluated that 
may enable a life extension.

Copper Chile
Production guidance for Chile for 2024 
is 430,000–460,000 tonnes, subject to 
water availability. 2024 unit cost guidance 
is c.190 c/ lb.

Strategic Report Integrated Annual Report 2023Anglo American plc98

Anglo American plc
Integrated Annual Report 2023

Strategic Report 
Copper

Copper Peru

2023 summary

0
Fatalities 

1.47
TRIFR 

$1,781 m

Underlying EBITDA

65%
Mining EBITDA margin

319 kt

Production volume

Our business
In Peru, we have a 60% interest in the 
Quellaveco mine, which was successfully 
delivered on time and on budget during 
2022. One of the largest mines to be 
developed across the mining industry 
in many years, it has ramped up and is 
expected to produce 300,000 tonnes of 
copper equivalent per year on average 
over the first 10 years of production, with 
a 35-year Reserve Life.

Safety
During 2023, Quellaveco recorded no 
fatalities and a 34% decrease in the TRIFR 
to 1.47 (2022: 2.23). This improvement in 
safety performance was driven primarily by 
an increase in leadership time in the field 
through our Visible Field Leadership (VFL) 
activities, as well as a Safety Stop in May, 
when work was halted across the site to 
discuss safety risks and the improvements 
and actions required to reverse the 
negative trend. 

Safety performance was also discussed 
regularly with contractor management, 
identifying changes needed to reduce risk 
exposure and improve safety management. 
Quellaveco’s safety culture is reinforced 
by safety campaigns addressing risk 
management and controls, people feeling 
empowered to say no if they deem work to be 
unsafe, and recognition programmes, where 
exemplary employees are rewarded for good 
safety practices. 

Preventive safety management was a focus 
in the year, with a significant increase in high 
potential hazard (HPH) reports and learning 
and investigation of repeat high potential 
incidents (HPIs). Fatigue management was 
supported by the adoption of technology 
devices installed on vehicles; for example, 
Advanced Driver Assistance Systems that 
help to reduce risky behaviour such as using 
phones while driving, and speeding. 

Environmental performance
Energy use amounted to 6.3 million GJ 
(2022: 3.4 million GJ), reflecting the 
increased production, following the start 
of operations in July 2022. GHG emissions 
totalled 0.2 Mt CO2e (2022: 0.2 Mt CO2e), as 
the benefit of renewable energy supply offset 
the impact of higher operational activity. In 
2023, Quellaveco’s power needs were fully 
supplied from renewable sources, via wind 
turbines from the supplier’s (Engie) newly 
commissioned Punta Lomita wind farm. 

Quellaveco has completed the pre-feasibility 
phase of the Group’s Net Positive Impact 
(NPI) initiative, establishing the main 
offset options and key biodiversity species 
recognised as priorities to comply with the 
Group’s Sustainable Mining Plan NPI goals. 

Quellaveco continues to collect data to 
understand its water consumption baseline, 
as operations stabilise following first 
production.

Financial performance
The significant increase in underlying EBITDA 
to $1,781 million (2022: $230 million), 
reflects higher sales volumes and lower unit 
costs, as the operation ramped up. C1 unit 
costs decreased by 18% to 111 c/lb (2022: 
136 c/lb), reflecting the benefit of higher 
production volumes.

Capital expenditure decreased by 49% to 
$416 million (2022: $814 million), reflecting 
the completion of major project spend for 
the construction of Quellaveco, which was 
successfully delivered in July 2022.

Markets

Average market price 
(c/lb)
Average realised price 
(Copper Peru – c/lb)

2023

2022

385

399

384

379

At Copper Peru, 39,000 tonnes of copper 
were provisionally priced at 385 c/lb at 
31 December 2023 (31 December 2022: 
74,800 tonnes provisionally priced at 
380 c/ lb.

Copper

2023 results – Copper Peru

Production volume (kt)

Sales volume (kt)(1)

Unit cost (c/lb)(1)(2)

Group revenue – $m(1)(3)

Underlying EBITDA – $m(1)

Mining EBITDA margin

Underlying EBIT – $m(1)

Capex – $m(1)(4)

Attributable ROCE

Fatalities

TRIFR

Energy consumption – million GJ
GHG emissions – Mt CO2 equivalent
Total water withdrawals – million m3

Employee numbers

2023

319

339

111

2,745

1,781

65%

1,558

416

19%

0

1.47

6.3

0.2

20.0

1,000

2022

102

78

136

608

230

38%

208

814

2%

0

2.23

3.4

0.2

8.7

1,000

(1)  The consolidated results for Copper can be found in the Summary by operation on pages 307–308.
(2)  C1 unit cost includes by-product credits.
(3)  Group revenue is shown after deduction of treatment and refining charges (TC/RCs). 
(4)  Figures on a 100% basis (Group’s share: 60%). Included in capex is the project capex which represents the 

Group’s share after deducting direct funding from non-controlling interests. The Group’s share of project capex 
was $138 million (on a 100% basis, $230 million). In 2022, the Group’s share was $633 million (on a 100% basis, 
$1,055 million). 

99

While current focus remains on embedding 
safe, consistent and stable operational 
performance, there is significant expansion 
potential that could sustain production 
beyond the initial high grade area. The first 
step, subject to permitting, would be an 
increase in throughput rates to 150,000 
tonnes per day (tpd) (from the currently 
permitted level of 127,500 tpd), with limited 
capital required and no additional water 
required. Beyond that, different expansion 
alternatives are under study, including a 
possible third ball mill. There is also interesting 
regional potential that our Discovery team is 
progressing – including the adjacent Mamut 
area, c.10 km away.

Production guidance for Peru for 2024 is 
300,000–330,000 tonnes and 2024 unit cost 
guidance is c.110 c/lb. Production in Peru will 
be weighted to the second half of the year, 
primarily as a result of the grades temporarily 
declining to between 0.6–0.7% TCu in the first 
half of the year.

Operational performance 
Quellaveco produced 319,000 tonnes 
(2022: 102,300 tonnes), reflecting the 
progressive ramp-up in production 
volumes since first production in July 2022, 
with commercial production achieved in 
June 2023.

Following first production from the 
molybdenum plant in April 2023, commercial 
production was achieved in November 2023.

With the mine operational, focus is on 
the commissioning of the coarse particle 
recovery plant, which started in November 
2023, and will treat flotation tails, leading to 
improved metal recoveries.

Operational outlook
A localised geotechnical fault in one of the 
phases previously scheduled for mining 
in 2024 necessitated a revised mining 
plan in the latter part of 2023, as it was 
determined that a change in the inter-ramp 
angle of that phase was required to ensure 
safety standards. While this stripping work 
progresses, other lower grade phases will be 
mined. As a result, access to higher grade 
sectors that were previously planned to be 
mined in 2024 have been rephased to 2027. 
However, as a result of further optimisation 
work within the revised mine plan, an 
additional c.25,000 tonnes of copper is 
expected to be mined over the next five years. 
Given the current copper market outlook, 
higher real term prices for these volumes 
may be achieved; thereby negating, or even 
benefiting, the NPV impact of the revised 
mine plan.

Strategic Report Integrated Annual Report 2023Anglo American plc 
 
 
100

Anglo American plc
Integrated Annual Report 2023

Strategic Report 

Nickel

Our nickel assets, based in Brazil, produce 
ferronickel – a key ingredient in the production 
of stainless steel.

Management team

Ruben Fernandes 
Regional Director, Americas

Wilfred Bruijn 
CEO, Anglo American, Brazil 
(until December 2023)

Ana Sanches 
CEO, Anglo American, Brazil 
(from December 2023)

Barro Alto

Codemin

1

Brazil

Key

Nickel operations

Anglo American plc
Integrated Annual Report 2023

Strategic Report 
Nickel

101

Nickel

2023 summary

0
Fatalities

5.65
TRIFR

$133 m
Underlying EBITDA

20%
Mining EBITDA margin

40,000 t

Production volume

Progressing through partnership
Following extensive laboratory tests, which 
proved to be successful, the next step was 
to move to the pilot-plant testing phase. 
Director of Nickel operations, Eduardo 
Caixeta, points out that the Federal 
University of Goiás (UFG) was an essential 
partner in all this: “The partnership with 
UFG was formalised in 2022, enabling 
us to work closely together to install a 
leaching pilot plant in the university’s 
Chemistry institute. The pilot testing, which 
lasted from October 2022 to March 2023, 
yielded very encouraging results, both in 
terms of increased nickel extraction and 
the recovery of other minerals of interest 
– with extractions of between 70–90% 
for marginal and ferruginous ores and 
extractions exceeding 90% for cobalt and 
manganese. We are now jointly engaged 
in simulating the process on a larger scale 
so that we can determine whether the 
hybrid processing approach will be viable 
commercially. If it is successful in real-world 
conditions – and I am optimistic it will be 
– this will make Anglo American’s Nickel 
business a more efficient and attractive 
producer, offering a wider range of metals 
to customers, and it may well result in 
an extension of operational life at our 
Nickel sites.”

Process engineer Naiara Nascimento holding a pregnant leach solution (PLS) enriched with soluble nickel, 
derived from comprehensive tests conducted in the leaching pilot plant.

Improving metal recovery in our 
Nickel business

The global steel industry uses two-thirds of 
the world’s nickel production – and almost 
all the ferronickel produced each year. 
Over the past few years, however, the nickel 
grade has naturally declined at both Barro 
Alto, our main refining facility, and Codemin.

Reversing the downward trend
In order to halt, and then turn around, 
this declining trend, Anglo American’s 
Technical team investigated the current 
production process, which led to the 
development of a new hybrid method. 
This involves combining the current 
pyrometallurgical process, whereby the 

physical and chemical characteristics of 
the ore are altered at high temperatures, 
with an innovative hydrometallurgical 
wet extraction technique that allows 
the separation of elements in the ore 
when they reach a liquid phase. Apart 
from the principal objective of improving 
nickel recovery, this novel approach 
allows the use of more marginal and 
ferruginous (iron-bearing) ores – with 
the additional prospect of releasing a 
range of by-products, such as copper, 
magnesium, cobalt (a vital battery metal) 
and scandium (used increasingly in the 
aerospace industry, and bicycle frames), 
that are currently unobtainable through the 
conventional pyrometallurgical process.

102

Anglo American plc
Integrated Annual Report 2023

Strategic Report 
Nickel

they feel are unsafe. Contractors have 
been included in Anglo American Brazil’s 
Safety Culture Programme; Nickel is also 
implementing the Group’s Contractor 
Performance Management framework, 
designed to improve contractor performance 
management, with a focus on the delivery 
of improved risk-based planning and safe 
work execution.

Environmental performance
Energy consumption at Nickel increased 
marginally to 20.6 million GJ (2022: 
20.3 million GJ) due to higher electricity 
consumption from the refinery process. 
Scope 1 GHG emissions were in line with 
the prior year at 1.1 Mt CO2e (2022: 1.1 Mt 
CO2e). Nickel has no Scope 2 GHG emissions 
as all power for the operation comes from 
renewable sources.

In 2023, the Nickel business partnered with 
COOPEAG (Agroecological Cooperative of 
Family Producers of Niquelândia) to restore 
approximately 170 hectares of degraded 
land through the planting of approximately 
300,000 seedlings, including from 
endangered species. 

Our business
Our nickel assets are wholly owned, 
consisting of two ferronickel production sites: 
Barro Alto and Codemin. Our Nickel business 
produces ferronickel – whose primary end 
use is in the global stainless steel industry.

Uses of nickel
The stainless steel industry uses two-thirds of 
the world’s nickel production and virtually all 
ferronickel produced each year. The balance 
is used mainly in the manufacture of alloy 
steel and other non-ferrous alloys.

Stainless steel is a key input in high-tech 
construction, and most stainless steels 
contain about 8–10% nickel. As an alloying 
element, nickel enhances important 
properties of stainless steel such as 
formability, weldability and ductility, while 
increasing corrosion resistance in certain 
applications.

Safety
Our Nickel business has not had a fatal 
incident since 2012. Disappointingly, 
however, in 2023 the TRIFR continued its 
upward trend, reaching 5.65 (2022: 3.67). 
High workforce turnover and under-skilled 
contractor employees were the main reasons 
behind the increase. 

Actions under way are concentrated on 
improving training quality and providing 
better oversight of peripheral activities. 
Nickel is also encouraging leaders to spend 
more time in the field, reflecting the focus 
on VFL being driven across the business, 
supporting the workforce by creating a 
psychologically safe work environment 
where they feel empowered to speak 
up when they encounter activities that 

Molten metal is poured from a furnace at our Barro Alto operation, an important producer of ferronickel 
for the stainless steel industry.

2023 results – Nickel

Production volume (t)

Sales volume (t)

Unit cost (c/lb)(1)

Group revenue – $m

Underlying EBITDA – $m

Mining EBITDA margin

Underlying EBIT – $m

Capex – $m

Attributable ROCE

Fatalities

TRIFR

Energy consumption – million GJ
GHG emissions – Mt CO2 equivalent
Total water withdrawals – million m3

Employee numbers

(1)  C1 unit cost.

Nickel

103

2023

40,000

39,800

2022

39,800

39,000

541

653

133

20%

62

91

6%

0

5.65

20.6

1.1

6.9

513

858

381

44%

317

79

24%

0

3.67

20.3

1.1

7.0

1,000

1,400

Financial performance
Underlying EBITDA decreased by 65% to 
$133 million (2022: $381 million), primarily 
as a result of lower realised prices. C1 unit 
costs increased by 5% to 541 c/lb (2022: 
513 c/lb), reflecting the stronger Brazilian real 
and the impact of higher costs of production 
due to lower grade ore, including planned 
maintenance costs to secure asset integrity 
and availability.

Offsetting this, global nickel consumption 
grew strongly year on year, particularly 
in China, which saw record volumes of 
nickel consumed in the stainless steel and 
battery sectors. 

Operational performance
Nickel production increased marginally 
to 40,000 tonnes (2022: 39,800 tonnes), 
reflecting improved operational stability.

Operational outlook
Following safety improvements within the 
mine plan, certain geotechnical parameters 
have been revised, so the amount of material 
accessed from higher grade areas of the 
mine has reduced. The next higher grade 
area of the pit is currently going through 
permitting, with production expected from 
2028 to blend with the lower grade areas of 
the existing pit. Also, bulk ore sorting has not 
yet delivered the scale that had previously 
been anticipated. While studies are ongoing 
to calibrate and adapt the technology, 
these benefits are no longer incorporated 
into guidance due to their early maturity. 
Additional drilling is under way to increase 
coverage and enhance confidence levels 
within the geological models.

Production guidance for 2024 is 36,000–
38,000 tonnes, and 2024 unit cost guidance 
is c.600 c/lb.

Capital expenditure increased by 15% to 
$91 million (2022: $79 million), mainly driven 
by higher deferred stripping costs capitalised.

Within special items and remeasurements, 
total impairments of $779 million (before 
tax) were recognised at Barro Alto in 2023 
following revisions to the pricing outlook and 
the long term cost profile of the asset.

Markets

Average market price 
($/lb)
Average realised price 
($/lb)

2023

2022

9.74

11.61

7.71

10.26

Differences between the market price (which 
is LME-based) and our realised price (the 
ferronickel price) are due to the discounts 
to the LME price, which depend on market 
conditions, supplier products and consumer 
preferences. 

The average LME nickel price of $9.74/lb  
was 16% lower than prior year (2022: 
$11.61/lb), mainly due to significant supply 
growth of refined nickel products in Indonesia 
and China, along with the impact of higher 
interest rates on consumer inventory levels, 
resulting in consumer destocking and 
widening market discounts for ferronickel. 

Strategic Report Integrated Annual Report 2023Anglo American plc 
104

Anglo American plc
Integrated Annual Report 2023

Strategic Report 

Platinum Group 
Metals (PGMs)

Our PGMs business (held through an effective 
79.2% interest in Anglo American Platinum Limited) 
is a leading producer of PGMs, essential metals 
for cleaning vehicle exhaust emissions and as the 
catalyst in electric fuel cell technology. 

Management team

Themba Mkhwanazi 
Regional Director, Africa 
and Australia

Craig Miller 
CEO, Platinum Group Metals

Great 
Dyke

Unki

Bushveld 
Complex

Mogalakwena

Amandelbult

Kroondal

Modikwa

Mototolo

South Africa and Zimbabwe

Key

PGM operations

PGMs

2023 summary

0
Fatalities

1.61
TRIFR

$1,209 m
Underlying EBITDA

30%
Mining EBITDA margin

3,806 koz
Production volume – 
PGMs 5E+gold(1)

Our business
We wholly own and operate three mining 
operations in South Africa’s Bushveld 
complex: Mogalakwena – the world’s 
largest open pit PGMs mine – Amandelbult 
and Mototolo. We also own and operate 
Unki mine – one of the world’s largest PGM 
deposits outside of South Africa, on the 
Great Dyke in Zimbabwe. We own smelting 
and refining operations, located in South 
Africa, which treat concentrates from our 

(1)  PGMs production is shown on a 5E+gold 
basis, i.e. platinum, palladium, rhodium, 
ruthenium and iridium plus gold.

Platinum Group Metals

105

there’s any situation where someone’s life 
could be at risk while undertaking their day-
to-day work. So, we examined how best 
to remove, or engineer out, risk and then 
we focused on making the right decisions 
more consistently through a combination 
of behaviour-based training, enhanced 
engineered controls, and embedding 
operational improvements.”

Groupwide collaboration on new safety 
technology
In our PGMs business’ underground 
mines, ‘barring’ (the removal of loose 
rock slabs from the hanging wall/roof 
and sidewalls) until recently has a been a 
critical safety issue. But PGMs, supported 
by Group Mining, is reducing the need for 
barring through installing ‘blast on mesh’, 
a high-tensile steel mesh that provides 
passive support and affords protection 
from rockfalls. A crucial extra benefit is 
that the mesh is designed to withstand 
the blasting process.

PGMs’ chief geotechnical engineer, Lizelle 
Prinsloo, observes: “Blast on mesh has 
proved to be so effective that we’re rolling 
it out on all PGMs’ underground mines. 
But it’s just one of the technologies we 
are using; ‘moving the dial’ often requires 
integrating a number of technologies. 
So, in conjunction with our colleagues in 
Group Mining, and also third parties, we 
are also developing innovative safety 
equipment such as an underground radar, 
no bigger than a mobile phone, that can 
detect rock movements and alert people 
at the working face to any danger, while 
also introducing new strata-displacement 
monitoring devices. Such technologies, 
working in combination, are setting new 
benchmarks in rockfall safety.”

The decline excavation to access underground ore at Mogalakwena, where the installation of high-tensile 
steel ‘blast on mesh’ (clearly visible on the stope wall) provides a vital extra layer of protection to 
development crews.

Preventing rockfalls underground

Advances in technology, improved 
operational practices and monitoring, 
and a positive shift in attitudes towards 
safety, are all helping to make mining safer. 
At Anglo American, over the past two 
decades, fatalities and serious injuries have 
steadily trended downwards.

But in spite of this progress, we are still not 
where we ultimately want to be – which is a 
work environment where it is impossible to 
get hurt. 

historically, rockfalls – mainly from the 
hanging wall/roof and sidewalls, but also 
from the stope face area – have been 
responsible for a high proportion of fatal 
and severe injuries.

Tackling rockfalls at Anglo American 
gained renewed traction in 2019, when 
our Group Mining team collaborated 
with several operating sites to instigate 
a Rockfall Fatality Elimination programme. 
Since then, fatalities from rockfalls have 
fallen sharply, and no one has died from 
a rockfall for three years running.

Mitigating the hazards of mining 
underground
Underground mining generally carries 
more risk than operations on surface and, 

Group Mining’s head of geotechnical, 
Lesley Munsamy, attributes much of this to 
a shift in mindset around safety culture: “It’s 
fundamentally about not accepting that 

Strategic Report Integrated Annual Report 2023Anglo American plc106

Anglo American plc
Integrated Annual Report 2023

Strategic Report 
Platinum Group Metals

wholly owned mines, joint operations 
and third parties. In 2023, we also had an 
interest in two jointly owned, non-managed 
PGM mines – Modikwa and Kroondal, both 
located in South Africa. We disposed of 
our 50% interest in Kroondal in November 
2023. Kroondal has now transitioned to a 
100% third-party purchase of concentrate 
arrangement, which is then expected to 
transition to a toll arrangement at the end of 
the first half of 2024.

Uses of PGMs
PGMs are used in an extensive range of 
applications. In the automotive industry, 
they are used in catalytic converters and in 
fuel cell electric vehicle (FCEV) technology. 
Platinum, palladium and rhodium enable 
catalytic converters to reduce pollutants from 
car exhaust gases. FCEVs provide a zero 
emissions powertrain technology, particularly 
well suited to heavy duty, long range and 
fleet vehicles. Demand for PGMs from the car 
industry is forecast to remain healthy, helped 
by the ongoing trend towards cleaner-
emission vehicles, driven by more stringent 
emissions legislation. While we recognise 
that increased demand for battery electric 
vehicles poses a downside risk to demand for 
the PGM-containing catalytic converters used 
in internal combustion engine vehicles, it is 
partly offset by hybrids, which require similar 
quantities of PGMs, and longer term, FCEVs.

With rising concerns about the environment 
and energy costs, there is also growing 
interest in platinum-based fuel cells as 
an alternative energy source. Fuel cell 
mini-grid electrification technology is an 
attractive, cost-competitive alternative to grid 
electrification in remote rural areas and could 
accelerate access to electricity.

Platinum is also widely used in jewellery 
owing to its purity, strength, resistance to 
fading and ability to hold precious stones 
securely.

Platinum, palladium and rhodium each have 
a wide range of other uses in the chemical, 
electrical, medical, glass and petroleum 
industries. PGMs enable efficient production 
of goods, ranging from glass to fertilisers, as 
well as a diverse range of other products, 
such as cancer-treatment drugs. Ruthenium 
is used as a catalyst in many chemical and 
electro-chemical processes, with properties 
that make it widely used in semiconductors 
and hard disks. Iridium is also widely used as 
a chemical and electro-chemical catalyst, 
for instance in chloralkali electrodes. Being 
highly corrosion-resistant, it is also used 
to make crucibles, in which crystals for the 
electronics industry are grown.

We are committed to developing demand for 
PGMs and invest both directly and through 
AP Ventures, an independent venture 
capital fund with a mandate to invest in 
the development of new applications for 
the full suite of PGMs. We are also a major 
participant in the Platinum Guild International, 
which plays a key role in supporting and 
growing platinum jewellery demand. 

Safety
In 2023, and for the second successive year, 
PGMs recorded zero fatalities at its own 
managed and joint venture operations and 
reached a record-low TRIFR of 1.61. This 
represents a year-on-year improvement 
of 31% and an improvement of 85% since 
2012. Mogalakwena, Mototolo and Unki 
mines have reported more than 11 years 
of fatality-free mining, with Amandelbult 
recording 9.6 million fatality-free shifts. PGMs 
continues to focus on working towards safe, 
stable and capable operations, as this as 
a critical foundation for safe production, as 
well as continuously improving its safety 
leadership and risk management practices.

Tragically, and in a non-work-related fatality 
in December 2023, Oupa Lazaros Mashego 

passed away when the bus he was driving 
while transporting employees from Mototolo 
mine was involved in a road traffic accident. 
The other employees on the bus were treated 
for minor injuries. 

Environmental performance
Total energy consumption increased by 
9% to 20.6 million GJ (2022: 18.9 million 
GJ) and GHG emissions increased by 5% 
to 4.3 Mt CO2e (2022: 4.1 Mt CO2e), driven 
by increased smelter production and 
higher than expected energy usage at our 
Mogalakwena and Amandelbult operations. 
Energy efficiency has improved by 9% over 
the 2016 baseline.

PGMs continues to invest in energy efficiency 
projects across all operations, while switching 
to low carbon energy sources and renewable 
energy to transition the energy mix. PGMs 
will benefit from the Group’s partnership with 
EDF Renewables (Envusa Energy) to develop 
a regional renewable energy ecosystem in 
southern Africa, including the large-scale 
solar photovoltaic and wind generation 
plants that are currently under development.

Total water withdrawals decreased by 11% 
to 37.5 million m3 (2022: 42.2 million m3) 
as PGMs continued to focus on operational 
improvements and water efficiency, re-use, 
and conservation opportunities. The delivery 
of specific water reduction projects in 2024 
and the implementation of new technologies 
that improve water reduction efforts, such as 
CPR and HDS, are expected to help PGMs 
meet its water withdrawal targets.

Financial performance
Underlying EBITDA decreased to $1,209 
million (2022: $4,417 million), primarily driven 
by a lower basket price, which resulted in 
lower POC margins and affected the cost of 
POC inventory. Additionally, own-mined unit 
costs increased by 3% to $968/PGM ounce 
(2022: $937/PGM ounce), due to lower 

production and higher inflation, partly offset 
by the weaker South African rand.

Capital expenditure increased by 9% to 
$1,108 million (2022: $1,017 million), as 
planned higher stay-in-business expenditure 
was partially offset by the weaker South 
African rand.

Average platinum 
market price ($/oz)
Average palladium 
market price ($/oz)
Average rhodium 
market price ($/oz)
US$ realised basket 
price ($/PGM oz)

2023

2022

965

961

1,336

2,111

6,611

15,465

1,657

2,551

Markets
Following record pricing in 2021–2022, 
a general easing of supply concerns that 
had arisen post Russia’s invasion of Ukraine 
and end-user destocking saw sharp falls in 
palladium and rhodium prices. This drove the 
average realised PGM basket price down 
by 35% in 2023 to $1,657 per PGM ounce 
(2022: $2,551 per PGM ounce). 

The average rhodium market price of 
$6,611 per ounce was 57% lower than in 
2022, impacted in the first half of the year 
by persistent selling of excess stock from the 
glass industry, which had shifted to a lower 
rhodium, higher platinum mix. Palladium 
declined 37%, averaging $1,336 per ounce, 
as robust Russian metal flows met automotive 
industry destocking. Platinum was broadly 
flat at $965 per ounce. The minor PGMs, 
iridium and ruthenium, continued to make 
historically large contributions to the basket 
price. By the end of the year, PGM pricing 
was firmly into the cost curve, and several 
producers responded by restructuring 
existing mines or mothballing future plans. 

2023 results

PGM production volume (koz)(1)(2)

PGM sales volume (koz)(2)(3)

Unit cost ($/PGM oz)(2)(4)

Group revenue – $m(2)

Underlying EBITDA – $m(2)

Mining EBITDA margin(5)

Processing and trading margin

Underlying EBIT – $m(2)

Capex – $m(2)

Attributable ROCE

Fatalities

TRIFR

Energy consumption – million GJ
GHG emissions – Mt CO2 equivalent
Total water withdrawals – million m3

Employee numbers(6)

Platinum Group Metals

2023

3,806

3,925

968

6,734

1,209

30%

(6%)

855

1,108

15%

0

1.61

20.6

4.3

37.5

2022

4,024

3,861

937

10,096

4,417

54%

24%

4,052

1,017

86%

0

2.34

18.9

4.1

42.2

27,000

26,500

(1)  Production reflects own-mined production and purchase of metal in concentrate. PGM volumes consist of 5E metals 

and gold.

(2)  Results by asset can be found in the Summary by operation on pages 307–308.
(3)  Sales volumes exclude tolling and third-party trading activities. PGMs is 5E metals and gold.
(4)  Total cash operating costs (includes on-mine, smelting and refining costs only) per own mined PGM ounce of 

production.

(5)  The total PGMs mining EBITDA margin excludes the impact of the sale of refined metal purchased from third parties, 

purchase of concentrate and tolling.

(6)  Employee numbers for 2022 have been restated to exclude contractors.

Operational performance
Total PGM production decreased by 5% 
to 3,806,100 ounces (2022: 4,024,000 
ounces), primarily due to lower production 
from the Kroondal joint operation (now 
sold), planned infrastructure closures 
at Amandelbult and lower grades at 
Mogalakwena, partially offset by higher 
production from Unki.

Own-mined production
PGM production from own-managed mines 
(Mogalakwena, Amandelbult, Unki and 
Mototolo) and equity share of joint operations 
decreased by 7% to 2,460,200 ounces 
(2022: 2,649,200 ounces).

Amandelbult production decreased by 11% 
to 634,200 ounces (2022: 712,500 ounces) 
due to planned infrastructure closures and 
poor ground conditions at Dishaba.

Mogalakwena production decreased by 
5% to 973,500 ounces (2022: 1,026,200 
ounces), largely as a result of lower grades, 
and lower throughput from unplanned 
maintenance, despite moving into a higher 
grade, lower waste area towards the end of 
the year.

Production from other operations decreased 
by 6% to 852,500 ounces (2022: 910,500 
ounces), mainly due to lower production from 
Kroondal, reflecting both a planned ramp-
down of the operation and the disposal 
of our 50% interest, effective 1 November 
2023; Kroondal has now transitioned to a 
100% third-party purchase of concentrate 
arrangement. This arrangement is then 
expected to transition to a toll arrangement 
at the end of the first half in 2024.

Purchase of concentrate
Purchase of concentrate decreased by 
2% to 1,345,900 ounces (2022: 1,374,800 
ounces), primarily due to lower production 
from Kroondal in light of the planned ramp-
down of the operation.

Refined production and sales volumes
Refined PGM production (excluding 
toll-treated metal) was broadly 
unchanged at 3,800,600 ounces 
(2022: 3,831,100 ounces).

PGM sales volumes increased marginally to 
3,925,300 ounces (2022: 3,861,300 ounces) 
as inventory was drawn down to mitigate the 
lower production.

Operational outlook
PGM prices remain at low levels and the 
prevailing macro-economic conditions 
and uncertainty have prompted the difficult 
but necessary action to reconfigure our 
PGM business to ensure the long term 
sustainability and competitive position of 
our operations.

107

There is an intentional strategy at the 
concentrators to produce higher grade 
concentrate which results in the same PGM 
content, but from lower concentrate volume. 
This reduces required primary furnace 
capacity and allows us to place the Mortimer 
smelter on care and maintenance – reducing 
both operating and capital expenditure 
while enhancing overall processing 
competitiveness.

Overall, sustainable cost reduction 
initiatives will deliver annual cost savings 
of c.$0.3 billion from a 2023 baseline, and 
in 2024, the business is targeting an all-in-
sustaining cost of c.$1,050/3E oz.

Furthermore, in line with lower capital 
expenditure and near term asset 
optimisation, work on the option for the 
third concentrator at Mogalakwena will 
not be progressing, nor will the expansion 
opportunities at both Amandelbult and 
Mototolo.

These extensive measures will improve the 
positioning of our world-class PGM assets for 
the long term, securing the highly attractive 
value proposition of Mogalakwena.

PGM metal in concentrate production 
guidance for 2024 is 3.3–3.7 million ounces, 
with own-mined output of 2.1–2.3 million 
ounces and purchase of concentrate of  
1.2–1.4 million ounces. Refined PGM 
production guidance for 2024 is 3.3–3.7 
million ounces. Refined production is usually 
lower in the first quarter than the rest of 
the year, due to the annual stock count 
and planned processing maintenance. 
Production remains subject to the impact 
of Eskom load-curtailment. Unit cost 
guidance for 2024 is c.$920/PGM ounce.

Strategic Report Integrated Annual Report 2023Anglo American plc 
108

Anglo American plc
Integrated Annual Report 2023

Strategic Report 

De Beers

Anglo American owns 85% of De Beers, a world 
leader in the diamond industry. The balance 
of 15% is owned by the Government of the 
Republic of Botswana. De Beers and its partners 
produce around one-third of the world’s rough 
diamonds, by value.

Management team

Al Cook 
CEO, De Beers

* See page 109 for footnotes.

Damtshaa(2)(3)

Letlhakane(2)

Orapa(2)

Jwaneng

Gahcho Kué

Debmarine Namibia

Namdeb

Venetia

Canada

Key

Diamond operations

Botswana and Namibia

South Africa

De Beers

2023 summary

0
Fatality

2.05
TRIFR(1)

$72 m
Underlying EBITDA

48%
Mining EBITDA margin

31,865
Production volume ('000 carats)

(1)  TRIFR relates to managed operations only.
(2)  All managed as one operation, the ‘Orapa Regime’.
(3)  Damtshaa was placed onto extended care and 

maintenance in 2021.

(4)  Refer to Anglo American plc Ore Reserves and Mineral 
Resources Report 2023 for additional information.

De Beers

Our business
De Beers sells the majority of its rough 
diamonds through 10 Sight sales each year 
to Sightholders, with the balance being 
sold via its Auctions business to registered 
buyers. De Beers markets and sells polished 
diamonds and diamond jewellery via its 
retail brands.

De Beers recovers diamonds from four 
countries: Botswana, Canada, Namibia and 
South Africa. 

In Botswana, via a 50:50 joint operation with 
the Government of the Republic of Botswana  
– known as Debswana – diamonds are 
recovered from two mines(3), including 
Jwaneng, one of the world’s richest diamond 
mines by value. This mine’s high grade ore 
contributes around 75% of Debswana’s 
revenue. The $2 billion (100% basis)  
Cut-9 expansion of Jwaneng extends the 
life of the mine to 2036 and is expected to 
deliver c. 9 million carats per annum (100% 
basis) of rough diamonds. De Beers and 
the Government of Botswana have signed 
Heads of Terms setting out the key terms 
for a new 10-year sales agreement for 
Debswana’s rough diamond production 
(through to 2034) and the new 25-year 
Debswana mining licences (through to 
2054). De Beers and the Government of 
Botswana are working together to progress 
and then implement the formal new sales 
agreement and related documents including 
the mining licences. In the interim, the terms 
of the most recent sales agreement remain 
in place. The new arrangements constitute 
a related party transaction under the UK 
Listing Rules, given that both Anglo American 
and the Government of Botswana are 
shareholders in De Beers, and therefore will 
be subject to approval by Anglo American’s 
shareholders in due course.

Underwater kelp forests help to sustain a wealth 
of biodiversity and marine species, and are vital 
to society through supporting fisheries, nutrient 
cycling, and carbon and nitrogen removal.

Investing in a nature-based 
solution to mitigate climate change

To meet the needs of a growing and more 
environmentally aware global population, 
countries and businesses alike are 
seeking innovative ways to harness the 
power of nature to address hard-to-abate 
emissions and sequester carbon.

Kelp – an abundant, and relatively 
untapped, renewable natural resource
Research has shown that kelp can 
sequester carbon significantly faster than 
terrestrial woodland. Marine forests act as 
an extremely efficient carbon sink, with the 
potential to permanently lock away vast 
amounts of CO2 in the ocean, as well as 
supporting a healthy marine environment 
and boosting biodiversity. 

As part of our climate action strategy, our 
De Beers business is supporting Kelp Blue, 
an innovative start-up focused on growing 
and managing large scale kelp forests. 
As a first step, De Beers has invested 
$2 million in a pilot project off the coast of 
Namibia, in the Atlantic ocean. 

109

As part of its work with Kelp Blue, 
De Beers is supporting the development 
of a scientific methodology to measure 
the amount of carbon that is being 
sequestered. This will accelerate research 
and understanding of kelp’s decarbonising 
potential, and assist the development of 
this pioneering nature-based solution. 
Kelp forests also boost healthy marine 
ecosystems by providing food and shelter 
for many species and assist them to 
survive growing ocean acidification. The 
forests can be sustainably and repeatedly 
harvested for at least seven years, with the 
harvested kelp being used in agricultural 
fertilisers, as well as in a wide range of 
everyday household products. 

Benefiting the environment – and the 
local community
Another priority of De Beers’ sustainability 
framework is to partner with host 
communities to nurture talent, support 
economic diversification and deliver 
enduring benefits. Kelp Blue provides 
an opportunity to support the green 
economy and build skills for the future. 
The investment in Kelp Blue will not 
only lead to a significant increase in the 
amount of CO2 sequestered from the 
atmosphere, it will also bring potential 
benefits, in terms of job creation and 
upskilling opportunities, to Namibia. 

Strategic Report Integrated Annual Report 2023Anglo American plc110

Anglo American plc
Integrated Annual Report 2023

Strategic Report 
De Beers

In Namibia, De Beers operates via a 
50:50 joint operation with the Namibian 
government, recovering both land-based 
diamonds (Namdeb) and offshore diamonds 
(Debmarine Namibia). Namibia has the 
richest known marine diamond deposits 
in the world, with Diamond Resources 
estimated at approximately 82 million carats 
(100% basis)(4) in approximately 1.0 million 
k (m2) of seabed. Marine diamond deposits 
represent around 78% of the partnership’s 
total diamond production and 94% of its 
Diamond Resources. 

Venetia is South Africa’s leading diamond 
mine. Open pit mining was completed, as 
scheduled, in 2022 and first production from 
the underground operation was delivered 
in June 2023. The $2.3 billion Venetia 
Underground project will continue to ramp 
up over the next few years and is expected to 
extend the life of the mine to 2045 and yield 
an estimated 80 million carats(4).

In Canada, De Beers has a 51% interest in, 
and is the operator of, Gahcho Kué open pit 
mine in the Northwest Territories. It began 
commercial production in 2017 and has 
an eight-year remaining life, producing an 
average of 5 million carats a year, yielding 
an estimated total of 35 million carats 
(100% basis)(4).

De Beers also develops industrial 
supermaterials through Element Six, which 
includes the production of laboratory grown 
diamonds for Lightbox Jewelry. 

Safety
De Beers recorded zero work-related loss of 
life in 2023. The TRIFR decreased by 6% to 
2.05 (2022: 2.19). 

The implementation of De Beers’ ‘Pioneering 
Brilliant Safety’ framework is currently 
under way, with Gahcho Kué mine and the 
midstream operations completing their 
assessments in the year. This framework has 
identified five focus areas, including:

–  Contractor performance management: 

Ensuring appropriate oversight of 
contractors and efficient and effective 
onboarding, as well as exhibiting Visible 
Felt Leadership in the field

–  Human factors: Fostering trust and 

psychological safety through engaging 
employees and promoting effective 
leadership

–  Design for safety: Incorporating safety 

features into plant and equipment during 
the design phase

–  Technology for safety: Enhancing 

safety through implementing advanced 
technologies

–  Emergency management: Developing 
world class emergency management 
and response practices through strategic 
partnerships.

Environmental performance
Energy use decreased by 7% to 3.8 million 
GJ (2022: 4.2 million GJ), while GHG 
emissions were 6% lower than the prior 
year at 0.4 Mt CO2e, reflecting the lower 
production. In 2023, De Beers furthered 
its climate ambitions by setting near term 
(i.e. 2030) emission reduction targets for 
Scope 1, 2 and 3 GHG emissions, aligned 
with Science Based Targets initiative (SBTi) 
criteria. The SBTi formally validated these 
targets in March 2023. 

In collaboration with Envusa Energy – the 
renewable energy partnership formed 
between Anglo American and EDF 
Renewables in 2022 – good progress 
was made in the development of solar 
and wind energy in southern Africa. The 
electrification of Venetia mine, as it transitions 
to underground operations, progressed well; 
however, the positive impact on the mine’s 
carbon footprint will only be felt when the 
Envusa Energy renewable energy projects 
come online. 

De Beers made significant progress 
in implementing its Integrated Water 
Management Plan, which aims to achieve 
a 50% reduction in fresh water withdrawals 
in water scarce areas by 2030. Detailed 
site-specific pathways have been developed 
based on water balance modelling 
from operations in such areas, boosting 
confidence that De Beers will meet its target 
reduction by 2030. 

Financial performance
Due to the downturn in industry conditions 
from 2022 to 2023, total revenue decreased 
to $4.3 billion (2022: $6.6 billion), with rough 
diamond sales decreasing to $3.6 billion 
(2022: $6.0 billion). Total rough diamond 
sales volumes decreased by 19% to 24.7 
million carats (2022: 30.4 million carats). The 
average realised price decreased by 25% to 
$147/ct (2022: $197/ct), reflecting a larger 
proportion of lower value rough diamonds 
being sold, as well as a 6% decrease in the 
average rough price index. 

Underlying EBITDA decreased to $72 million 
(2022: $1,417 million) as a result of 
significantly lower sales volumes, coupled 
with a lower average realised price 
(impacted by both the mix of products sold 
and a lower average rough price index) 
which negatively impacted margins in the 
trading business. The current year results 
incorporate an inventory write-down of 
$0.2 billion on rough stock. The increase 
in unit cost to $71/ct (2022: $59/ct) was 
primarily driven by lower production volumes 
from Venetia as the underground operations 
ramp up.

Capital expenditure increased by 5% to 
$623 million (2022: $593 million), due to the 
ramp-up of the Venetia underground project 
as well as the continued execution of other 
life-extension projects, including Jwaneng 
Cut-9.

An impairment of $1.6 billion (before tax 
and non-controlling interests) to the carrying 
value of De Beers has been recognised within 
special items and remeasurements, reflecting 
the near term adverse macro-economic 
outlook and industry-specific challenges. 
Please refer to note 8 in the Consolidated 
financial statements for further details.

De Beers Jewellers delivered a stable sales 
performance given the global macro-
economic headwinds and challenging 
Chinese sector.

De Beers

2023 results

Production volume (’00 cts)(1)

Sales volume (’00 cts)(1)(2)

Price ($/ct)(1)(3)(4)

Unit cost ($/ct)(1)(4)(5)

Revenue – $m(1)(6)

Underlying EBITDA – $m(1)(4)

Mining EBITDA margin(1)(7)

Trading margin

Underlying EBIT – $m(1)(4)

Capex – $m(1)(4)

Attributable ROCE(1)

Fatalities(8)

TRIFR(8)

Energy consumption – million GJ(8)
GHG emissions – Mt CO2 equivalent(8)
Total water withdrawals – million m3(9)

Employee numbers(10)

2023

31,865

24,682

147

71

4,267

72

48%

(3%)

(252)

623

(3%)

0

2.05

3.8

0.4

7.3

2022

34,609

30,355

197

59

6,622

1,417

52%

10%

994

593

11%

1

2.19

4.2

0.5

7.2

10,900

10,500

(1)  Prepared on a consolidated accounting basis, except for production, which is stated on a 100% basis, except for the 

Gahcho Kué joint operation in Canada, which is on an attributable 51% basis.

(2)  Total sales volumes on a 100% basis were 27.4 million carats (2022: 33.7 million carats). Total sales volumes (100%) 
include De Beers Group’s joint arrangement partners’ 50% proportionate share of sales to entities outside De Beers 
Group from Diamond Trading Company Botswana and Namibia Diamond Trading Company.

(3)  Pricing for the mining business units is based on 100% selling value post-aggregation of goods. Realised price 

includes the price impact of the sale of non-equity product and, as a result, is not directly comparable to the unit cost. 

(4)  Results by country can be found in the Summary by operation on pages 307–308.
(5)  Unit cost is based on consolidated production and operating costs, excluding depreciation and operating special 

items, divided by carats recovered.
Includes rough diamond sales of $3.6 billion (2022: $6.0 billion).

(6) 

(7)  Total De Beers EBITDA margin shows mining EBITDA margin on an equity basis, which excludes the impact of 

non-mining activities, third-party sales, purchases, trading downstream and corporate.

(8)  Data is for De Beers’ managed operations.
(9)  Data is for De Beers’ managed operations and other managed entities.
(10)  Average number of employees, excluding contractors and associates' and joint ventures' employees, and including 

a share of employees within joint operations, based on shareholding.

111

Operational performance
Mining
Operational performance was strong in 
2023. The new Venetia underground project 
delivered first production in June and will 
ramp up over the next few years. 

Rough diamond production decreased to 
31.9 million carats (2022: 34.6 million carats), 
due to planned lower production levels 
at Venetia as the operation transitions to 
underground. 

In Botswana, production was broadly stable, 
with a 2% increase to 24.7 million carats 
(2022: 24.1 million carats), driven by the 
planned treatment of higher grade ore 
at Orapa.

Namibia production increased by 9% 
to 2.3 million carats (2022: 2.1 million 
carats), primarily driven by a full year of 
production from the Benguela Gem vessel 
(commissioned in March 2022) and the 
ongoing ramp-up and expansion of the 
mining area at the land operations.

South Africa production decreased by 
64% to 2.0 million carats (2022: 5.5 million 
carats), due to the planned completion of the 
Venetia open pit in December 2022. Venetia 
continues to process lower grade surface 
stockpiles, while the new underground 
project commenced operations in June, 
and will ramp up over the next few years as 
development continues.

Production in Canada was stable at 
2.8 million carats (2022: 2.8 million carats), 
with higher throughput offset by planned 
treatment of lower grade ore.

Markets
After strong demand in 2021 and 2022, 
global rough diamond demand fell 
significantly in 2023. With polished diamond 
inventories rising and increases in inflation 
and interest rates, jewellery retailers took 
a cautious approach to purchasing new 
stock. US consumer demand for natural 
diamonds was impacted by macro-
economic challenges as well as rising supply 
of lab-grown diamonds – however, while 
sales of lab-grown diamonds to consumers 
increased, wholesale lab-grown prices 
continued to fall sharply, supporting further 
differentiation from natural diamonds. In 
China, economic challenges led to low 
consumer confidence, which led to marginal 
consumer demand contraction off the 
subdued levels seen in 2022. In contrast, 
consumer confidence and demand growth in 
India were robust in 2023, especially towards 
the end of the year.

The retail slowdown led to already inflated 
midstream polished diamond inventories 
increasing over the course of the year, 
resulting in downward pressure on polished 
diamond wholesale prices. In response, the 
midstream industry in India implemented 
a voluntary moratorium on rough diamond 
imports into the country between 15 October 
and 15 December. De Beers supported its 
Sightholders by offering full flexibility for rough 
diamond allocations for Sight 9 and Sight 10 
as the midstream sought to re-establish 
equilibrium. This resulted in very low rough 
diamond sales in the fourth quarter. 

Overall, during the fourth quarter, industry 
conditions began to stabilise. Retail 
demand improved over the end of year 
holiday season, especially in the United 
States, helping to ease midstream inventory 
pressure. However, with ongoing macro-
economic uncertainty, it is anticipated that 
recovery in rough diamond demand will 
be gradual. 

Strategic Report Integrated Annual Report 2023Anglo American plc 
112

Anglo American plc
Integrated Annual Report 2023

Strategic Report 
De Beers

Operational outlook
Venetia is processing lower grade surface 
stockpiles while the operation transitions 
to underground. This will continue as the 
underground production slowly ramps up 
following the first production blast in mid-
2023. It is expected to ramp up to steady-
state levels of c.4 million carats per annum 
(Mctpa) production over the next few years.

Near term unit cost will be impacted by a low 
carat profile from Venetia as the underground 
project ramps up and is subsequently 
expected to reach a steady-state of c.$75/ct 
from 2026.

Production guidance for 2024 is 29–32 
million carats (100% basis) and 2024 unit 
cost guidance is c.$80/ct. However, De Beers 
will assess options to reduce production in 
response to prevailing market conditions.

Outlook
Market outlook
Industry conditions are expected to remain 
challenging in the short term, but the long 
term outlook is favourable. Midstream and 
retail demand stabilised towards the end 
of 2023, but inventories of rough diamonds 
reportedly grew at producers globally. Over 
the course of 2024, assuming a measured 
approach from producers to the release 
of upstream inventory, the high midstream 
inventory levels seen in 2023 are expected 
to decline as retailers replenish their stocks. 

Limited consumer demand growth and 
ongoing retailer caution are anticipated 
ahead of an expected return to growth 
into 2025.

The ongoing focus on diamond provenance 
– especially given the expected introduction 
of Russian diamond import restrictions by 
G7 nations – has the potential to reinforce 
demand for De Beers’ rough diamonds, 
supported by the blockchain Tracr™ platform. 
The global supply of rough diamonds is 
anticipated to continue to decline owing to 
the maturity of major mines and limited new 
discoveries.

The wholesale prices of lab-grown diamonds 
are falling sharply, leading to financial 
challenges at some leading lab-grown 
diamond producers. These price declines 
are expected to lead to further substantial 
reductions in retail prices (with De Beers’ 
Lightbox brand testing significantly lower 
prices for its products). This will further 
reinforce consumers’ understanding of the 
fundamental differences between lab-grown 
and natural diamond jewellery.

Venetia, South Africa’s premier diamond mine, is transitioning from open pit to underground mining. 
Clearly visible in front of the drill rig is the high-tensile steel mesh that is applied, ahead of drilling, on 
stope roofs and walls to protect operators in the development area.

Anglo American plc
Integrated Annual Report 2023

Iron Ore

Strategic Report 

113

Anglo American’s iron ore operations provide 
customers with high grade iron ore products 
which help our steel customers meet ever-tighter 
emissions standards. In South Africa, we have a 
69.7% shareholding in Kumba Iron Ore. In Brazil 
we own the integrated Minas-Rio operation.

Management team

Ruben Fernandes 
Regional Director, Americas

Themba Mkhwanazi 
Regional Director, Africa 
and Australia

Minas-Rio

Ferroport Açu port (50% ownership)

Kolomela

Sishen

Wilfred Bruijn 
CEO, Anglo American, Brazil 
(until December 2023)

Mpumi Zikalala 
CEO, Kumba Iron Ore

Brazil

South Africa

Ana Sanches 
CEO, Anglo American, Brazil 
(from December 2023)

Key

Iron Ore operations

Other

114

Anglo American plc
Integrated Annual Report 2023

Strategic Report 
Iron Ore

Kumba Iron Ore

2023 summary

1
Fatality

0.98
TRIFR

$2,415 m
Underlying EBITDA

52%
Mining EBITDA margin

35.7 Mt
Production volume

One of the stormwater channels that has been constructed at Sishen to divert excess water away from 
the mine site.

Climate change: building resilience 
at our operations

We expect climate change to have 
numerous implications for our business, 
including the physical and social risks and 
impacts caused by ever-more frequent 
extreme-weather events, such as flooding 
and prolonged drought conditions.

Most of our operations are in regions 
that habitually experience severe water 
constraints – such as Chile and Peru; 
southern Africa; and Australia. Yet 
operations in these regions can also 
experience excessive precipitation events; 
in recent years, our Steelmaking Coal 
business in Australia and Kumba Iron Ore 
in South Africa have been exposed to 
serious flooding.

That is why we have been working for over 
10 years to ensure that our operations 
have the best available models to 

understand, assess, mitigate and adapt to 
the physical risks of climate change. We 
draw on international expertise and latest 
science to understand future climate 
projections and the vulnerability of our 
operations. 

To assess these potential impacts and 
to develop short, mid, and long term 
adaptation actions, we have developed 
climate and weather projections as part 
of our physical climate change risk and 
resilience approach. A key aspect of 
our modelling, which now incorporates 
a probable maximum precipitation 
metric, is that we are gaining a better 
understanding of how the projected 
climate changes may impact water 
management in the future. 

Our initial data projections indicated 
significant variability across our Group 
and, as a result, each site will have its own 
tailored approach to climate change-

related water management. For example, 
despite being in a water-scarce area, 
Kumba’s operations are water positive, 
requiring active dewatering to maintain 
safe and effective mining operations. This 
water surplus means we were able to 
supply 18,075 megalitres (ML) of water to 
local communities. 

At Kumba, any significant increase in 
rainfall could lead to production delays, 
land erosion on and off site, as well as 
flooding and washouts along rail lines 
and port-loading facilities. The Sishen 
site, which is prone to extreme rainfall 
events, is in the process of implementing 
a comprehensive adaptive water 
management plan, including investment 
in stormwater infrastructure. Sishen has 
also enhanced its Rainfall Readiness 
Plan, focusing on limiting production 
impacts arising from flooding. Currently, 
a key constraint is not having sufficient 
storage on site to capture and contain all 
stormwater, so we are investigating the 
feasibility of using a decommissioned 
pit as a water-storage facility, which 
would enable Sishen to be a zero water 
discharge site and unlock other beneficial 
use opportunities for the water captured 
on site. 

Next steps 
The pathway we are on is based on 
global efforts to mitigate climate change. 
As such, it is continually evolving and 
needing regular updates to make sure 
current projections are still valid. We also 
recognise that further analysis is required 
to understand the potential impacts of 
climate change outside of the mine fence, 
as access to water will be an ongoing 
issue for host communities and countries. 

2023 results – Kumba Iron Ore(1)

Production volume (Mt)(2)

Sales volume (Mt)(2)

Unit cost ($/t)(3)

Group revenue – $m

Underlying EBITDA – $m

Mining EBITDA margin

Underlying EBIT – $m

Capex – $m

Attributable ROCE

Fatalities

TRIFR

Energy consumption – million GJ
GHG emissions – Mt CO2 equivalent
Total water withdrawals – million m3

Employee numbers

115

2022

37.7

36.7

40

4,580

2,211

48%

1,894

674

66%

0

1.55

9.0

1.0

11.4

6,700

2023

35.7

37.2

41

4,680

2,415

52%

2,136

538

71%

1

0.98

8.9

1.0

9.9

6,700

(1)  Sales volumes, stock and realised price could differ to Kumba’s stand-alone reported results due to sales to other 

Group companies.

(2)  Production and sales volumes are reported as wet metric tonnes. Product is shipped with c.1.6% moisture from 

Kumba. 

(3)  Unit costs are reported on an FOB wet basis. 

Iron Ore

develop psychologically safe workspaces 
where colleagues feel empowered to speak 
up when they see unsafe work practices. 

Environmental performance
In 2023, Kumba’s GHG emissions 
were in line with the prior year at 1.0 Mt 
CO2e (2022: 1.0 Mt CO2e), with energy 
consumption decreasing marginally to 
8.9 million GJ (2022: 9.0 million GJ). Despite 
a 5% decrease in production, energy 
consumption decreased to a lesser extent 
owing to changing mining conditions, mainly 
as a result of mining deeper pits and, as a 
consequence, longer haul distances.

Total water withdrawals decreased by 13% 
to 9.9 million m3, with Sishen being the main 
contributor. We anticipate Sishen’s water 
consumption to increase until 2025 when 
dewatering will stabilise, offering the potential 
to unlock further opportunities to provide 
water to communities. 

Financial performance
Underlying EBITDA increased by 9% to 
$2,415 million (2022: $2,211 million), driven 
by the higher average realised price as well 
as slightly higher sales volumes. Unit costs 
increased by 3% to $41/tonne (2022:  
$40/tonne) due to lower production volumes 
and high cost inflation, partly offset by a 
weaker South African rand.

Capital expenditure decreased by 20% to 
$538 million (2022: $674 million), mainly 
as a result of lower deferred stripping 
capitalisation due to lower waste volumes at 
Kolomela and a weaker South African rand.

Our business
Kumba operates two open pit mines – 
Sishen and Kolomela – both located in the 
Northern Cape of South Africa, producing 
high grade (63–65% average Fe content) 
and high quality lump ore and a fine ore. 
Around 65% of Kumba’s production is 
lump, which commands a premium price, 
owing to its excellent physical strength and 
high iron content, as well as its suitability for 
lower carbon, direct reduction steelmaking. 
Kumba is serviced by an 861 km rail line to 
the Atlantic coast at Saldanha Bay, managed 
by Transnet, the third-party rail and port 
operator.

Our Marketing teams work closely with our 
customers to blend and match our products 
with their needs – before shipment from 
Saldanha Bay to China, Japan, Europe, 
the Middle East and the Americas.

Safety
After being fatality-free for more than six 
years, Kumba, regrettably, recorded a fatal 
incident, when Nico Molwagae, a contractor, 
was fatally injured in a drilling incident at 
Kolomela mine. Several safety improvement 
initiatives were implemented to strengthen 
Kumba’s safety culture and performance, 
including greater supervisory oversight and 
improved equipment design. Sishen has 
completed seven years of production without 
a fatality. 

Kumba continuously drives for zero harm 
and the elimination of fatalities, which is 
reflected in the improvement on most lagging 
indicators, as well as the Leadership Time in 
Field leading indicator. As a result, Kumba’s 
TRIFR decreased by 37% to 0.98 (2022: 
1.55). Kumba is reinvigorating its focus on 
safety through the simplification of critical 
controls and by embedding the Friendly 
Safety Care Practice, launched to help 

Strategic Report Integrated Annual Report 2023Anglo American plc 
116

Anglo American plc
Integrated Annual Report 2023

Strategic Report 
Iron Ore

Operational outlook
Kumba is committed in its support of key 
measures being undertaken by the National 
Logistics Crisis Committee to improve the 
logistics network. However, following an 
extended period of under-performance by 
the third-party logistics provider, Transnet, 
and the amount of work required to turn 
the situation around, the logistics network 
is expected to remain constrained over the 
near term. The decision has been made to 
reduce production to align with this reduced 
rail capacity and ensure a balanced value 
chain. Production is therefore expected to 
remain at 35–37 Mtpa for the period 2024 to 
2026. Unit costs are expected to be between 
$38–40/tonne during this three-year 
period, benefiting from Kumba’s business 
reconfiguration and cost optimisation 
programme, in line with the lower production 
profile.

Production guidance for 2024 is 35–37 Mt, 
subject to third-party rail and port 
performance, and 2024 unit cost guidance 
is c.$38/tonne.

Markets

Average market price
(Platts 62% Fe CFR 
China – $/tonne)
Average realised price 
(Kumba export – $/
tonne) (FOB wet basis)

2023

2022

120

120

117

113

Kumba’s FOB realised price of $117/wet 
metric tonne (wmt) was 15% higher than 
the equivalent Platts 62% Fe FOB Saldanha 
market price (adjusted for moisture) of  
$102/wmt. This was driven by premiums for 
higher iron content (at 63.7%) and relatively 
high proportion of lump sold (approximately 
66%) alongside provisional pricing benefits. 

Operational performance
Production decreased by 5% to 35.7 Mt 
(2022: 37.7 Mt), driven by a 6% decrease 
at Sishen to 25.4 Mt (2022: 27.0 Mt) and 
a 4% decrease at Kolomela to 10.3 Mt 
(2022: 10.7 Mt). The under-performance 
by the third-party logistics provider, Transnet, 
resulted in production in the fourth quarter 
being reduced to align to lower rail capacity 
and alleviate mine stockpile constraints. 
Sales volumes were 37.2 Mt, slightly higher 
than the prior year (2022: 36.7 Mt), driven 
by improved performance at Saldanha Bay 
port, despite the low levels of finished stock 
at the port.

As a result of actively managing inventory, 
total finished stock decreased to 7.1 Mt(1) 
(2022: 7.8 Mt(1)), with stock at the mines 
decreasing to 6.5 Mt(1), which remains 
above desired levels. However, due to rail 
under-performance, stock at the port is 
very low, having decreased to 0.6 Mt(1)  
(2022: 0.8 Mt(1)).

(1) Production and sales volumes, stock and realised price 
are reported on a wet basis and could differ to Kumba's 
stand-alone results due to sales to other Group 
companies.

At Kolomela, this bucket wheel excavator and stacker reclaimer work in combination 24/7 to reclaim 
iron ore and then stack it in bulk quantities.

Minas-Rio

2023 summary

0
Fatalities

1.32
TRIFR

$1,598 m
Underlying EBITDA

48%
Mining EBITDA margin

24.2 Mt
Production volume (wet basis)

Iron Ore

Our business
Our integrated iron ore operation in Brazil, 
Minas-Rio, consists of an open pit mine and 
beneficiation plant, which produces a high 
grade (c.67% Fe) pellet feed product, with 
low levels of contaminants. The iron ore is 
then transported through a 529 km pipeline 
to the iron ore handling and shipping facilities 
at the port of Açu.

Safety
Minas-Rio has not had a fatal incident since 
2015. In 2023, the TRIFR decreased by 18% 
to 1.32 (2022: 1.60). 

Efforts during the year focused on improving 
operational planning and encouraging 
leaders to spend more time in the field, 
supporting the workforce by creating a 
psychologically safe work environment 
where employees and contractors alike 
feel empowered to speak up when they 
encounter activities that they feel are unsafe. 
Contractors have been included in Anglo 
American Brazil’s Safety Culture Programme; 
Minas-Rio is also implementing the Group’s 
Contractor Performance Management 
framework, designed to improve contractor 
performance management, with a focus on 
the delivery of improved risk-based planning 
and safe work execution.

117

What rehabilitation involves
The Santo Antônio river project is 
emblematic of our Sustainable Mining 
Plan‘s many innovative water-stewardship 
initiatives. The multi-year project that 
commenced in 2021 is aimed at 
regenerating 23 degraded springs at 
the source of the Santo Antônio, a major 
tributary of the Doce river. By the end of 
2023, an important milestone had been 
reached with the completion of the initial 
‘Techniques for Ecosystem Recovery’ 
phase.

Working with the Instituto Espinhaço, and 
supported by rural landowners, the project 
has involved unclogging water courses, 
installing protective fencing, removing 
invasive trees and plant species, planting 
native saplings, and monitoring the 
vegetation of the area. 

The project also includes developing a 
network of local leaders and providing 
training in environmental education 
to encourage people to get involved 
in looking after the environment. 
Environmental engineer, Luiz Gustavo Dias, 
explains: “The regeneration of these areas 
aims to reinforce provision of ecosystem 
services that benefit the whole of society 
by increasing water availability and 
improving water quality.”

Environmental manager, Tiago Alves, 
adds: “This project highlights the 
importance of partnerships between the 
private sector, non-profit organisations 
and other organisations involved in the 
journey of mining towards sustainability. 
The recognition from UNESCO shows 
that we are heading in the right direction 
to achieve an increasingly healthy 
environment.”

After a series of interventions to unclog water 
sources and remove invasive trees and plants, 
water flows freely again in this stream that forms 
part of the Santo Antônio river catchment area. 
(Photo credit: Agroflor.)

Regenerating a precious water 
resource

An important focus of Anglo American’s 
Sustainable Mining Plan is to be 
recognised as an industry leader in 
biodiversity. We are putting that into 
practice with a river-generation project 
near to Minas-Rio which is located in 
Brazil’s Minas Gerais state, a region noted 
for its biodiversity hotspots and one of the 
country’s priority conservation areas. 

Recognition by UNESCO
The United Nations Organisation for 
Education, Science and Culture (UNESCO) 
has recognised Anglo American for its 
water catchment regeneration project 
on the Santo Antônio river in Minas 
Gerais’ Conceição do Mato Dentro 
municipality. This recognition means that 
this initiative, developed in collaboration 
with Instituto Espinhaço – a non-profit 
NGO that operates throughout Brazil, 
focusing on biodiversity, culture and 
social development – is now listed as an 
hydroecology project that is available for 
study and benchmarking by UNESCO 
partners the world over.

Strategic Report Integrated Annual Report 2023Anglo American plc118

Anglo American plc
Integrated Annual Report 2023

Strategic Report 
Iron Ore

2023 results – Minas-Rio

Production volume (Mt)(1)

Sales volume (Mt)

Unit cost ($/t)

Group revenue – $m

Underlying EBITDA – $m

Mining EBITDA margin

Underlying EBIT – $m

Capex – $m

Attributable ROCE

Fatalities

TRIFR

Energy consumption – million GJ
GHG emissions – Mt CO2 equivalent
Total water withdrawals – million m3

Employee numbers

(1)  Production is Mt (wet basis). Product is shipped with c.9% moisture.

2023

24.2

24.3

33

3,320

1,598

48%

1,413

371

24%

0

1.32

5.4

0.2

27.5

2,600

2022

21.6

21.3

35

2,954

1,244

41%

1,068

160

18%

0

1.60

5.1

0.2

41.4

2,600

Environmental performance
Energy consumption at Minas-Rio increased 
by 5% to 5.4 million GJ (2022: 5.1 million GJ), 
while Scope 1 GHG emissions were in line 
with the prior year at 0.2 Mt CO2e (2022: 0.2 
Mt CO2e). Minas-Rio has no Scope 2 GHG 
emissions, as all power for the operation 
comes from renewable sources.

Minas-Rio acquired new areas of natural 
habitat as part of its strategy to create an 
ecological corridor around the operation, 
further reinforcing our commitment to 
sustainable practices and ecological 
connectivity in the region. To date, the 
business manages more than 22,000 
hectares of native vegetation, divided into 
multiple protected areas.

Financial performance
Underlying EBITDA increased by 28% 
to $1,598 million (2022: $1,244 million), 
reflecting higher sales volumes and a higher 
realised price, as well as lower unit costs. 
Unit costs decreased by 6% to $33/tonne 
(2022: $35/tonne), primarily reflecting higher 
production volumes, partially offset by the 
stronger Brazilian real.

Capital expenditure was 132% higher at 
$371 million (2022: $160 million), mainly as 
construction is under way for a new tailings 
filtration plant that will reduce the deposition 
rate on the tailings facility and extend its life. 
In addition, there was higher spend on projects 
to improve recoveries in the flotation circuit.

Markets

Average market price 
(MB 65% Fe Fines CFR 
– $/tonne)
Average realised price
(Minas-Rio – $/tonne) 
(FOB wet basis)

2023

2022

132

139

110

108

Minas-Rio’s pellet feed product is higher 
grade (with iron content of 67% and lower 
impurities) so the MB 65 Fines index is used 
when referring to the Minas-Rio product 
since the cessation of the MB 66 index. The 
Minas-Rio realised price of $110/wmt was 
11% higher than the equivalent MB 65 FOB 
Brazil index (adjusted for moisture) of  
$99/wmt, reflecting the premium for our 
high-quality product as well as provisional 
pricing benefits.

Operational performance
Production increased by 12% to 24.2 Mt 
(2022: 21.6 Mt), the best performance since 
the start of Minas-Rio operations in 2014, 
reflecting an integrated focus on stable and 
capable operating performance across the 
operation. The strong mining performance 

was underpinned by improved mine access 
and equipment availability, which led to 
higher mine movement and enabled an 
improved performance at the plant due to 
the quality of ore feed, as well as increased 
crushing circuit availability.

Operational outlook
Following the record quarterly production 
in the fourth quarter of 2023, focus is on 
embedding consistent, stable and strong 
operating performance, while increasing the 
maturity of capital projects to sustain and 
grow production volumes. Beyond the three-
year guidance period, production growth will 
be supported by projects to debottleneck 
the plant and increase recoveries and 
throughput. Optionality is also being 
evaluated to maximise long term value in light 
of the agreement to acquire and integrate the 
contiguous Serra da Serpentina high grade 
iron ore resource. 

In parallel, Minas-Rio is focused on increasing 
tailings storage capacity. The tailings filtration 
plant project is on track for completion 
by early 2026 and alternative, additional 
disposal options continue to be studied.

In mid-2025, Minas-Rio will undertake the 
next pipeline inspection of the 529 km 
pipeline that carries iron ore slurry from the 
plant to the port. Improvements were made 
to the inspection strategy that extended 
its duration to ensure the rigour of data 
collection while also incorporating some 
additional plant maintenance to coincide 
with the operational stoppage. Pipeline 
inspections take place every five years and 
are validated by external consultants and 
agreed with the Brazilian Environmental 
Authorities.

Production guidance for 2024 is 23–25 Mt 
and 2024 unit cost guidance is c.$35/tonne. 

 
Anglo American plc
Integrated Annual Report 2023

Strategic Report 

Steelmaking Coal

Our high quality steelmaking coal assets, located 
in Australia, produce premium quality hard coking 
coal for our customers in the steelmaking industry.

Steel is the world’s most important engineering 
and construction material. Over half of the world’s 
steel is consumed by the construction industry, 
which includes buildings and infrastructure, 
such as railways and roads. Steel is also used 
to manufacture vehicles, machinery, household 
appliances and many other items associated with 
everyday life.

Management team

Themba Mkhwanazi 
Regional Director, Africa 
and Australia

Daniel van der Westhuizen 
CEO, Anglo American, 
Australia

(1)  Non-managed, equity accounted associate.
(2)  Part of the Capcoal complex.

Key

Steelmaking Coal operations

Grosvenor

Moranbah North

Grasstree/Aquila(2)

Capcoal(2)

Dawson

Jellinbah(1)

119

1

Australia

120

Anglo American plc
Integrated Annual Report 2023

Strategic Report 
Steelmaking Coal

Steelmaking Coal

2023 summary

0
Fatalities

4.39
TRIFR

$1,320 m
Underlying EBITDA

32%
Mining EBITDA margin

16.0 Mt
Production volume

Kiri Sullivan (left) and Kiri Blanch from our Women of Steel mines rescue team.

Women of Steel: Queensland’s first 
all-female mines rescue team

At Anglo American, safety comes first in 
everything we do; we train, equip and 
empower our people to work safely every 
day. Mines rescue teams are a network 
of experienced teams at each of our 
operations that are on standby 24/7, 
primarily providing emergency response to 
the industry in case of incidents and mine 
emergencies. 

Equipped with the training and 
lifesaving skills to respond to challenging 

environments and hazards, our mines 
rescue teams help us maintain safety in our 
operations and protect our people.

Women of Steel
As the number of women in operational 
roles continues to grow in our workforce, 
a group of women at our Steelmaking 
Coal Capcoal Open Cut operation have 
come together to form Queensland's 
first all-female mines rescue competition 
team. The competitions will test the team’s 
capabilities and response in various 
scenarios to help build their confidence 
in handling real-life situations. 

Team captain, and emergency response 
team co-ordinator, Kiri Blanch, comments: 
“While women have been part of our 
mines rescue teams for some years, both 
on site and in competitions, an all-female 
competition team simply made sense. 
So, seven of us got together, a mixture of 
experienced mines rescue members and 
new recruits to train hard and achieve 
the best results possible. We became 
known as the ‘Women of Steel’, and it was 
wonderful to see how enthusiastically we 
were supported. For me, this is what living 
the company’s Values and diversity are 
all about.” 

Looking ahead
CEO of Steelmaking Coal, Daniel van der 
Westhuizen, observes: “It's a great source 
of pride that our Australian mines rescue 
teams have gained global recognition 
for their expertise. The creation of the first 
all-female rescue team in Queensland 
marks a significant milestone in our 
ongoing journey, and we are thrilled to 
have established a new precedent in the 
evolution of mines rescue.

“Our skilled mines rescue teams are a 
critical part of our continued commitment 
to the emergency capabilities of the 
Queensland coal mining industry. I hope 
that more people will be inspired by both 
the existing leading rescue teams as well 
as this new Women of Steel team and 
volunteer with their local rescue teams to 
learn essential skills. Being prepared for 
emergency situations is crucial, whether 
at work or in the community.”

121

2022

15.0

14.7

304

107

5,034

2,749

55%

2,369

648

85%

1

5.63

9.2

5.8

31.8

2,000

2023

16.0

14.9

261

121

4,153

1,320

32%

822

619

27%

0

4.39

10.2

4.9

32.8

2,500

(1)  Production volumes are saleable tonnes, excluding thermal coal production of 1.1 Mt (2022: 1.6  Mt). Includes 
production relating to third-party product purchased and processed at Anglo American’s operations, and may 
include some product sold as thermal coal.

(2)  Sales volumes exclude thermal coal sales of 1.7 Mt (2022: 1.7 Mt). Includes sales relating to third-party product 

purchased and processed by Anglo American.

(3)  Realised price is the weighted average hard coking coal and PCI sales price achieved at managed operations.
(4)  FOB cost per tonne, excluding royalties and study costs.

Steelmaking Coal

controls on the job. Full deployment of FRM 
is scheduled at all sites during 2024.

2023 results – Steelmaking Coal

Production volume (Mt)(1)

Sales volume (Mt)(2)

Price ($/t)(3)

Unit cost ($/t)(4)

Group revenue – $m

Underlying EBITDA – $m

Mining EBITDA margin

Underlying EBIT – $m

Capex – $m

Attributable ROCE

Fatalities

TRIFR

Energy consumption – million GJ
GHG emissions – Mt CO2 equivalent
Total water withdrawals – million m3

Employee numbers

Our business
We are the world’s third largest exporter 
of steelmaking coal and our operations 
serve customers throughout Asia, Europe 
and South America. Our assets include 
the Moranbah and Grosvenor (both 88% 
ownership) steelmaking coal mines, located 
in Queensland, Australia. 

Uses of steelmaking coal
Steelmaking coal is used principally in blast-
furnace steelmaking production; around 
70% of global steel output is produced using 
this method and, currently, there are no viable 
at scale substitutes for metallurgical coal in 
the steelmaking process.

Emerging markets, particularly in the Asia-
Pacific region, continue to drive demand 
for steelmaking coal – helping to generate 
the steel needed for infrastructure, housing, 
transport and machinery. 

Safety
There were zero fatalities in our Steelmaking 
Coal business in 2023, and the TRIFR 
decreased by 22% to 4.39 (2022: 5.63). 

To support a step-change in safety 
performance, there were several key focus 
areas in the year, including VFL, learning 
and investigations, system simplification 
and standardisation, and contractor safety. 
These workstreams were all supported 
by Steelmaking Coal’s Safety Leadership 
Practices programme that continued to 
be rolled out during 2023 to raise safety 
awareness, ownership, and accountability 
at all levels of the organisation. 

In the second half of the year, Steelmaking 
Coal also started the Fatal Risk Management 
(FRM) project, which is a strategic priority 
for the business. This project will simplify 
and operationalise risk management at the 
frontline through a clear toolkit that supports 
identification and verification of fatal risks and 

Environmental performance
GHG emissions decreased by 15% to 
4.9 Mt CO2e (2022: 5.8 Mt CO2e). This 
significant progress on Steelmaking Coal’s 
decarbonisation pathway was driven by 
a reduction in methane venting at the 
underground operations and an increase in 
capacity to transfer methane to third parties 
for beneficial use. Steelmaking Coal is on 
track with the transition to source all its power 
from renewables from 2025, after agreeing 
terms for a 10-year supply partnership 
with Stanwell Corporation, the Queensland 
government-owned provider of electricity 
and energy solutions.

Energy use increased by 11% to 10.2 million 
GJ (2022: 9.2 million GJ), driven by higher 
production levels. 

Total water withdrawals increased by 3% 
to 32.8 million m3 (2022: 31.8 million m3). 
To help decrease fresh water withdrawals 
across Steelmaking Coal, a 4 ML per day 
reverse-osmosis plant was commissioned 
at Aquila mine in June 2023.

Financial performance
Underlying EBITDA decreased to 
$1,320 million (2022: $2,749 million), as 
a result of a 14% decrease in the weighted 
average realised price for steelmaking 
coal and a 13% increase in unit costs to 
$121/tonne (2022: $107/tonne), reflecting 
the impact of high inflation and additional 
operating activity. Furthermore, 2022 
included a $343 million receipt from the 
Group’s self-insurance entity.

Capital expenditure decreased to 
$619 million (2022: $648 million), reflecting 
lower life-extension expenditure following the 
completion of the Aquila project in 2022.

Strategic Report Integrated Annual Report 2023Anglo American plc 
122

Anglo American plc
Integrated Annual Report 2023

Strategic Report 
Steelmaking Coal

Markets

Average benchmark 
price – hard coking coal 
($/tonne)(1)
Average benchmark 
price – PCI ($/tonne)(1)
Average realised price 
– hard coking coal  
($/tonne)(2)
Average realised price 
– PCI ($/tonne)(2)

2023

2022

296

364

219

331

269

310

214

271

(1)  Represents average spot prices. 
(2)  Realised price is the sales price achieved at managed 

operations.

Average realised prices differ from the 
average market prices due to differences in 
material grade and timing of shipments. Hard 
coking coal (HCC) price realisation increased 
to 91% of average benchmark price (2022: 
85%), as a result of the timing of sales.

The average benchmark price for Australian 
HCC was $296/tonne (2022: $364/tonne). 
At the start of 2023, steelmaking coal 
prices rose in response to supply impacts in 
Queensland arising from flooding and a rail 
outage. Prices declined during the second 
quarter amid supply recovery, but increased 
in the second half of 2023 following low spot 
availability of premium HCC as labour strikes 
and production issues impacted Australian 
supply. Seaborne supply from Australia was 
further reduced by a cyclone event affecting 
Queensland port operations in December. 
Strong demand from Indian steelmakers for 
imported steelmaking coal was driven by a 
healthy domestic steel industry that resulted 
in a substantial year-on-year increase in 
crude steel production.

Operational performance 
Production increased to 16.0 Mt (2022: 
15.0 Mt), reflecting a steady step-up in 
performance from the Aquila underground 
operation due to its largely automated 
longwall, and increased production at 
Dawson and Capcoal open cut operations 
which were impacted by unseasonal wet 
weather in 2022.

The increased production was partly offset 
by challenging operating conditions at 
the Moranbah and Grosvenor longwall 
operations. 

Operational outlook
Following an extensive review during the 
course of 2023 on realistic opportunities 
to improve productivity, debottleneck the 
operations and leverage technology, a 
downwardly revised pathway has been 
developed to progressively ramp-up towards 
20 Mtpa of steelmaking coal production. This 
pathway also incorporates the more stringent 
safety operating protocols implemented by 
the Queensland regulator in recent years, 
as well as the more complex geotechnical 
strata conditions that the Moranbah and 
Grosvenor underground longwall operations 
are navigating.

Export steelmaking coal production 
guidance for 2024 is 15–17 Mt and 2024 
unit cost guidance is c.$115/tonne. The next 
longwall moves scheduled at Moranbah 
and Grosvenor are both in the third quarter 
of 2024. A walk-on/walk-off longwall move 
is scheduled at Aquila during the second 
quarter, with the impact on production 
expected to be minimal.

Workers underground at Aquila, where longwall production began in 2022.

Anglo American plc
Integrated Annual Report 2023

Strategic Report 

Manganese

In Manganese, we have a 40% shareholding in the 
Samancor joint venture (managed by South32, 
which holds 60%). The manganese operations are 
located in South Africa and Australia, producing 
ore products for the steelmaking industry.

123

Hotazel Manganese Mines

GEMCO

South Africa

1

Australia

Key

Manganese operations

2023 results – Manganese

Production volume (Mt)

Sales volume (Mt)

Group revenue – $m

Underlying EBITDA – $m

Mining EBITDA margin

Underlying EBIT – $m

ROCE

2023

3.7

3.7

670

231

34%

145

81%

2022

3.7

3.6

840

378

45%

312

138%

124

Anglo American plc
Integrated Annual Report 2023

Strategic Report 
Manganese

Manganese

2023 summary

$231 m
Underlying EBITDA

34%
Mining EBITDA margin

3.7 Mt
Production volume – ore 

Uses of manganese
The most significant use of manganese is 
steel production, which consumes more 
than 85% of all manganese mined. The ore 
is particularly useful in increasing steel’s 
resistance to oxidation; it can also improve 
the overall strength, durability and workability 
of the material.

Financial performance
Underlying EBITDA decreased by 39% to 
$231 million (2022: $378 million), primarily 
driven by the weaker average realised 
manganese ore price, partially offset by lower 
operating costs.

The average benchmark price for 
manganese ore (Metal Bulletin 44% 
manganese ore CIF China) decreased by 
22% to $4.75/dmtu (2022: $6.06/dmtu). 
Prices were on a declining trend throughout 
much of the year as supply improved, 
while demand continued to soften in the 
second half of 2023. Prices stabilised during 
December, however, ending the year at 
$4.17/dmtu.

Operational performance
Attributable manganese ore production was 
flat at 3.7 Mt (2022: 3.7 Mt).

125

Anglo American plc
Integrated Annual Report 2023

Strategic Report 

Crop Nutrients

Anglo American is developing the Woodsmith 
project in the north east of England to access 
the world’s largest known deposit of polyhalite, 
a natural mineral fertiliser product containing 
potassium, sulphur, magnesium and calcium – four 
of the six nutrients that every plant needs to grow.

Management team

Woodsmith

Tom McCulley 
CEO, Crop Nutrients

United Kingdom

Key

Crop Nutrients project

126

Anglo American plc
Integrated Annual Report 2023

Strategic Report 
Crop Nutrients

Crop Nutrients

2023 Summary

0
Fatalities

1.96
TRIFR

$641 m

Capital expenditure

We are already planning a sustainable future beyond Woodsmith’s life of mine, focused on economic 
diversification and nature-based solutions.

Woodsmith – what a future mine 
should look like

Building a major new mine today involves 
long timeframes. From the initial discovery 
of a mineral deposit, the planning, design, 
permitting and construction phases 
collectively can take up to 20 years. Once 
in production, a mine may have a life of 
several decades. And, after the mine gates 
close for the final time, it is our duty to 
ensure the site is returned back to its natural 
state as far as possible. 

Doing things right
Woodsmith will be a long-life mine, located 
within the North York Moors National Park. 
Therefore the utmost care is being taken 
to ensure that the project is designed to 
minimise environmental impact both in 
construction and operations.

The mine site is designed to blend in 
with the local landscape, with a low 
visual presence. All mining operations 

and the ore-transport system will be 
out of sight below ground. The number 
and size of surface buildings have been 
kept to a minimum and designed to 
look like agricultural buildings. Extensive 
landscaping, planting and screening 
will ensure the site blends in with the 
surrounding area. Construction and 
operational activities have also been 
planned to minimise noise and light 
intrusion, as well as limit surface traffic. 

The distinctive characteristics of polyhalite 
ore means that it can be extracted in a 
1:1 ore ratio to produce our future-facing 
product, POLY4, with next-to-no wasted 
ore. Our simple granulation process 
enables low energy and water use, a low 
carbon footprint relative to comparable 
fertiliser products, and generates next to 
no waste. Further, and in contrast to the 
great majority of existing mines, our mining 
activities will generate no tailings, leading to 
a smaller operational footprint and minimal 
encroachment on the environment.

As well as having a low environmental 
production footprint, POLY4 is uniquely 
positioned to help tackle three key 
agricultural industry challenges: the 
increasing need to produce more food from 
less available land; the need to reduce the 
environmental impact of farming; and the 
deteriorating health of soils.

Stakeholder engagement
Woodsmith and POLY4 will turn our vision 
for the future of mining into a reality. Our 
project will have a positive impact on the 
local, regional and national economy 
while having a minimal environmental 
impact. An important part of our approach 
is to ensure that we engage with and 
listen to the full range of our stakeholders, 
especially those most likely to be affected 
by our presence. We are committed to 
taking an active and positive role in our 
local communities, making a meaningful 
contribution to the social and economic 
well-being of the region. We are proud of 
the contribution we have already made, 
and of the longer term commitments into 
the operating phase of the mine. To date, 
Woodsmith has contributed £1 million to 
the local charitable foundation, as well 
as creating close to 2,000 new jobs, with 
over 70% being from the local area. As 
well as job creation and apprenticeships, 
we are also responding to key regional 
challenges through the creation of 
proactive programmes to develop skills 
and improve outcomes for disadvantaged 
young people, address health inequalities 
and diversify the regional economy by 
supporting the growth of key sectors.

First product is expected in 2027, with a 
final design capacity of c.13 Mtpa, subject 
to studies and approval. 

Crop Nutrients
As a result of the highly efficient mine and 
conveyor design and the minimal processing 
requirements of the polyhalite ore, our POLY4 
product will benefit from a comparatively low 
carbon footprint, as well as being suitable for 
organic agriculture.

Aside from the world class nature of the 
orebody and the quality of the operation we 
are developing, the addition of POLY4 to our 
product range aligns well with our portfolio 
trajectory towards those products that 
support a low carbon economy and global 
consumer demand – in this case, for food.

Woodsmith project
Throughout 2023, we saw continued good 
progress on the core infrastructure, with 
capital expenditure of $641 million  
(2022: $522 million). Sinking activities at the 
two deep shafts continue to progress well. 
The service shaft is now c.745 metres deep, 
having reached the expected depth for the 
year. Sinking activities on the production 
shaft began in January 2023 as planned, at 
120 metres below the surface, and following 
a successful ramp-up to planned sinking 
rates, is now at a depth of c.510 metres.

Excavation of the three shallow shafts that 
will provide both ventilation and additional 
access to the Mineral Transport System (MTS) 
tunnel is complete. The MTS tunnel is also 
progressing to plan and has now reached 
c.27.5 km of the total 37 km length.

Crop Nutrients

During 2024, a key focus area for shaft 
sinking will be on progress through a strata 
called the Sherwood sandstone, where we 
expect sink rates to decrease due to the 
expected hardness of the rock and potential 
water fissures. This is planned for in progress 
rates, and the intersection of the strata is 
expected around mid-2024. On the tunnel 
boring machine, there is a planned 3–4 
month maintenance pause from the second 
quarter of 2024, during which the tunnel 
will be connected to the final intermediate 
shaft, providing further tunnel access and 
ventilation.

In parallel to the core infrastructure 
development, we are enhancing the project’s 
configuration to allow a higher production 
capacity and more efficient, scalable mining 
methods over time. The required studies for 
this are progressing well and will ensure that 
additional infrastructure is optimally designed 
to enable future optionality and maximise 
long term value over the expected multi-
decade asset life.

The project is planned to be submitted for 
a Board approval decision on Full Notice to 
Proceed in the first half of 2025, following 
conclusion of the study programme.

Capital expenditure of $0.9 billion is 
approved for 2024, the bulk of which will 
continue to be invested on shaft sinking and 
tunnel boring activities.

The project is expected to deliver first 
product to market in 2027, with a final design 
capacity of 13 Mtpa, subject to studies and 
approval.

127

2022

254

(44)

522

0

1.90

0.1

0.0

0.1

500

2023

225

(60)

641

0

1.96

0.3

0.0

0.1

1,000

2023 results – Crop Nutrients

Group revenue – $m(1)

Underlying EBITDA – $m(1)

Capex – $m

Fatalities

TRIFR

Energy consumption – million GJ
GHG emissions – Mt CO2 equivalent
Total water withdrawals – million m3

Employee numbers

(1)  Includes results from the interest in The Cibra Group, a fertiliser distributor based in Brazil.

Safety
The Woodsmith project recorded zero 
fatalities (2022: zero) and a TRIFR of 
1.96 (2022: 1.90).

Environmental performance
Across the Woodsmith project, energy usage 
increased to 0.3 million GJ (2022: 0.1 million 
GJ), in line with the increased activity on site, 
as the project progresses. The percentage 
contribution of renewable energy to overall 
electricity use increased to 63% (2022: 34%). 

Strategic Report Integrated Annual Report 2023Anglo American plc 
 
 
128

Anglo American plc
Integrated Annual Report 2023

Strategic Report 
Crop Nutrients

The ongoing focus of market development 
activities is to develop and implement 
detailed sales and marketing strategies for 
each region and to support customers with 
their own market development activities to 
further promote POLY4 to the end-users of 
the product – farmers.

We have continued to develop our routes 
to market partnerships in key high-value 
regions, working closely with our distribution 
partners, and also engaging deeper into 
the value chain to ensure we deliver what 
is needed at the farm gate. Through our 
ongoing engagements with some 350 value 
chain partners to date – including top retailers 
in the United States, large distributors and co-
operatives in Europe, and major blenders and 
mega farms in Brazil – we are working across 
the full value chain to introduce POLY4 to the 
market. We have also already engaged more 
than 570 influencers in the industry, including 
major universities, farming associations, 
and academic research institutes, to ensure 
that the industry recognises the benefits 
that POLY4 will bring at scale into the 
marketplace.

POLY4 has significant value beyond its 
multi-nutrient content, and our innovative 
marketing strategy will ensure that we unlock 
the full potential of our product.

Market development – POLY4
POLY4 provides farmers, through one core 
product, with a fertiliser solution to tackle the 
three key challenges facing the food industry 
today – the increasing demand for food from 
less available land; the need to reduce the 
environmental impact of farming; and the 
deteriorating health of soils. 

In tackling these challenges, the fertiliser 
industry will evolve and need new solutions. 
POLY4 represents a new solution, helping 
farmers to deliver balanced, nutrient-efficient 
and environmentally responsible crop 
nutrition practices that are required at scale.

POLY4 offers farmers superior performance 
compared to existing fertiliser products: 
demonstrated crop yield improvement of 
3–5% across a wide variety of crops and soil 
types, improved crop quality and resilience to 
drought and disease, and help in preserving 
the health of a farmer’s greatest asset – their 
soil. The use of POLY4 can also help minimise 
the nutrients lost to the environment by 
improving the ability of crops to take up and 
utilise available nutrients – i.e. improving a 
plant’s nutrient-use efficiency. Furthermore, 
its granular form offers a more flexible and 
convenient in-field application for farmers, 
compared with common existing fertilisers. 
All this, while also being low carbon relative 
to comparable products, and certified for 
organic agriculture. 

Through our global agronomy programme, 
we have conducted over 1,800 field 
demonstrations to date, on over 80 crops, 
and our research continues to reinforce 
these superior qualities and characteristics 
of POLY4.

A farmer inspects tomato plants in Zambia as part of our Crop Nutrients business’ global series of farm 
trials of POLY4.

129

Corporate and other

Segment total

Prior year

Exploration

Prior year

Corporate activities and unallocated costs(1)

Prior year

Group revenue◊ 
$m

Underlying
EBITDA◊
$m

Underlying
EBIT◊
$m

Capex◊
$m

440

554

n/a

—

440

554

(193)

(440)

(107)

(155)

(86)

(285)

(403)

(593)

(107)

(162)

(296)

(431)

59

14

3

2

56

12

(1)  Revenue within Corporate activities and unallocated costs primarily relates to third-party shipping activities, as well as the Marketing business’ 

energy solutions activities.

Financial overview
Exploration
Underlying EBITDA was a $107 million 
loss (2022: $155 million loss) following a 
decrease in other expenses due to timing 
differences in copper. Exploration expenditure 
across the Group was broadly in line with the 
prior year.

Corporate activities and unallocated costs
Underlying EBITDA was a $86 million loss 
(2022: $285 million loss), this improved result 
was driven primarily by the Group’s self-
insurance entity and corporate cost savings. 
The positive year-on-year variance reflects 
the finalisation of the Grosvenor gas ignition 
claim and the Moranbah overpressure event 
claim in 2022 by the Group’s self-insurance 
entity, which resulted in an expense in 
Corporate activities that was offset within 
the underlying EBITDA of Steelmaking Coal. 
There have been no equivalent insurance 
claim settlements in the current year. 
Corporate cost savings of $0.3 billion were 
realised and are partially recognised in the 
overheads of the underlying businesses.

Strategic Report Integrated Annual Report 2023Anglo American plc 
130

Anglo American plc
Integrated Annual Report 2023

Strategic Report 

Non-financial and sustainability 
information disclosures and footnotes

Non-financial and sustainability information statement
The Companies (Strategic Report) (Climate-related Financial Disclosure) Regulations 2022 amend sections 414C, 414CA and 414CB of the Companies Act 2006, placing requirements 
on the Group to incorporate climate disclosures in our integrated annual report. We believe these have been addressed within our climate-related disclosures on pages 49 to 57 and, as such, 
have referenced the location of each disclosure within our TCFD disclosure table on pages 132–137.

Reporting requirement

Environmental matters

Policies and standards

Outcomes and additional information

Safety, Health and Environment (SHE) Way and Policy

Protecting our natural environment

Climate Change Policy

Disclosures related to the recommendations of the TCFD

Energy and GHG Emissions Standard

Climate change

Water Policy and Water Management Standard

Water

Mineral Residue Technical Management Standard

Mineral residue management

Employees

Human rights

Social matters

Code of Conduct

SHE Way and Policy

HIV/AIDS Policy

Human Rights Policy

The Social Way

Responsible Sourcing Standard for Suppliers

Supply Chain Local Procurement Policy

Anti-corruption and anti-bribery

Code of Conduct

Business Integrity Policy

Principal risks and impact of 
business activity

Non-financial KPIs

Building a purpose-led culture

Safety

Health

Human rights

Social performance

Supply chain

Supply chain

Building a purpose-led culture

Business integrity

Our business model

Our material matters

Managing risk effectively

Key performance indicators

Page reference

57–58

132–137

49–57

58

59

74

68

68

64

60

64

64

74

74

8

20–22

79–85

86–89

Non-financial information disclosures and footnotes

131

Footnotes
(1)  Throughout this Strategic Report, ‘employees’ is the average number of Group employees, excluding employees of 

contractors, associates and joint ventures, and including a proportionate share, based on the percentage 
shareholding, of employees within joint operations. 

(2)  Wages and benefits are the payments made to the Group’s employees, excluding employees of contractors, 
associates and joint ventures, and including a proportionate share, based on the percentage shareholding, of 
payments made to employees within joint operations. Includes social security costs of $181 million borne by the 
Group which are also included in the Taxes and royalties figure.

(3)  Taxes and royalties include all taxes and royalties borne and taxes collected by the Group. This includes corporate 
income taxes, withholding taxes, mining taxes and royalties, employee taxes and social security contributions and 
other taxes, levies and duties directly incurred by the Group, as well as taxes incurred by other parties (e.g. customers 
and employees) but collected and paid by the Group on their behalf. Figures disclosed are based on cash remitted, 
being the amounts remitted by entities consolidated for accounting purposes, plus a proportionate share, based on 
the percentage shareholding, of joint operations. Taxes borne and collected by equity accounted associates and joint 
ventures are not included. 

(4)  Local procurement is defined as procurement from businesses that are registered and based in the country of 

operation – also referred to as in-country procurement – and includes local procurement expenditure from the Group’s 
subsidiaries and a proportionate share of the Group’s joint operations, based on shareholding.

(5)  With the exception of Gahcho Kué, which is on an attributable 51% basis.
(6)  Copper equivalent volume growth from 2022 baseline, pre the commissioning of Quellaveco.
(7)  Carbon neutrality is a condition in which during a specified period there has been no net increase in the global 
emission of greenhouse gases (GHGs) to the atmosphere as a result of the GHG emissions associated with the 
subject during the same period.

(8)  Data relates to subsidiaries and joint operations over which Anglo American has management control. Data excludes 

(9) 

De Beers’ joint operations in Namibia and Botswana. Historical GHG, energy consumption and fresh water 
withdrawals data has been adjusted to exclude Thermal Coal South Africa, which was divested in June 2021.
In 2020, we launched a new integrated social performance management system (Social Way) which has raised 
performance expectations and has resulted in continued improvement in our social performance. While sites are 
assessed annually against all requirements applicable to their context, for consistency during the transition period, the 
metric reflects performance against the Social Way foundational requirements.

(10)  Anglo American supports jobs through training, mentoring and capacity development. The number of jobs supported 
includes existing jobs (in activities supported by the intervention) and newly created jobs through the programmes. 
Jobs supported are measured as full time equivalent jobs. Data represents jobs supported since 2018, in line with the 
Sustainable Mining Plan Livelihoods stretch goal. Induced jobs – employment generated by local spending on goods 
and services by our employees and the employees of our suppliers – are estimated using input-output analysis; a well 
established economic modelling approach.

(11)  Attributable free cash flow includes expenditure on non-current intangible assets (excluding goodwill).

Strategic Report Integrated Annual Report 2023Anglo American plc132

Anglo American plc
Integrated Annual Report 2023

Strategic Report 
Disclosures related to the recommendations of the TCFD

Disclosures related to the 
recommendations of the TCFD

While we endeavour to include as much 
information as possible on our approach 
to climate change in the Integrated Annual 
Report, our Climate Change Report offers 
more comprehensive disclosure, including 
more detail on physical and adaptation risk, 
our most recent detailed scenario analysis 
and the pathway to achieving our Scope 3 
GHG reduction ambition. References in the 
table below include the Integrated Annual 
Report 2023 and the Climate Change Report 
2023, both of which are available on our 
website.

 ▶ For more on our Climate Change Report 2023  

Visit angloamerican.com/climate-change-2023

Anglo American’s response to climate 
change is multi-disciplinary and is detailed 
throughout our reporting suite – including 
the Integrated Annual Report and our 
Climate Change Report. In line with the 
UK Listing Rules, we confirm that the 
disclosures included in the Integrated 
Annual Report 2023 and the Climate 
Change Report 2023 are consistent 
with the TCFD Recommendations and 
Recommended Disclosures, as well as the 
TCFD’s supplementary guidance for non-
financial groups, but note monitoring of 
company climate-related financial reporting 
transfers from the Financial Stability Board 
to the International Sustainability Standards 
Board (ISSB) and the International Financial 
Reporting Standards (IFRS) from 2024 
onwards. Additionally, following amendment 
of sections 414C, 414CA and 414CB of the 
Companies Act 2006, we have indicated in 
the table below which of the climate-related 
disclosures, outlined in Section 414CB, 
are addressed by the TCFD disclosures, 
alongside the pages of the 2023 Integrated 
Annual Report where these are located.

The table below offers guidance on where to find information relating to each of the TCFD’s recommendations and Companies Act section 414CB disclosure requirements. 

Disclosures related to the recommendations of the TCFD

Governance
Disclose the organisation’s governance around climate-related risks and opportunities.

Recommended disclosures

References

a)  Describe the Board’s 
oversight of climate-
related risks and 
opportunities.

Summary: The Board provides leadership to the Group and is collectively responsible for promoting and safeguarding the long term success of the 
business, including the resilience of the business to, and the opportunities that flow from climate change. The Board focuses on workstreams that 
underpin our 2040 carbon neutrality targets and considers global trends that may have a consequence on the Group’s strategy, including climate 
change. The Board delegates powers and oversight of climate-related considerations to its various committees, including its Sustainability Committee, 
which oversees material policies, processes and strategy designed to manage climate-related risks and opportunities.

Integrated Annual Report 2023: Page 14 describes the insights the Board considers when reviewing and endorsing the Group’s long term strategy and 
related decisions. Climate change considerations are included within the material matters (pages 20–23), our analysis of global trends (pages 24–28), 
our capital allocation decisions (pages 76–78) and within our principal risks – specifically risks 7 and 10 (pages 79–85). Page 49 describes our policies 
and governance processes related to climate change. Page 154 describes the discussions and decisions taken by the Board in the year that relate to 
climate change. Page 165 details the items related to climate change discussed by the Board’s Sustainability Committee in the year.

Climate Change Report 2023: Pages 42–43 describe the Board’s climate change capability and gives detail on the Group’s climate-related 
governance, oversight and management structure. 

133

CA 414CB

(a)

b)  Describe 

management’s 
role in assessing and 
managing climate-
related risks and 
opportunities.

Summary: Anglo American has a Climate Change Steering Committee, which is chaired by the strategy & sustainability director. The Committee 
was established as a cross-functional body to draw together all workstreams across the Group related to climate change and to have collective 
oversight and scrutiny the associated workstreams. A cross-functional Climate Change Working Group exists to provide expert, working level 
support to Executive and Board level leadership. The chief executive, who is advised and supported by the wider Executive Leadership Team (ELT), is 
responsible and accountable for aligning our business practices with our climate change commitments and ambitions. Sitting on the ELT, the strategy & 
sustainability director is responsible for overseeing the company’s overall approach climate change, in addition to co-ordination of the work to meet our 
commitments. 

(a)

Integrated Annual Report 2023: Page 14 describes the insights the chief executive and senior management take into account when formulating the 
Group’s long term strategy. Climate change considerations are included within the material matters (pages 20–23), our analysis of global trends (pages 
24–28), our capital allocation decisions (pages 76–78) and within our principal risks (pages 79–85). Page 49 describes our policies and governance 
processes related to climate change, including climate-related targets within executive remuneration. Page 194  of the Remuneration report details 
progress against climate-related targets and the impact on executive remuneration in the year.

Climate Change Report 2023: Pages 42–43 describe the Board’s climate change capability and give detail on the Group’s climate-related 
governance, oversight and management structure, including the role of the Group’s Climate Change Steering Committee and the ELT. 

Strategic Report Integrated Annual Report 2023Anglo American plc134

Anglo American plc
Integrated Annual Report 2023

Strategic Report 
Disclosures related to the recommendations of the TCFD

Strategy
Disclose the actual and potential impacts of climate-related risks and opportunities on the organisation’s businesses, strategy and financial planning where such information is material.

Recommended disclosures

References

a)  Describe the 

climate-related risks 
and opportunities 
the organisation has 
identified over the 
short, medium and 
long term.

b)  Describe the 

impact of climate-
related risks and 
opportunities on 
the organisation’s 
businesses, strategy, 
and financial 
planning.

Summary: Climate change has the potential for significant long term impact on our world and on our industry. We expect climate change to impact 
the mining industry through both risks and opportunities in two broad areas: transition impacts – the potential impact on demand for different products, 
given assumptions on regulatory, technological and behavioural changes in the transition to a low carbon economy; and physical impacts – the 
potential impact on our operations and surrounding communities from both acute extreme weather events and chronic shifts in climate patterns.

Integrated Annual Report 2023: Pages 50–53 describe the potential impacts of climate change on both Anglo American and the mining industry, as 
well as the opportunities the Group believes it can realise through its strategic choices. Page 50 gives an indication of the outlook for mining products 
profit pools under both a 1.5oC and 2.50C global warming scenario. Page 51 describes the transitional impacts we believe climate change will have 
on our business including the short, medium and long term risks and opportunities related to each of the products and commodities we produce. 
Pages 52–53 describe the physical risks our operations and host communities face, as well as our approach to adaptation. Pages 30–39 and page 
54 describe the Group’s portfolio strategy and evolution and how that has been influenced by the threat of climate change. Pages 44–45 describe the 
technological innovations being delivered across the Group to reduce energy and water consumption and pages 47–48 describe the efforts of our 
Marketing business to deliver products that help enable our customers to achieve their climate change ambitions. The principal risks related to climate 
change and water are described on pages 83–84.

Climate Change Report 2023: Pages 20–23 have more detail on the physical and adaptation climate risks facing our operations and host 
communities in the short, medium and long term, and our approach to them.

CA 414CB

(d)

Summary: Anglo American’s strategy seeks opportunities in the metal and mineral needs of the future, including, critically, the impacts of climate 
change and the energy transition. The resilience of our portfolio to a changing climate also forms a key part of the Company’ s strategy. We draw on 
multiple sources to judge the contribution that individual assets would make to the portfolio under different climate scenarios, and, amongst other 
things, this informs the way that we allocate capital.

(e)

Integrated Annual Report 2023: Pages 30–39 and page 54 describe the Group’s portfolio strategy and evolution and how that has been influenced 
by climate change. Pages 44–45 describe the technological innovations being delivered across the Group to reduce energy and water consumption 
and pages 47–48 describe the efforts of our Marketing business to deliver products that help enable our customers to achieve their climate change 
ambitions. Page 54 gives more detail on our strategy to deliver a future-enabling portfolio and pages 76–78 describe our approach to capital 
allocation to achieve our carbon reduction targets, including the carbon pricing we use when appraising investment decisions. Pages 50–51 describe 
our approach to transition risk and explains how we believe Anglo American will remain resilient in a 1.5˚C future. Pages 76–78 describe how broader 
sustainability considerations, including climate change, are embedded in our capital allocation decisions.

Climate Change Report 2023: Page 11 explains the strategic principles that guide our portfolio choices and how we assess the resilience of our 
portfolio in a 1.5˚C world. Page 11 also gives further details on the role we believe our products have to play in a low carbon future. Pages 11–17 
explain how we manage transition risks through portfolio evolution. Pages 18–23 have more detail on the physical and adaptation climate risks facing 
our operations and host communities in the short, medium and long term, and our approach to them.

Disclosures related to the recommendations of the TCFD

Recommended disclosures

References

c)  Describe the 
resilience of 
the organisation’s 
strategy, taking 
into consideration 
different climate-
related scenarios, 
including a 2°C or 
lower scenario.

Summary: Anglo American’s strategy seeks opportunities in the metal and mineral needs of the future, including critically the impacts of climate 
change and the energy transition. The resilience of our portfolio to a changing climate also forms a key part of the Company’s strategy. We draw on 
multiple sources to judge the contribution that individual assets would make to the portfolio under different climate scenarios, and, amongst other 
things, this informs the way that we allocate capital.

Integrated Annual Report 2023: Pages 50–53 describe the potential impacts of climate change on both Anglo American and the mining industry, as 
well as the opportunities the Group believes it can realise through its strategic choices. Page 50 gives an indication of the outlook for mining commodity 
profit pools under both a 1.5oC and 2.50C global warming scenario. Pages 50–51 describe the transitional impacts we believe climate change will 
have on our business including the short, medium and long term risks and opportunities related to each of the products and commodities we produce. 
Pages 52–53 describe the physical risks our operations and host communities face, as well as our approach to adaptation.Pages 30–39 and page 54 
describe the Group’s portfolio strategy and evolution and how that has been influenced by climate change. Pages 44–45 describe the technological 
innovations being delivered across the Group to reduce energy and water consumption and pages 47–48 describe the efforts of our Marketing 
business to deliver products that help enable our customers to achieve their climate change ambitions. Page 54 gives more detail on our strategy to 
deliver a future-enabling portfolio and pages 76–78 describe our approach to capital allocation to achieve our carbon reduction targets, including 
the carbon pricing we use when appraising investment decisions. Pages 76–78 describe how broader sustainability considerations, including climate 
change, are embedded in our capital allocation decisions.

Climate Change Report 2023: Page 11 explains the strategic principles that guide our portfolio choices and how we assess the resilience of our 
portfolio in a 1.5˚C world. Page 11 also gives further details on the role we believe our products have to play in a low carbon future. Pages 11–17 
explain how we manage transition risks through portfolio evolution. Pages 18–23 have more detail on the physical and adaptation climate risks facing 
our operations and host communities in the short, medium and long term, and our approach to them.

135

CA 414CB

(f)

Strategic Report Integrated Annual Report 2023Anglo American plc136

Anglo American plc
Integrated Annual Report 2023

Strategic Report 
Disclosures related to the recommendations of the TCFD

Risk management
Disclose how the organisation identifies, assesses and manages climate-related risks.

Recommended disclosures

References

a)  Describe the 

Summary: Our risk management processes embed climate change in the understanding, identification and mitigation of risk. 

organisation’s 
processes for 
identifying and 
assessing climate-
related risks.

Integrated Annual Report 2023: Pages 49–54 describe our approach to climate-related risk, including both transition and physical risks. Pages 79–85 
describe the Group’s risk identification process and has more detail on climate change and water, both considered principal risks. 

Climate Change Report 2023: Page 46 describes our understanding, assessment and management of climate-related risks. Pages 11–17 explain 
how we manage transition risks through portfolio evolution. Pages 18–23 have more detail on the physical and adaptation climate risks facing our 
operations and host communities in the short, medium and long term, and our approach to them.

CA 414CB

(b)

b)  Describe the 

Summary: Our risk management processes embed climate change in the understanding, identification and mitigation of risk. 

(b)

organisation’s 
processes for 
managing climate-
related risks.

c)  Describe how 
processes for 
identifying, assessing 
and managing 
climate-related risks 
are integrated into 
the organisation’s 
overall risk 
management.

Integrated Annual Report 2023: Pages 49–54 describe our approach to climate-related risk, including both transition and physical risks. Pages 79–85 
describe the Group’s risk identification process and has more detail on climate change and water, both considered principal risks, and how we manage 
and mitigate those risks. Our Portfolio (pages 30–39) and Innovation (pages 42–65) sections of this report provide detail on the strategic portfolio 
choices we have made and the technological innovations we are delivering across the Group to reduce energy and water consumption and mitigate 
the impacts of climate change. Pages 54–57 describe how we plan to decarbonise our operations, page 57 explains the pathway to decarbonising 
our value chains.

Climate Change Report 2023: Page 46 describes our understanding, assessment and management of climate-related risks. Pages 42–43 describe 
the Board’s climate change capability and give detail on the Group’s climate-related governance, oversight and management structure, including the 
role of the Group’s Climate Change Steering Committee and the ELT. Pages 11–17 explain how we manage transition risks through portfolio evolution. 
Pages 18–23 have more detail on the physical and adaptation climate risks facing our operations and host communities in the short, medium and long 
term, and our approach to them.

Summary: Our risk management processes embed climate change in the understanding, identification and mitigation of risk. 

(c)

Integrated Annual Report 2023: Pages 49–54 describe our approach to climate-related risk, including both transition and physical risks. Pages 79–85 
describe the Group’s risk identification process and has more detail on climate change and water, both considered principal risks, and how we manage 
and mitigate those risks.

Climate Change Report 2023: Page 46 describes our understanding, assessment and management of climate-related risks. Pages 42–43 describe 
the Board’s climate change capability and give detail on the Group’s climate-related governance, oversight and management structure, including the 
role of the Group’s Climate Change Steering Committee and the ELT.  Pages 11–17 explain how we manage transition risks through portfolio evolution. 
Pages 18–23 have more detail on the physical and adaptation climate risks facing our operations and host communities in the short, medium and long 
term, and our approach to them.

Metrics and targets
Disclose the metrics and targets used to assess and manage relevant climate-related risks and opportunities where such information is material.

Disclosures related to the recommendations of the TCFD

Recommended disclosures

References

a)  Disclose the 

Summary: We use a range of metrics to assess climate-related risks and opportunities, including Scope 1, 2 and 3 GHG emissions and energy use. 

137

CA 414CB

(h)

Integrated Annual Report 2023: Page 55 and page 57 show the metrics used by the Group when assessing climate-related risks and opportunities.

metrics used by 
the organisation 
to assess 
climate-related risks 
and opportunities 
in line with its 
strategy and risk 
management 
process.

b)  Disclose Scope 

Summary: We use a range of metrics to assess climate-related risks and opportunities, including Scopes 1, 2 and 3 GHG emissions and energy use. 

(g)

Integrated Annual Report 2023: Page 55 and page 57 show our Scope 1, 2 and 3 GHG emissions. Page 329 shows current and historical Scopes 1 
and 2 emissions by business.

Climate Change Report 2023: Page 33 provides more details on our Scope 3 GHG by each of the  categories included in the Greenhouse Gas 
Protocol’s methodology.

Summary: We are targeting a 30% reduction in GHG emissions by 2030 on a 2016 baseline and have a goal to be carbon neutral across our 
operations for Scopes 1 and 2 emissions by 2040. Our ambition is to reduce our Scope 3 footprint by 50% against a 2020 baseline by 2040.

(g)

Integrated Annual Report 2023: Pages 54–57 describe our climate-related goals and ambitions.

1, Scope 2, and, if 
appropriate, Scope 
3 GHG emissions 
and the related risks.

c)  Describe the 

targets used by 
the organisation to 
manage climate-
related risks and 
opportunities 
and performance 
against targets.

Strategic Report Integrated Annual Report 2023Anglo American plc138

Anglo American plc
Integrated Annual Report 2023

Strategic Report 

Streamlined energy and carbon reporting 

Scope 1 emissions – Global

Scope 2 emissions – Global

Total Scope 1 and 2 emissions – Global

Group emission intensity

Scope 3 emissions – Global*

Total Scope 1 and 2 emissions from UK-based entities

Energy use from UK-based entities

Energy use – Global*

2023

7.5

5.0

12.5

5.8

95.82

0.02

2022

8.3

5.0

13.3

6.1

104.5

0.01

131,476,718

90,902,808

Commentary

Measured in Mt CO2e
Measured in Mt CO2e
Measured in Mt CO2e
Measured in tonnes CO2e per tonne CuEq production
Measured in Mt CO2e
Measured in Mt CO2e
Measured in kWh

89

83

Measured in million GJ

*  Global energy use is presented in million GJ as this is the measurement the Group uses internally. The equivalent energy use figure in kWh is 24,723,511,650 (2022: 22,977,777,778 kWh).

Further information:
Disclosure of our energy and Scope 1, 2 and 
3 emission reduction targets can be found on 
page 46.

Disclosure of the principal energy efficiency 
initiatives deployed by the Group to meet 
those targets can be found on pages 54–57.

Methodologies used to calculate energy use 
and emissions data can be found on pages 
316–317.

Assurance of data:
As a member of the International Council on 
Mining and Metals (ICMM), Anglo American 
is committed to obtaining specific assurance 
over specified assertions related to the 
Sustainability Report, including data related 
to GHG emissions and energy use. 

IBIS ESG Consulting Africa (Pty) Ltd (IBIS) 
was commissioned by Anglo American 
to conduct an independent third-party 
assurance engagement in relation to its 
Sustainability Report for the year ended 
31 December 2023. This data has been 
reproduced in the Anglo American plc 
Integrated Annual Report 2023.

See pages 102–103 of the Anglo American plc 
Sustainability Report 2023 for more details on 
the assurance process and conclusions.

 ▶ For more information, see our Sustainability Report 2023
Visit angloamerican.com/sustainability-report-2023

Anglo American plc 
Integrated Annual Report 2023

139

Governance

This section of the Integrated Annual Report provides an overview 
of the means by which the Company is directed and controlled. 
The Board is there to support and challenge management and 
to ensure that we operate in a manner that promotes the long 
term success of Anglo American. In this section we describe the 
ways in which we seek to achieve this.

Contents

140 Chairman’s introduction
142 Directors
146 Executive Leadership Team
148 Board roles and responsibilities
151 Board operations
153 Board activity
156 Board effectiveness in 2023
158 Board visits in 2023

Compliance with the UK Corporate 
Governance Code
The Board supports the principles and provisions of the 
UK Corporate Governance Code 2018 (the Code) issued by the 
Financial Reporting Council (FRC), which is available on the FRC’s 
website (www.frc.org.uk). The principles and provisions of the Code 
have applied throughout the financial year ended 31 December 
2023. It is the Board’s view that the Company has complied 
throughout the year with the Code. The ways in which the Code 
has been applied can be found on the following pages:

Code section and where to find details
Section 1: Board leadership and company purpose 
Further detail on how the Board promotes the long term success 
of the Group is provided in the Strategic Report on pages 2–138. 
Relations with shareholders are described on page 163. For the 
ways in which the Board engages with its key stakeholders, see 
pages 16–19 of our Strategic Report and our Section 172 
statement on page 29, and the Stakeholder engagement section 
on pages 161–163 of this report. Our whistleblowing programme 
is described on page 177.

The Governance report and Financial Statements form part of the Anglo American plc 
Integrated Annual Report for the year ended 31 December 2023 and should be read 
in conjunction with the Strategic Report of the Integrated Annual Report.

161 Stakeholder engagement
164 Sustainability Committee report
166 Nomination Committee report
168 Audit Committee report
178 Directors’ remuneration report
185 Directors’ remuneration policy
191 Annual report on directors’ remuneration
212 Statement of directors’ responsibilities

Section 2: Division of responsibilities 
Pages 142–150 give details of the Board and executive 
leadership and the Board governance structure.

Section 3: Composition, succession and evaluation
The work of the Nomination Committee, and the processes 
used in relation to Board appointments, are illustrated on 
pages 166–167. The findings of the internal effectiveness 
review of the Board and committees are described on 
pages 156–157. 

Section 4: Audit, risk and internal control 
The report of the Audit Committee is found on pages 
168–177, with further detail on the Group’s principal risks 
to the business in the Strategic Report on pages 81–85.

Section 5: Remuneration
The Group’s remuneration policy and the report of the 
Remuneration Committee are found on pages 178–211.

140

Anglo American plc 
Integrated Annual Report 2023

Governance 
Chairman’s introduction

Chairman’s introduction

On behalf of the Board, I am pleased to introduce 
the Anglo American plc Governance report, 
in which we describe our corporate governance 
arrangements, the activities of the Board and 
its committees, and how the Board discharged 
its duties throughout 2023.

Board composition and succession

Board and executive leadership succession in public 
companies has – rightly – been the subject of scrutiny in recent 
years. In our own Company, Board succession planning 
continued to be a focus area in 2023. In carrying out our 
ongoing Board renewal, we strive to maintain the right balance 
of capabilities, experience, diversity and continuity required to 
sustain the Group’s long term success as it continues to evolve 
its portfolio and wider business interests.

In April 2023, I was pleased to welcome Magali Anderson to 
the Board as a non-executive director and member of the 
Sustainability Committee. Magali’s experience in capital 
intensive industries from her international executive career 
in operational, commercial and business transformation 
leadership roles, and a deep understanding of sustainability in 
its broadest sense, adds greater breadth of insight to the Board. 

In December, Stephen Pearce stepped down as finance 
director after serving on the Board since 2017. Stephen was 
succeeded by John Heasley, who joined the Board as finance 
director on 1 December 2023. John brings proven financial, 
strategic and commercial expertise to the role of finance 
director, coupled with hands-on operational experience of 
supporting sustainable mining through technology.

On behalf of the Board, I would like to reiterate my thanks to 
Stephen for his considerable contributions to Anglo American 
and his steady hand as finance director for nearly seven years.

At the date of this report, four of the 10 Board directors are 
female, including our Audit Committee chair; two are historically 
disadvantaged South Africans; and six different nationalities 
are represented, bringing experience from all of our major 
regions, notably southern Africa, South America and Australia. 

In 2024, the Nomination Committee will continue to focus 
on succession planning for the Board and the Executive 
Leadership Team, to ensure the organisation has a strong 
and diverse pipeline to take up senior leadership roles in 
the future.

The operation of the Board in 2023

The Board has continued to operate effectively throughout 
2023. Each year, the Board undertakes a rigorous review of 
its effectiveness and performance, and that of its committees 
and individual directors, while at least every three years this is 
facilitated by an external third party. In 2023, our review was 
carried out internally. I am pleased to report that the overall 
conclusion of the internal review is that the Board and 
committees continue to be effective and function well.

I believe director and Board site visits to be invaluable. They 
provide an opportunity for directors to learn more about the 
operations and understand the opportunities and challenges 
faced by the businesses in their local environments. Site visits 
are a key mechanism for the Board to directly engage with the 
workforce from a range of backgrounds and levels of seniority, 
and also present opportunities to meet with representatives 
from host communities. I was delighted that, in 2023, we were 
able to facilitate several site visits for directors. As a Board, in 
September, we went to see the progress being made at our 
Woodsmith project in north east England, and in July our 
Sustainability Committee spent time at the Venetia mine in 
South Africa. In April, the Audit Committee met with Marketing 
leaders in our Singapore hub, and three non-executive directors 
visited our Steelmaking Coal operations in Australia. 

“Free market systems need a robust 
governance framework if they are to 
retain the trust of shareholders and 
society. I believe that the full breadth 
of sustainability considerations should 
always underpin this framework and 
be at the heart of how responsible 
companies do business.”

Stuart Chambers
Chairman

Anglo American plc 
Integrated Annual Report 2023

Governance 
Chairman’s introduction

141

Board engagement with stakeholders

Stakeholder considerations are integral to our discussions 
at Board meetings and the decisions we make take into 
account potential impacts on them. Following our 2022 internal 
evaluation, the Board agreed one of its effectiveness priorities 
in 2023 was to pursue opportunities to have greater direct 
engagement with representatives of host communities. I am 
pleased that Board members were able to engage directly 
with local communities at the various site visits during the 
year in order to gain a better understanding of their interests 
and perspectives.

Our investor relations team manages the day-to-day 
interactions with investors and our key financial audiences. 
Our chief executive, finance director and other senior executives 
host regular meetings with investors, as well as potential 
shareholders, throughout the year. As chairman, I meet with 
many of our major shareholders in the course of the year. 
The Board also recognises the importance of the AGM as 
an opportunity for shareholders to engage with the Board 
and provide feedback.

The Board continues to enthusiastically embrace the board-
workforce engagement recommendations contained in the 
UK Corporate Governance Code. Anglo American’s Global 
Workforce Advisory Panel currently comprises 12 employees 
drawn from across our business and is chaired by non-
executive director Marcelo Bastos. To help facilitate the Board’s 
oversight role in the evolution of the organisation’s culture, the 
Panel enables the Board to better understand and take into 
account the views of the workforce, and how well the Group’s 
purpose, values and desired culture are embedded. In 2023, 
the Panel met on three occasions, one of which was in person in 
South Africa. I was delighted that Duncan Wanblad, a number of 
non-executive directors and I were able to engage directly with 
Panel members during our Board site visits on a number of 
occasions during the year. On behalf of the Board, I thank Panel 
members for their ongoing commitment and look forward to the 
Panel’s continued insights.

▶ The outcomes of our Board effectiveness review are described on 

pages 156–157 and our Board site visits are illustrated on pages 158–160.

▶ For more information on the Panel and the ways in which we currently 

engage with our key stakeholders
See pages 161–163

Stuart Chambers speaking with Leah Swain, chief executive of the 
Woodsmith Foundation, at the Eastside Community Hub in Whitby 
during the Board visit in September 2023.

Committee governance

Starting on page 164, each Board committee chair presents 
a report on the activities of their committee during 2023. The 
effective and efficient operation of the committees and their 
interaction with the Board are vital to ensure that all matters 
receive the necessary attention in a timely manner. I am 
grateful to the members and the chairs of those committees 
in particular for their commitment and the work that they do 
throughout the year in this regard.

2024 Annual General Meeting

Our 2024 AGM will again be held as a hybrid meeting and 
shareholders will be welcome to attend, vote, raise questions 
and be heard both physically in the room and via the virtual 
platform. I look forward to engaging with as many of you as 
possible at the AGM, in person or virtually, and would 
encourage you to vote your shares even if you cannot attend 
in person, so that we gain a better understanding of the views 
of our shareholders as a whole. 

Stuart Chambers
Chairman

142

Anglo American plc 
Integrated Annual Report 2023

Governance 
Directors

Directors

Committee member key

Audit Committee
Nomination Committee
Remuneration Committee

Sustainability Committee
Chair of Committee
Member of Committee

Stuart Chambers
Chairman

Duncan Wanblad
Chief Executive

Qualifications: BSc (Applied Physics), PhD 
Business Administration, FIChemE
Appointed: 1 September 2017 and as Chairman 
on 1 November 2017

Qualifications: BSc (Eng) Mech, GDE 
(Eng Management)
Appointed: 19 April 2022 as Chief Executive

John Heasley
Finance Director

Qualifications: BA, CA

Appointed: 1 December 2023 as Finance 
Director

Skills and experience

Skills and experience

Skills and experience

Stuart contributes to Anglo American 
significant global executive and boardroom 
experience across the industrial, logistics 
and consumer sectors.

Duncan brings to the Board more than 
30 years of global mining experience and 
a deep understanding of Anglo American, 
its culture and context.

Stuart served as chairman of Travis Perkins 
plc from 2017 to 2021, and previously 
chaired ARM Holdings plc and Rexam plc 
until 2016. In his non-executive career, 
Stuart has served on the boards of Tesco 
PLC, Manchester Airport Group plc, Smiths 
Group plc and Associated British Ports 
Holdings plc. 

Stuart’s executive career included 13 years 
at Pilkington plc and its subsequent parent 
company Nippon Sheet Glass until 2010, 
in a number of executive roles and ultimately 
as chief executive of both companies. 
Prior to that, he gained 10 years of sales 
and marketing experience at Mars 
Corporation, following 10 years at Shell 
as a chemical engineer.

Current external appointments

A Visiting Fellow of Saïd Business School, 
Oxford University. 

Nationality: 

British

Age:

67

Duncan leads the Executive Leadership 
Team (ELT), having served as a member 
since 2009, and is chairman of De Beers. 
From 2016 to 2022, Duncan was 
Group Director – Strategy and Business 
Development, also serving as CEO of 
our Base Metals business from 2013 
to 2019. Until 2022, he chaired the 
Anglo American Foundation.

Between 2009 and 2013, Duncan held the 
position of Group Director – Other Mining 
and Industrial, responsible for a global 
portfolio of mining and industrial businesses 
for disposal or turnaround to maximise 
shareholder value. He was appointed CEO 
of our Copper operations in 2008, prior to 
which he served as joint interim CEO of 
Anglo American Platinum in 2007 (having 
served on the board since 2004). From 2004 
to 2007, Duncan was Executive Director of 
Projects and Engineering at Anglo American 
Platinum. Duncan began his career at 
Johannesburg Consolidated Investment 
Company Limited in 1990. 

Current external appointments

None

Nationality:

South African

Age:

57

John brings to Anglo American proven 
financial, strategic and commercial 
expertise, coupled with hands-on 
operational experience of supporting 
sustainable mining through technology.

John is a member of the ELT and is a director 
of De Beers. Prior to joining Anglo American 
in 2023, he was chief financial officer and an 
executive director at The Weir Group PLC, 
the FTSE 100 listed global engineering 
company providing engineering 
technologies to the global mining industry, 
a role held since 2016.

Prior to joining Weir in 2008, John served as 
group financial controller of Scottish Power 
plc, following his early career in professional 
services firms in audit, mergers & 
acquisitions, and corporate finance roles.

Current external appointments

Non-executive director and honorary 
treasurer of the Royal Scottish National 
Orchestra, a charitable organisation.

Nationality:

British

Age:

49

Anglo American plc 
Integrated Annual Report 2023

Governance 
Directors

143

Ian Tyler 
Senior Independent Director

Magali Anderson
Independent Non-executive Director

Ian Ashby
Independent Non-executive Director

Qualifications: BCom, ACA

Qualifications: Mech Eng

Qualifications: B Eng (Mining)

Appointed: 1 January 2022 and as Senior 
Independent Director on 19 April 2022 

Appointed: 1 April 2023

Appointed: 25 July 2017

Skills and experience

Skills and experience

Skills and experience

Ian contributes to Anglo American a wealth 
of boardroom and financial experience 
spanning a number of industrial sectors, 
including as chair of remuneration and 
audit committees. 

Ian has previously served as chairman of 
Amey, and of Vistry Group plc (formerly 
Bovis Homes Group) and Cairn Energy plc, 
and is a former non-executive director of 
BAE Systems plc, VT Group plc and Cable & 
Wireless Communications plc, amongst 
other non-executive board roles. Ian’s senior 
executive career was at Balfour Beatty plc, a 
global infrastructure business, joining as 
finance director in 1996 and serving as chief 
executive from 2005 to 2013. 

Current external appointments

Chairman of BMT Group Ltd, a maritime-
orientated consultancy, and of Affinity 
Water, a privately-held business (stepping 
down from this role in 2024); and a non-
executive director of Synthomer plc. A non-
executive director and chair designate of 
Grafton Group plc from 1 March 2024.

Nationality:

British

Age:

63

Magali brings to Anglo American highly 
relevant experience in capital intensive 
industries from an international executive 
career in operational, commercial and 
business transformation leadership roles, 
and a deep understanding of sustainability 
in its broadest sense.

Until September 2023, Magali was chief 
sustainability and innovation officer and a 
member of the executive committee of 
Holcim Group, the Switzerland-based global 
building materials company. She joined 
Holcim in 2016, becoming chief 
sustainability officer in 2019 and adding 
innovation to her remit in 2021. During her 
Holcim tenure, Magali was a member of the 
advisory boards of industry organisations: 
Business for Nature, the MIT Climate and 
Sustainability Consortium, the World Green 
Building Council and the 50L Home Coalition 
on water efficiency; and co-chair of the 
2050 net-zero work for the Global Cement 
and Concrete Association. Prior to joining 
Holcim, Magali spent the majority of her 
career with Schlumberger, holding 
operational line management positions 
including CEO, Angola and region head, 
Europe. Magali started her career as a field 
engineer on offshore oil rigs in Nigeria.

Current external appointments

None

Nationality:

French

Age:

56

Ian contributes to Anglo American 
substantial knowledge of the minerals 
industry across a wide range of 
commodities, combined with global 
operating, major projects and capital 
development experience.

Ian served as president of iron ore for BHP 
Billiton between 2006 and 2012, when he 
retired from the company. During his 25-year 
tenure with BHP Billiton, Ian held numerous 
roles in its iron ore, base metals and gold 
businesses in Australia, the US and Chile, as 
well as projects roles in the corporate office. 
He began his nearly 40-year mining career 
as an underground miner at the Mount Isa 
Mines base metals operations in 
Queensland, Australia. 

Ian has previously served as chairman of 
Petropavlovsk plc, and a non-executive 
director of IAMGOLD Corporation, Alderon 
Iron Ore Corp, Nevsun Resources Ltd, New 
World Resources PLC and Genco Shipping 
& Trading, and in an advisory capacity with 
Apollo Global Management and Temasek.

Current external appointments

Independent director of Suncor Energy Inc. 

Nationality:

Australian

Age:

66

144

Anglo American plc 
Integrated Annual Report 2023

Governance 
Directors

Directors continued

Committee member key

Audit Committee
Nomination Committee
Remuneration Committee

Sustainability Committee
Chair of Committee
Member of Committee

Marcelo Bastos
Independent Non-executive Director

Hilary Maxson
Independent Non-executive Director

Hixonia Nyasulu
Independent Non-executive Director

Qualifications: MBA, BSc (Hons) Mech Eng

Appointed: 1 April 2019

Qualifications: MBA, B.S. (Applied Economics 
& Management)
Appointed: 1 June 2021

Qualifications: BA Hons

Appointed: 1 November 2019

Skills and experience

Skills and experience

Skills and experience

Hilary contributes to Anglo American 
experience in business, spanning finance, 
the capital markets, energy transition and 
technology, gained across her executive 
career in the US, Europe, Africa and Asia. 

Hilary is CFO of Schneider Electric and 
a member of its executive committee, based 
in Paris. She previously served as CFO 
of their largest business unit, Energy 
Management, having joined the company 
in 2017 as CFO of the Building and IT 
business, situated in Hong Kong. Prior 
to joining Schneider Electric, Hilary spent 
12 years with the AES Corporation in 
a variety of finance, M&A and business 
development roles, based across the US, 
Cameroon and the Philippines, ultimately 
as CFO for Asia. Hilary began her career at 
Bank of America and Citigroup, in New York.

Current external appointments

None

Nationality:

American

Age:

45

Marcelo contributes to Anglo American more 
than 30 years of operational and project 
experience in the mining industry across 
numerous commodities in South America, 
Australia, Africa and south east Asia. 
He is designated by the Board to chair 
and engage with Anglo American’s Global 
Workforce Advisory Panel. 

Marcelo served as chief operating officer of 
MMG between 2011 and 2017, responsible 
for the group’s copper, zinc, silver, lead and 
gold operations, and sales and marketing. 
In this role, he also led the planning and 
development of the Las Bambas copper 
mine in Peru. Prior to MMG, Marcelo served 
as president and CEO of the BHP Mitsubishi 
Alliance joint venture (metallurgical coal), 
president of BHP’s Cerro Matoso nickel 
operation in Colombia, president of nickel 
Americas, and president of Nickel West in 
Australia. He had a 19-year career at Vale 
until 2004 in a range of senior executive 
positions in Brazil. Marcelo is a former non-
executive director of Golder Associates and 
Oz Minerals Ltd.

Current external appointments

Non-executive director of Aurizon Holdings 
Ltd and Iluka Resources Ltd.

Nationality:

Age:

Brazillian/Australian 60

Hixonia contributes to Anglo American 
significant global board experience drawn 
from the natural resources, financial services 
and consumer industries. 

Until December 2023, Hixonia was a 
member of the board of AGRA and chaired 
the Africa Economic Challenge Fund, both 
not-for-profit organisations. She previously 
served as senior independent director of 
Vivo Energy plc, and as a non-executive 
director on the boards of Sasol, including five 
years as chairman, Nedbank, Unilever NV 
and Unilever plc. She has also served as a 
member of the South Africa advisory board 
of J.P. Morgan and on the board of the 
Development Bank of Southern Africa. In 
2004, Hixonia founded Ayavuna Women’s 
Investments (Pty) Ltd, a female-controlled 
investment holding company. Prior to that, 
she ran T.H. Nyasulu & Associates, a 
strategy, marketing and research company, 
after starting her career at Unilever in South 
Africa. Hixonia was a founder member of the 
Advisory Group formed by the World 
Economic Forum to set up a community 
of global chairs.

Current external appointments

Non-executive director and vice chair of 
Olam Agri Holdings Pte. Ltd. 

Nationality:

South African

Age:

69

Anglo American plc 
Integrated Annual Report 2023

Governance 
Directors

145

Board diversity policy statement: gender and ethnicity targets

The Board is committed to ensuring that it has the right balance of skills, experience and 
diversity, and reflects the global reach of the Group, its employees and major markets. 
The Board strongly supports the targets of the FTSE Women Leaders and Parker 
reviews on gender and ethnic diversity. In support of these aims, in leading search 
processes to appoint new directors, the Nomination Committee retains the services of 
executive search firms that are accredited under the UK Government’s Voluntary Code 
of Conduct for Executive Search Firms.

At the date of this report, four (40%) of the 10 directors are female and two (20%) 
identify as minority ethnic. Six different nationalities are represented, bringing 
experience from all of Anglo American’s major regions. A substantial majority of the 
Board have a nationality or place of origin outside the UK. The Company satisfies the 
targets in the UK Listing Rules on having at least 40% female representation on its Board, 
and at least one Director from a minority ethnic background. 

The Company does not currently meet the UK Listing Rule target that at least one of 
the senior positions on its Board (defined under the Listing Rules as the chair, chief 
executive, senior independent director or chief financial officer) is held by a woman. 
Appointments to the Board are made on merit following rigorous search processes, 
ensuring the overall composition of the Board and its committees continues to reflect 
an appropriate mix of capabilities, experience and diversity (of gender, ethnicity, 
nationality, age and perspectives). In considering succession plans for these four 
positions, due attention will be given to this target. We are confident that future 
appointments will, as a whole, continue to support the Board’s diversity aims.

The additional diversity data required under the UK Listing Rules is set out on 
page 167.

Board experience and diversity

The broad range of skills and experience and the diversity of our Board as at the 
date of this report are illustrated below.

Gender diversity

4

ò	Male (60%)
ò	Female (40%)

Professional experience
Mining

Large project management

Construction in extractive industries

Finance 

6

Marketing (downstream) or commodity trading

Safety, health, environment

Digital technology and innovation

Climate change or clean energies

Board nationality or place of origin

External quoted boardroom experience

1

3

1

1

1

3

ò	British
ò	South African
ò	American

ò	Australian
ò	French
ò	Brazilian

Previous chief executive

Regional experience

North America

Southern Africa

China

South America

Australia 

India

50%

50%

40%

60%

60%

100%

50%

30%

80%

50%

80%

60%

60%

50%

30%

10%

Nonkululeko Nyembezi
Independent Non-executive Director

Qualifications: MBA, MSc, BSc

Appointed: 1 January 2020

Skills and experience

Nonkululeko contributes to Anglo American 
great breadth of technical and strategic 
insights with a background in engineering 
and extensive experience spanning mining, 
steel, financial services and technology in 
South African and global organisations.

Nonkululeko was previously chairman of JSE 
Limited. She was also formerly CEO of Ichor 
Coal N.V., and has previously served as 
chairman of Alexander Forbes Group, as a 
non-executive director on the boards of Old 
Mutual plc, Exxaro Resources, Universal Coal 
plc and Denel, and as CEO of ArcelorMittal 
South Africa. In her earlier career, 
Nonkululeko was chief officer of M&A for the 
Vodacom group and chief executive officer 
of Alliance Capital, the then local subsidiary 
of a New York-based global investment 
management company.

Current external appointments

Chairman of Standard Bank Group, and of 
Macsteel Service Centres SA, a privately 
held business (anticipated to step down 
from this role in March 2024). 

Nationality:

South African

Age:

63

In addition, the following director served 
during the year:
Stephen Pearce stepped down from the 
Board as finance director on 1 December 
2023, having served on the Board since 
April 2017.

146

Anglo American plc 
Integrated Annual Report 2023

Governance 
Executive Leadership Team

Leadership team
Executive Leadership Team members

Duncan Wanblad
Chief Executive

Alison Atkinson
Projects & Development 
Director

Monique Carter
People & Organisation 
Director

Member since: 
October 2009

Qualifications: BEng (Hons) (Civil Engineering) FREng
Member since: May 2023

Qualifications: BA (Hons), MCIPD
Member since: June 2023

John Heasley
Finance Director

Member since; 
December 2023

▶ For full biographical details 
of the executive directors 
See page 142

Skills and experience
As Projects & Development Director, Alison 
leads the Projects, Carbon and Innovation 
disciplines at Anglo American. 

Prior to joining Anglo American in 2023, Alison 
was CEO of AWE plc from 2020-2023. Alison 
joined AWE in 2005 and fulfilled a number of 
senior roles, delivering multi-billion dollar 
infrastructure projects and technology 
programmes and developing capabilities and 
products that support the UK's nuclear defence 
programme. Prior to AWE, Alison spent 14 years 
at Halcrow, the global engineering consultancy, 
managing a wide variety of capital projects in 
the UK and overseas in both the public and 
private sectors. 

Alison is a Chartered Civil Engineer and is a 
Fellow of the Royal Academy of Engineering. 
She is also a non-executive director of 
Kier Group plc and chair of its safety, health and 
environment committee.

Skills and experience
As People & Organisation Director, Monique 
leads all the people-related disciplines across 
the Group, including Culture and Learning, 
Performance and Reward, and Talent 
Development. 

Prior to joining Anglo American in 2023, Monique 
served as executive vice president People & 
Organisation for Novo Nordisk, the life science 
and global healthcare company, for four years 
until 2023. Her global career experience spans 
engineering, chemicals, manufacturing and 
retail. Prior to her most recent role, Monique was 
Group HR Director at GKN, following a number 
of senior HR roles during her career at 
AkzoNobel and ICI. 

Al Cook
CEO of De Beers 

Matt Daley
Technical & Operations 
Director

Ruben Fernandes
Regional Director, 
Americas

Qualifications: M.A. Hons (Natural Sciences)
Member since: February 2023

Qualifications: BEng (Mining) Hons, PgDip (Fin)
Member since: January 2023

Qualifications: MBA, MSc (Metallurgical Engineering)
Member since: March 2019

Skills and experience
As CEO of De Beers, Al is responsible for 
its strategy and operations from mines to 
retail stores.

Prior to joining the Group in 2023, Al was 
executive vice president of exploration and 
production international for Equinor, the 
Norway-based energy company, with 
responsibility for its businesses in 12 
countries around the world.

Al previously held the role of executive vice 
president for global strategy and business 
development at Equinor, where he 
developed a net zero strategy and 
reshaped its portfolio for the energy 
transition. He joined Equinor after a 20-year 
career at BP, which included operational 
roles offshore, leadership of the Southern 
Corridor gas project and chief of staff to the 
CEO. Al is a trustee of The Power of 
Nutrition, an independent charitable 
foundation. He is a Fellow of the Geological 
Society and the Energy Institute.

Skills and experience
As Technical & Operations Director, Matt leads 
the Discovery & Geosciences, Engineering & 
Maintenance, Information Management, Mining, 
Processing, Supply Chain, and Safety, Health & 
Environment disciplines. He is also a non-
executive director of Anglo American Platinum.

Skills and experience
As Regional Director for the Americas, Ruben is 
responsible for ensuring safe and responsible 
operations, optimising performance, future 
options and commercial value across the 
Americas, including the company’s operational 
footprint in Brazil, Chile and Peru.

Prior to joining Anglo American in 2017 as 
Group Head of Mining, Matt was the Executive 
General Manager for Glencore Canada based 
in Toronto and served as a non-executive 
director on the board of PolyMet Mining. 
He has previously worked for Xstrata and 
Minera Alumbrera and started his career with 
Mount Isa Mines in Queensland, Australia.

Prior to starting this role in 2023, he served 
as CEO of Base Metals and CEO of Anglo 
American Brazil. 

Ruben joined Anglo American in 2012, and was 
previously head of mining at Votorantim Metals 
in Brazil, responsible for projects and exploration 
activities around the world, as well as operations 
in Peru and Colombia. Between 2009 and 2011, 
he was COO at Vale Fertilizers, responsible for 
the fertiliser operations, sales and marketing. 
Ruben was also CEO of Kaolin Companies – 
Pará Pigments and Cadam – two subsidiaries of 
Vale, between 2007 and 2009, and held various 
analysis, marketing and project roles in Vale’s 
Base Metals business which he joined in 1999. 

Anglo American plc 
Integrated Annual Report 2023

Governance 
Executive Leadership Team

147

Tom McCulley
CEO of Crop Nutrients

Themba Mkhwanazi
Regional Director, Africa & 
Australia

Helena Nonka
Strategy & Sustainability 
Director

Qualifications: B.S. (Accounting)
Member since: October 2022

Qualifications: B Eng (Chemical) Hons 
Member since: August 2019

Qualifications: M.A. Hons, LL.M
Member since: October 2022

Skills and experience:
As CEO of Crop Nutrients, Tom is responsible 
for the on-plan and safe delivery of the 
Woodsmith project, aligned with the successful 
development of the market for, and premium 
value of, the mine’s polyhalite fertiliser product. 

Prior to starting this role in 2022, Tom served 
as CEO of Anglo American in Peru and Group 
Head of Projects. 

Tom joined Anglo American in 2015 and 
previously held several senior global roles 
at Newmont, including Vice President of 
Investment and Value Management and 
Vice President of Discovery and Development 
Planning and Services. Tom began his career 
at Fluor Corporation in international oil & gas 
and mining projects, developing his full project 
lifecycle expertise.

Skills and experience:
As Regional Director for Africa & Australia, 
Themba is responsible for ensuring safe and 
responsible operations, optimising performance, 
future options and commercial value across 
Africa and Australia. He is also a non-executive 
director of Anglo American Platinum and 
Kumba Iron Ore.

Prior to starting this role in 2023, Themba 
served as CEO of Bulk Commodities. He has 
also served as CEO of Kumba Iron Ore and CEO 
for Anglo American’s Thermal Coal business 
in South Africa.  

Themba joined Anglo American in 2014 and 
was previously managing director for Huntsman 
Tioxide in South Africa until 2007 when he was 
appointed COO of Richards Bay Minerals, a joint 
venture between Rio Tinto and BHP. In 2011, 
he was seconded to Rio Tinto’s Australian coal 
business, before taking up the role of regional 
general manager for the Americas in 2012. 
Themba is a Vice President of the Minerals 
Council of South Africa. 

Richard Price
Legal & Corporate Affairs 
Director

Matt Walker
CEO of Marketing

Qualifications: LL.B, BA (Hons) 
Member since: May 2017

Qualifications: Bsc (Hons), CA
Member since: December 2023

Skills and experience
As Legal & Corporate Affairs Director, Richard 
leads the Legal, Government & International 
Relations, Communications, Company 
Secretarial and Security disciplines. He also 
serves as Company Secretary of Anglo 
American plc. 

Prior to joining Anglo American in 2017, he was 
a partner at Shearman & Sterling, the 
international law firm working across EMEA, Asia 
and North America. In private practice, Richard 
acted for clients across the metals, mining, 
energy and financial services sectors, among 
others, assisting them with complex financing, 
corporate and compliance matters. 

A champion for diversity, equity and inclusion 
in the legal profession, Richard was one of the 
founders and serves as Chair of General 
Counsel for Diversity & Inclusion.

Skills and experience
As CEO of our Marketing business, Matt is 
responsible for optimising the value of the 
company’s products in the market through the 
implementation of effective sales and trading 
strategies. 

Prior to taking up this role in 2023, Matt was 
Group Head of Corporate Finance, leading 
capital allocation and integrated planning, 
as well as the M&A transaction team.

Matt joined Anglo American’s finance team in 
2007 and has held a number of senior finance 
and other roles across Anglo American, 
including as CFO of our Copper business in 
Chile. Between 2019 and 2021, he served as 
Group Treasurer responsible for the Group’s 
bank and debt market funding.

Skills and experience
As Strategy & Sustainability Director, Helena 
leads the Business Development, Portfolio 
Management, Social Impact, Strategy, and 
Sustainability disciplines. 

Prior to joining Anglo American in 2022, Helena 
was executive vice president corporate 
development for Norsk Hydro ASA, with 
responsibility for group strategy, business 
development, sustainability and technology. 

Helena’s global career spans more than 
20 years in the natural resources industry, 
professional services, consulting, and academia 
across Europe, Asia and North America. She 
previously worked as the global head of new 
business for natural resources at Switzerland-
based SGS. From 2007 to 2019, she worked for 
Rio Tinto, where she held several global senior 
commercial leadership roles, including leading 
corporate strategy.

The following members stepped 
down from executive leadership 
in 2023:

Stephen Pearce served as Finance Director 
until 1 December 2023.

Peter Whitcutt served as CEO of Marketing 
until 1 December 2023.

Natascha Viljoen served as CEO of 
Anglo American Platinum until 30 June 2023.

Didier Charreton served as Group Director – 
People and Organisation until 5 June 2023.

Nolitha Fakude served as Group Director – 
South Africa until 31 May 2023.

Anik Michaud served as Group Director – 
Corporate Relations and Sustainable Impact 
until 31 May 2023.

Bruce Cleaver served as CEO of De Beers Group 
until 20 February 2023.

148

Anglo American plc 
Integrated Annual Report 2023

Governance 
Board roles and responsibilities

Board roles and responsibilities

The Board, through its role in setting the tone 
from the top, provides leadership to the Group 
and is collectively responsible for promoting and 
safeguarding the long term success of the business. 
The Board is supported by a number of committees, 
to which it has delegated certain powers.

The role of these committees is summarised overleaf, and their 
membership, responsibilities and activities during the year are 
detailed on pages 164–211.

Some decisions are sufficiently material that they can only 
be made by the Board as a whole. The schedule of ‘Matters 
Reserved for the Anglo American plc Board’, and the 
committees’ terms of reference, explain which matters are 
delegated and which are retained for Board approval; these 
documents can be found on the Group’s website.

Executive structure

The Board delegates executive responsibilities to the chief 
executive, who is advised and supported by the Executive 
Leadership Team (ELT). In 2023, our executive management 
team, formerly known as the Group Management Committee, 
was re-organised to lead Anglo American’s next phase of value 
delivery. The ELT comprises the chief executive, regional 
directors and Group directors of corporate functions, including 
the company secretary. The names of the ELT members, their 
roles and biographical details appear on pages 146–147.

Board composition

At the date of this report, the Board comprises 10 directors: the 
chairman, two executive directors (our chief executive and our 
finance director) and seven independent non-executive 
directors. The roles of our directors are summarised overleaf, 
alongside the divisions of responsibility between the chairman, 
the executive and non-executive members of the Board.

Magali Anderson joined the Board as an independent non-
executive director on 1 April 2023. In May 2023, we announced 
Stephen Pearce’s intention to retire during the year, having 
served as finance director since 2017, and on 1 December 
2023 he stepped down from the Board. As announced in July 
and November, John Heasley joined the Board as finance 
director on 1 December 2023. 

The broad range of skills and experience our Board members 
contribute to the long term sustainable success of the Group 
are set out on pages 142–145. The Board is supported by the 
legal & corporate affairs director who also serves as the Group 
company secretary.

There is a clear separation of responsibilities at the head of 
the Company between the leadership of the Board (the 
responsibility of the chairman) and the executive responsibility 
for leadership of the Company’s business (the responsibility of 
the chief executive).

Independence of the non-executive directors

At the date of this report, more than two-thirds of the Board are 
independent non-executive directors. The Board determines 
all the non-executive directors (other than the chairman) to be 
independent of management and free from any business or 
other relationship which could interfere materially with their 
ability to exercise independent judgement. The UK Corporate 
Governance Code (the Code) does not consider a chairman 
to be independent due to the unique position the role holds in 
corporate governance. Stuart Chambers met the 
independence criteria contained in the Code when he was 
appointed as the Group’s chairman in 2017.

To ensure the continued effectiveness of the Board, the 
chairman and the non-executive directors meet without the 
executive directors present several times a year. The chairman 
also meets regularly with each of the non-executive directors. 
The senior independent director (SID) engages with the other 
non-executive directors without the chairman present, at least 
annually, to appraise the chairman’s performance. In 2023, 
Ian Tyler, as the SID, met with the non-executive directors on 
one such occasion.

Time commitment and external appointments

The Board, through the Nomination Committee, conducts an 
annual review of the time commitment expected from each 
of the non-executive directors and affirms that the directors 
devote the requisite time to meet the expectations of their role. 
In making this assessment, the Nomination Committee 
considers directors’ attendance at Board and committee 
meetings, their external positions, and the chairman is asked 
to comment on their individual performance as part of the 
Board’s effectiveness review. Overall, a minimum expected 
time commitment of 30 days per annum is set out in the non-
executive directors’ letters of appointment; however, the SID 
and committee chairs devote more time as required by their 
roles. The chairman’s anticipated annual time commitment is 
the equivalent of two to three days per week in the normal 
course of business. Directors are expected to prepare for and 
attend Board and committee meetings as relevant, a full day 
Board Strategy meeting, the AGM and at least one operational 
site visit annually.

The Board acknowledges that non-executive directors have 
business interests other than those of the Company. Prior to 
their appointment to the Board, non-executive directors are 
required to declare any directorships, appointments and other 
business interests to the Company in writing. Non-executive 
directors are required to seek the approval of the chairman, 
chief executive and Group company secretary, on behalf of the 
Board, before accepting additional significant commitments 
that might be a potential conflict of interest or affect the time 
they are able to devote to their role. New appointments are then 
reported to the full Board.

Anglo American plc 
Integrated Annual Report 2023

Governance 
Board roles and responsibilities

149

Stuart Chambers at our 2023 AGM with legal & corporate affairs director (and company secretary) Richard Price (left), senior independent director Ian 
Tyler (far left) and chief executive Duncan Wanblad (right).

Currently, only one of the non-executive directors holds more 
than two external board appointments. The Nomination 
Committee has considered these external commitments, 
taking into account the time commitment required for each 
role, and is satisfied they do not impact the individual Board 
members’ ability to discharge their responsibilities fully and 
effectively. As evidenced in the table on page 151, all directors 
attended 100% of the Board meetings that they were eligible 
to do so in 2023.

Executive directors are required to seek approval from the 
Board, following consideration by the Nomination Committee, 
before accepting an external directorship. The Board would 
not normally permit an executive director to hold more than 
one external non-executive directorship in a FTSE 100 
company (or other equivalent publicly quoted company), 
nor the chairmanship of any such company.

Duncan Wanblad, Stuart Chambers and non-executive director 
Hixonia Nyasulu at the Eastside Community Hub in Whitby, a project 
supported by the Woodsmith Foundation, in September 2023.

150

Anglo American plc 
Integrated Annual Report 2023

Governance 
Board roles and responsibilities

Chairman

Stuart Chambers leads the Board, ensuring it works constructively as a team. His main 
responsibilities include: chairing the Board and the Nomination Committee and setting their 
agendas; Board composition and succession planning; providing support and counsel to the 
chief executive and his team; promoting the highest standards of integrity and governance; 
facilitating effective communication between directors; effective dialogue with shareholders 
and other stakeholders; and acting as ambassador for the Group.

Senior Independent Director (SID)

Independent Non-executive Directors (NEDs)

Ian Tyler serves as the Board’s SID. He acts as a sounding 
board for the chairman and as an intermediary between 
the other directors. The SID leads the annual review of the 
performance of the chairman and is available to shareholders 
on matters where the usual channels of communication are 
deemed inappropriate.

The role of the NEDs is to support, constructively challenge, 
and provide advice to executive management; effectively 
contribute to the development of the Group’s strategy; 
scrutinise the performance of management in meeting 
agreed goals; and monitor the delivery of the Group’s strategy.

Chief Executive

Duncan Wanblad manages the Group. His main responsibilities include: 
executive leadership; formulation, implementation and delivery of the 
Group’s strategy as agreed by the Board; approval and monitoring of 
business plans; organisational structure and senior appointments; business 
development; and stakeholder relations.

Finance Director

John Heasley joined the Board as finance director in December 2023. 
John leads the global finance function and supports the chief executive 
in formulating, implementing and delivering the strategy in relation to the 
financial and operational performance of the Group.

Audit Committee

Nomination Committee

Remuneration Committee

Sustainability Committee

Oversight of financial 
reporting, audit, internal 
control and risk 
management.

▶ For more information
See pages 168–177

Responsible for Board 
composition, appointment of 
directors and ensuring 
effective succession planning 
for the Board and senior 
management.

Determines the remuneration 
of executive directors, the 
chairman and senior 
management, and oversees 
remuneration policy for 
all employees.

▶ For more information
See pages 166–167

▶ For more information
See pages 178–211

Oversees management 
of sustainability issues, 
including safety, health, 
environment, climate 
change and 
social performance.

▶ For more information
See pages 164–165

Corporate Committee

Executive Leadership Team (ELT)

Operational Committee

Responsible for effective decision 
making over cross-functional matters 
including Group policies.

Principal executive committee. 
Responsible for formulating strategy, 
monitoring Group performance, setting 
targets/budgets and managing the 
Group’s portfolio.

Responsible for driving operational 
best practices across the Group and 
the setting of technical standards.

Investment Committee

Marketing Risk Committee

Responsible for ensuring effective capital 
investment and material operational 
spend decision-making processes.

Responsible for evaluating, monitoring, 
directing and controlling the management 
of risk associated with the sales and 
marketing activities of the Group.

Anglo American plc 
Integrated Annual Report 2023

Governance 
Board operations

151

Board operations

Board information and support 

Board induction and development

All directors have full and timely access to the information 
required to discharge their responsibilities fully and effectively. 
They have access to the advice and services of the Group 
company secretary and his team, other members of the 
Group’s management and employees, and external advisers. 
Directors may take independent professional advice in the 
furtherance of their duties, at the Company’s expense.

Where a director is unable to attend a Board or committee 
meeting, they are provided with all relevant papers and 
information relating to that meeting and encouraged to discuss 
issues arising with the chairman, the respective committee 
chairs and other Board and committee members. In 2023, 
all directors attended 100% of the Board meetings they were 
eligible to attend, as evidenced in the table below.

The Board recognises the importance of director education and 
ongoing development. Following appointment, and as required, 
all directors receive training and development appropriate to their 
level of experience and knowledge. This includes the provision of 
a comprehensive induction programme tailored to the director’s 
experience and background, individual briefings with ELT 
members and their teams to provide newly appointed directors 
with information about the Group’s business, culture and values, 
meetings with external advisers, site visits and other relevant 
information to assist them in effectively performing their duties 
and contributing to Board discussions and decision making.

In addition to scheduled Board operational site visits, non-executive 
directors are expected to spend time at the Group’s operations 
to meet management and members of the workforce. 

All non-executive directors are provided with access to papers 
for each of the Board’s committees, including those who do 
not serve as members of those committees. Non-executive 
directors are encouraged to regularly attend meetings of the 
Board’s committees they do not serve on, at the invitation of the 
respective committee chair.

Board and committee meetings in 2023 – frequency and attendance of members

The table below shows the attendance of directors at meetings of the Board and committees during the year. Attendance is expressed 
as the number of meetings attended out of the number eligible to attend. 

Independent

Board(1)

Board Strategy

Audit

Nomination(2)

Remuneration(3)

Sustainability(4)

Stuart Chambers

Duncan Wanblad
John Heasley(5)
Stephen Pearce(6)
Magali Anderson(7)
Ian Ashby(8)
Marcelo Bastos

Hilary Maxson

Hixonia Nyasulu

Nonkululeko Nyembezi

Ian Tyler

n/a

No

No

No

Yes

Yes

Yes

Yes

Yes

Yes

Yes

8/8

8/8

1/1

7/7

6/6

8/8

8/8

8/8

8/8

8/8

8/8

1/1

1/1

—

1/1

1/1

1/1

1/1

1/1

1/1

1/1

1/1

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

4/4

—

4/4

4/4

4/4

—

—

—

—

3/4

4/4

4/4

4/4

—

4/4

—

—

—

—

—

6/6

—

—

6/6

—

6/6

4/4

4/4

—

—

3/3

4/4

4/4

—

—

4/4

—

(1) The number of Board meetings included seven scheduled meetings and one special purpose meeting.
(2) All the independent non-executive directors were invited to attend the Nomination Committee meeting in April, at the invitation of the chairman, where the topic of discussion was executive 

succession planning. Attendance of the non-Nomination Committee members is not reflected in the table above.

(3) The number of Remuneration Committee meetings included four scheduled meetings and two special purpose meetings to consider executive remuneration.
(4) All the independent non-executive directors have a standing invitation to attend Sustainability Committee meetings, at the invitation of the committee chair. Attendance of the non-committee 

members is not reflected in the table above.

(5) Appointed to the Board on 1 December 2023. John attended the Board Strategy meeting in November at the invitation of the chairman; his attendance is not reflected in the table above.
(6) Stepped down from the Board on 1 December 2023. 
(7) Appointed to the Board on 1 April 2023.
(8)

Ian Ashby was unable to join the Nomination Committee meeting in July 2023 for personal reasons. Ahead of the meeting, Mr Ashby confirmed his support for the proposals under 
consideration.

152

Anglo American plc 
Integrated Annual Report 2023

Governance 
Board operations

At the Woodsmith project’s Lockwood Beck site, non-executive directors Magali Anderson (centre) and Marcelo Bastos (right) are shown around 
the Mineral Transport System (MTS) tunnel by tunnel area manager Mark Pooleman.

Highlights

– Following her appointment as an independent non-executive 
director in April 2023, Magali Anderson undertook a tailored 
and comprehensive onboarding programme, including 
meetings with senior leaders, site visits and a briefing on the 
role and responsibilities of being a director of a UK listed 
company. Magali has attended over 20 meetings with 
management and external advisers on a variety of topics 
related to her Board and Sustainability Committee 
appointments.

– In April 2023, Audit Committee members visited our 

Marketing office in Singapore, where they met and engaged 
with members of the Marketing leadership team.

– In April 2023, non-executive directors Marcelo Bastos, 

Nonkululeko Nyembezi and Ian Tyler visited the Group’s 
Steelmaking Coal operations in Queensland, Australia.

– In July 2023, the Board’s Sustainability Committee visited 

De Beers’ Venetia mine in South Africa.

– In September 2023, the Board held one of its scheduled 

meetings at our Crop Nutrients office in north east England, 
and visited our Woodsmith project.

– Since joining the Board as finance director in December 
2023, John Heasley has commenced a comprehensive 
onboarding programme, including meetings with the Group’s 
senior leaders, engagements with key investors, site visits, 
and meetings with external advisers.

▶  Further details of these site visits can be found on pages 158–160

Newly appointed finance director John Heasley (second from right) 
greeting employees at our Johannesburg corporate office.

Anglo American plc 
Integrated Annual Report 2023

Governance 
Board activity

153

Board activity

The Board is responsible for the overall conduct of 
the Group’s business, its strategic direction and its 
organisational culture, ensuring these are aligned to 
our Purpose and Values. The chairman is responsible 
for setting the agenda. The agenda of matters 
discussed by the Board in 2023 is described and 
explained below.

Principal activities during the year

Topic and link to pillars of value

Activities | Outcomes/decisions

The Board is scheduled to meet at least six times a year but 
meets more often when circumstances warrant this. In addition, 
the Board dedicates a full meeting, usually held over two days, 
to the discussion of the Group’s strategy, addressing critical 
short, medium and long term issues. This augments the 
discussion of strategic topics at every Board meeting. Annually, 
the leaders and regional directors of the Group’s businesses 
present to the Board in some depth on the key aspects of their 
business. In between meetings, the Board receives regular 
updates from the chief executive on operational and business 
performance; and engages with senior management on 
specific topic briefings.

Safety and health
Fatal incidents, total 
recordable injury 
frequency rate, health 
and medical incidents

▶ Further reading pages 67–70

Safety is the most critical area of focus for the Board and the first topic discussed at Board 
meetings. The causes of fatal incidents and those causing injury were examined in detail by 
the Sustainability Committee and the findings discussed by the Board. 

Management performance in reducing safety incidents was monitored throughout the year. 
The Board continued to monitor the operational and technical innovation initiatives that have 
the potential to positively impact the Group’s safety performance and make mining safer and 
more sustainable. 

The Sustainability Committee considered the Group’s new contractor performance 
management framework and policy, which aims to ensure the safety of our contractor workforce.

Rigorous and unremitting focus on oversight of safety performance.

People
Inclusion and diversity, 
talent and performance 
management, employee 
engagement

▶ Further reading pages 70–75

People are a pillar of the Group’s strategy and the Board is focused on creating an inclusive and 
diverse culture.

The Board was updated on progress made on Group initiatives in the areas of gender and ethnic 
diversity, mental health, LGBTQ+, and Living with Dignity.

Succession plans for the ELT were reviewed by the Nomination Committee, on behalf of 
the Board.

The Board received feedback on discussions and outcomes of three meetings of the 
Global Workforce Advisory Panel, chaired by one of the independent non-executive directors. 
The Board also considered insights from the 2022 global employee engagement surveys, 
including our journey of gathering feedback from employees to help drive a purpose-led, high 
performing culture.

Approved senior leadership changes during the year.

Provided input into the topics of discussion for the Global Workforce Advisory Panel.

154

Anglo American plc 
Integrated Annual Report 2023

Governance 
Board activity

Topic and link to pillars of value

Activities | Outcomes/decisions

Environment
Environmental incidents, 
energy and climate 
change, water availability 
and rehabilitation

▶ Further reading pages 48–60

The Board reviewed the steps taken by management to reduce energy and natural resource 
consumption, and key projects and technologies contributing to energy transition.

Climate-related activities, energy efficiency targets and decarbonisation strategies were 
considered during the year by the Board and the Sustainability Committee. The Board discussed 
the Group’s roadmap to carbon neutrality, focusing on the underlying initiatives, workstreams 
and plans underpinning delivery of our target of carbon neutral operations by 2040. The Board 
considered initiatives towards achieving carbon neutral energy in the Group’s operations. 

External insights from expert speakers on steel industry decarbonisation pathways and drivers 
were shared with the Board.

The Board received updates and in-depth briefings on the Group’s conformance and disclosure 
against the Global Industry Standard on Tailings Management for the Group’s managed tailings 
storage facilities, the ongoing risk measures and dam safety monitoring. 

The Board approved: 

– The acquisition, execution, and funding of three Koruson 2 renewable energy 

projects through Envusa Energy, the renewable energy joint venture partnership with 
EDF Renewables, enabling the acceleration of carbon neutral electricity in the Group’s 
southern African businesses.

Socio-political
Social incidents and 
performance, 
government, media, 
investor and stakeholder 
relations

▶ Further reading pages 60–65

The Board receives updates on key geopolitical developments in the Group’s operating 
jurisdictions, significant social incidents, and a briefing from the Group head of investor relations, 
at each meeting. Feedback from meetings held between executive leaders and institutional 
investors is communicated to the Board. 

Board members engaged directly with local community representatives during their site visits 
in 2023 in South Africa, the UK and Australia. 

The chief executive and business leaders updated the Board on engagement with the 
governments of host countries and on local community dialogue. The Board was briefed by 
management on feedback following the Group’s two Sustainability Performance updates held 
in 2023.

The Board received briefings from internal teams on trends in relevant areas and likely scenarios 
for global economic growth. The Board received regular updates on commodity markets from 
Marketing leadership.

The Board received an update from the Strategy team on the Group’s commodity price outlook.

Economic outlook 
and commodity 
price
Macro-economic 
environment and 
commodity price outlook

▶ Further reading pages 24–39

Operations
Operational performance 
by each business unit and 
progress of key projects

The Board received detailed updates on the operational performance, strategy, safety and 
sustainability performance, people, technological innovation, and key risks of its businesses. 

The Board was updated throughout the year on the progress of the De Beers Venetia 
Underground and Crop Nutrients Woodsmith projects.

▶ Further reading pages 94–128

The Board approved: 

– Agreement in principle between De Beers Group and the Government of the Republic 

of Botswana for a new 10-year sales agreement for Debswana's rough diamond production 
(through to 2034) and the new 25-year Debswana mining licences (through to 2054).

– Initial funding for the Exploration Access Development Phase at De Beers Jwaneng 

underground project. 

– Additional funding to complete pre-feasibility studies and advance critical path activities for 

the Los Bronces underground expansion in Chile.

 
 
   
Anglo American plc 
Integrated Annual Report 2023

Governance 
Board activity

155

Topic and link to pillars of value

Activities | Outcomes/decisions

Financial
Key financial measures, 
liquidity and balance 
sheet strength, cost 
improvements, dividend

The Board monitored financial performance and discussed progress against the annual budget 
and five-year plan. Liquidity strategy and balance sheet strength were reviewed. A revised 
Group treasury policy was considered by the Board and Audit Committee.

The Board and Audit Committee considered the Group’s dividend policy.

▶ Further reading pages 76–78

Recommended the 2022 final dividend (approved at the 2023 AGM) and approved the 2023 
interim dividend. 

The Board approved:

– The Group’s 2024 budget, incorporating capital expenditure for critical projects

– A revised Group treasury policy 

– A mandate to enable the issuance of $2.0 billion of bonds in 2023, and the refinancing of the 

Group’s $4.7 billion revolving credit facility maturing in 2025.

Strategy
Portfolio outlook, progress 
on critical tasks and long 
term strategic pathways

The Board considered strategic issues at every meeting in 2023, and held a two-day dedicated 
strategy meeting. The Board discussed progress towards delivery of the Group’s strategic goals 
in the context of Portfolio, Innovation and People, including: portfolio and growth strategy, key 
competitive trends and value creation, technology development strategy, climate change and 
decarbonisation strategies, delivery of organisational efficiencies, and exploration activities. 

▶ Further reading pages 10–75

The Board considered options for moving its portfolio towards future-enabling products, 
while supporting a Just Transition that seeks to balance the needs and expectations of all 
stakeholders, including environmentally and socially sustainable jobs, consistent with 
addressing the overriding issue of climate change.

Board governance 
Reports from committees, 
legislative and regulatory 
compliance, succession 
planning 

▶ Further reading pages 

156-211

Approved the Group’s critical strategic objectives.

Key decisions made during the year in support of the Group’s pathways to carbon neutrality.

Each of the committee chairs reported on their respective meetings. Reports were received 
on the Group’s compliance with relevant legislation and regulation and any actions needed to 
respond to recent developments. 

The Board received updates on material litigation across the Group. The Audit Committee 
chair provided an update on material whistleblowing reports. 

The Board undertook a rigorous review of its effectiveness and that of its committees and 
individual directors.

The Board and Nomination Committee reviewed the Board’s composition, diversity 
and succession plans for non-executive and executive directors, and members of the ELT.

The Board was updated on the implementation of a more active and co-ordinated Group 
engagement strategy in relation to the influence, management, and governance of its non-
managed joint ventures.

The Board received a briefing on business integrity and the key compliance risks facing the 
Group from anti-corruption laws. Updates were provided on regulatory developments, including 
proposed changes to the UK Corporate Governance Code (since published in January 2024).

Approved Board and ELT appointments:

– Magali Anderson as a non-executive director and member of the Sustainability Committee 

from 1 April 2023.

– John Heasley as Finance Director from 1 December 2023.

– Monique Carter and Matt Walker as members of the ELT, on the recommendation of the 

chief executive.

The Board endorsed the re-organisation of the senior management team to lead the next phase 
of value delivery.

The Chairman and executive directors approved increases to the non-executive directors’ fees 
for 2023 and the introduction of an annual fee for acting as the designated non-executive 
director to chair the Global Workforce Advisory Panel.

Agreed Board effectiveness priorities for 2023.

Approved Anglo American’s 2023 Modern Slavery Act statement.

 
   
 
 
 
156

Anglo American plc 
Integrated Annual Report 2023

Governance 
Board effectiveness in 2023

Board effectiveness in 2023

Each year, the Board undertakes a rigorous review 
of its own effectiveness and performance, and that 
of its committees and individual directors. At least 
every three years, the review is externally facilitated. 
In 2023, an internal evaluation was undertaken. 
The process for how the review was conducted 
and its findings are illustrated below. 

The last externally facilitated effectiveness review of the Board 
was undertaken in 2021, the results of which were reported in 
the 2021 Integrated Annual Report. Taking account of the 
findings of the 2022 review, the Board had identified four 
priority areas for 2023, the details of which were reported in the 
2022 Integrated Annual Report. Actions to address these areas 
were identified and progressed throughout the year. The Board 
made good progress on implementing the actions to address 
the findings, as illustrated in the table below.

Again in 2023, the directors completed online, questionnaire-
based internal effectiveness reviews. To allow the Board and 
its committees to judge progress over a three-year period, the 
reviews explored similar areas to the 2022 review. The 2023 
review reaffirmed that the Board believes that it continues to 
operate effectively, is collegiate and well-functioning.

The review of the chairman’s performance was led by the senior 
independent director. The chairman was not present during the 
discussions with both executive and non-executive directors as 
it related to him. The directors commended the chairman on his 
effective leadership of the Board, noting that he fosters an open 
and supportive culture that facilitates the contribution of each 
member. It is the directors view that the chairman has an 
appropriately strong, constructively challenging, and supportive 
relationship with the chief executive and his leadership team 
and they felt this was an important component in the overall 
effectiveness of the Board. In addition, the chairman received a 
report evaluating the individual directors’ performance. To 
complement the internal review process, the chairman holds 
regular one-to-one meetings with each of the directors.

Actions taken in 2023 to address the areas identified by the Board as 
effectiveness priority areas following the 2022 internal review are 
summarised below:

Topic

People

Areas identified for action

Actions taken in 2023

Maintain Board focus on the Group’s talent 
management, including its processes to 
identify and develop talent. Maximise 
opportunities for the Board to have exposure 
to future leaders in the Group’s talent pipeline.

Opportunities for Board’s exposure to future 
leaders and high potential employees in the 
Group’s talent pipeline were facilitated during 
the year. High potential employees presented 
regularly at Board and committee meetings, 
and gained additional exposure through one-
to-one meetings with non-executive directors, 
and in more informal settings during Board 
and director site visits.

Talent management will continue to be a 
priority focus area for the Board in 2024.

Formal location visits were facilitated for 
Board members in 2023, to South Africa and 
the UK, in addition to ad hoc non-executive 
director site visits. The visits afforded 
opportunities for the Board to engage directly 
with community representatives, as described 
in this report.

Opportunities for Board engagement with the 
Group’s customers will be further developed 
in 2024.

Community 
and customer 
engagement

With the return of Board site visits, pursue 
opportunities for the Board to have direct 
engagement with representatives of host 
communities. Seek opportunities for the 
Board to engage with the Group’s customers.

Anglo American plc 
Integrated Annual Report 2023

Governance 
Board effectiveness in 2023

157

Topic

Areas identified for action

Actions taken in 2023

External insights

Increase the Board’s exposure to external 
insights in pertinent areas, particularly climate 
change and geopolitical trends.

Strategy

Redirect the Board’s strategic focus towards 
the making of strategic choices and 
overseeing the execution of strategy.

There was greater focus on providing external 
insights and industry trends to the Board 
during strategic discussions. For example, 
external expert speakers provided insights 
on steel decarbonisation to the Board as part 
of its strategic discussions. 

Senior leaders presented updates to the Board 
on geopolitical and macro-economic trends. 

The Board considered strategic issues at 
every meeting in 2023, and held a two-day 
dedicated strategy meeting. The Board 
discussed progress towards delivery of the 
Group’s strategic goals and implementation 
of business strategy, including: portfolio 
and growth strategy, technology 
development strategy, climate change 
and decarbonisation strategies, and delivery 
of organisational efficiencies.

Building on the priority areas identified and the actions taken during 
2023, and taking account of the findings of the 2023 review, the 
Board has identified the following effectiveness priorities for 2024:

Topic

People

Areas identified for action

Following the re-organisation of the Executive Leadership Team in 2023, continue the Board’s 
focus on senior leadership succession, and increase visibility of high potential employees and 
future leaders in the Group’s talent pipeline.

Stakeholder 
engagement

Building on the increased Board-community engagement in 2023, focus the Board’s attention 
on further developing its understanding of stakeholder views, particularly the Group’s customers 
and investors.

External insights

Continue to maximise opportunities for the Board to obtain greater external perspectives, 
particularly in the areas of macro-economic, industry and geopolitical trends.

Strategy

Evolve the Board’s focus from the making of strategic choices to strategy implementation and 
supporting executive management in execution of the Group’s strategy.

Committee effectiveness

The committee reviews looked at ways in which they could 
improve their overall effectiveness, their performance and 
effectiveness priority areas they needed to address in 2024. 
All Board committees were believed to be performing well and 
were appropriately constituted.

158

Anglo American plc 
Integrated Annual Report 2023

Governance 
Board visits in 2023

Board and non-executive directors’ visits 
to Group operations in 2023

Undertaking regular site visits allows the directors 
to gain a better understanding of the Group’s 
operations and culture, and affords Board members 
the opportunity to meet and engage with a diverse 
cross-section of employees and local stakeholders 
to appreciate, at first-hand, their interests 
and concerns. 

The directors spent two days visiting the Woodsmith mine sites, 
hosted by members of the Crop Nutrients leadership team 
and site employees, focusing on safety, progress on core 
infrastructure and the study programme, research and 
development (R&D), social performance, and environmental 
management and biodiversity. The Board visited the 
Woodsmith mine, the Wilton site including the Mineral Transport 
System (MTS) tunnel, port and R&D plant, and the Lockwood 
Beck site, where they descended into the MTS tunnel. 

The Board usually meets at least once a year at one of the 
Group’s major operations. During 2023, Board, committee 
and non-executive director site visits were facilitated, as 
described below.

Board visit to Woodsmith

In September 2023, the Board held one of its meetings at our 
Crop Nutrients corporate office in north east England and 
visited our Woodsmith project, accompanied by senior leaders 
from the business. During the visit, the Board received detailed 
presentations from Crop Nutrients management on how they 
aim to set the benchmark in sustainable mining operations, 
while maintaining our social licence to operate and building 
a thriving community in the region surrounding the project.

Board members engaged directly with local community 
representatives at projects supported by the Woodsmith 
Foundation and got an on-the-ground feel for the positive 
impact the projects are making on local communities: The 
Whitby Lobster Hatchery aims to build resilience and 
sustainability in the local fishing community, creating new jobs 
and promoting tourism; while the Eastside Community Hub 
provides a wide range of community-based activities with 
the aim of reducing isolation, providing opportunities for skills 
development, and enabling better health and well-being.

As part of the visit, the chairman hosted an evening event 
for Board members to engage with the Crop Nutrients 
leadership team.

Non-executive director Magali Anderson (right) and projects & development director Alison Atkinson (centre) speaking with newly graduated 
apprentice engineer Ross Dickinson from our Crop Nutrients business during the Board’s visit to Woodsmith.

Anglo American plc 
Integrated Annual Report 2023

Governance 
Board visits in 2023

159

Sustainability Committee members and directors being briefed during 
their visit to De Beers’ Venetia mine in July 2023.

Sustainability Committee visit to Venetia

In July 2023, the Sustainability Committee visited the Venetia 
mine in South Africa, accompanied by De Beers CEO Al Cook 
and senior leaders. Other non-executive directors who are not 
members of the Committee joined the visit.

The visit focused on safety, the transition of Venetia from an 
open-pit mine into an underground mining operation, initiatives 
towards achieving carbon neutrality and net-positive impact on 
biodiversity, and community engagement. 

The Committee witnessed first hand the work being done 
locally to foster equal opportunities for women, and on 
empowering female-owned enterprises to flourish in host 
communities. The Committee also learnt about the 
collaborative work that has brought together Venetia and 
the International Youth Foundation, driving youth skills 
development and creating job opportunities through a 
partnership which supports the Musina TVET College.

During the visit, the Committee chairman, Ian Ashby, hosted an 
evening function for directors to meet with leaders and 
employees from Venetia.

Left: Stuart Chambers speaking with Morakana Molalathoko, the owner 
of a catering enterprise in Musina, the nearest town to Venetia mine, who 
is supported by the AWOME (Accelerating Women Owned Micro 
Enterprise) programme, which aims to empower women in business.

Below surface: the Sustainability Committee and senior leaders met with site management and employees underground to see the progress being 
made as Venetia transitions from being a surface mining operation to an underground mine.

160

Anglo American plc 
Integrated Annual Report 2023

Governance 
Board visits in 2023

Non-executive directors’ visits

In April 2023, Audit Committee members and the Group 
finance director met with leaders from our Marketing business in 
Singapore, where they attended in-depth presentations on the 
control processes which support value creation through the 
end to end deal lifecycle.

Also in April, non-executive directors Marcelo Bastos, 
Nonkululeko Nyembezi and Ian Tyler spent two days at our 
Steelmaking Coal operations in Queensland, Australia, hosted 
by CEO Australia Daniel van der Westhuizen. The directors 
visited operations at Moranbah North, Grosvenor and Aquila, 
where the focus was on safety, underground operations, gas 
management, carbon neutrality, and stakeholder engagement. 
The group visited the Moranbah Youth & Community Centre, 
where they learned more about how the business partners in the 
community to create shared value, and engaged directly with 
community leaders of the Barada Barna Traditional Owners.

“Site visits enable non-executive directors to get a 
better understanding of the issues facing our operations 
and how these are being managed, with real-life 
exposure to colleagues at various levels in the organisation. 
They also allow us to interact directly with representatives 
from host communities.”
Ian Ashby
Independent non-executive director 
and Sustainability Committee chairman

(Left to right) Non-executive director Nonkululeko Nyembezi 
with section engineer Peter Jaure and mechanical technician 
Dean Duboczky at Woodsmith in September 2023.

Sustainability Committee chairman Ian Ashby during the Committee’s 
visit to Venetia in July 2023.

Anglo American plc 
Integrated Annual Report 2023

Governance 
Stakeholder engagement

161

Stakeholder engagement

How the Board has engaged
The Board is committed to ensuring collaboration and 
partnering with a broad range of stakeholders, both 
directly and indirectly through reports from senior 
management. Stakeholder considerations form part of 
discussions at Board meetings and decision making 
takes into account potential impacts on our stakeholders, 
as described in the Section 172 statement on page 29 of 
the Strategic Report. How the Board interacts directly 
with certain of its key stakeholders is illustrated below. 
For further information on reflecting stakeholder views in 
the Board’s decision making, please see page 29.

Creating shared value

Investors

Employees and unions

Communities

Suppliers and contractors

Civil society (NGOs, faith 
groups and academia)

Customers

Governments and 
multilateral institutions

Industry associations

Global Workforce Advisory Panel 

Anglo American’s Global Workforce Advisory Panel (the Panel) 
was established in 2019. Its purpose is to give employees more 
of a ‘voice’ in the boardroom so their views can be better 
understood and considered when decisions are being made 
about the future of the business. The Panel affords valuable 
opportunities for the Board to understand how the Group’s 
culture, purpose and values are embedded into the organisation. 
The Panel operates alongside Anglo American’s existing 
employee engagement mechanisms, such as regular employee 
engagement surveys and director interaction with employees. 

Composition of the Panel

The Panel is currently made up of 12 employees, representing 
the countries where the Group has a significant presence, and 
is chaired by Marcelo Bastos, one of the Board’s independent 
non-executive directors. Panel members are nominated using 
agreed criteria set out in its terms of reference and selected to 
ensure representatives, throughout the organisation, are 
appropriately balanced across the areas of gender, ethnicity, 
age and seniority. New Panel members undertake an induction 
to ensure a clear understanding of their role and to support 
them in being effective employee representatives. The Panel is 
supported by the Group’s company secretarial and employee 
engagement teams. Panel members meet at least twice a year 
with the Panel chair. 

Panel meetings and discussions in 2023 

The Panel met on three occasions in 2023, in March, July and 
October. The first meeting of the year was held virtually over 
two sessions, to accommodate members in different global 
time zones. The second meeting was held in person at the Group’s 
corporate office in Johannesburg. The third was a short informal 
meeting held virtually. 

Topics for discussion in 2023 included: feedback on the Group’s 
diversity data sharing campaign, our change management 
processes, our colleague wellness activity, and performance 
management framework. Panel feedback was also sought on 
how the Group’s organisational changes, announced in May 
2023, were received in their part of the business. 

Members of the Global Workforce Advisory Panel with non-executive 
director Marcelo Bastos, who chairs the Panel.

Panel members are provided with briefings in advance on 
topics for discussion at Panel meetings and asked to engage 
with the workforce populations they represent, in order to 
provide feedback with their collective views at Panel meetings. 

At the Panel’s in-person engagement in 2023, in addition to the 
formal meeting, members engaged in pre- and post-meeting 
activities, including internally facilitated team effectiveness 
training, and local educational site visits. Panel members had 
the opportunity to engage at an informal event with the Panel 
chair, and senior leaders in the Group. Opportunities for 
relevant Panel members to meet informally with the Board 
chairman, chief executive, and other independent non-
executives were facilitated in the year during the Board’s and 
non-executive directors’ site visits. 

The Panel is scheduled to meet three times in 2024, and we 
anticipate one of these meetings taking place in person.

162

Anglo American plc 
Integrated Annual Report 2023

Governance 
Stakeholder engagement

Community engagement

Anglo American is committed to delivering a lasting positive 
contribution to host communities, beyond the life of our mines. 
Our Social Way 3.0 engagement requirements and 
commitment to local accountability that forms part of our 
Sustainable Mining Plan are at the heart of how we engage 
with local communities. We aim to always engage 
proactively, meaningfully and respectfully with all of our 
stakeholders in relation to impacts and risk and to maximise 
development opportunities. 

The Board’s Sustainability Committee receives a report on 
social performance and community issues at each meeting. 
The Board is also updated via presentations from business 
leaders and visits operations, which affords opportunities for 
direct engagement with local community representatives. 

“To me, being a Panel member means really listening to my 
colleagues and, through our meetings chaired by Marcelo, 
gives me the opportunity to represent their voice in the 
boardroom on Panel topics.”
Gugu Kubeka
Gugu is an HR Adviser based in South Africa, and has been a Panel 
member since 2022

Board and Panel feedback 

Following each Panel meeting, Marcelo Bastos discussed the 
key themes with the Board chairman and chief executive. At 
three Board meetings in 2023, Marcelo provided his reflections 
from Panel engagements and discussed the key themes with 
the full Board. The key messages from each meeting were 
shared and discussed with the ELT. Marcelo provided his 
reflections and insights at one ELT meeting, following a year of 
chairing the Panel. Marcelo shares feedback from the Board 
meeting discussions with the Panel at its following meeting. 
Topics for discussion at Panel meetings are proposed equally 
by Panel members, the Panel chair and members of the Board, 
and management.

“Being able to interact directly with a cross-section of 
employees through the Panel, and share my insights in the 
boardroom, gives the Board a unique vantage point through 
which to assess employee sentiment.”
Marcelo Bastos
Independent non-executive director and Panel chair

Non-executive director engagement with employees

In addition to feedback from the Panel, non-executive directors 
interacted with employees of varying levels of seniority during 
the year, during Board and director site visits to operations and 
corporate offices. In April, our Audit Committee chair Hilary 
Maxson and members of the Audit Committee engaged with 
colleagues during a visit to our Marketing hub in Singapore. 
Magali Anderson engaged with female colleagues 
participating in one of the Group’s Leadership Academy 
programmes aimed at developing female talent.

Global employee engagement surveys

The Board was updated during the year on the feedback and 
resulting actions that had been developed by management 
from global employee engagement surveys undertaken 
in 2022.

Duncan Wanblad and Pannett Art Gallery curator Helen Berry at the 
Eastside Community Hub in Whitby during the Board visit in September 
2023. The gallery is an open access community resource for cultural 
activities and is supported by the Woodsmith Foundation.

In September 2023, the Board visited our Woodsmith project 
in north east England, where they engaged directly with local 
community representatives at projects supported by 
the business. The Sustainability Committee visited De Beers’ 
Venetia mine in the Limpopo district in South Africa in July, 
where they visited several local projects supported by the mine. 
In April 2023, three non-executive directors spent time at the 
Moranbah Youth & Community Centre during their visit to the 
Group’s Steelmaking Coal operations, where they engaged 
directly with community leaders of traditional owners of 
the land.

▶ For more information on Board and non-executive directors’ site visits 

See pages 158–160

Anglo American plc 
Integrated Annual Report 2023

Governance 
Stakeholder engagement

163

Investor engagement

Investor engagements in 2023

The Group has an active engagement programme with its key 
financial audiences, including investors and sell-side analysts, 
as well as potential shareholders.

The Group’s investor relations team manages the interactions 
with these audiences through roadshow meetings, presentations 
including at the time of the interim and final results and twice 
yearly sustainability updates, as well as regular attendance 
at industry conferences organised mainly by investment banks 
for their institutional investor base. Key topics covered include 
market outlooks, financial and operating performance, 
sustainability and governance matters. The focus of sustainability 
discussions continues to primarily be on climate change and 
providing an update on the Group’s transition plan; while the 
Group’s approach to biodiversity and water management also 
becoming more priority engagement areas for many investors 
in the latter part of the year. In December, the Company hosted 
its annual investor update to the investment community, which 
outlined resets to production guidance. The chief executive and 
finance director subsequently hosted meetings with the largest 
shareholders through December and into January 2024. 

In addition to roadshows and industry events, the investor 
relations and management teams meet with investors and sell-
side analysts regularly throughout the year for ad hoc 
discussions. Significant concerns raised by shareholders in 
relation to the Company and its affairs are communicated 
to the Board. 

January
Closed period

Climate Action 100+ 
investor meeting

March
Investor roadshows: London 
(virtual), Edinburgh (virtual), 
North America and South Africa

Conferences: Exane Basic 
Materials

UBS Santiago investor tour

May
Investor roadshows: London 
(virtual) and North America 
(virtual)

Conferences: Bank of America 
Metals & Mining

The Board receives a briefing at each meeting from the Group 
head of investor relations and analysts’ reports are circulated to 
the directors. Feedback from meetings held between executive 
management, or the investor relations department, and 
institutional shareholders, is also communicated to the Board. 
The Chairman also engages directly with the Company’s 
largest shareholders.

July
Closed period 

Q2 Production Report 

2023 interim results 

Investor roadshows: London 
(virtual)

Annual General Meeting 

The Board values the AGM as an opportunity for all shareholders, 
but in particular its retail shareholders, to raise questions and 
comments to the Board. Shareholders were invited to submit 
their questions in advance of the AGM and also offered the 
opportunity to ask questions during the meeting both in person 
and electronically. The Company’s 2023 AGM was held in 
a hybrid format. Voting levels at the 2023 AGM were 
approximately 70%, with generally less than 2% being votes 
withheld. All resolutions submitted to the meeting in 2023 were 
passed with at least 87% of votes in favour.

September
Investor Roadshows: London 
(virtual), Edinburgh (virtual) and 
North America

Conferences: Raymond James 
Strategic Metals & Materials 
(virtual)

Danske bank virtual investor 
group

November
ESG investor meetings (virtual) 

Chairman investor meetings 

Climate Action 100+ investor 
meeting

February
Q4 2022 Production Report 

2022 full year results

Investor roadshows: London 
(virtual)

Conferences: BMO Global 
Metals & Mining

April
Q1 Production Report 

Sustainability Performance 
update

AGM

UBS London Mining Tour (virtual)

June
Conferences: BofA Smart Mine 
4.0 (virtual) 

Berenberg Thematic Mining 
event, BofA Virtual Commodity 
conference

Morgan Stanley Materials 
Cannonball Run fireside session 
(virtual)

UN PRI Advance human rights 
engagement

August
Investor Roadshow: South Africa

October
Investor and sell-side 
analyst visit to Woodsmith

Q3 Production Report 

Sustainability Performance 
update

ESG investor meetings (virtual)

Conferences: Deutsche Copper 
CEO conference (virtual)

December
2023 investor update call

CE and FD investor meetings

Chairman investor meetings

164

Anglo American plc 
Integrated Annual Report 2023

Governance 
Sustainability Committee report

Sustainability Committee report

Committee members
Ian Ashby – Chairman
Magali Anderson (appointed 1 April 2023)
Marcelo Bastos
Stuart Chambers
Nonkululeko Nyembezi 
Duncan Wanblad

▶ For further detail on biographies and Board 

experience: pages 142–145

Business regional directors, Group directors of 
strategy & sustainability, technical & operations, 
and legal & corporate affairs, and the Group heads 
of safety and sustainability also participate in 
meetings of the Committee. Other members of 
senior management are invited to attend when 
necessary. Other non-executive directors 
regularly attend Committee meetings at the 
invitation of the chair.

“ We are not only custodians of the land 
we mine; our stewardship extends to 
the impact we have on the environment 
and the way in which we engage with 
host communities. The Sustainability 
Committee ensures that the Board is 
constantly apprised of any sustainability 
issues that may affect our licence to 
operate or stand in the way of our 
achieving a net positive overall impact."
Ian Ashby
Committee chairman

Role and responsibilities

The Committee oversees, on behalf of the Board, material 
management policies, processes, and strategies designed to 
manage safety, health, environment, climate change-related and 
socio-political risks and opportunities, to achieve compliance with 
sustainable development responsibilities and commitments 
and strive to be a global leader in sustainable mining. 

The Committee is responsible for reviewing the causes of any 
fatal or significant sustainability incidents and ensuring 
learnings are shared across the Group. 

The Committee’s terms of reference are available to view online.

▶ For more information

Visit angloamerican.com/about-us/governance

Committee discussions in 2023

The Committee met four times in 2023, with full attendance 
as described on page 151. At each meeting, the Committee 
reviews detailed reports covering the Group’s performance 
across a range of sustainability areas, including: safety; health 
and wellness; socio-political trends; human rights; climate 
change; and environmental and social performance. 
Significant safety, social, health and environmental incidents 
are reviewed at each meeting, as are the results from 
operational risk reviews and operational risk assurance.

The Committee seeks to address the fundamental root causes 
of all fatal incidents occurring across Anglo American.

In 2023, three members of the workforce lost their lives at the 
Group’s managed operations. The preliminary observations 
from each of these fatal incidents were reported to the next 
Committee meeting following their occurrence, noting the 
factors surrounding the incidents, mitigation steps being taken 
and the process for formal investigation. Following completion 
of the independent investigations, findings were presented to 
the Committee and the learnings shared internally. 

Sustainability Committee members visiting Venetia mine in July 2023.

Anglo American plc 
Integrated Annual Report 2023

Governance 
Sustainability Committee report

165

Sustainability Committee chairman Ian Ashby (standing) and members engaging with senior leaders and site management during the Committee’s 
visit to Venetia mine in July 2023.

In addition to the Committee’s standing agenda items, 
the following matters were discussed during 2023:

– The approach to managing physical climate change risk 

and resilience across the Group

– Group risks relating to sustainability

– Updates on the pathways to reduce the Group’s 

Scope 3 emissions, with the Committee updated throughout 
the year on progress against our Scopes 1 and 2 targets

– Water management: progress on implementation of 

standards, and the achievement of sustainability targets

– Progress towards achieving our commitment to deliver net- 

positive impact on biodiversity, and an overview of the 
Group’s biodiversity management programme

– Updates on the delivery of our Sustainable Mining Plan 

commitments

– Social Way 3.0 – assessment results and progress on 

implementation across the Group

– Anglo American’s 2022 Sustainability Report and 2022 

Climate Change Report

– The management of land access, displacement and 

resettlement across the Group

– Permitting: an update on permitting management across 

the Group

– Shaft integrity management and the Group’s shaft 

management assurance programme

– Geotechnical risk management (slopes and underground) – 
an update on the initiatives to sustainably eliminate rockfall 
fatalities and disruptions at the Group’s mining operations

– Fire risk management across Anglo American

– Review of annual bonus and incentive plan measures 
proposed to the Remuneration Committee in relation 
to safety, health and environment.

– Human rights trends and an overview of the most salient 

human rights issues across Anglo American

– Outcome of the 2022 external audit of the Group’s safety 

and sustainability data

– Climate and ESG-related litigation

– Committee effectiveness.

– Cultural heritage management in the Group

– Tailings and water storage facilities stewardship: risk 

management updates

– Updates on the Group’s conformance and disclosure 

against the Global Industry Standard on Tailings 
Management

– Legacy SHE risks and liabilities

– Mine closure and site regeneration activities across 

the Group

– Overview of the new Group Contractor Performance 

Management Policy and framework

In July 2023, the Committee visited De Beers’ Venetia mine in 
South Africa. In April 2023, non-executive members of the 
Committee visited a number of the Group’s Steelmaking Coal 
operations in Queensland, Australia. More information on Board 
and non-executive directors’ visits to Group operations can be 
found on pages 158–160.

166

Anglo American plc 
Integrated Annual Report 2023

Governance 
Nomination Committee report

Nomination Committee report

Committee members
Stuart Chambers – Chairman
Ian Ashby
Marcelo Bastos
Hilary Maxson
Hixonia Nyasulu 
Ian Tyler

▶ For further detail on biographies and Board 

experience: pages 142–145

The chief executive, and the Group directors of people & 
organisation, and legal & corporate affairs also participate 
in meetings of the Committee, when relevant to do so. 
Other non-executive directors may attend committee 
meetings at the invitation of the chairman.

“ The Committee plays a vital role in 
ensuring the composition of the Board, 
and the leadership needs of the 
organisation, reflect an appropriate 
mix of skills, experience, diversity and 
perspectives to suit the evolving nature 
of the business and the expectations 
of society and our stakeholders”.
Stuart Chambers
Chairman

Role and responsibilities

The role of the Nomination Committee is to assist the Board in 
regularly reviewing its composition and those of its committees, 
to lead the process for Board appointments, and ensure effective 
succession planning for the Board and senior management.

The Committee’s terms of reference are available to view online.

▶ For more information 

Visit angloamerican.com/about-us/governance

Committee discussions in 2023

The Committee met four times in 2023, with attendance 
by the members as described on page 151. Discussions 
at the meetings covered the responsibilities outlined above, 
with particular focus on executive and non-executive 
succession planning.

The following matters were considered during 2023:

– The composition, structure and size of the Board and its 

committees, and the leadership needs of the organisation

– Non-executive director succession planning

– Recommending to the Board the appointment of 

Magali Anderson as a non-executive director and member 
of the Sustainability Committee

– The time commitment expected from the non-executive 

directors to meet the expectations of their role

– Recommending that the Board support the election or 

re-election of each of the directors standing at the Annual 
General Meeting in 2023

– Succession planning for the Group finance director and 

recommending to the Board the appointment of 
John Heasley to succeed Stephen Pearce as finance director

– Oversight of succession planning, and the development of 

a diverse talent pipeline, for executive leadership

– Overseeing a tender process for the appointment of an external 
search consultancy to facilitate future non-executive recruitment.

The findings of the internal 2023 Board and committee 
effectiveness review are set out on pages 156–157.

Process used in relation to non-executive Board appointment
As reported in the 2022 Integrated Annual Report, as part of the 
Board’s ongoing cycle of refreshment, in the second half of 2022 the 
Nomination Committee led a search process to recruit a new non-
executive director with a deep understanding of sustainability in its 
broadest sense, to ensure the composition of the Board reflected an 
appropriate mix of skills, experience, diversity and perspectives.

Spencer Stuart had been retained by the Committee in 2022 to 
assist with the search process. Spencer Stuart has previously 
worked for the Group in recruiting for non-executive and senior 
leadership appointments and accordingly has a good 
understanding of the Board’s requirements. They are 
accredited under the UK Government’s Voluntary Code 
of Conduct for Executive Search Firms.

Anglo American plc 
Integrated Annual Report 2023

Governance 
Nomination Committee report

167

Prior to the search commencing, the Nomination Committee 
agreed the skills and experience it considered necessary for the 
role. A longlist of gender and ethnically diverse candidates was 
then identified and discussed with the Committee to agree 
a shortlist to be interviewed. Shortlisted candidates were 
interviewed by members of the Committee and other Board 
members, as relevant.

Following conclusion of the formal process, the Committee 
concluded that Magali Anderson had the requisite skills, 
attributes and capabilities to take on the role as a non-
executive director, and agreed to recommend Ms Anderson’s 
appointment to the Board for approval. As announced in 
February 2023, Ms Anderson’s appointment was approved 
by the Board with effect from 1 April 2023. 

Board and executive management diversity

The Board’s statement on its approach to gender and ethnicity 
targets, including how it meets the diversity targets set out in the 
UK Listing Rules, can be found on page 145. The additional 
numerical data on the diversity of the Board and executive 
management, in the format prescribed by UK Listing Rule 
9.8.6R(10), is set out below as at 31 December 2023. The 
underlying data was collected directly from the Board and ELT. 
The definition of executive management for these purposes is 
the Anglo American ELT (the executive committee and most 
senior executive body below the Board). 

Information on the Group’s policy on inclusion and diversity, 
their aims, details of the gender balance of senior management 
and their direct reports, and performance against our targets 
can be found in the People section on pages 72–74. The 
definition of senior management for these purposes, in 
accordance with the UK Corporate Governance Code, is the 
ELT and those reporting to the ELT.

Group finance director appointment process in 2023
Succession planning for all directors, including the 
executive directors, is an ongoing cycle of work. The 
Nomination Committee has oversight of senior 
leadership succession plans, ensuring they are aligned to 
the long term strategic ambitions and the diverse 
leadership needs of the Group.

The Board, through its Nomination Committee, initiated a 
global process to identify the best person for the role 
of finance director, following Stephen Pearce stating his 
intention to retire from the Group. The Committee approved 
an updated role profile for the Group finance director, 
including the leadership capabilities and characteristics 
required to be successful in the role. The Committee 
discussed the development of candidates on our internal 
succession plan, and an externally facilitated benchmarking 
exercise of the external talent market was completed.

The search process included a number of internal 
candidates on our internal succession plan, and a diverse 
range of external candidates. The Committee considered 
gender and ethnically diverse candidates for the role. 
Shortlisted candidates undertook formal leadership 
capability assessments. 

The shortlisted candidates were interviewed by the 
chief executive, chairman, Audit Committee chair, senior 
independent director, and a panel of ELT members. 

Following conclusion of the rigorous process and 
a recommendation from the Committee, the Board 
concluded that John Heasley would bring proven 
financial, strategic and commercial expertise to the role, 
coupled with hands-on operational experience of 
supporting mining through technology. The remuneration 
arrangements for the appointment of John Heasley and 
the retirement of Stephen Pearce were approved by the 
Remuneration Committee. John Heasley joined the 
Board as Group finance director on 1 December 2023.

Gender identity

Men

Women

Ethnic background

Number of Board 
members

Percentage of the 
Board

Number of senior 
positions on the 
Board(1) 

Number in 
executive 
management(2)

Percentage of 
executive 
management(2)

6

4

 60% 

 40% 

4

0

9

3

 75% 

 25% 

White British or other White (including minority white groups)

Mixed/Multiple Ethnic Groups

Asian/Asian British

Black/African/Caribbean/Black British

Other ethnic group, including Arab

Not specified/prefer not to say

Number of Board 
members

Percentage of the 
Board

Number of senior 
positions on the 
Board(1) 

Number in 
executive 
management(2)

Percentage of 
executive 
management(2)

8

0

0

2

0

0

 80% 

 0% 

 0% 

 20% 

 0% 

 0% 

4

0

0

0

0

0

10

1

0

1

0

0

 83 %

 8 %

 0 %

 8 %

 0 %

 0 %

(1) Senior positions are defined under UK Listing Rule 9.8.6 R(9)(a) as the chair, the chief executive, the senior independent director, or the chief financial officer.
(2) In accordance with UK Listing Rule 9.8.6 R(10), executive management for these purposes is the Anglo American Executive Leadership Team (the executive 

committee or most senior executive body below the Board). The Group company secretary is a member of the ELT.

168

Anglo American plc 
Integrated Annual Report 2023

Governance 
Audit Committee report

Audit Committee report

Role and responsibilities

– Monitoring the integrity of the annual and interim 

financial statements

– Making recommendations to the Board concerning the 
adoption of the annual and interim financial statements

– Overseeing the Group’s relations with the external auditor

– Reviewing the independence, effectiveness and objectivity 

of the external auditor

– Reviewing and monitoring the effectiveness of the Group’s 

risk management and internal control mechanisms

– Approving the terms of reference of the internal audit 

function and assessing its effectiveness

– Approving the internal audit plan and reviewing regular 
reports from the Group head of risk management and 
business assurance on effectiveness of the internal 
control system

– Receiving reports from management on the principal risks 
of the Group. Details of the principal risks are contained 
on pages 81–85

– Overseeing completion of the viability statement

– Reviewing the effectiveness of the Group’s Code of 

Conduct and the arrangements to counter the risk of bribery 
and corruption.

The Committee’s terms of reference are available to view online.

▶ For more information

Visit angloamerican.com/about-us/governance

Committee members
Hilary Maxson* – Chair
Nonkululeko Nyembezi
Ian Tyler*

*Audit Committee members deemed to have recent and 
relevant financial experience in accordance with the UK 
Corporate Governance Code. The Committee as a 
whole has competence relevant to the sector. 

▶ For further detail on biographies and Board 

experience: pages 142–145

The chairman, the chief executive, the finance director, the 
Group head of finance and performance management, 
the head of financial reporting, the Group head of risk 
management and business assurance, and the legal & 
corporate affairs director also participate in meetings of 
the Committee.

“ The Audit Committee remains vigilant 
in ensuring the integrity of the 
Company’s financial statements and 
for strengthening its internal controls, 
risk management framework, and the 
annual reporting on their effectiveness.”
Hilary Maxson
Committee chair

Anglo American plc 
Integrated Annual Report 2023

Governance 
Audit Committee report

169

Fair, balanced and understandable 

Committee discussions in 2023

A key requirement of our financial statements is for the report to 
be fair, balanced, understandable and provide the information 
necessary for shareholders to assess the Group’s and Parent 
Company’s position and performance, business model and 
strategy. The Audit Committee and the Board are satisfied 
that the 2023 Integrated Annual Report meets this requirement, 
as appropriate weight has been given to both positive and 
negative developments in the year.

In justifying this statement, the Audit Committee has considered 
the robust processes which operate in creating the 2023 
Integrated Annual Report, including:

The Committee met four times in 2023, with full attendance as 
described on page 151. Throughout the course of 2023, and 
consistent with prior years, the Committee paid particular 
attention to the valuation of assets, one-off transactions, tax 
matters, financial controls and the Group’s liquidity position. In 
addition, there were in-depth discussions on ad hoc topics as 
requested by the Audit Committee; for example, Woodsmith, 
Our Code of Conduct, cyber risk, artificial intelligence 
technology risk, pensions funding and exposures, and 
sustainability reporting governance and assurance. The 
Committee reviewed the system of internal control and risk 
management.

– Review and approval of management’s assessment of the 

risk of misstatement in financial reporting

– Clear guidance and instruction provided to all contributors

The Committee met with leaders from our Marketing business in 
Singapore in April 2023, where they had in-depth presentations 
and discussions on risks and controls. 

– Revisions to regulatory reporting requirements are provided 

An internal effectiveness review of the Committee was undertaken.

The key topics discussed by the Committee during 2023 are set 
out on the following pages.

to contributors and monitored on an ongoing basis

– Early-warning meetings focused on accounting matters are 
conducted between management of each business, Group 
functions, the Group finance team and the external auditor 
in advance of the year end reporting process

– A thorough process of review, evaluation and verification 
of the inputs from businesses is undertaken to ensure the 
accuracy and consistency of information presented in the 
2023 Integrated Annual Report

– External advisers provide advice to management and the 

Audit Committee on best practice with regard to the creation 
of the 2023 Integrated Annual Report

– A meeting of the Audit Committee was held in February 
2024 to review and approve the draft 2023 Integrated 
Annual Report, in advance of the final approval by the 
Board. This review included the significant accounting 
matters explained in the notes to the consolidated 
financial statements

– The Audit Committee considered the conclusions of the 

external auditor over the key audit matters that contributed 
to their audit opinion, specifically impairment charges and 
impairment reversals and environmental restoration and 
decommissioning obligations. 

170

Anglo American plc 
Integrated Annual Report 2023

Governance 
Audit Committee report

Significant accounting issues considered by the Audit Committee in 
relation to the Group’s financial statements

— Impairment and impairment 

reversals of assets

The value of mining operations 
is sensitive to a range of 
characteristics unique to each 
asset. Management is required 
to apply judgement in the 
estimation of Ore Reserves, 
and price and production 
forecasts which drive cash 
flow projections.

Response of the Audit Committee
The Committee exercises oversight over the impairment review process. The Committee 
assessed the identification of impairment and impairment reversal indicators, the impact of 
climate change on commodity prices and exchange rate assumptions, the review of changes in 
the valuation of cash generating units (CGUs) and associated sensitivity analysis, and the 
appropriateness of disclosures made within the 2023 Integrated Annual Report on key sources 
of estimation uncertainty. 

The Committee paid particular attention to the impact of climate change on the Group’s 
impairment analysis. In addition to the linkage to commodity prices, the impact of carbon 
pricing through carbon cost assumptions was considered for the operations where a valuation 
was prepared together with the consistency of climate-related assumptions to the Group’s 
wider climate strategy. The Committee reviewed and approved the associated climate-related 
impairment disclosure. 

During 2023, the most significant assets considered were the following:

De Beers 
The annual impairment assessment for goodwill relating to De Beers indicated a lower 
valuation than in 2022, primarily driven by lower prices reflecting a reduction in forecast 
consumer demand and resulted in an impairment charge of $1.6 billion to bring the carrying 
value into line with the recoverable amount. 

The valuation continues to be sensitive to changes in foreign exchange rates and consumer 
demand, impacting prices. The Committee concluded that the impairment charge recorded at 
31 December 2023 was appropriate and carefully considered and approved the proposed 
disclosure.

Barro Alto, Nickel
At 30 June 2023, changes in the long term cost profile were identified as an indicator of 
impairment and the carrying value of the CGU was assessed, resulting in an impairment charge 
of $0.4 billion. At 31 December 2023, revisions to the short and medium term nickel price 
forecast were identified as an indicator of further impairment and an additional impairment 
charge of $0.4 billion was recorded. 

The Committee considered the valuation scenarios presented by management and approved 
the conclusions of the assessment and the proposed disclosure. The Committee also 
considered the recoverability of long term inventory stockpiles relating to the Nickel business 
and concluded that no adjustment to the carrying value was required. 

Minas-Rio, Iron Ore 
At 31 December 2023 changes to the medium and long term price outlook and revisions to the 
forecast production and capital expenditure profile were identified as indicators that the 
recoverable amount may have changed. The valuation model indicated that no adjustment to 
the carrying value was required. 

The Committee considered the valuation scenarios presented by management together with 
the impact of the resource acquisition transaction (see note 31 to the Consolidated Financial 
Statements) and approved the conclusions of the assessment and the proposed disclosure.

For each of the CGUs noted above the Committee considered disclosures and was satisfied 
they were appropriate. Particular attention was paid to the significant judgements and 
estimates made in the course of each assessment and the related disclosures. 

Other
In addition to the assets noted above, the Committee was updated on the valuation drivers of 
assets that had either previously been impaired and therefore are considered to have an 
inherent risk of either further impairment or impairment reversal or where other events had 
prompted a more detailed assessment. 

An annual assessment of the valuation of CGUs containing goodwill and indefinite life 
intangible assets was undertaken. The Committee was satisfied with the conclusions reached 
and disclosure given. Impairment reviews were undertaken and considered by the Committee 
for certain other smaller CGUs of the Group with the Committee satisfied with the conclusions 
reached and where applicable the immaterial impairment charges recognised. 

The Committee gave careful consideration to whether there were indicators of impairment or 
impairment reversal for Woodsmith (Crop Nutrients) or Moranbah-Grosvenor (Steelmaking 
Coal) as well as other previously impaired assets. No indicators of impairments or impairment 
reversals were identified for these assets.

Anglo American plc 
Integrated Annual Report 2023

Governance 
Audit Committee report

171

Significant accounting issues considered by the Audit Committee in 
relation to the Group’s financial statements

— Taxation
The Group’s tax affairs are 
governed by complex domestic 
tax legislations, international 
tax treaties between countries 
and the interpretation of both 
by tax authorities and courts. 
Given the many uncertainties 
that could arise from these 
factors, judgement is often 
required in determining the tax 
that is due. Advice is received 
from independent experts 
where required.

— Provision for restoration, 

rehabilitation and 
environmental costs

The estimation of 
environmental restoration and 
decommissioning liabilities is 
inherently uncertain, given the 
long time periods over which 
these expenditures will be 
incurred, and the potential for 
changes in regulatory 
frameworks and industry 
practices over time.

— Special items, remeasurements 

and one-off transactions

The Group’s criteria for 
recognising a special item or 
remeasurement involves the 
application of judgement in 
determining whether an item, 
owing to its size or nature, 
should be separately disclosed 
in the income statement.

— Retirement benefits
The estimation of retirement 
benefits requires judgement 
over the estimation of scheme 
assets and liabilities. Areas of 
judgement include 
assumptions for discount and 
inflation rates and life 
expectancy. Changes in the 
assumptions used would affect 
the amounts recognised in the 
financial statements.

Response of the Audit Committee
The Group head of tax provided the Committee with updates throughout the year on various 
tax matters, including relevant international and domestic tax policy updates, the 
implementation and operational outcomes of the tax risk governance framework, the impact of 
international events and trends on the global tax environment and the future of resource 
taxation, the status of tax audits, tax reporting, and the status of uncertain tax positions. While 
all these matters are inherently judgemental, no significant issues arose during 2023. 

Response of the Audit Committee
The Committee reviewed the update provided by management on estimates of environmental 
and decommissioning liabilities, which are based on the work of external consultants and 
internal experts. The Committee continued to pay particular attention to the impact of the 
Group’s public commitment of conformance with the Global Industry Standard on Tailings 
Management (GISTM) and were satisfied that obligations for conformance with the standard 
had been appropriately provided for. 

The Committee considered the changes in liability assumptions, including discount rates, and 
other drivers of movements in the amounts provided on the balance sheet and concluded that 
the provisions recorded as at 31 December 2023 appropriately reflected these updates.

Response of the Audit Committee
The Committee reviewed each of the items classified as special items or remeasurements in the 
financial statements, and the related disclosures, to ensure that the separate disclosure of 
these items was appropriate. 

Response of the Audit Committee
The Committee reviewed the assumptions behind the calculations of the asset and liability 
positions of the Group’s pension and medical plans and concluded that the amounts recorded 
as at 31 December 2023 appropriately reflected these updates.

In addition, the Committee reviewed the funding levels of the plans, any additional funding 
being provided to the plans and the overall expense recognised for the year. The Committee 
assessed the appropriateness of the Group’s overall risk management approach to retirement 
benefits and was comfortable the recent purchase of an insurance policy to settle pension 
liabilities related to the De Beers UK pension scheme (a ‘buy-in’) was aligned with this approach 
and appropriately disclosed.

172

Anglo American plc 
Integrated Annual Report 2023

Governance 
Audit Committee report

Significant accounting issues considered by the Audit Committee in 
relation to the Group’s financial statements

— Legal matters
A provision is recognised 
where, based on the Group’s 
legal views and, in some cases, 
independent advice, it is 
considered probable that an 
outflow of resources will be 
required to settle a present 
obligation that can be measured 
reliably. This requires the 
exercise of judgement. The 
Committee was updated by 
the legal & corporate affairs 
director on the status of legal 
matters over the course of 
the year.

— Accounting standards and 
best practice guidance

The impact of new accounting 
standards, and any elections 
made in their application, 
involves judgement to ensure 
their adoption is managed 
appropriately.

— Going concern basis of 

accounting in preparing the 
financial statements 
The ability of the Group to 
continue as a going concern 
requires judgement in the 
estimation of future cash flows 
and compliance with debt 
covenants in future years.

Response of the Audit Committee
During the year the Committee considered developments with the Kabwe case including with 
respect to the class certification application which was rejected by the court in December 
2023. The litigation is still subject to significant uncertainty, and it was concluded that it is not 
currently possible to make a reasonable estimate of the outcome, quantum or timing of any 
potential future determination.

Various other legal matters were reviewed and the Committee considered management’s 
assessment that there were no individually material provisions required with respect to ongoing 
legal matters and that the disclosures made in respect of contingent liabilities were 
appropriate. The Committee endorsed management’s proposal.

Response of the Audit Committee
The Committee received updates on new accounting standards (none of which had a material 
impact on the Group or Company) and the latest guidance and best practice examples issued 
by relevant regulators. The Committee ensured that appropriate enhancements had been 
made to disclosures where relevant.

The Committee received updates on developments in environmental, social and governance  
reporting, including the publication of the International Sustainability Standards Board’s first 
standards and considered the appropriateness of management’s plans to conform with these 
standards in due course. 

The Committee received updates on government consultations regarding UK corporate reform 
which are anticipated to bring wide-ranging changes to the corporate regulatory landscape.

Response of the Audit Committee
The Committee assessed the forecast levels of net debt, headroom on existing borrowing 
facilities and compliance with debt covenants. This analysis covered a period of least 
12 months from the date of approval of the financial statements, and considered a range of 
downside sensitivities linked to the Group’s principal risks, including a reduction in commodity 
prices and potential operational incidents. The Committee concluded it was appropriate to 
adopt the going concern basis.

Anglo American plc 
Integrated Annual Report 2023

Governance 
Audit Committee report

173

Liquidity management

— Liquidity and debt
Reviewing the application of 
the debt strategy, funding and 
capital structure and the 
Group’s forecast cash position. 
Judgement is required in the 
estimation of future cash flows 
and their impact on financing 
plans and contingencies.

— Payment of the dividend
Reviewing management’s 
recommendation to the Board 
regarding the level of dividend 
to be paid for 2023, based on 
the payout-ratio-driven 
dividend policy.

— Viability statement
The viability statement, and the 
underlying process to analyse 
various scenarios that support 
the development of the viability 
statement, are found on pages 
79–80.

Response of the Audit Committee
The Committee received regular updates on the profile of the Group’s debt maturities and 
liquidity headroom, continued capital expenditure requirements, free cash flow generation and 
dividend payments.

The Committee reviewed management’s debt capital markets and banking plans for 
2024, in the context of strategy-defined targets, to ensure the continued sufficiency of 
financing facilities.

Response of the Audit Committee
During 2023, the Committee reviewed the proposals for payments of dividends, in accordance 
with the payout-ratio-driven dividend policy based on 40% of underlying earnings. Taking into 
account the Group’s liquidity position, the Committee endorsed the proposal by management, 
and recommended to the Board for approval, the payments of the 2022 final dividend and the 
2023 interim dividend.

Response of the Audit Committee
The Committee reviewed the time period over which the assessment is made, along with the 
scenarios that are analysed, the potential financial consequences and assumptions made in 
the preparation of the statement.

The Committee concluded that the scenarios analysed were sufficiently severe but plausible 
and the time period of the viability statement was appropriate.

174

Anglo American plc 
Integrated Annual Report 2023

Governance 
Audit Committee report

Risk assurance

— Risk management
The Group’s risk profile and the 
process by which risks are 
identified and assessed.

Response of the Audit Committee
The Committee assessed the Group’s risk profile, in particular the principal risks (see pages 
81–85). The Committee discussed the key risks, the mitigation plans in place and the 
appropriate executive management responsibilities. The Committee also considered the 
process by which the risk profile is generated, the changes in risk definitions and how the risks 
aligned with the Group’s risk appetite. Following discussion and challenge, the risk profile 
was approved.

— Various risk matters
The Committee oversees the 
implementation of work to 
mitigate a variety of key risks.

Response of the Audit Committee
During the course of 2023, the Committee reviewed work to mitigate information technology 
risk, risks associated with the Woodsmith project, cyber risk, artificial intelligence risk, and 
marketing and trading risks. The Committee evaluated the work being performed, progress made 
and provided challenge to satisfy itself that these risks were being adequately managed.

— Ethical business conduct
The Committee monitors the 
effectiveness of, and 
compliance with, the Group’s 
Code of Conduct. The 
Committee also reviews the 
Group’s whistleblowing 
arrangements and procedures.

— Mineral Resources and Ore 

Reserves statements 

The year-on-year changes to 
Mineral Resources and Ore 
Reserves for operations and 
projects across the Group.

Response of the Audit Committee
The Committee reviewed the ongoing work to enhance the effectiveness of ethical business 
conduct and compliance across the Group. The Committee received reports on bullying and 
harassment investigations, anti-corruption initiatives and the Action for Integrity campaign. The 
Committee considered the activities undertaken to strengthen Code of Conduct and Group 
policy governance such as undertaking risk management effectiveness reviews of 16 Group 
policies and implementation of a Compliance Management System.

Response of the Audit Committee
The Committee reviewed the significant year-on-year changes, satisfying itself that 
appropriate explanations existed. The Committee also reviewed the ongoing improvements 
in the process to estimate and report Mineral Resources and Ore Reserves.

— Internal audit work
Reviewing the results of internal 
audit work and the 2023 plan.

Response of the Audit Committee
The Committee received reports on the results of internal audit work. The Committee discussed 
areas where control improvement opportunities were identified and reviewed the progress in 
completion of agreed management actions.

The Committee reviewed the proposed 2024 internal audit plan, assessing whether the plan 
addressed the key areas of risk for the business units and Group. The Committee approved the 
plan, having discussed the scope of work and its relationship to the Group’s risks.

— External audit
Reviewing the results of the 
external audit work, evaluating 
the quality of the external audit 
and consideration of 
management letter 
recommendations.

Response of the Audit Committee
The Committee reviewed the planning report from PwC in June 2023 and approved the final 
audit plan and fee, having given due consideration to the audit approach, materiality level and 
audit risks. The Committee received updates during the year on the audit process, including 
how the auditor had challenged the Group’s assumptions on the accounting issues noted in this 
report. In February 2024, the Committee reviewed the output of the external audit work that 
contributed to the auditor’s opinion.

Anglo American plc 
Integrated Annual Report 2023

Governance 
Audit Committee report

175

– The Audit Committee has primary responsibility for making 
recommendations to the Board on the appointment, re-
appointment and removal of the external auditor.

– The Audit Committee has the authority to engage 

independent counsel and other advisers as they determine 
necessary to resolve issues on the auditor’s independence.

– An annual assessment is undertaken of the auditor’s 

effectiveness through a structured questionnaire and input 
from all businesses and Group functions covering all aspects 
of the audit process. The Audit Committee members also 
participate in this assessment, which evaluates audit 
planning, execution, communications and reporting. The 
assessment identifies strengths and areas for improvement, 
which are discussed with the auditor and action plans 
agreed. The Committee reviewed the measures taken by 
PwC to support audit quality, including their significant focus 
on robust challenge and appropriate scepticism in respect of 
management’s assumptions. The evaluation of the external 
audit concluded that the external auditor was independent, 
objective and effective in the delivery of the audit.

Anglo American confirms compliance during the year with the 
provisions of the Competition and Markets Authority Order on 
mandatory tendering and audit committee responsibilities.

Conclusions of the Audit Committee for 2023

The Committee has satisfied itself that the external auditor’s 
independence was not impaired.

The Committee held meetings with the external auditor, in the 
absence of management, on two occasions, and the chair of 
the Audit Committee held regular meetings with the lead audit 
engagement partner during the year.

Consideration given to the appointment of the 
external auditor

Following the conclusion of a formal tender process in 2019, 
Anglo American appointed PwC as its external auditor with 
effect from and including the year ending 31 December 2020. 

The Audit Committee’s assessment of the external auditor’s 
performance and independence underpins its 
recommendation to the Board to propose to shareholders the 
re-appointment of PwC as auditor until the conclusion of the 
AGM in 2025. Resolutions to authorise the Board to re-appoint 
and determine the remuneration of PwC will be proposed at the 
AGM on 30 April 2024.

Ensuring the independence and effectiveness of the 
external auditor

Anglo American’s Group policy on External Auditor 
Independence incorporates the requirements of the FRC’s 
revised Ethical Standard published in 2019. 

A key factor that may impair an auditor’s independence is a 
lack of control over non-audit services provided by the external 
auditor. The external auditor’s independence is deemed to be 
impaired if the auditor provides a service that:

– Results in the auditor acting as a manager or employee 

of the Group

– Puts the auditor in the role of advocate for the Group

– Creates a mutuality of interest between the auditor 

and the Group.

Anglo American addresses this issue through the 
following measures:

– Services performed by PwC are permitted non-audit 
services. The permitted non-audit services mirrors the 
'Whitelist’ included in the FRC’s revised Ethical Standard

– Prior approval by the Audit Committee of non-audit services 

where the cost of the proposed service exceeds or is 
expected to exceed $100,000

– Disclosure of the extent and nature of non-audit services.

Anglo American’s approach to the provision of non-audit 
services is contained within its policy on External Auditor 
Independence.

Non-audit work is only undertaken where there is commercial 
sense in using the auditor without jeopardising auditor 
independence; for example, where the service is related 
to the assurance provided by the auditor or benefits from 
the knowledge the auditor has of the business.

Non-audit fees represented 14% of the 2023 audit fee of 
$16.2 million. A more detailed analysis is provided on page 294.

Other safeguards
– The external auditor is required to adhere to a rotation policy 
based on best practice and professional standards in the UK. 
The standard period for rotation of the audit engagement 
partner and any key audit partners is five years. The audit 
engagement partner, Mark King, was appointed in 2020 and 
will rotate off at the end of the 2024 audit in accordance with 
this requirement.

– Any PwC partner designated as a key audit partner of 

Anglo American will rotate off the audit after no more than 
five years and shall not be employed by Anglo American 
in a key management position unless a period of at least 
two years has elapsed since the conclusion of the last 
relevant audit.

– The external auditor is required to assess periodically 
whether, in their professional judgement, they are 
independent of the Group.

– The Audit Committee ensures that the scope of the auditor’s 
work is sufficient and that the auditor is fairly remunerated. 
The Committee agreed an audit fee of $16.2 million 
(2022: $16.2 million) for statutory audit services in the year.

176

Anglo American plc 
Integrated Annual Report 2023

Governance 
Audit Committee report

Risk management

Risk appetite

Risk management is the responsibility of the Board and is 
integral to the achievement of the Group’s objectives. The 
Board establishes the system of risk management, setting risk 
appetite and maintaining the system of internal control to 
manage risk within the Group. The robust process of identifying 
and evaluating the principal and emerging risks was in place 
during 2023 and up to the date of this report. The Group’s 
system of risk management and internal control is monitored 
by the Audit Committee under delegation from the Board. 
The Board confirms that it has completed a robust assessment 
of the Company’s emerging and principal risks.

We define risk appetite as “the nature and extent of risk that 
Anglo American is willing to accept in relation to the pursuit of 
its objectives”. Each principal risk is assessed as to whether it is 
operating within the limit of appetite for the Group. This is based 
on review of the external factors influencing that risk, the status 
of management actions to mitigate or control the risk and the 
potential impact should the risk materialise. For risks operating 
beyond the limit of appetite, a change in strategy may be 
required. For risks operating within, but approaching the limit of 
appetite, specific management actions may be required to 
ensure the risk remains within the limit of appetite.

The system of risk management is designed to ensure 
awareness of risks that threaten the achievement of objectives. 
The controls that mitigate those risks are identified so that 
assurance can be provided on the effectiveness of those 
controls. A determination can then be made as to whether the 
risk is operating within the Group’s risk appetite. We seek to 
embed a culture of risk awareness into the development of our 
strategic and operational objectives.

The process for identification and assessment of the principal 
risks combines a top-down and bottom-up approach. At the 
operations level, a process to identify risks that prevent the 
achievement of objectives is undertaken. Detailed analysis 
of the material risks at each location is performed to ensure 
management understanding of the risk and controls that 
reduce likelihood of occurrence and impact should the risk 
materialise. These operational risk profiles contribute to the 
assessment of risks at the business level. Executive 
management at each business assesses risks that threaten 
achievement of the business objectives and the status of 
controls, or actions, that mitigate those risks. At the Group 
level, risks are identified through assessment of global factors 
affecting the industry and the Group specifically, as well as 
the risks arising from the business assessments. Consideration 
is given to the views and interests of Anglo American 
stakeholders. Materiality of risk is determined through 
assessment of the various impacts that may arise and 
likelihood of occurrence. An exception relates to those risks 
deemed catastrophic in nature, where the focus of assessment 
is on impact and status of internal controls, given the very low 
likelihood of occurrence. When considering the impact of any 
risk, we assess safety, environmental, financial, legal or 
regulatory, social and reputational consequences.

Regular reports on the status of risks and controls are presented 
to executive management teams throughout the year. The 
Audit Committee reviews reports on the overall Anglo American 
risk profile on two occasions during the year and conducts in-
depth reviews of specific risks during its meetings over the 
course of the year. Each principal risk is assigned to either the 
Board or the relevant Board committees to oversee executive 
management actions in response to that risk. The Audit 
Committee reviews that oversight process on an annual basis.

Details of the principal risks are provided on pages 81–85.

Risk management and the system of internal control

Controls either reduce the likelihood or impact of any risk, while 
the identification of material controls – i.e. those controls that 
have the most influence in mitigating a risk – is an important 
input for audit planning.

The system of internal control operates on a collaborative ‘three 
lines’ approach, with operating management owning and 
managing risks and controls on a day-to-day basis, and 
business or functional management fulfilling a second line role 
through frequent oversight of implementation of controls, and 
providing complementary expertise, support and challenge 
relating to the management of risk. 

A centrally managed internal audit department provides the 
third line role by reviewing the design and operating 
effectiveness of the internal control framework, which includes 
the work performed by the first and second lines management 
teams. External assurance providers sit outside the three lines’ 
roles but provide additional assurance to satisfy legislative and 
regulatory expectations, or requests from management or the 
Board to complement internal sources of assurance.

The above is reflected in the Anglo American Risk and 
Assurance Governance (RAG) Model, introduced in 2020, and 
work has continued in 2023 together with the respective 
functions and operations to embed this further. This work 
included the development of a combined assurance calendar 
to enable monitoring of assurance activities across different 
assurance providers. This was used as a key input in developing 
the 2024 assurance plans for the second and third lines. 

Internal audit operated in all the Group’s managed businesses 
in 2023, reporting its work to executive management and the 
Audit Committee on a regular basis. The internal audit 
department’s mandate and annual audit coverage plans were 
approved by the Audit Committee.

The scope of internal audit work covers the broad spectrum 
of risk to which the Group is exposed. The audit of controls 
associated with major operating/technical risks was 
undertaken by utilising external technical experts as well as 
relevant internal experts from the Technical & Operations 
function, the results of which were shared with the Sustainability 
and Audit committees. 

Anglo American plc 
Integrated Annual Report 2023

Governance 
Audit Committee report

177

In determining its opinion that the internal financial controls 
and internal control and risk management environment was 
effective during 2023, the Audit Committee considered the 
following factors:

– The results of internal audit work, including the response 
of management to completion of actions arising from 
audit work

– The key risk areas of judgement and estimation 

uncertainty within financial reporting and mitigating actions 
taken by management

– The output of risk management work

– The output of external audit work and other 

assurance providers 

– Issues identified by management or reported through 

whistleblowing arrangements, and the results of 
investigations into allegations of breaches of our values 
and business principles.

Reviewing the effectiveness of the system of risk 
management and internal control

The Board, through the Audit Committee, fulfils its responsibility 
in reviewing the effectiveness of the system of risk 
management and internal control through review of reports 
submitted over the course of the year covering the risk 
management process, adequacy of the internal control 
environment, consideration of risk appetite, in-depth reviews 
of specific risks and the results of external audit work. The 
Sustainability Committee also reviews safety and sustainability 
risks in detail and reports its findings to the Board.

Reviewing the effectiveness of internal audit

The Committee assesses the work of internal audit on a regular 
basis through the receipt of reports on the progress of the 
internal audit plan and issues arising and through its annual 
effectiveness review. The resources of internal audit are also 
monitored to ensure appropriate expertise and experience. 
The Committee met with the Group head of risk management 
and business assurance, in the absence of management 
on two occasions during 2023. Furthermore, the chair of the 
Committee held regular one-to-one meetings with the Group 
head of risk management and business assurance. 

Whistleblowing programme

The Group operates a multilingual whistleblowing facility which 
uses a reporting platform provided by a third-party service 
provider. The whistleblowing programme is called YourVoice 
and continues to facilitate confidential and anonymous 
reporting of a wide range of concerns about potentially 
unethical, unlawful or unsafe conduct or practices that conflict 
with our Values and Code of Conduct.

The YourVoice channel is available to our employees in our 
managed operations as well as to all external stakeholders, 
such as suppliers, community members and members of the 
public affected by our operation.

During 2023, we received 1,403 reports through the YourVoice 
channel, a 29% increase from 2022.

1,370 allegations were closed during this reporting period, 
which include intakes from prior years. 25% of the 2023 
allegations closed were substantiated or partially 
substantiated. 

All YourVoice reports are assessed and investigated as 
appropriate by a dedicated investigation team based 
across the Group using a standardised investigation 
framework. Appropriate actions were taken against 
substantiated allegations.

The continued rise in reports is attributed to the increased 
awareness of the channel, and a growing culture of trust 
among our employees and other stakeholders to raise their 
concerns with confidence. The promotion of this channel 
through other relevant Group-wide initiatives, such as the 
Action for Integrity month, policies and programmes, also 
encouraged a healthier ‘speak up’ culture.

The current process facilitates the opportunity to take early 
remedial actions and enables management to address any 
systemic issues identified. For this purpose, protocols have 
been agreed with the Group’s senior management for early 
involvement and support in sensitive investigation cases, such 
as fraud, bullying, harassment, safety and others with the 
potential for significant reputational damage.

The Audit Committee is responsible for monitoring and 
advancing the programme on a continuous basis.

178

Anglo American plc 
Integrated Annual Report 2023

Governance 
Directors’ remuneration report

Directors’ remuneration report

Committee members
Ian Tyler – Chairman
Ian Ashby
Hixonia Nyasulu 

▶ For further detail on biographies and Board 

experience: pages 142–145

The chairman, chief executive, people & organisation 
director, the Group head of performance & reward, and 
external advisers also attend meetings at the invitation of 
the Committee chair.

“ The Remuneration Committee believes 
that the reward framework drives 
outcomes that appropriately balance 
incentivising delivery of the strategy 
throughout the cycle, and reflecting 
shareholder experience.”

Ian Tyler
Chairman

Role and responsibilities
– Establishing and developing the Group’s general policy 
on executive and senior management remuneration

– Determining specific remuneration packages for the 
chairman, executive directors, members of the ELT 
and other senior management

– Input and oversight on the reward policy for the 

broader workforce

– Engaging with shareholders and other stakeholders 

regarding executive remuneration.

The Committee’s terms of reference are available to 
view online.

▶ For more information

Visit angloamerican.com/about-us/governance

Changes to the Committee
There were no changes to the Committee in 2023.

Committee discussions and focus areas in 2023
– Approval of incentive results for the 2022 annual 

bonus and vesting levels of the 2020 LTIP

– Setting of incentive targets for the 2023 annual bonus 

and LTIP

– Approval of the 2023 directors’ remuneration policy at 

the 2023 AGM

– Approval of remuneration arrangements and service 

agreement for incoming finance director

– Approval of remuneration arrangements for outgoing 

finance director on cessation of employment

– Approval of remuneration arrangements for ELT members, 

including new appointments

– Updates on broader employee pay.

Key areas of focus for 2024
– Assessment of 2023 incentive outcomes, including for 

the 2023 annual bonus and 2021 LTIP award

– Setting of incentive targets for 2024, including the 2024 

annual bonus and 2024 LTIP award

– Continued focus on embedding ESG priorities into executive 

pay outcomes, and the related assurance processes

– Review of corporate governance in relation to remuneration 
issues, remuneration market trends and any implications for 
the Group.

Anglo American plc 
Integrated Annual Report 2023

Governance 
Directors’ remuneration report

179

Remuneration Committee chairman’s introduction

Dear Shareholders
As the Remuneration Committee, our primary role is to ensure 
that the remuneration arrangements for executive directors 
and Executive Leadership Team (ELT) members are aligned 
with delivering the Company’s strategy, both in the short 
and longer term, to deliver shareholder value in a fair and 
sustainable manner. Retaining a strong link between pay 
and broader performance is paramount.

2023 continued to be a year of volatility and Anglo American 
experienced a more difficult year, affected by geopolitical 
turbulence and prolonged inflationary pressures. In a 
challenging year, full consideration to the Company’s strategy, 
shareholder interests and the shareholder experience has 
been imperative when making decisions on remuneration, to 
ensure we protect our business and remain resilient for years 
to come. 

It has also been a difficult year for the Group financially, 
with specific challenges as we navigate the down cycles 
of PGMs and De Beers. The focus during 2023 has been 
to reorientate the business to position value and growth 
opportunities in the long term over short term production 
volumes. Safety of our people remains at the forefront and this 
sustainable and measured approach supports this priority.

2023 remuneration policy
As detailed in last year’s directors’ remuneration report, an 
updated remuneration policy was put to a vote at the AGM 
on 26 April 2023. I am pleased to report that the new policy 
passed with extremely strong support; 95.92% of shareholders 
voted for the policy.

The Committee engaged extensively with shareholders and 
stakeholders as part of a comprehensive review of the policy 
and I would like to extend my personal thanks to all of those 
who took part in the consultations for their constructive 
dialogue and feedback.

As a reminder, the key changes in the 2023 policy were:

– The maximum opportunity under the LTIP was increased to 
350% of salary for executive directors (this was applied only 
to the Chief Executive in 2023)

– The annual salary increase cap and annual benefits cap 

were removed to better align with market practice

– The formula driven LTIP grant reduction mechanism was 
replaced with a discretionary, principle-based approach 
to determine any adjustment, to ensure outcomes are 
appropriate in light of all prevailing circumstances and to 
better align with market practice. 

Director changes during the year
A key focus of the Committee’s agenda during 2023 was 
the remuneration arrangements for our finance director 
succession, following the announcement of Stephen Pearce’s 
intention to retire in May 2023.

As announced in July and November, John Heasley joined the 
Board as finance director on 1 December 2023. The terms of 
the remuneration package for John were announced in July 

2023 and comprise a base salary of £810,000, a pension 
contribution of 15% of base salary (aligned with the wider 
UK workforce), a maximum bonus opportunity of 210% and 
an annual LTIP award of 350%. The Committee took the 
opportunity to re-balance John Heasley’s remuneration 
package on appointment, with a lower base salary and a 
higher LTIP award as compared to his predecessor to align 
with the chief executive to focus the remuneration package 
more on the delivery of long-term performance. The package 
complies fully with the approved directors’ remuneration 
policy. Full details are provided in the executive director 
remuneration in 2023 section on page 185.

John was also granted an award of shares in compensation for 
the incentives forfeited from his previous employer, structured 
on a ‘like-for-like’ basis to mirror the opportunity and terms of 
the forfeited incentives. Full details are provided on page 198.

Stephen Pearce stepped down from the Board as finance 
director on 1 December 2023, remaining an Anglo American 
employee until 29 February 2024. Between stepping down as 
finance director and leaving the Group, he continued to 
provide services to the Group in support of a smooth transition 
into the role for the incoming finance director, John Heasley. 
Stephen’s remuneration and incentive arrangements on 
retirement were determined by the Committee and are in line 
with the current directors’ remuneration policy, his service 
agreement and the rules of our incentive arrangements. 
Further information in respect of his remuneration 
arrangements on leaving is provided on page 199.

Decision making
The Committee has taken into consideration: company 
performance, which includes financial performance; health 
and safety; and personal achievements of each executive 
director linked to the Group’s strategic priorities, when 
making decisions on pay. We also continue to consider the 
shareholder experience and shareholder views, pay for 
the wider workforce, and wider societal expectations. As a 
Committee, we continue to strive to make decisions that strike 
a balance between incentivising the management team into 
the future, paying for good performance and being equitable 
in the broader context. To avoid conflicts of interest, no 
executive director is present when their pay is discussed; 
likewise, the chairman is not present in the meeting when his 
remuneration is discussed.

2023 outcomes 
Safety, health and environment 
We continue to make progress on our long term safety journey; 
in 2023, our total recordable injury frequency rate (TRIFR) 
decreased significantly to 1.78, a 19% improvement year on 
year and the lowest in the Company’s history. However, it is 
with deep sadness that we experienced three fatalities at our 
managed operations during 2023. 

Any loss of life on our sites can not be tolerated and we will 
continue to work tirelessly until we hit our goal of zero fatalities 
on a consistent basis. The tragic loss of three colleagues 
during 2023 led the Committee to again consider the way in 
which we incentivise safety performance through our variable 
pay structures. 

180

Anglo American plc 
Integrated Annual Report 2023

Governance 
Directors’ remuneration report

The Committee is convinced that in order to create an 
environment in which we can reach our goal of zero fatalities, 
we must continue to incentivise operational excellence in 
safety, by reducing accident frequency and severity, and 
increasing our leadership visibility. The 2023 annual bonus 
included measures related to TRIFR, delivery of planned work 
and leadership time in the field. These measures will continue 
to be included in the 2024 bonus.

The Committee also continues to feel strongly that all fatalities 
must be reflected in executive pay outcomes. Taking this into 
account, the Committee has determined that it is appropriate 
to apply a 15% deduction to annual bonus payouts for the 
executive directors for 2023. The Committee considers that 
this outcome provides an appropriate balance of rewarding 
performance against the safety measures within the bonus, 
reflecting our broader, strong safety performance during the 
year, and recognising the unacceptable loss of life.

Financial performance
Prevailing macro factors – principally resulting in weaker prices 
for some of our products, with PGMs and diamonds at cyclical 
lows, and input cost inflation – have put pressure on mining 
margins and overall returns across the industry. Operational 
constraints at Kumba, Los Bronces and Steelmaking Coal 
resulted in lower overall production than originally planned, 
albeit the effect mitigated by the full ramp up and strong 
performance at Quellaveco.

Group underlying EBITDA for the year has decreased by 
31% to $10.0 billion, largely reflecting the weaker prices for 
some of our products, and to a lesser extent, cost inflation.

Against this backdrop, we delivered mixed results, with 
a return on capital employed result of 16%, and a mining 
EBITDA margin of 39%. TSR was negative 36% for the year, 
reflecting the significant challenges outlined, particularly in 
relation to PGMs and diamonds that are distinct to our 
portfolio in the industry.

Annual bonus outcomes
With the underlying financial performance described above, 
underpinned by the challenging economic environment, the 
financial measures within the annual bonus paid out at 11%. 
This was due to marginal vesting for the EPS at actual price 
and foreign exchange target, which was supported by 
prices for some of our products and favourable exchange 
rates in-year.

Performance against our safety, health and environment 
targets was strong, with these measures paying out at 90.5% 
for 2023. The measures are largely leading in nature and 
designed to support strengthened safety outcomes in future 
years, which supports our ongoing drive for zero fatalities.

Bonus outcomes for the executive directors after the safety 
deductor were at 38% of maximum for the chief executive 
and 39% of maximum for the former finance director.

2021 LTIP outcomes
The shareholder experience over the three-year 
performance period was mixed, with a positive outcome 
for the majority of the performance period, followed by a 
challenging year in 2023.

TSR measures:
– Shareholders have seen a TSR outcome of 19%(1), 

positioning us above the FTSE 100 median TSR of 14.1% 
and below the S&P Euromoney Global Mining Index TSR 
of 32.3%

– The total TSR weighting within the LTIP is 50%, 17% is 

based on performance against the FTSE 100, with 38.6% 
of this 17% vesting. The remaining 33% is based on TSR 
performance against the S&P Global Mining Index, with 
vesting of zero. In total, 6.6% of the LTIP has therefore vested 
based on TSR performance.

Financial measures:
– 15% of the award was dependent on ROCE. This vested at 
63.5%, based on attributable ROCE of 16% for the year 

– 15% of the award was based on Group Cumulative 

Sustainable Attributable Free Cash Flow. This measure 
vested at 68%, largely due to contribution from strong 
commodity prices and market fundamentals during the first 
two years of the performance period.

ESG measures:
– 8% of the award was based on improvements in GHG 

efficiency. Overall the Group achieved a 25% improvement, 
indexed on 2020, resulting in 100% vesting of this measure

– The 6% of the award based on social responsibility and the 
number of jobs supported off site for each job on site also 
vested at 100%. By the end of 2023, we had supported 
139,308 jobs through socio-economic development 
programmes since the launch of our Sustainable Mining Plan 
in 2018. In 2023, we supported 2.4 jobs off site for every job 
on site job (2022: 1.8)

– The 6% of the LTIP for the tailings facilities measure required 

100% implementation of the updated Anglo American 
tailings standard (2020) that incorporated all Global Industry 
Standard on Tailings Management (GISTM) requirements 
across the Group. We have made tremendous progress in 
this area, as demonstrated in the August 2023 disclosures. 
However, the measure was deliberately ‘binary’ in nature to 
reflect the importance of tailings management, and as such 
despite our market-leading progress the100% was not 
delivered across all areas, resulting in vesting at 0%. While 
the Committee judges it appropriate not to adjust this 
outcome upwards, as we progress our GISTM journey we 
have articulated the measures in a different way for the 
2024 LTIP – further details can be found below.  

As a result of the performance across the different elements 
of the scorecard, the 2021 LTIP award therefore vested at 
40.3% of maximum. 

Overall assessment of 2023 outcomes
The remuneration policy sets out to incentivise in-year 
financial, SHE and operational performance, and delivery 
of the longer term strategy, whilst taking into account the 
shareholder experience. Having considered the 2023 
outcomes through these various lenses, the Committee 
believes that they are fair and reasonable.

(1) Based on three-month average prices as at the end of 2023, in line with 

the TSR calculation methodology for LTIP awards.

Anglo American plc 
Integrated Annual Report 2023

Governance 
Directors’ remuneration report

181

In 2023, the Panel met on three occasions, one of which was in 
person. Board members were also able to engage directly with 
Panel members on several occasions during the Board’s and 
non-executive director site visits.

CEO pay ratio
The CEO pay ratio compares the chief executive’s 
remuneration to the pay for an employee at the median, lower 
quartile and upper quartile of our UK employee population 
(including De Beers and Crop Nutrients employees). 

The median CEO pay ratio for 2023 is 36:1, down from 72:1 
for 2022. A significant proportion of the chief executive’s 
remuneration package is made up of LTIP shares. The sizeable 
reduction compared to the prior year is largely a result of the 
lower vesting outcome, a fall in share price in 2023, and the 
vesting relating to LTIP awards granted to the current chief 
executive prior to joining the Board. Further details on the CEO 
pay ratio can be found on page 208.

Looking ahead
Salaries
The Committee approved a 4% increase to the chief 
executive’s salary for 2024, in line with the 4% awarded to the 
Group’s UK-based employees. The finance director did not 
receive an increase for 2024, having joined towards the end 
of 2023.

Implementation of incentives in 2024
Performance measures attached to the 2024 annual bonus 
and LTIP awards are in line with the terms of the 2023 policy 
and are designed to drive delivery of both financial returns 
and the priorities within our Sustainable Mining Plan. Details 
of these performance conditions can be found in the 
implementation report that begins on page 185. During 2023 
the Euromoney (EMIX) Global Mining Index was discontinued, 
and the Committee determined that the S&P Global Mining 
Index will be used to measure relative TSR against the mining 
industry going forward, for both inflight and future awards. The 
S&P index is materially similar to the EMIX index and was 
therefore the most appropriate comparator group.

Conclusion 
In what has been a very busy first full year as chairman 
of the committee, supporting the implementation of the 
organisational changes, I am pleased with the engagement 
of both the Committee and the management team in 
focusing on the remuneration-related issues that are the most 
important in support of driving the business forward. I am 
committed to ensuring the decisions on remuneration will 
continue to underpin the delivery of the Company’s strategy 
and vision, supported by the implementation of the 2023 
remuneration policy. 

Ian Tyler
Chairman, Remuneration Committee

2024 LTIP grant reduction
An updated LTIP grant reduction mechanism to mitigate 
windfall gains in the event of a material share price fall 
between successive grants was included in the 2023 
remuneration policy, and was intended to provide additional 
flexibility to the Committee to consider the broader 
circumstances around the share price fall when considering 
any reduction.

Each year, the Committee formally reviews any share price 
fall since the last LTIP grant date. In the event that there has 
been a fall in share price prior to grant (compared to the share 
price used to determine the number of shares granted under 
the previous award), the Committee will first consider whether 
that fall is material.

If the reduction is greater than 25%, the Committee will 
carry out a review of the possible reasons for the reduction, 
and its starting point will be that a reduction in grant level is 
likely to be appropriate, unless there is a compelling 
reason otherwise.

At the current share price of c.£17.50 at the time of writing, 
the reduction in grant price from 2023 is c.40%. A Committee 
review has therefore been carried out, examining the broader 
circumstances driving the share price fall. There are many 
factors contributing to the share price movement, including 
cyclical movements, expected future production and short 
term transitory factors. Taking these into account, particularly 
the short term impacts, the Committee has decided that it is 
appropriate to reduce the value of the LTIP grant in 2024 from 
350% to 325% of salary for executive directors. If there is a 
further material change in share price prior to the grant date in 
early March, this will be reviewed.

The quantum of the reduction has been carefully considered, 
and is intended to mitigate the risk of windfall gains. The 
Committee is mindful that many of the factors influencing the 
share price movement are already reflected in annual bonus 
and LTIP vesting outcomes, and wants to ensure that there is 
symmetry in this respect. Looking forward, the Committee is 
also determined to ensure that management is appropriately 
incentivised to deliver the Company's strategic goals in the 
context of the reorientation of the business, supported by 
plans that are deliverable repeatedly and safety-led. The 
Committee’s view is that the reduction strikes an appropriate 
balance between these various considerations. 

Fairness and wider workforce pay
We care deeply about our workforce and continue to prioritise 
their safety and well-being. Throughout the year we remained 
committed in this respect, and the challenges faced by our 
people will continue to be front of mind as we go into 2024. 

Workforce engagement on remuneration 
Anglo American’s Global Workforce Advisory Panel (the Panel) 
currently comprises 12 employees drawn from across our 
business, and is chaired by non-executive director Marcelo 
Bastos. The Panel’s purpose is to give the workforce more 
of a ‘voice’ in the Boardroom so their views can be better 
understood and considered when decisions are being made 
about the future of the business. This includes how the 
committee takes on board the views of the wider workforce 
in making decisions on executive remuneration. The Panel 
operates alongside Anglo American’s existing employee 
engagement mechanisms, such as regular employee 
engagement surveys and director interaction with employees.

182

Anglo American plc 
Integrated Annual Report 2023

Governance 
Directors’ remuneration report

At a glance

This section provides a summary of the key information 
presented across the remuneration report. This includes an 
overview of the 2023 policy, performance and remuneration 
outcomes, as well as how our remuneration is linked to strategy.

Summary of our remuneration structure 

Summary of 2023-26 remuneration policy components

Link to strategy

Key features

Fixed pay 

Salary
Recruitment and retention 
of high calibre executives

– Reviewed annually by Remuneration Committee 
– Increases based on Group performance, individual 

performance, levels of increase for the broader UK population 
and inflation 

Benefits

– Include car-related benefits, medical insurance, personal-

taxation and financial advice, among others 

Pension
Aligned with the wider workforce

– 15% of salary

2
0
2
4

2
0
2
5

2
0
2
6

2
0
2
7

2
0
2
8

Annual bonus 

Cash
Rewards delivery of strategic 
priorities and financial success

Deferred shares
Encourages sustained 
performance in line with 
shareholder interests

LTIP 

Encourages long term 
shareholder return and 
accomplishment of longer term 
strategic objectives

Shareholding guidelines

In-post 
To align with long term 
shareholder interests

Post employment 
To align with long term 
shareholder interests 

– Maximum bonus award of 210% of salary 
– Outcome based on financial, SHE, strategic and personal 

measures subject to a safety deductor

– 50% of bonus is paid in cash following determination 

of performance

– Cash bonus subject to malus and clawback

– 50% of bonus is deferred into shares (Bonus Shares)
– One-third of Bonus Shares will vest after two years, with the 
remaining Bonus Shares vesting after a further one year 

– Bonus Shares are subject to malus and clawback 

O
n
e
-
y
e
a
r
p
e
r
f
o
r
m
a
n
c
e

– Shares granted with a face value of 350% of salary 
– Shares vest after a three-year performance period 

and released after a further two-year holding period 
– Vesting based on measures linked to strategic priorities 
– LTIP award is subject to malus and clawback 

– Chief executive: 400% of salary 
– Finance director: 300% of salary

– Lower of the in-post requirement at the time of cessation 

and the actual shareholding at cessation 
– To be held for two years post-employment

T
w
o
-
y
e
a
r
v
e
s
t
i
n
g

p
e
r
f
o
r
m
a
n
c
e

T
h
r
e
e
-
y
e
a
r

T
h
r
e
e
-
y
e
a
r
v
e
s
t
i
n
g

T
w
o
-
y
e
a
r

l

h
o
d
n
g

i

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Anglo American plc 
Integrated Annual Report 2023

Governance 
Directors’ remuneration report

183

Incentive performance metrics – financial measures

Underlying EPS◊

$2.42/share

Three-year shareholder return

Group attributable ROCE◊

19%

16%

2023

2022

$2.42/share

$4.97/share

2023

2022

19.0%

80.6%

2023

2022

16%

30%

2024 Implementation table

Key remuneration element

Implementation

Salary

Car allowance

Duncan Wanblad 
John Heasley

£1,352,000 (4% increase effective 1 January 2024)
£810,000

Duncan Wanblad
John Heasley

£36,012
£33,719

Pension

15% of base salary (aligned to wider UK workforce)

Annual bonus

Maximum of 210% of salary
50% paid out as cash
17% paid out as shares deferred for 2 years
33% paid out as shares deferred for 3 years

LTIP

325% of salary (due to grant reduction for 2024)
3-year performance period with 2-year post-vesting holding period

Performance metrics

34% EPS
16% SAFCF
20% SHE
10% Strategic
20% Individual

50% TSR
15% ROCE
15% SAFCF
20% ESG

Key performance metrics for 2024

Metrics

Pillars of value

Rationale

Annual Bonus 
weighting

LTIP 
weighting

Safety and zero harm

Safety and health

Underlying EPS◊

Sustaining attributable
free cash flow◊

Financial

Financial

Environmental footprint

Environment

– Workforce safety is the Group’s first and most 

10%

important value

– Links reward to delivery of in-year underlying equity 

34%

returns to shareholders

– Incentivises cash generation for use either as 

16%

incremental capital investment, for capital returns 
to shareholders or debt reduction

– Reduction in the Group’s environmental footprint 

10%

based on four pillars of ecological health (land, air, 
water and nature)

TSR

Financial

Group attributable ROCE◊

Financial

Sustaining attributable 
free cash flow

Financial

Greenhouse gas 
emissions

Tailings – GISTM

Total

Environment

Environment

Environment

– Creates a direct link between executive pay and 

50%

shareholder value

– Measure is split between comparison against sector 
index (S&P Global Mining Index(1)) and comparison 
against local peers (constituents of FTSE 100 index)

– ROCE promotes disciplined capital allocation by 

linking reward to investment return over the 
performance period

– Incentivises cash generation for use either as 

incremental capital investment, for capital returns 
to shareholders or debt reduction

– Commitment to help address climate change by 

reducing absolute GHG emissions

– Ensuring conformance to the Global Industry Standard 

on Tailings Management (GISTM) – Objective 1 
facilities

– Conformance to GISTM based on self-assessment and 
third-party verification initiated – Objective 2 facilities

15%

15%

10%

5%

5%

70%(2)

100%

(1) The Euromoney (EMIX) Global Mining Index ceased on 31 July 2023. In July 2023, the Committee approved the replacement of the EMIX Global Mining Index with 

the S&P Global Mining Index from the date of cessation to the end of the performance period for both in-flight and future LTIP grants. 

(2) 30% of annual bonus dependent on achievement of strategic and individual goals.

 
184

Anglo American plc 
Integrated Annual Report 2023

Governance 
Directors’ remuneration report

Executive directors’ shareholdings

Requirement

Shareholding as at 31 Dec 2023(1)

Duncan Wanblad 

400%

John Heasley

300%

Stephen Pearce

300%

776%

131%

1201%

400%

776%

300%

131%

300%

1,201%

nnn  Shareholding requirement   nnn  Shareholding as 31 December 2023

Executive directors are expected to build up and hold a percentage of their salary in shares (400% for the chief executive, 300% for other executive directors) within 
five years of being appointed. 
As at 31 December 2023, Duncan Wanblad and Stephen Pearce’s executive director shareholdings exceeded the required levels. John Heasley will be expected to 
meet the requirement of 300% of salary by 1 December 2028.
(1) Stephen Pearce’s shareholdings are shown as at the date he stepped down from the Board. Further details on Stephen Pearce’s post-cessation shareholding 

requirements can be found on page 202.

▶ For more information
See pages 202–203

2023 pay outcomes £’000

Duncan Wanblad 

2023

2022

John Heasley

2023

£85

2022

0

Stephen Pearce 

2023

2022

£1,814

£1,046

£1,215

£787

£738

£2,387

£1,465

£681

£934

£1,148

£791

£3,020

nnn   Fixed      nnn   Bonus paid      nnn   LTIP paid

Anglo American plc 
Integrated Annual Report 2023

Governance 
Directors’ remuneration report

185

Directors’ remuneration policy

Summary of policy and statement of implementation of 
policy in 2024
The following pages provide a summary of the key elements of 
our directors’ remuneration policy. The last column of the table 
states how the remuneration policy will be applied for 2024. 
For 2024, there are no significant changes in the structure of 
the remuneration package for directors compared to last year.

Performance measures
Performance measures for 2024 are set out in the table below. 

The annual bonus targets for 2024 are considered by the 
Board to be commercially sensitive; they will be disclosed in 
the 2024 annual report on remuneration. Specific details of the 
individual and strategic performance targets for 2024 will also 
be included in the 2024 report.

In line with the policy, 50% of the annual bonus will be linked to 
financial performance with the remaining 50% based on 
safety, health and environment measures (20%), strategic 
measures (10%) and personal measures (20%). 

In 2024, the structure of the LTIP will continue to include a 50% 
weighting on relative TSR. Financial measures based on ROCE 
and SAFCF remain unchanged and continue to account for 
15% each and the remaining 20% will be focused on ESG 
measures. These ESG measures will continue will continue to 
support the delivery of our Sustainable Mining Plan (SMP) 
goals, with two measures included for 2024. 

The 2022 and 2023 LTIP measures have focused on the 
delivery of renewable energy, the foundation of low carbon 
operations. In 2024, the Climate Change measure proposed 
will focus on an absolute reduction in Greenhouse gas (GHG) 
emissions, linking more directly with the 2030 commitments 
with a focus on absolute reduction in GHG emissions, providing 
a simplified pathway for the business. 

A Tailings measure has been reintroduced and will focus 
on compliance to the Global Industry Standard on Tailings 
Management (GISTM). Tailings management forms part of 
the Group’s principal risks and compliance with GISTM seeks 
to improve safety and performance of the tailings facilities, 
reducing this risk. As a member of the International Council 
on Mining & Metals (ICMM) that expects its members to 
demonstrate their levels of conformance to GISTM, the Tailings 
measure has considered the required pathways towards 
conformance across the various tailings’ storage facilities. 

2023 executive directors’ remuneration policy
The 2023 remuneration policy was set out in the 2022 Annual 
Report and was presented for shareholder approval at the 
AGM held on 26 April 2023. This policy was approved with 
95.92% support. It is intended that this policy will apply until 
the Company’s 2026 AGM.

▶ The full remuneration policy can be found in the 2022 Annual Report 

available on our Group website
www.angloamerican.com/annual-report-2022

How our remuneration policy addresses UK Corporate 
Governance Code provision 40 principles
The 2023 remuneration policy was designed taking into 
consideration the principles of provision 40 of the UK 
Corporate Governance Code.

The table below outlines how the policy addresses each of 
those principles:

Principle

Clarity

Simplicity

Risk

Predictability

How this is addressed in the 2023 remuneration policy

Our remuneration structure is clearly defined, and 
performance-based elements, including metrics 
and vesting schedules are clearly disclosed.

Our remuneration elements are well-understood 
and in line with market standards.

Our policy limits the risk of unfair or excessive 
remuneration and supports long term sustainable 
decision making through the following measures: 
– Clearly defined limits on the maximum 

opportunities of incentive awards

– Operation of deferral on annual bonus awards 
– Operation of a post-vesting holding period for 

LTIP awards

– The Committee has discretionary powers to 

adjust formulaic outcomes of incentive awards 
to ensure payouts are aligned to Group 
performance and the experience of key 
stakeholders

– Robust malus and clawback provisions on 

all incentives

– Discretion to reduce LTIP awards on grant to 
protect against potential ‘windfall gains’.

The policy has defined limits which can be used 
to determine potential values. Scenario charts are 
presented in the policy to illustrate potential 
payout scenarios.

Proportionality Payouts under incentive awards are linked to the 
fulfilment of performance measures that support 
the Group’s long term strategy. Deferral and 
annual grants ensure long term alignment with 
shareholders. 

Alignment to 
culture

The Committee’s powers of discretion ensure 
incentive outcomes are reflective of Company 
performance. 

Focus on share ownership and long term 
sustainable performance is reflected in the policy. 
LTIP performance measures support a long term 
focus for executives, including in relation to our 
sustainability objectives. 

Payouts for a significant portion of both the annual 
bonus and LTIP are dependent on the achievement 
of ESG and SHE measures, which underlines the 
importance of safety and sustainability to the 
Group strategy.

186

Anglo American plc 
Integrated Annual Report 2023

Governance 
Directors’ remuneration report

2023 remuneration policy table

Key aspects of the remuneration policy for executive directors

Basic salary

To recruit and retain 
high calibre executives 

Operation

Opportunity/performance measures

Implementation for 2024

Basic salary levels are reviewed 
annually by the Committee, 
taking account of factors 
including the Group’s 
performance, individual 
performance, market practice 
at other companies of a similar 
size and complexity as well as 
at other companies in the 
mining sector, levels of increase 
for the wider workforce and 
inflation.

Salary increases for executive 
directors will normally at most 
be in line with the increase 
awarded to the Company’s 
wider UK workforce. 

There may be occasions when 
the Committee may award a 
higher annual increase, 
including (but not limited to):

– Where there is a change in 

The chief executive received a 4% increase in 
salary for 2024. This increase is in line with the 
increase for the Company’s UK employees.

After commencing employment on 1 
December 2023, John Heasley’s first salary 
review will take place in 2025. 

The salaries for the executive directors are 
therefore:

– Duncan Wanblad – £1,352,000

role or responsibility

– John Heasley – £810,000

The Committee considers the 
impact of any basic salary 
increase within the context of 
the total remuneration 
package.

– An executive director’s 

development or performance 
in role (e.g. to align a new 
appointment’s salary with 
the market over time)

– Where there is a significant 
change in the size and/or 
complexity of the Group.

Annual bonus

To encourage and 
reward delivery of the 
Group’s strategic 
priorities for the 
relevant year.

To ensure, through the 
deferral of a portion into 
shares, that longer term 
focus is encouraged 
and in line with 
shareholder interests.

The annual bonus is awarded 
based on a combination of 
measures, determined by the 
Committee each year to ensure 
continued alignment with the 
Group’s financial goals, 
strategic priorities and business 
needs.

50% of the annual bonus 
earned will be deferred into 
awards/shares under the Bonus 
Share Plan (BSP), vesting 17% 
after two years and 33% after 
three years.

Vesting of BSP shares is subject 
to continued employment. 

Dividends or dividend 
equivalents are paid on Bonus 
Shares.

Malus and clawback provisions 
apply as described below.

The maximum annual bonus 
opportunity is 210% of salary in 
respect of a financial year.

The maximum annual bonus opportunity for 
each of the executive directors remains at 
210% of salary.

The bonus earned at threshold 
performance is normally up to 
25% of the maximum. 
Performance below threshold 
results in zero payout.

The Committee has discretion 
to adjust the bonus outcome if 
it is not deemed to reflect the 
underlying performance of the 
Group or the experience of key 
stakeholders during the 
performance period.

Performance measures for the 
annual bonus for each year 
must meet the following criteria:
– Minimum 50% financial 

measures

– Minimum 15% SHE measures

– Maximum 20% personal 

measures

– Remainder of the award to 

be linked to strategic 
measures.

The performance measures for the 2024 
award will be as follows:

– EPS (34% weighting) – Half on 

performance at actual prices and FX, and 
half on performance at fixed prices and FX

– SAFCF (16%) – Sustaining attributable free 

cash flow at fixed prices and FX

– SHE measures (20%) – Safety objectives 
focused on TRIFR, planned maintenance, 
visible felt leadership (VFL) and 
environmental footprint improvement

– Strategic measures (10%) and individual 

measures (20%). 

The Committee may reduce the bonus 
outcome in the event of one or more fatalities, 
taking into consideration all relevant facts 
and circumstances including the number of 
fatalities, the cause of such fatalities, any 
repeat failures in safety and the number of 
high potential incidents.

 
   
    
    
    
    
Anglo American plc 
Integrated Annual Report 2023

Governance 
Directors’ remuneration report

187

Operation

Opportunity/performance measures

Implementation for 2024

Long Term Incentive 
Plan (LTIP)

To encourage and 
reward the achievement 
of long term sustainable 
shareholder returns and 
the delivery of financial/
strategic priorities.

To align executive 
director interests to 
shareholder interests.

Conditional awards of shares 
or nil-cost options are granted 
annually, with a performance 
period of normally at least 
three years.

Any awards that vest are 
subject to a holding period 
so that the overall LTIP time 
horizon normally is at least 
five years.

Vested awards may not 
generally be sold during the 
holding period, other than to 
cover tax liabilities arising on 
vesting.

Dividend equivalents accrue 
over the vesting period and are 
payable in respect of awards 
that vest.

Malus and clawback provisions 
apply as described below.

The maximum annual LTIP 
opportunity is 350% of salary in 
respect of a financial year.

The Committee reviews the 
executive directors’ LTIP award 
sizes annually, prior to grant, to 
ensure they are appropriate. 
This includes consideration of 
the share price at the time of 
grant in comparison to prior 
years and the Committee may 
reduce award sizes where it 
judges that there has been a 
material decline in the share 
price and that a downward 
adjustment would be 
appropriate in the 
circumstances.

For each performance element, 
threshold performance would 
normally not exceed 25% 
vesting of the element, rising on 
a broadly straight-line basis to 
100% for achieving stretch 
targets.

Performance below threshold 
results in zero vesting.

Performance measures 
attached to each award should 
be linked to the Group’s 
strategic priorities and may 
include, but are not limited to, 
TSR, ROCE, SAFCF and other 
strategic or ESG objectives.

The Committee has discretion 
to adjust the vesting outcome if 
it is not deemed to reflect the 
underlying performance of the 
Group or the experience of key 
stakeholders during the 
performance period.

In 2024, due to the share price fall of c.40% 
and in line with the updated grant reduction 
mechanism included in the 2023 
remuneration policy to mitigate windfall 
gains, unless there is a material change in 
share price prior to the grant date, the 
Committee has deemed it appropriate to 
reduce the value of the LTIP grant in 2024 
from 350% to 325% of salary. Further details 
can be found on page 181.

The performance measures for the 2024 LTIP 
will be as follows:

– TSR vs S&P Global Mining Index (33% 

weighting) – 25% vesting for TSR equal to 
Index; 100% for Index performance +6% 
per annum

– TSR vs FTSE 100 (17%) – 25% vesting for 
TSR equal to median performance; 100% 
vesting for TSR equal to 80th percentile 
performance

– ROCE (15%) – 25% vesting for 12% return; 

100% vesting for 20% return

– SAFCF (15%) - Sustaining attributable free 

cash flow at actual prices and FX 

– GHG emissions reduction (10%) – 

Commitment to address climate change 
by reducing absolute GHG emissions. 25% 
vesting for a reduction of 27.5% against a 
FY2023 baseline; 100% vesting for a 
reduction of 32.5% against a FY2023 
baseline

– Tailings (5%) – Conformance to the Global 
Industry Standard on Tailings Management 
– Objective 1 facilities. 25% vesting for 
85% vs plan and 100% for >=95% vs plan

– Tailings (5%) – Conformance to the Global 
Industry Standard on Tailings Management 
based on self-assessment and third party 
verification initiated – Objective 2 facilities. 
25% vesting for 80% compliance; 100% 
vesting for >=95% Compliance.

Operation

Opportunity/performance measures

Implementation for 2024

All-employee share 
plans

To encourage eligible 
employees to build up a 
shareholding in the 
Company.

Executive directors are eligible 
to participate in applicable all-
employee share plans on the 
same basis as other eligible 
employees in the relevant 
country they work in. In the UK, 
these currently comprise the 
Company’s Save As You Earn 
(SAYE) scheme and Share 
Incentive Plan (SIP) on identical 
terms to other UK employees.

In line with the award limits 
applicable to the share plan, on 
the same basis that apply to 
other eligible employees.

SIP free, partnership and matching schemes 
continue to be operated for 2024.
The SAYE scheme also continues to be 
operated for 2024.

    
    
    
188

Anglo American plc 
Integrated Annual Report 2023

Governance 
Directors’ remuneration report

Operation

Opportunity/performance measures

Implementation for 2024

Maximum pension contribution 
or cash allowance is aligned 
with the contribution levels 
available for all of the wider UK 
workforce (currently 15% of 
salary).

The pension contribution for executive 
directors for 2024 will be 15% of base salary.

No changes to benefits operated for 2024.

The value of benefits is set at 
a level which the Committee 
considers to be appropriate, 
taking into account the overall 
cost to the Company, individual 
circumstances, benefits 
provided to the wider workforce 
and market practice.

Pension

To provide a market 
competitive level of 
pension provision, taking 
account of the provisions 
for the wider workforce, 
to attract and retain high 
performing executive 
directors.

Other benefits

To provide market 
competitive benefits.

Executive directors participate 
in defined contribution pension 
arrangements.

Executive directors may request 
a pension allowance to be paid 
in place of defined contribution 
arrangements.

Executive directors appointed 
prior to December 2022 had 
the choice for contributions 
which may not be paid to a UK-
registered pension scheme as a 
result of applicable limits (either 
annual allowance or lifetime 
allowance) to be treated as if 
paid to an unregistered 
unfunded retirement benefit 
scheme (UURBS). 

With effect from December 
2022, the UURBS was closed to 
new members. As a result, 
executive directors are no 
longer eligible to join this 
scheme. Instead any pension 
contributions outside of 
applicable limits may be paid as 
a cash equivalent.

Benefits include (but are not 
limited to):

– 28 days’ leave, with 
encashment of any 
accumulated leave in excess 
of 20 days

– Car and/or travel related 

benefits 

– Medical insurance (family)

– Death and disability 

insurance

– Directors’ liability insurance

– Limited personal taxation 

and financial advice

– Club membership

– Other ancillary benefits, 
including attendance at 
relevant public events.

The Committee may introduce 
other benefits if it is considered 
appropriate to do so.

The Company reimburses all 
necessary and reasonable 
business expenses and may 
pay the tax costs on benefit 
provisions.

The Committee reserves the 
discretion to award certain 
situation-specific benefits (such 
as relocation) either on a one-
off or ongoing basis. 

 
 
Anglo American plc 
Integrated Annual Report 2023

Governance 
Directors’ remuneration report

189

Malus and clawback

Awards under the annual bonus (including both cash 
and deferred bonus awards under the BSP) and LTIP are 
subject to malus and clawback provisions over the following 
time periods:

Malus

Clawback

Annual bonus

To such time as 
payment is made

Up to two years 
following payment

Deferred bonus To such time as the 

LTIP

award vests

To such time as the 
award vests

Up to two years 
following vesting

Up to two years 
following vesting

Clawback may be applied in the circumstances below. Malus 
may be applied in the circumstances below, as well as in other 
exceptional circumstances, at the Committee’s discretion.

– Material misstatement in results

– Misconduct

– Material failing in risk management

– Error in calculation.

Shareholding guidelines
Executive directors are expected to build up and retain a 
holding in shares in the Company with a value of four times 
basic salary in respect of the chief executive and three times 
basic salary in respect of other executive directors. The 
Committee takes into consideration achievement against 
these in-post guidelines when making grants under the 
Company’s various incentive plans.

Executive directors who step down from the Board will 
normally be required to continue to hold the lower of the in-
post requirement or their actual shareholding at the point 
of stepping down. 

The Committee retains discretion to allow exceptions to 
these guidelines in exceptional circumstances. Full disclosure 
will be included in the relevant annual report should this 
discretion be utilised.

190

Anglo American plc 
Integrated Annual Report 2023

Governance 
Directors’ remuneration report

Non-executive director fee policy
The full remuneration policy for our non-executive directors 
(NEDs) is outlined in the 2022 directors’ remuneration report. 
The policy does not set limits for individual fees, but provides 
that the maximum annual aggregate basic fees for all NEDs 
(excluding the chairman) should not exceed £1.25 million.

Chairman and non-executive director fees: implementation 
for 2024
For 2024, the chairman’s fee and NED base fees will be 
increased by 4%, in line with the increase for executive 
directors and the increase for the wider UK workforce. 

Following an external market review, for 2024 the senior 
independent director’s fee will also be increased by 15% to 
ensure the fee level remains competitive with the Group’s 
closest industry and FTSE peers. The remaining Board 
committee chair and membership fees are unchanged. 

Determining the fees paid to NEDs is a matter for the Board, 
with the NEDs abstaining; therefore, increases were approved 
by the chairman and the executive directors. The chairman’s 
increase was approved by the Remuneration Committee, in 
consultation with the chief executive. No directors were 
involved in any decision as to their own fees. 

Role

Chairman fee

NED base fee

2024 Fee (£’000)
836(1)
105.5

2023 Fee (£’000)
804(1)
101.4

Senior independent director

37.4 (additional to base fee)

32.5 (additional to base fee)

Chair of audit, remuneration or sustainability committees

40 (additional to base fee)

40 (additional to base fee)

Audit, remuneration or sustainability committee membership

20 (each committee membership)

20 (each committee membership)

Nomination

Designated NED to chair Global Workforce Advisory Panel

(1) Includes service on any Board committees.

12.5

20

12.5

20 (from May 2023)

Anglo American plc 
Integrated Annual Report 2023

Governance 
Directors’ remuneration report

191

Annual report on directors’ remuneration

Audited Information
Under schedule 8 of the Large and Medium-sized Companies and Groups (accounting and reports) Regulations 2008 
(as amended), elements of this section of the report have been audited. The areas of the Accounts and Reports subject 
to audit are indicated in the headings. 

Executive director remuneration in 2023 (audited)
The table below sets out the remuneration paid to the executive directors for 2023 (and 2022).

Single total figure of remuneration for executive directors

Total basic 
salary(1)
£’000

Benefits in 
kind
£’000

Annual bonus
– cash and
Bonus 
Shares(2)
£’000

LTIP(3)(4)(5)
award 
vesting
£’000

Pension(6)
£’000

Other(7)
£’000

Total
£’000

Total
fixed
remuneration
£’000

Total
variable
remuneration
£’000

Executive directors

Duncan Wanblad

Duncan Wanblad (2022)

John Heasley

John Heasley (2022)

Stephen Pearce

Stephen Pearce (2022)

1,300 

880 

68 

— 

828 

868 

210 

126 

8 

— 

478 

92 

1,046 

787 

— 

— 

681 

791 

738 

2,387 

— 

934 

3,020 

304 

209 

9 

— 

159 

188 

5 

5 

2,078 

— 

5 

5 

3,603 

4,393 

2,163 

— 

3,085 

4,964 

1,814 

1,215 

85 

— 

1,465 

1,148 

1,789 

3,179 

2,078 

— 

1,620 

3,816 

(1) 2023 salaries, benefits in kind and pension for Stephen Pearce and John Heasley are pro-rated for the period in year served as a director. For Stephen Pearce, 

this is the period between 1 January 2023 and 1 December 2023. For John Heasley, this is between 1 December 2023 and 31 December 2023. Stephen Pearce 
continued to be paid a salary, benefits in kind and pension for the period he remained an employee of the Company (1 December 2023 to 29 February 2024) 
(see page 199 for details).

(2) 2023 bonus for Stephen Pearce is pro-rated for the period in year served as a director (1 January 2023 to 1 December 2023). He also received a bonus of £61,901 

for the 2023 period he remained an employee of the Company (1 December 2023 to 31 December 2023) assessed on the same basis as his 2023 bonus 
received for serving as a director. His aggregate 2023 bonus was therefore £742,817.

(3) The 2021 LTIP vesting level was confirmed by the Remuneration Committee at its meeting on 19 February 2024. As the awards are due to vest after publication of 
this report, an average share price between 1 October 2023 and 31 December 2023, of £20.98, was used to calculate the value and will be trued up in the 2024 
report. The LTIP values shown include dividend equivalent amounts of £158,339 for Duncan Wanblad and £200,347 for Stephen Pearce. This includes an 
equivalent payment for the special dividend paid in September 2021. The values of LTIP awards that vested in 2023 have been restated using the share price at 
vesting of £30.09, see page 197 for further details. 

(4) The value for Duncan Wanblad represents vesting of shares he received prior to joining the Board.
(5) For the 2021 LTIP vesting in 2024, between grant and valuation of the award for single figure purposes, the share price decreased from £29.28 to £20.98 for 

original grant shares and decreased from £31.37 to £20.98 for additional shares granted on the demerger of Thungela resources. For the 2021 LTIP, 0% of the 
value disclosed in the single figure is therefore attributable to share price. For the 2020 LTIP vesting in 2023, the share price increased from £18.13 to £30.09 at 
vesting, equating to an increase in value of each vesting share of £11.96. The proportion of the value disclosed in the single figure attributable to share price 
growth is 39.7%. No discretion has been exercised by the Committee in relation to the 2021 and 2020 LTIP vestings as a result of share price movements over the 
vesting periods.

(6) Pension figures includes value of notional return on UURBS balances where applicable and do not include employer NIC values where pension is received as a 

cash allowance.

(7) For Duncan Wanblad and Stephen Pearce ‘Other’ comprises the value of free and matching shares awarded under the SIP based on the value of shares at grant. 
Awards are not subject to performance in line with the scheme terms as applicable for all employees. For John Heasley, ‘Other’ comprises the value of the shares 
awarded under the Non-cyclical award plan to compensate the shares forfeited as a result of joining Anglo American, see page 198 for further details.

Basic salaries for 2023
The basic salaries for 2023 were as follows (in £’000s):

Duncan Wanblad

£1,300

Stephen Pearce

£828

Paid in 2023
(2022: £1,250 – full year equivalent salary)

Paid in 2023
(£903 – full year equivalent salary)
(2022: £868)

John Heasley 

£68

Paid in 2023
(£810 – full year equivalent salary)

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
192

Anglo American plc 
Integrated Annual Report 2023

Governance 
Directors’ remuneration report

Benefits in kind (audited)
Benefits for executive directors with a value over £5,000 
are set out below. During the year, executive directors 
may receive benefits including car-related benefits, 
accommodation, tax advice, club membership, death and 
disability insurance, directors’ liability insurance, medical 
insurance and other ancillary benefits. 

2023 Benefits

Car related Benefits (£’000)

Tax advice (£’000)
Accommodation(1) (£’000)

Relocation (£’000)

Duncan 
Wanblad

Stephen 
Pearce

161

13

28

31

8

53

377

(1) Benefit relating to provision of accommodation for attending business events.

As part of Stephen Pearce’s joining arrangements, the cost 
of his relocation from Australia to the UK was covered by 
the Group, and the resulting income tax paid on his behalf. 
Full disclosure is set out in the 2017 Annual Report.

Stephen’s intention had always been to return to Australia 
following retirement. Therefore, as part of Stephen’s retirement 
arrangements, £200,000 of the cost of his relocation back to 
Australia was supported by the Group, and the resulting 
income tax paid.

The provision of such relocation support is consistent with that 
taken for employees who undertake international assignments 
or who are required to relocate on a local contract in order to 
fulfil their role and would be considered for repatriation on a 
case-by-case basis.

The Committee considered and is satisfied that the level of 
aggregate benefit provision, taking into account the situation 
and circumstances, in particular in relation to the provision of 
relocation support, was appropriate.

John Heasley’s benefits for 2023 included accommodation, 
car-related benefits, professional membership and medical 
insurance. The value of the benefits did not exceed £5,000 
individually.

Annual bonus outcomes for 2023 (audited)
50% of the total 2023 annual bonus is payable in cash, with 
50% deferred into shares. One-third of the deferred shares 
will vest after two years; the remaining two-thirds will vest after 
three years. The bonus deferred as shares is not subject to 
further performance but is subject to continued employment.

50% of each executive director’s bonus outcome was 
assessed against financial targets. 20% was assessed against 
strategic measures and a further 20% was assessed on 
Safety, Health and Environment (SHE) measures, with the 
remaining 10% being assessed against the achievement of 
individual objectives. 

Strategic and SHE objectives are shared by the executive 
directors, with individual objectives being tailored for their 
specific roles. The key individual performance measures are 
assessed against the overall operational and financial 
performance of the business. 

In 2023, tragically, three colleagues lost their lives following 
two accidents at our managed operations: one at our Kumba 
Iron Ore business in South Africa, and two in Chile. With these 
deeply saddening events occurring, it is a stark reminder that 
keeping our people safe must be at the forefront of everything 
we do in order to reduce the number of fatalities to zero.

As a result of the three fatalities that have occurred during the 
year, the Committee judged that there will be a 15% reduction 
to 2023 executive director bonus outcomes. This reduction 
was determined following consideration by the Committee, 
taking into account full details of the incidents. 

Discretion
Incentives are designed to ensure they drive appropriate short 
and long term behaviours, and it is the Committee’s general 
preference to avoid making any adjustments. Aside from the 
utilisation of discretion to apply the safety deductor, the 
Committee did not make any discretionary adjustments to the 
2023 bonus outcomes. 

Anglo American plc 
Integrated Annual Report 2023

Governance 
Directors’ remuneration report

193

Summary of 2023 annual bonus outcome

Duncan Wanblad

Stephen Pearce

Financial 
metrics (50%)

SHE metrics
(20%)

Strategic 
metrics (20%)

Personal 
metrics (10%)

 5.5% 

 5.5% 

 18.1% 

 18.1% 

 14.5% 

 14.5% 

 7.0% 

 8.0% 

Total payout 
pre-safety 
deductor (%)

 45.1% 

 46.1% 

Payout after 
15% safety 
deductor
(%)(1)

 38.3% 

 39.2% 

Annual bonus 
value 
(£’)(2)

£1,046,168

£680,916

(1) Safety deductor applied on a multiplicative basis against overall annual bonus outcomes.
(2) Bonus for Stephen Pearce pro-rated bonus for period served as a director from 1 January 2023 up to 1 December 2023. His total bonus for the year includes an 

additional amount of £61,901 for the period between him stepping down as a director and the remainder of 2023. 

Annual bonus performance assessment for 2023 (audited)
The financial element of the 2023 annual bonus is measured 
against underlying EPS and sustaining attributable free cash 
flow (SAFCF) measures. 

The EPS elements of the award accounted for 34% of the total 
annual bonus, split equally between EPS measured at fixed 
prices and FX rates and EPS measured at actual prices and FX 
rates. The fixed price and FX rate EPS portion is designed to 
reflect Group operational performance, excluding the impact 
of variations in price and currency. Both target ranges are 
illustrated in the financial performance table, with 25% vesting 
for performance at threshold. SAFCF, measured at fixed prices 
and FX rates, accounted for 16% of the total annual bonus.

With the underlying financial performance, underpinned by the 
challenging economic environment and ongoing geo-political 
turbulence, the financial measures within the annual bonus 

paid out at 11%. This was due to marginal vesting for the EPS 
at actual target, which was supported by prices for some of our 
commodities and favourable exchange rates in-year.

The shared strategic objectives accounted for 20% of the total 
award. These objectives reflect the Group’s strategic priorities 
for the year, incorporating a combination of quantitative and 
qualitative metrics. Following the end of the year, the 
Committee made a detailed assessment of performance, 
leading to the evaluations shown in the tables below.

For 2023 the executive directors have 10% of the annual 
bonus weighted to individual performance measures, 
focusing on the critical deliverables for each executive 
director. The following tables detail the achievement against 
these objectives.

Financial performance

Metric

EPS at actual prices and FX rates

EPS at fixed prices and FX rates

SAFCF at fixed prices and FX rates

Total

Threshold (25%)

Maximum 
(100%)

Achievement

Weighting

Outcome

$2.31/share

$3.47/share

$2.42/share

$2.60/share

$3.18/share

$1.93/share

$2.7bn

$4.0bn

$281m

 17.0% 

 17.0% 

 16.0% 

 50.0% 

 5.5% 

 —% 

 —% 

5.5%

194

Anglo American plc 
Integrated Annual Report 2023

Governance 
Directors’ remuneration report

SHE performance

Metric

Metric type

Achievement

Total recordable injury frequency rate 
(TRIFR) – improvement of 15% on 
prior three-year Group average

Safety

Planned work – % of maintenance 
work planned and scheduled

Operations

Total Recordable Injuries were significantly down on 2023, 
supporting a full-year TRIFR of 1.78, a 19% improvement year on 
year and the lowest in the Company's history. Strong lead-
indicator performance underpins the result and is testament to 
commitment and drive at operational level.

Threshold has been met, with performance against this measure 
showing continuous improvement throughout 2023, driving 
improved reliability and safety at our operations. 

Weighting Outcome

 5% 

 5% 

Leadership Time in Field – one high 
quality visible felt leadership (VFL) 
per week between 1 March – 30 June 
then three high quality VFLs per week 
between 1 July – 31 December by all 
band 4-6 employees based at 
managerial operations

Ecological Health – improvement in 
footprint intensity – expressed as the 
sum of metrics for Land, Air, Nature 
and Water

Total

Shared strategic performance

Operations With the introduction of this measure for 2023, we have seen a 

sustained focus at all Businesses resulting in an improved safety 
performance, as demonstrated by TRIFR outcome. This measure 
has been delivered in full.

 5% 

 3.1% 

Environment

Targets have been met across the four target areas, delivering full 
vesting for this measure.

 10% 

 10% 

 20% 

 18.1% 

Metric

Metric type

Achievement

Weighting Outcome

Delivery of decarbonisation 

Innovation

– The grid connection and the trading licence have been 

obtained, with financial close expected during Q1 2024. Delays 
in financial close due to Eskom connection process, national 
reform and delays in obtaining the trading licence

– Hydrogen supply workstream is under way with First Mode, 

supporting various alternative deployment models. 

For SA renewables, deliver 2023 
milestones, to enable Phase 1 
production of 425MW in 2025: 

– Power purchase agreements 

agreements, and electricity offtake 
agreements signed

– Bank mandate in place and 

financial close 

– For hydrogen infrastructure, work 

with FirstMode to develop a 
roadmap to secure necessary 
infrastructure for on-site hydrogen 
production, to support truck 
operations.

Key strategic choices 

Portfolio

Significantly progressed subject to further market analysis.

Update assessment of portfolio 
opportunities.

Effectiveness review

People

Define and implement a more 
effective organisational model 
focused on strategy execution.

Inclusion & Diversity; Talent Delivery

Detailed succession and/or retention 
plans for critical senior management 
roles in place as part of restructuring 
process.

Following the restructure, detailed 
roadmap to deliver gender diversity 
targets by 2025.

Total

Organisational changes were implemented by 31 December 
as planned. This resulted in prioritisation of work, clear 
accountabilities, significant corporate headcount reduction, 
and sustainable annual corporate cost savings.

People

Majority of in-scope senior roles had viable succession plans in 
place. Female representation in the CE’s employee-once-
removed (EoR) population was 29% at year end, versus a target 
of 33%, largely due to a decrease in the overall number of CE EoR 
positions as a consequence of organisational design work, with 
2025 roadmap under way. 

 5% 

 2.5% 

 5% 

 3% 

 5% 

 5% 

 5% 

 4% 

 20% 

 14.5% 

Anglo American plc 
Integrated Annual Report 2023

Governance 
Directors’ remuneration report

195

Personal performance

Duncan Wanblad

Financial

SHE

Strategic

Personal 

Total

Safety deductor

Overall result

Percentage weighting

50%

20%

20%

10%

100%

A percentage reduction from overall bonus outcome on a multiplicative basis

—

Details of personal objectives

Achievement

Deliver Operational Excellence (5%)
– Improve operational stability by 

achieving minimum AOM of 80% 
compliance across priority sites. 

– Achieve reduction in variability for priority 

sites over 3-year rolling period.

Deliver Growth – Collahuasi (5%)
– Submit permit applications, to allow for 
debottlenecking and other activities to 
reach the approved 210ktpd capacity.

– Finalise scope, select service provider, 

and commence pre-feasibility study for 
4th line.

Overall individual performance

Stephen Pearce

Financial

SHE

Strategic

Personal

Total

Safety deductor

Overall result

(1) Compliance score for priority assets at 76% versus target of 80%.
(2) The overall variability of saleable production for priority assets reduced by 2.2% 
during 2023, as compared to baseline.

(1) Permit applications prepared and submitted.
(2) Approval of scope and funds for pre-feasibility integrated growth studies (4th 
line and CPF 240) provided by all shareholders in October 2023. Bidding processes 
for most engineering studies are complete, with the project director appointed to 
start in February 2024.

10% total weighting

 7% 

Percentage weighting

50%

20%

20%

10%

100%

A percentage reduction from overall bonus outcome on a multiplicative basis

—

Details of personal objectives

Achievement

Finance Value Delivery (4%)
– Complete Project Aegis (Capital 

Project Aegis completed key elements of the target operating model deployed.
Value delivered exceeded plan.

Structure Review and Optimisation) and 
transition to embed in to BAU.

– Implement key elements of the target 

operation model arising from the review 
of the Group’s Global Cash 
Management footprint.

Functional Excellence (4%)
– Complete Release 3 Beyond Finance 

Deployment by end of 2023.

– Successful Group UKCR attestation dry 

run with rectification plans and 
preparation for Dec 2023.

Beyond Finance Release 3 rolled out in October, successful UK Corporate Reform 
(UKCR), dry run completed on 2022 results in 2023, and again for H1 results 2023, 
with full planning in place for 2024 process.

People (2%)
–  Improve psychological Safety score for 

Group Finance.

– At least 90% of Group Finance 

Improvement in psychological safety; numerous team workshops, feedback 
sessions and team leader training conducted throughout the year. In relation to 
inclusion & diversity, achieved 58% female and 42% male (previously 50% female 
at senior levels) after organisational redesign.

permanent appointments meet the 
inclusion & diversity functional target of 
gender parity at each stage of the 
recruitment process.

Overall individual performance

10% total weighting

 8% 

2023 
outcome

 5.5% 

 18.1% 

 14.5% 

 7.0% 

 45.1% 

 15.0% 

 38.3% 

Outcome

 2% 

 5% 

2023 
outcome

 5.5% 

 18.1% 

 14.5% 

 8.0% 

 46.1% 

 15.0% 

 39.2% 

Outcome

 3% 

 3% 

 2% 

196

Anglo American plc 
Integrated Annual Report 2023

Governance 
Directors’ remuneration report

2021 LTIP award vesting (audited)
In 2021, Duncan Wanblad and Stephen Pearce received LTIP 
grants of 68,257 and 86,366 conditional shares respectively; 
in addition to this, they received 291 and 368 additional 
conditional shares respectively as a result of the demerger 
of our South African thermal coal operations into Thungela 
Resources Ltd in June 2021. Duncan Wanblad’s shares under 
the 2021 LTIP from both the original grant and the additional 
shares from the Thungela Resources demerger were awarded 
prior to becoming an executive director; vesting of his shares is 
on the same basis as for the other executive directors. More 
details on the Thungela Resources additional shares can be 
found in the 2021 remuneration report. 

Vesting of 2021 LTIP conditional share awards was subject to:

– The Group’s TSR performance relative to:

– Euromoney Global Mining Index (from 1 January 2021 
to 31 July 2023) and S&P Global Mining Index (from 
1 August 2023 to 31 December 2023)(1) 

– FTSE 100 constituents over the three-year period to 

31 December 2023

– Group attributable ROCE in year to 31 December 2023

– Group cumulative sustaining attributable FCF at actual price 
and FX rates over the three-year period to 31 December 
2023

– Improvement in greenhouse gas (GHG) intensity 

– Number of off-site jobs supported for each on-site job

ROCE performance for 2023 was within the target range at 
16%, resulting in 63.5% vesting of this portion of the award. 
The cumulative cash flow measure vested at 68% largely 
due to contribution from strong commodity prices and 
market fundamentals during the first two years of the 
performance period.

GHG efficiency improved by 25%, indexed on 2020 actual. 
Stretch goal achievement has been largely driven by 
renewable energy electricity sourcing and methane 
reduction projects.

The 6% of the LTIP for social responsibility and the number of 
jobs supported off site for each job onsite also vested at 100%. 
By the end of 2023, we had supported 139,308 jobs through 
socio-economic development programmes since the launch 
of our Sustainable Mining Plan in 2018. In 2023, we supported 
2.4 jobs off site for every job on site job (2022: 1.8).

The 6% of the LTIP for the tailings dam measure required 
100% implementation of the updated Anglo American tailings 
standard that incorporates all GISTM requirements across the 
Group (Managed Operations) for tailings facilities that has a 
Potential Loss of Life (PLL) rating of at least one person or 
more by 5 August 2023 – no allowance was included for any 
achievement below 100%. The standard set was a 
deliberately high bar and considerable progress has been 
made towards meeting it in full, despite the scarcity of 
independent experts available to verify progress. Overall, 
risks are being managed effectively. Given that the 100% 
requirement was not met, the result is 0% vesting. 

– Implementation of the Anglo American standard that 

The LTIP awards will therefore vest at 40.3% of maximum. 

incorporates GISTM requirements. 

TSR performance over the three-year period has been 
mixed, with a particularly challenging environment in 2023. 
Shareholders have seen a TSR of 19%, positioned above 
the FTSE 100 median TSR of 14.1% and below the S&P 
Euromoney Global Mining Index TSR of 32.3%. 

Performance assessment for 2021 LTIP awards

Discretion
No discretionary adjustments were made to the LTIP targets 
or outcome.

Measure
S&P Global Mining Index TSR(1)(2)

FTSE 100 constituents TSR(3)

Group attributable ROCE

Group sustaining attributable free cash 
flow (cumulative)

Improvement in greenhouse gas (GHG) 
intensity(4)
Number of off-site jobs supported for 
each on-site job

Implementation of updated AA standard 
(2020) that incorporates GISTM 
requirements

 17% 

 15% 

 15% 

 8% 

 6% 

 6% 

Weighting

Threshold performance
(25% vesting)

Stretch performance
(100% vesting)

Actual
performance

 33% 

Index performance (32.3%)

Median TSR performance 
(14.1%)

Index +6% p.a. 
(55.2%)

80th percentile TSR 
performance (58%)

Vesting
outcome

 —% 

 19% 

 19% 

 38.6% 

 12% 

$9.7 bn

 20% 

 16% 

$14.6 bn

$12.5 bn

5% improvement

15% improvement

1.5 jobs

2 jobs

100% vesting for implementation of the updated AA 
standard all Group-managed operations for tailings 
facilities that have a Potential Loss of Life rating of at least 
one person or more by 5 August 2023. 0% vesting if not met

Above 
target

Above 
target

Target not 
met

 63.5% 

 68% 

 100% 

 100% 

 0% 

(1) The Euromoney (EMIX) Global Mining Index ceased on 31 July 2023. In July 2023, the Remuneration Committee approved the replacement of the EMIX Global Mining Index with the S&P 

Global Mining Index from the date of cessation to the end of the performance period.

(2) 25% of the award will vest if Anglo’s TSR performance is equal to the Index (threshold). 100% of the award will vest if Anglo’s TSR performance is equal to or above the Index + 6% p.a. (stretch). 

Between threshold and stretch, vesting will be applied on a straight-line basis by reference to Anglo’s TSR performance relative to the Index and Index + 6% p.a. 

(3) 25% of the award will vest if, based on its TSR performance, Anglo is ranked at the median of the comparator group (threshold). 100% of the award will vest if, based on its TSR performance, 
Anglo is ranked at or above the upper quintile of the comparator group (stretch). Between threshold and stretch, vesting will be applied on a straight-line basis by reference to Anglo’s ranking 
relative to the median and upper quintile ranking of the comparator group. With 93 constituents the median rank is 47, and upper quintile rank is 19.4; Anglo is ranked 42.

(4) Measures the ratio of total GHG emissions (tonnes CO2e) to product mass (tonne Cu equivalent).

Anglo American plc 
Integrated Annual Report 2023

Governance 
Directors’ remuneration report

197

Total outcome of the 2021 LTIP 

Duncan Wanblad (award granted prior to appointment to the Board)

Stephen Pearce (maximum opportunity 300% of salary)

Numbers 
shares 
granted(1)

68,548 

86,734 

Numbers 
shares 
vesting at 
40.3%

Dividend 
equivalents 
on vested 
value

27,645 

£158,339

Value based 
on vesting at 

40.3%(2) Total value (2)
£738,448

£580,109

34,979 

£200,347

£734,014

£934,360

(1) Number of shares includes additional Anglo American shares resulting from adjustment following the demerger of Thungela Resources Ltd. Dividend equivalents 

for additional adjusted shares accrue from the date of demerger.

(2) As the awards are due to vest after publication of this report, an average share price between 1 October 2023 and 31 December 2023, of £20.98, was used to 

calculate the value and will be trued up in the 2024 report. The share price decreased from £29.28 to £20.98 for original grant shares and decreased from £31.37 
to £20.98 for additional shares granted on the demerger of Thungela resources. Therefore, 0% of the value is attributable to share price growth. No discretion has 
been exercised by the Committee in relation to the 2021 vesting as a result of share price movements over the vesting period.

Restatement of value of 2020 LTIP

Duncan Wanblad

Stephen Pearce

Number of
shares vesting

67,455 

85,351 

Dividend
equivalents
value

2022 
estimated 
value(1)
 (ex dividends)

2022 
estimated total 
value

Actual value
of award at
vesting(2)

Restated 2020 
LTIP value

356,629 

2,033,286 

2,839,914 

2,029,990 

2,386,620 

451,244 

2,572,722 

3,023,966 

2,568,552 

3,019,798 

(1) 2022 estimated value uses three-month average share price up to 31 December 2022 of £30.14 as stated in the 2022 Annual Report.
(2) The share price on vesting was £30.09.

Pension (audited)
The pension contribution amounts in the table below should be 
read in conjunction with the following information:

– The total amounts of pension contributions treated as having 

been paid into the UURBS for the executive directors are:

– Duncan Wanblad – £191,004

– Stephen Pearce – £124,168 (up to 1 December 2023)

– Contributions treated as being paid into the UURBS earn a 
fixed return of 5.125%. The total return earned in 2023 was 
£109,304 for Duncan Wanblad and £34,914 for Stephen 
Pearce. The interest levels outlined only relate to the period 
that they served as an executive director during the year

External directorships
Executive directors are not permitted to hold external 
directorships or offices without the prior approval of the Board. 
If approved, they may each retain the fees payable from only 
one such appointment.

In the year, Stephen Pearce retained fees for one external non-
executive directorship, at BAE Systems plc, amounting to 
£109,766 for the period 1 January 2023 to 1 December 2023.

John Heasley holds a voluntary role as non-executive director 
and honorary treasurer of the Royal Scottish National 
Orchestra (RSNO), a charitable organisation for which he does 
not receive fees.

– As at 31 December 2023, the total balance due to executive 

directors in relation to the UURBS was £3,186,490(1). 
Retirement benefits can only be drawn from the UURBS if a 
member has attained age 55 and has left Group service

– As detailed in the 2023 remuneration policy, the UURBS was 
closed to new members and future executive directors are 
not eligible to join the scheme. As such, John Heasley is not a 
participant of the UURBS.

(1) Includes Stephen’s Pearce’s UURBS balance as at 1 December 2023.

Total pension for 2023

DC contribution (£’000)

UURBS contribution (£’000)

UURBS Notional Increase (£’000)

Pension allowance (£’000)
Total (£’000)(1)

Duncan 
Wanblad

John 
Heasley

Stephen 
Pearce(2)

£4 

£191 

£109 

— 

£304 

— 

— 

— 

£9 

£9 

— 

£124 

£35 

— 

£159 

(1) Stephen Pearce and John Heasley’s total pension are pro-rated for the period 

served as a director in 2023.

(2) Stephen Pearce continued to receive pension contributions for the period 

1 December 2023 to 29 February 2024. Further details can be found on page 
199.

Payments for past directors (audited)
In addition to retirement benefits, the Company provides six 
former executive directors with private medical insurance 
arrangements. The total annual cost to the Company is 
£58,194. 

In addition to the five former directors disclosed in the 2022 
directors’ remuneration report, the 2023 recipients include 
one additional former director. In line with the others, this 
arrangement is a longstanding commitment that has not 
been fulfilled to date due to the overseas home location of 
the former director following their exit date and the rules of the 
UK private medical insurance arrangements. As the individual 
has relocated back to the UK, the Company has agreed to 
meet the pre-existing agreement that had been committed 
to previously. 

The Committee continues to meet these longstanding 
commitments, but no new commitments have been made 
during the year or will be made in future.

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
198

Anglo American plc 
Integrated Annual Report 2023

Governance 
Directors’ remuneration report

Remuneration arrangements for the appointment of 
John Heasley 

Restricted Shares forfeited. Vested awards will be subject to 
a two-year holding period.

John Heasley was appointed as finance director and 
joined the Board on 1 December 2023. The Committee took 
the opportunity to re-balance John Heasley’s remuneration 
package on appointment, with a lower base salary and 
higher LTIP compared to his predecessor. The terms of the 
remuneration comprise a base salary of £810,000, a pension 
contribution of 15% of base salary (aligned with the wider UK 
workforce), a maximum bonus opportunity of 210% and an 
annual maximum LTIP award of 350%. In addition, his 
remuneration package also includes compensation for 
incentives forfeited from his previous employer. The value, 
vesting dates, performance requirements, holding periods 
and other applicable terms and conditions of these awards 
reflect those of the original awards, as required by the 
remuneration policy:

Cash bonus
John Heasley will receive, following the publication of his 
previous employer’s 2023 annual report and accounts, a cash 
payment in respect of the cash portion (70% of the total) of his 
forfeited annual bonus for 2023. The amount will be calculated 
by reference to his previous employer’s disclosed performance 
against the relevant objectives, as well as the original 
opportunity level.

Share awards
The Committee agreed to buy-out share awards forfeited 
by John Heasley as a result of him joining Anglo American. 
These being:

– Unvested Restricted shares granted between 2019 and 
2023, which collectively would have vested on a phased 
basis in April 2024, April 2025 and April 2026

– Deferred Bonus Shares which would have been granted in 
April 2024 in respect of the 2023 annual bonus (30% of the 
total amount earned) and would have vested in April 2027. 

On 1 December 2023, John Heasley was granted an 
award over 95,287 Anglo American shares (with a grant 
value of £2,078,400) to compensate for the unvested 
Restricted Shares forfeited. The award will vest on a ‘like-for-
like’ basis to mirror the opportunity and terms of the Restricted 
Shares forfeited. 

The number of Anglo American shares awarded was 
calculated by reference to the average closing share price of 
Anglo American and the previous employer for the five dealing 
days prior to John Heasley commencing employment with 
Anglo American on 1 December 2023. 

The award will vest in three tranches, aligned to the original 
vesting dates of the Restricted Shares forfeited, as follows:

– 26,774 of the shares will vest on 1 April 2024

– 41,196 of the shares will vest on 1 April 2025

– 27,317 of the shares will vest on 1 April 2026.

Vesting of each tranche is subject to continued 
employment during the vesting period and the number 
of shares that vest will be aligned with the vesting levels 
as publicly disclosed by his previous employer following 
assessment of the performance underpins attached to the 

As soon as reasonably practicable following the publication 
of his previous employer’s 2023 annual report and accounts, 
John Heasley will be granted an award over Anglo American 
shares to compensate for the Deferred Bonus Shares that 
would have been granted in April 2024. The number of 
Anglo American shares to be awarded will be calculated 
by reference to the average closing shares price of 
Anglo American and his previous employer the five dealing 
days prior to grant. The award will vest after three years from 
grant, which aligns with the vesting date that would have 
applied to the Deferred Bonus Shares. 

Payments for loss of office (audited) 
Tony O’Neill
Tony O’Neill retired and stepped down from the Board on 
31 December 2022. He remained an employee of the 
Company until 30 June 2023, continuing to provide 
services to the Group to support an orderly transition of his 
responsibilities. His remuneration for the proportion of 2023 
when he was not a director was as follows:

– For the period between 1 January 2023 and 30 June 2023, 
Tony O’Neill continued to be paid his salary, pension and 
benefits. The value of these during this period was £535,814

– Tony O’Neill did not receive a bonus or LTIP award for 2023

– Tony O’Neill also received a payment of £193,944 for 
unused holiday days as at his date of cessation of 
employment.

Treatment of outstanding share awards
Good leaver treatment was applied in respect of Tony O’Neill’s 
outstanding share awards. Subject to the terms of the awards, 
BSP and LTIP awards will vest at their original vesting dates 
and any LTIP awards will be subject to a two-year holding 
period.

Tony O’Neill’s outstanding shares as at 31 December 2023 
are:

Award

2019 BSP 5-year

2020 BSP 5-year

2021 BSP 3-year

2022 BSP 2-year

2022 BSP 3-year

2021 LTIP

2022 LTIP

Number of shares

12,084

12,606

12,408

6,012

11,672

74,956

34,626

Vesting date

March 2024

March 2025

March 2024

March 2024

March 2025

March 2024

March 2025

The LTIP shares are pro-rated from the start of the 
performance period of each award to Tony O’Neill’s date 
of cessation of employment of 30 June 2023 and vesting 
remains subject to performance. These numbers include 
additional Anglo American shares awarded as a result of 
the demerger of Thungela Resources in 2021.

Tony O’Neill is expected to maintain a holding of 
Anglo American shares of three times his salary, for a period 
of two years following him stepping down from the Board.

Anglo American plc 
Integrated Annual Report 2023

Governance 
Directors’ remuneration report

199

Stephen Pearce
Stephen Pearce stepped down from the Board on 1 December 
2023. He remained an employee of the Company to facilitate 
a smooth transition for the finance director until 29 February 
2024. His remuneration for the proportion of 2023 where he 
was not a director was as follows:

These numbers include additional Anglo American shares 
awarded as a result of the demerger of Thungela Resources 
in 2021.

Stephen is expected to maintain a holding of Anglo American 
shares of three times his salary, for a period of two years 
following him stepping down from the Board.

– For the period between 1 December 2023 and 29 February 

2024, Stephen Pearce continued to be paid his salary, 
pension and benefits. The value of these during this period 
was £269,349

– Stephen Pearce received a bonus for 2023, £680,916 

related to the period in year served as a director (1 January 
2023 to 1 December 2023) and £61,901 for the period he 
remained an employee of the Company (1 December 2023 
to 31 December 2023) assessed on the same basis, with 
50% of the bonus for 2023 paid in cash and 50% to be 
deferred as shares. Please see page 193 for further details 

– He is also eligible to receive a 2024 bonus for the period 

1 January 2024 – 29 February 2024, which will be paid fully 
in cash at the normal time following the sign-off of the 2024 
Annual Report

– On cessation of employment (for the period between 
1 March 2024 and 31 May 2024), Stephen Pearce will 
receive payments in lieu of notice, paid in monthly 
instalments, as per his service agreement 

– Stephen Pearce will also receive a payment for unused 
holiday days at his date of cessation of employment.

Further details in relation to any outstanding payments will be 
disclosed in the 2024 remuneration report.

Treatment of outstanding share awards
Good leaver treatment was applied in respect of outstanding 
share awards. Subject to the terms of the awards, the BSP 
and LTIP awards will vest at their original vesting dates and 
any LTIP awards which vest will be subject to a two-year 
holding period.

LTIP awards will be pro-rated for service up to 29 February 
2024 and vesting remains subject to performance. No LTIP 
was granted for 2024. Stephen Pearce’s outstanding shares 
as at 31 December 2023 are:

Award

2019 BSP 5-year

2020 BSP 5-year

2021 BSP 3-year

2022 BSP 2-year

2022 BSP 3-year

2023 BSP 2-year

2023 BSP 3-year

2021 LTIP

2022 LTIP

2023 LTIP

Number of shares

11,820

12,155

11,964

5,798

11,255

4,563

8,858

86,734

66,779

91,882

Vesting date

March 2024

March 2025

March 2024

March 2024

March 2025

March 2025

March 2026

March 2024

March 2025

March 2026

200

Anglo American plc 
Integrated Annual Report 2023

Governance 
Directors’ remuneration report

Other director remuneration in 2023 (audited) 
Non-executive director remuneration 
The table below sets out the remuneration paid to the NEDs in 
2023. Fees shown include any additional fees paid in respect 
of chairing or being a member of one of the Board’s 
committees or acting as the senior independent director.

As outlined in the 2021 remuneration report, fees for the 
chairman and NEDs have been reviewed annually from 
2023 onwards.

Role

Chairman fee

NED base fee

Fee (£’000)
804(1)
101.4

Senior independent director

32.5 (additional to base fee)

Chair of Audit, Remuneration or 
Sustainability committees
Audit, Remuneration or Sustainability 
committee membership
Nomination committee membership

Designated NED to chair Global 
Workforce Advisory Panel

40 (additional to base fee)

20 (each committee 
membership)
12.5
20(2)

(1) Includes service on any Board committees.
(2) From 1 May 2023, following approval of the 2023 remuneration policy at 

the AGM.

Single-total figure of remuneration for non-executive directors

Non-executive directors

Stuart Chambers
Magali Anderson(1)
Ian Ashby

Marcelo Bastos

Hilary Maxson

Hixonia Nyasulu

Nonkululeko Nyembezi

Ian Tyler

Total Fees 
2023
£'000 

Benefits in 
Kind 2023
£'000(2)

Total 
2023
£'000(3)

Total Fees 
2022
£'000

Benefits in 
Kind 2022
£'000(2)

Total 
2022
£'000(3)

804

91

174

147

154

134

141

206

5

809

91  

174

147

154

134

141

206  

773

— 

170

130

132

130

137

183 

8

— 

781

— 

170

130

132

130

137

183 

(1) Magali Anderson joined the Board on 1 April 2023; her fees are a part-year figure.
(2) Stuart Chambers’ benefits in kind figure relates to the reimbursement of travel expenses during the year and the settlement of tax in relation to the reimbursement.
(3) Total is comprised only of fixed remuneration.

 
 
 
Anglo American plc 
Integrated Annual Report 2023

Governance 
Directors’ remuneration report

201

Scheme interests granted during 2023 (audited)
The table below summarises the BSP, NCA and LTIP share 
awards granted to executive directors during 2023. 

The LTIP is granted in the form of conditional shares and 
vesting is dependent on the Group’s performance over 2023–
2025 based on the performance metrics detailed. 

The BSP award granted in 2023 was granted in the form of 
forfeitable shares and is included in the applicable total annual 
bonus values as set out in the applicable single figure table. 

The non-cyclical award is granted in the form of conditional 
shares.

Summary of conditional share awards and options granted in 2023

Type of 
award
Bonus 
Share Plan

LTIP share
awards

Performance
measure

— 

Vesting schedule

Performance
period end

Director

Basis of award

— 

—  Duncan Wanblad

50% of bonus

Stephen Pearce

50% of bonus

Number of
shares 
awarded

16,415

13,421

Face value
at grant(1)(2)

£483,980

£395,705

31/12/2025 Duncan Wanblad

350% of salary

154,320   £4,549,971 

Stephen Pearce

300% of salary

91,882   £2,709,049 

TSR vs.
S&P
Global Mining
Index (33%)

TSR vs.
FTSE 100
constituents
(17%)

Balanced
Scorecard
50%

25% for TSR
equal to the Index;
100% for the Index
+6% p.a. or above

25% for TSR
equal to median;
100% for 80th percentile
or above

ROCE (15%)
25% for 12%;
100% for 20%

SAFCF at actual prices and FX 
rates (15%)

Renewable Energy (8%)
25% for 350MW production 
100% for 500MW production

Ethical Value Chains (6%)
25% for all mines assured 
against recognised 
responsible mining standard 
by end of 2025
100% for threshold target plus 
80% of top 10 managed 
metals mining operations to 
achieve IRMA 50 or equivalent

Social responsibility (6%)
25% for 2 jobs supported 
off-site for each job on-site
100% for 3 off-site jobs 
supported for each job on-site

Non-
cyclical 
awards

— 

— 

— 

John Heasley

Replacement 
award

Replacement 
award

Replacement 
award

26,774

£583,995

41,196

£898,567

27,317

£595,838

(1) The face values of the BSP and LTIP awards have been calculated using a grant share price of £29.48. This share price has been calculated based on the average 
closing share prices between 27 February 2023 and 3 March 2023. As receipt of the LTIP awards is conditional on performance, the actual value of these awards 
may be nil. Vesting outcomes will be disclosed in the remuneration report for 2025. 

(2) The face values of the non-cyclical awards for John Heasley have been calculated using a grant share price of £21.81. This share price has been calculated based 
on the average closing share prices between 24 November and 30 November 2023. The awards were granted to compensate the incentives forfeited as a result 
of joining Anglo American as detailed on page 198. The number of shares that vest will be aligned with the vesting levels as publicly disclosed by his previous 
employer following assessment of the performance underpins attached to the Restricted Shares forfeited.

 
 
 
 
 
 
202

Anglo American plc 
Integrated Annual Report 2023

Governance 
Directors’ remuneration report

Differences from 31 December 2023 to 21 February 2024 
Duncan Wanblad’s interests increased by 28 shares during 
the period between 31 December 2023 to 21 February 2024, 
as a result of the acquisition of shares under the SIP. His 
total holdings therefore increased to 823,164. There have 
been no other changes in the interests of the directors in 
shares between 31 December 2023 and 21 February 2024.

Total interests in shares (audited)

The table below summarises the total interests of the 
directors (including any share interests held by connected 
persons) in shares of Anglo American plc as at 31 December 
2023. These include beneficial and conditional interests.

Executive director shareholding requirements
As per the 2023 remuneration policy, within five years of 
being appointed, the chief executive is expected to hold 
interests in shares to a value of four times basic salary, and 
other executive directors are expected to hold shares to a 
value of three times salary. For the purposes of calculating 
progress against the shareholding requirement, the following 
shares are included:

– Beneficially owned shares 

– Vested incentive shares in a holding period

– In-flight BSP shares on a net of tax basis

– In-flight NCA shares which are not subject to performance 

measures on a net of tax basis

– SIP shares.

LTIP share awards with performance conditions are not 
included. 

At the date of preparation of this report, Duncan Wanblad has 
met his shareholding requirements and has net shareholdings 
(including Bonus Shares) equal to 776% of basic salary. John 
Heasley has net shareholdings equal to 131% of basic salary 
and is expected to meet his shareholding requirement of three 
times salary by 1 December 2028. These holdings are 
calculated using the average share price between 1 October 
and 31 December 2023 of £20.98.

During 2023, Stephen Pearce stepped down from the Board. 
He is required to retain holdings in Anglo American to satisfy 
the post-cessation shareholding requirement. The post-
cessation shareholding requirement states that executive 
directors must for two years from the date they step down from 
the Board retain shares equal to the lower of their in-post 
shareholding requirement or their actual holdings as at the 
date of cessation. Stephen had built substantial holdings of 
Anglo American shares and as such his shareholding 
requirement will be his in-post requirement 300% of his final 
salary. At the year end, Stephen Pearce retained holdings well 
above the required level. 

Stephen Pearce must retain shares up until 1 December 2025. 

Anglo American plc 
Integrated Annual Report 2023

Governance 
Directors’ remuneration report

203

Shares in Anglo American plc at 31 December 2023

Directors
Duncan Wanblad

John Heasley

Stuart Chambers

Magali Anderson
Ian Ashby(1) 
Marcelo Bastos

Hilary Maxson

Hixonia Nyasulu

Nonkululeko Nyembezi

Ian Tyler

Former directors
Stephen Pearce(2)

Conditional
(no performance conditions)

Conditional 
(with performance conditions)

Beneficial

360,528

—

19,478

641

2,671

1,803

500

2,564

4,029

701

Within a
holding 
period

81,199

BSP Bonus 
Shares

61,166

SIP

6,397

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

SAYE 
(options over 
shares)

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

LTIP

313,846

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

378,288

102,741

63,147

2,205

807

245,395

NCA

—

95,287

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

Total

823,136

95,287

19,478

641

2,671

1,803

500

2,564

4,029

701

792,583

(1) Included in the beneficial interests of Ian Ashby are shares held via unsponsored ADRs.
(2) Stephen Pearce stepped down from the board on 1 December 2023. His interests are shown as at this date. 

204

Anglo American plc 
Integrated Annual Report 2023

Governance 
Directors’ remuneration report

Fairness

Introduction
In 2020, we introduced this dedicated fairness section to 
the remuneration report, incorporating disclosures that 
demonstrate the Committee’s belief that our remuneration 
structures are fair and appropriate.

Workforce engagement on remuneration
The Committee takes into account a wide range of internal 
and external considerations when making decisions on 
executive remuneration, including engaging with relevant 
stakeholders. 

Anglo American’s Global Workforce Advisory Panel (the Panel) 
met on three occasions during the year. The Panel’s purpose is 
to give the workforce more of a ‘voice’ in the Boardroom so 
their views can be better understood and considered when 
decisions are being made about the future of the business, 
including how the committee takes aboard the views of the 
wider workforce in making decisions on executive 
remuneration. The Panel operates alongside Anglo American’s 
existing employee engagement mechanisms, such as regular 
employee engagement surveys and director interaction with 
employees.

▶ For more information on our People and workforce culture

See pages 66–75

▶ For more information on the operation of the Panel and the ways 

in which we currently engage with our workforce culture
See pages 161–162

MyShare 
In 2022, we launched MyShare – a global all employee 
share scheme. 

MyShare is a global employee share plan designed to 
facilitate employee share ownership, create greater equity 
in wealth creation opportunities across the wider global 
workforce and enhance employee engagement. The plan 
enables employees to share in the success of the Company 
and encourage employees to act as owners. It operates 
alongside our existing all-employee share ownership plans, 
including SIP and SAYE in the UK and the ESOPs in South 
Africa, promoting share ownership for all employees across the 
globe.

The MyShare offering consists of two elements:

– An annual award of free shares of £1,000 to all eligible 

employees

– The opportunity to participate in a purchase and match 

scheme through the deduction of a portion of their salary. 
Individuals can purchase up to £150 worth of shares per 
month. The Company matches all share purchases on a 
1 to 1 basis.

Free shares and matched shares carry a two-year vesting 
period before they are released to individuals. 

In September 2023, the second grant of free shares was 
made to all eligible employees. In total, awards were made to 
12,766 employees across participating countries. 

The related purchase and match scheme continued to 
exceed our target of 10% uptake, with 15% of eligible 
participants enrolling. 

Remuneration arrangements elsewhere in the Group
The remuneration arrangements for the executive directors 
outlined on pages 186-188 are broadly aligned with those for 
other executives serving on the Executive Leadership Team 
(ELT), although opportunity levels vary. The arrangements are 
also broadly aligned with the arrangements for the wider 
workforce, dependent on seniority within the business. For 
further details of the cascade of pay elements through 
employee population, please see the table below.

Consideration of the views of the wider workforce and 
shareholders.
In reviewing and developing the 2023 remuneration policy, 
the Committee took into account:

– The internal context for remuneration policy design at 

Anglo American, including the remuneration arrangements 
that apply for other employee groups

– Developments in the governance landscape for executive 

remuneration in UK-listed companies

– The views of shareholders.

As a standing item in the annual agenda, the Committee 
reviews in detail how the remuneration arrangements for the 
executive directors’ compare to those other members of the 
ELT, to ensure an appropriate balance between internal 
alignment and line of sight to an executive’s own areas of 
responsibility. A further standing item presents the Committee 
with information on wider employee pay. The Committee 
welcomes feedback on the remuneration policy, which the 
Company facilitates through the wider engagement of 
employees on corporate matters as described elsewhere in 
this report (see pages 161-162). In addition, many of the 
Company’s employees are shareholders, through the global 
employee share ownership arrangements, and many of them, 
like other shareholders, are able to express their views on 
directors remuneration at each general meeting.

Living wage
Anglo American has been an accredited Living Wage 
employer in the UK since 2014 via the Living Wage 
Foundation. In January 2023, we strengthened our 
commitment by receiving global Living Wage certification with 
the Fair Wage Network, formalising our status as a committed 
global employer. The Fair Wage Network is a trusted 
organisation that has developed an online database that 
covers Living Wage reference values for every country in the 
world and is considered an expert in this field. 

A Living Wage analysis forms part of our annual pay review 
process so that we continue to pay workers above living wage 
thresholds for the localities in which they operate. 

Additionally, we are an active member of the Business Fights 
Poverty ‘Living Wage Peer Circle’, which is a forum to 
collaborate, engage and share Living Wage insights with 
peers from across multiple industries. 

Anglo American plc 
Integrated Annual Report 2023

Governance 
Directors’ remuneration report

205

Our key SHE and ESG commitments flow through to the 
incentives for all eligible employees. The annual bonus scheme 
outcomes for all eligible employees are determined by team-
based goals that include SHE measures, financial metrics 
and critical strategic measures. All eligible employees are 
incentivised to work collectively on key priorities in these areas, 
and are subject to a safety deductor. The LTIP awards granted 
to management and senior management include the 
performance measures applicable to our executive directors, 
which for 2024 include ESG measures relating to GHG 
emissions and Tailings. 

Cascade of pay elements through employee population
The following table represents the cascade of our 
remuneration elements across our UK employee population. 

Population

All UK 
employees

Remuneration 
element

Details

Salary

Pension

Benefits

SAYE

SIP

Salaries are determined based on 
the role and market rates; regular 
benchmarking exercises are taken to 
ensure salaries remain competitive 
against the market.

We are an accredited Living Wage 
employer and all employees are paid 
at least the Real Living Wage.

All employees are able to participate 
in the Company’s Defined 
Contribution scheme. 

All employees are eligible to 
participate in our range of benefits 
ranging from private medical 
coverage, occupational health 
services, and life assurance to a 
range of well-being and shopping 
benefits.

All employees are eligible to 
participate in the Company’s SAYE 
scheme, which encourages 
employee share ownership and the 
opportunity to share in the value 
created in the Company.

All employees who have been in 
employment for three months or 
more are eligible to participate in the 
Company’s SIP scheme of 
partnership and matching shares. 
The Company matches the number 
of partnership shares bought on a 
1:1 basis.

All employees are also eligible to 
receive discretionary annual awards 
of free shares.

Annual Bonus Our UK permanent employees are 
eligible to participate in our annual 
bonus scheme. Performance for the 
bonus is determined on a team basis, 
ensuring that everyone is working 
towards the company’s collective 
goals.

LTIP

Management 
and senior 
management

Executive 
directors and 
ELT members

Shareholding 
requirements

LTIP performance measures for the 
management population are the 
same as those for the executive 
directors, providing appropriate 
alignment. The LTIP ensures the 
focus of the decision-making 
population is on long term value 
creation.

The executive director shareholding 
requirements ensure greater 
alignment with interests of 
shareholders. ELT members are also 
subject to a shareholding 
requirement.

206

Anglo American plc 
Integrated Annual Report 2023

Governance 
Directors’ remuneration report

Gender pay gap
Introduction
Closing our Gender Pay Gap continues to be a priority for us – 
we understand that striving for parity of pay for women 
reflects a culture where women are valued and can reach 
their full potential in the workplace. We also know that a 
business where women are proactively supported to reach 
their full potential will be better performing and sustainable 
in the long-term.

Initiatives such as our Global Carers’ Leave Policy; our 
Responding to Domestic Violence Policy; our Global Bullying 
Harassment and Victimisation Policy and training and 
awareness around inclusive recruitment all contribute towards 
this end. 

Creating a workplace where women can thrive is part of our 
broader inclusion approach and we continue to monitor and 
address issues that are barriers to women’s progression 
through our Inclusion and Diversity Policy and work. 

As at April 2023, women made up 55% of our UK HQ 
employees, the same as in 2022 at the same point. Over the 
year, female representation continued to increase across our 
total management population. By focusing on areas such as 
talent acquisition, development, succession planning and 
mentoring as well as intersectionality, we made sure we are 
on target to achieve our goal of having 33% female 
representation across our Executive Committee and those 
that report to it, from 18% in 2017 when UK gender pay gap 
legislation took effect. 

We have made good progress and will continue to develop 
and embed initiatives designed to make a positive difference 
to women’s experience in the workplace and help us to realise 
our vision of a truly inclusive workplace where everyone can 
thrive and contribute fully. 

Summary
Anglo American Services (UK) Limited is the UK company 
that employs the majority of Anglo American’s UK workforce 
and is predominantly engaged in the provision of head office 
corporate services to Anglo American’s global operations. 
The following sets out the information required by the UK 
regulation for Anglo American Services (UK) Limited, as at 
5 April 2023. 

Our mean UK hourly pay gap of 32.4% is down 6.6% from 
2022 and, while there has been improvement, the gap remains 
primarily a function of the representation of men in the most 
senior management roles in our UK head office, as shown most 
clearly in the quartile analysis. On a global basis, our gender 
pay gap(1) of c.16.4% reflects the far greater balance across 
the full breadth of our business activities.

Hourly pay
Anglo American is a global mining business, headquartered 
in the UK, and the majority of the senior leadership team is 
UK-based. The gaps shown below are largely attributable to 
the fact that more men than women are working in more highly 
paid, senior roles.

At the snapshot date of 5 April 2023, Anglo American Services 
(UK) Ltd comprised of:

– A UK workforce of 498 employees of which 45% were men 

and 55% were women

– Although there has been a significant improvement year-on-
year, the senior management population was made up of a 
substantially higher proportion of men (64%) than women 
(36%)

– A 32% mean and 23% median UK hourly pay gap 

(2022: 39% mean and 29% median). 

Hourly pay gap ratios
The table below ranks Anglo American’s 498 UK employees’ 
hourly pay from lowest to highest and then splits the number 
of employees into equally sized groups. 

Reflecting the hourly pay gap described above, this chart 
shows that there has been an increase in the upper quartile, 
where the percentage of women increased to 35%, however, 
the percentage of women in the upper middle quartile 
decreased year on year from 57% to 55%. Proportionally there 
remains more male employees than female employees in the 
higher pay quartiles.

Hourly pay quartiles

Hourly pay quartiles

Lower

Lower Middle

Upper Middle

Upper

2023 
Percentage 
males 
in Quartile

2023 
Percentage 
females 
in Quartile

2022 
Percentage 
males 
in Quartile

2022 
Percentage 
females 
in Quartile

25

46

45

65

75

54

55

35

23

47

43

66

77

53

57

34

Proportion of employees awarded a bonus for 2023
Anglo American’s UK performance pay schemes operate 
irrespective of gender, with the majority of UK employees 
eligible to receive variable bonus pay during the year. 2023 
saw 85% of male and 86% of female employees receive a 
bonus.

% awarded a bonus

Male

Female

2023

 85% 

 86% 

2022

 81% 

 82% 

(1) Weighted average gender pay gap of the basic pay of those employees in 
Australia, Brazil, Chile, Peru, Singapore, South Africa and the UK who are 
subject to the Anglo American Group-wide reward structures.

The population for which bonus pay relates to was 501, 
reflecting the different rules for the statutory reporting of hourly 
rate and bonus figures.

Anglo American plc 
Integrated Annual Report 2023

Governance 
Directors’ remuneration report

207

Bonus pay gap
The factors driving the bonus pay gap are the same as for 
the hourly pay gap shown in metrics 1 and 2, being the 
imbalanced gender composition across the more senior roles 
in our UK headquarters. Variable performance pay structures 
for the most senior employees differ from those of the wider 
workforce, thereby further widening the gap. The decrease in 
the mean and median bonus pay gap for 2023 reflects the 
increasing proportion of female employees in more senior roles 
recognising there will be a lag given the vesting period for 
bonuses.

Bonus pay gap

Male

Female

2023

 64% 

 53% 

2022

 75% 

 63% 

The UK Gender Pay Gap Requirement
The UK Gender Pay Gap reporting requirement is a 
regulation under The Equality Act 2010 (Gender Pay Gap 
Information) Regulations 2017 that is designed to provide 
public transparency in relation to the difference between 
men’s and women’s earnings within a company. 

This regulation came into effect on 6 April 2017 and all UK 
registered companies that employ, in the UK, 250 or more 
people are required to disclose the specifically defined 
information by 4 April 2024. The source data for the required 
information must be at the ‘snapshot date’ of 5 April 2023. 
Anglo American is confident that it complies with the UK’s 
Equal Pay legislation, which governs the right to equal pay 
between men and women for equal work. I confirm the data 
reported is accurate. 

Remuneration disclosures
10-year remuneration and returns
The TSR chart shows the Group’s TSR performance against the 
performance of the FTSE 100 index from 1 January 2014 to 
31 December 2023. The FTSE 100 index was chosen as this is 
a widely recognised broad index of which Anglo American has 
been a long term constituent. In comparison to the FTSE 100, 
the Company’s TSR performance over this period is positive.

TSR is calculated in US dollars, and assumes all dividends are 
reinvested. The TSR level shown as at 31 December each year 
is the average of the closing daily TSR levels for the five-day 
period up to and including that date.

The table opposite shows the total remuneration earned by 
the incumbent chief executive over the same 10-year period, 
along with the proportion of maximum opportunity earned in 
relation to each type of incentive.

The total amounts are based on the same methodology as for 
the single figure table for executive directors on page 191 of 
this report.

208

Anglo American plc 
Integrated Annual Report 2023

Governance 
Directors’ remuneration report

10-year CEO remuneration

Financial year ending

Duncan Wanblad

Total remuneration
(single figure, £’000)

Annual bonus (% of maximum)

LTIP (% of maximum)

Mark Cutifani

Total remuneration
(single figure, £’000)

31 
December, 
2014

31 
December, 
2015

31 
December, 
2016

31 
December, 
2017

31 
December, 
2018

31 
December, 
2019

31 
December, 
2020

31 
December, 
2021

31 
December, 
2022

31 
December, 
2023

3,725 

3,462

3,996

6,693

15,636

10,745

9,331

11,928

5,134(1)

— 

4,393(1)

3,603

 42.6% 

 62.2% 

 38.3% 

 40.3% 

Annual bonus (% of maximum)

60%

36.5%

87.5%

76.9%

63.4%

58%

LTIP (% of maximum)

— 

 50.0% 

 —% 

 50.0% 

 100% 

 92.5% 

 54.6% 

 83.8% 

 75.2% 

 90.0% 

 42.6% 

 62.2% 

 —% 

 —% 

(1)  Mark Cutifani and Duncan Wanblad’s 2022 total remuneration figure has been restated with updated LTIP value based on actual share price at vesting and as 

outlined on page 197.

CEO pay ratio
The table shows our CEO pay ratio for 2023 based on our total 
UK population, and the methodology used for the calculation. 
At 36:1, the CEO pay ratio at the median has decreased from 
the median ratio of 72:1 (restated) in 2022. This is as a result of 
the following: 

– In line with our executive director remuneration strategy, our 

chief executive pay comprises a higher proportion of 
incentive pay compared to the wider employee population. 
In particular, a significant proportion of the chief executive’s 
total remuneration package is made up of LTIP shares, and 
therefore the chief executive’s total remuneration is strongly 
influenced by the value of the LTIP awards at vesting.

– The value of LTIP awards vesting for the chief executive in 
respect of the three year performance period ended 31 
December 2023 is significantly less compared to the prior 
year. This is a result of a lower vesting outcome, a fall in share 
price in 2023, and the vesting relating to LTIP awards 
granted to the current chief executive prior to joining the 
Board (which were at a lower level compared to his 
predecessor).

– The chief executive’s total remuneration has fallen from 

£7.14 million to £3.6 million in 2023, largely due to the LTIP 
vesting level. 

The total remuneration of the median employee has increased 
from £98,541 to £101,277. This is due to the median 

employee this year being on a higher salary, due in part to an 
inflationary increase at the start of the year that was higher for 
the broader workforce than that implemented for the chief 
executive.

Option A has been used to calculate the ratio, being the most 
comprehensive methodology of the three prescribed methods. 
This methodology uses the full-time equivalent pay and 
benefits data for all UK employees during the year and 
compares the single-figure number for employees at the 25th, 
50th and 75th percentiles against the chief executive at the 
snapshot date of 31 December 2023, the last day of the 
financial year. 

The salary, benefits and share plan data has been taken on 
a full-time equivalent basis, however, the annual bonus and 
LTIP values have been taken on an estimated basis. All other 
elements were calculated in line with the methodology used 
for the chief executive.

The employee at the 50th percentile does not participate in 
a long term incentive plan and does not receive all benefits 
applicable to the chief executive. Therefore, the ratio is not 
a direct comparison with the total remuneration of the chief 
executive. Having reviewed the reasons for the change in 
the median pay ratio, the Company is satisfied that the ratio 
is appropriate.

Financial year ending

2023
2022(1)
2021

2020

2019

Method
used

Option A

Option A

Option A

Option A

Option A

25th
percentile

Median
percentile

75th
percentile

60:1

122:1

225:1

188:1

205:1

36:1

72:1

141:1

126:1

133:1

19:1

41:1

79:1

74:1

60:1

(1) 2022 numbers have been restated in line with the updated LTIP value based on actual share price at vesting and restated benefits value as outlined on page 197.

CEO pay ratio

25th percentile 
employee

Median percentile 
employee

75th percentile 
employee

2023

2022

2021

2020

2019

2023

2022

2021

2020

2019

Salary

Total remuneration

£47,520

£41,738

£44,761

£45,039

£41,706

£60,088

£58,523

£53,027

£49,805

£52,301

£83,838

£70,637

£60,029

£64,080

£54,810 £101,277

£98,541

£84,452

£74,193

£80,811

£107,555 £110,452

£99,176

£91,350 £108,200 £189,059 £173,168 £150,876 £126,812 £178,416

 
 
 
Anglo American plc 
Integrated Annual Report 2023

Governance 
Directors’ remuneration report

209

Change in directors’ remuneration compared to 
UK employees
The following table sets out the directors’ basic salary, benefits 
and annual bonus amounts between 2023 and 2020 and the 
year-on-year changes. We show the average change in each 
element for UK-based Anglo American Services (UK) Ltd and 
Anglo American Technical & Sustainability Services Ltd 
employees below ELT level (this excludes the De Beers and 
Crop Nutrients businesses’ employees). This population is 
being used, as Anglo American plc does not have any direct 
employees. The chosen population is considered to be the 
most relevant employee comparator group, given the Group-
wide nature of roles performed at the corporate head office.

The results show that the average UK employee salary has 
increased; the comparable salaries for employees who have 
been employed for both years shows a 9% rise from 2022. 
This is due to a combination of promotions and an 8% salary 
increase having being applied for all employees. Benefits 
have increased by 25% on a like-for-like basis, largely due to 
an increase in pension level. Bonus levels for employees on a 
like-for-like basis have fallen by 4%. 

2023(1)
Salaries/
fees

2023(2)
Benefits

2023
Bonus

2022(1)
Salaries/
fees

2022(2)
Benefits

2022
Bonus

2021(1)
Salaries/
fees

2021(2)
Benefits

2021
Bonus

2020(1)
Salaries
/fees

2020(2)
Benefits

2020
Bonus

Executive directors

Duncan Wanblad

£’000

1,300

John Heasley(3)

Non-executive directors
Stuart Chambers(4)

% change

£’000

% change

£’000

% change

Magali Anderson(5)

£’000

Ian Ashby

% change

£’000

% change

Marcelo Bastos

£’000

Hilary Maxson

% change

£’000

% change

Hixonia Nyasulu

£’000

Nonkululeko Nyembezi £’000

% change

 4% 

810

 —% 

804

 4% 

121

 —% 

174

 2% 

147

 13% 

154

 17% 

134

 3% 

141

 3% 

206

210

 17% 

98

 —% 

1,046

 (6%) 

 —% 

5

0

 (31%) 

 —% 

 —% 

0

 —% 

0

 —% 

 —% 

 —% 

 —% 

0

 —% 

0

 —% 

0

 —% 

0

 —% 

0

 —% 

0

 —% 

0

 —% 

1250

 —% 

0

 —% 

773

 8% 

183

 —% 

170

 17% 

130

 15% 

132

 25% 

130

 15% 

137

 15% 

183

 —% 

868

 3% 

111

 6% 

179 1117

 —% 

 —% 

0

0

 —% 

 —% 

8

0

 (12%) 

 —% 

0

 —% 

 —% 

0

0

 —% 

 —% 

0

0

 —% 

 —% 

0

 —% 

 —% 

0

 —% 

 —% 

0

 —% 

 —% 

0

 —% 

 —% 

92

791

 46% 

 (41%) 

24

77

 18% 

 (16%) 

0

 —% 

0

 —% 

714

 2% 

0

 —% 

145

 —% 

113

 8% 

105

 —% 

113

 13% 

120

 —% 

0

 —% 

843

 2% 

105

 6% 

0

0

0

0

0

 —% 

 —% 

 —% 

 —% 

 —% 

0

0

0

0

0

 —% 

 —% 

 —% 

 —% 

 —% 

9

0

 18% 

 —% 

0

0

 —% 

 —% 

0

0

700

 —% 

145

 4% 

145

7

0

 46% 

 —% 

0

0

 —% 

 —% 

0

0

 —% 

 —% 

 10% 

 —% 

 —% 

0

0

 —% 

 —% 

0

0

 —% 

 —% 

0

0

105

 2% 

0

 —% 

100

0

0

 —% 

 —% 

0

0

 —% 

 —% 

0

0

 —% 

 —% 

 11% 

 —% 

 —% 

0

0

 —% 

 —% 

0

0

 —% 

 —% 

63

1,330

 71% 

 38% 

21

98

 28% 

 42% 

115

 —% 

145

 4% 

826

 2% 

106

 5% 

0

0

 —% 

 —% 

0

0

 —% 

 —% 

37

 (5%) 

19

 11% 

965

 (4%) 

92

 7% 

Ian Tyler 

Former directors
Stephen Pearce(6)(7)

UK employees

% change

£’000

% change

 13% 

 —% 

£’000

% change

£’000
% change(8)

903

 4% 

112

 9% 

478

 419% 

26

743

 (6%) 

63

 25% 

 (4%) 

(1) The Chairman and NED base fees increased in 2023 by 4%. 
(2) Benefits for UK employees comprise pension and car allowances (where applicable), these being the most material.
(3) John Heasley joined the Board on 1 December 2023; values shown represent his full-year equivalent remuneration for comparability.
(4) Stuart Chambers’ benefits in kind figure relates to the reimbursement of travel expenses during the year and the settlement of tax in relation to the reimbursement.
(5) Magali Anderson joined the Board on 1 April 2023; her fees are full-year equivalents for comparability.
(6) Stephen Pearce stepped down from the Board on 1 December 2023; values shown represent his full-year equivalent remuneration for comparability.
(7) The 2023 benefit value for Stephen Pearce includes a one-off relocation support payment of £377,358. The year-on-year change in benefits would be 9% if this 

support was excluded. Further details on the relocation support payment can be found on page 192.

(8) Annual salary increase for UK employees was 2%, 3% and 8% for 2021, 2022 and 2023 respectively; increases shown include pay uplifts from promotions. 

210

Anglo American plc 
Integrated Annual Report 2023

Governance 
Directors’ remuneration report

Distribution statement for 2023
The table below sets out the total expenditure on employee reward over 2023, compared to profit generated by the Company 
and the dividends received by investors. Underlying earnings are shown, as this is one of the Group’s key measures of 
performance, while employee numbers help put the payroll costs of employees into context.

Distribution statement

Underlying earnings(1)

Dividends payable for year to company shareholders(2)

Distributions payable for year to non-controlling interests(2)

Payroll costs for all employees

Share buybacks

Employee numbers

(1) See page 227 for details on how underlying earnings are calculated.
(2)  Includes value of special dividend paid in September 2021.
(3) Platinum Group Metals prior year number of employees was restated to exclude contractors.

Results of AGM shareholder votes on remuneration aspects

Vote

2022 Annual Report on Remuneration (at 2023 AGM)

2023 Remuneration Policy (at 2023 AGM)

External advisers and fees

Advisers

$m

% change

$m

% change

$m

% change

$m

% change

$m

% change

’000

% change

2023

2,932

(51) 

1,564

(56) 

957

(39) 

4,096

6

—

— 

58

2  

2022(3)

6,036

(32)

3,549

(12)

1,566

(45)

3,849

1

—

(100)

57

(8) 

Number of votes

For

Against

Abstain

855,645,764

49,149,531

19,226,899

 (94.57%) 

 (5.43%) 

867,857,873

36,937,576

19,226,745

 (95.92%) 

 (4.08%) 

Fees for 
Committee
assistance

£102,300

Deloitte LLP Appointed by the Committee as external advisers from November 2020 following a competitive tender process. 
Support during 2023 includes attendance and advice at Remuneration Committee meetings and advice on the 
remuneration elements relating to the announcement of the change of finance director.

Other services provided to the Company
Corporate tax advisory services; risk advisory services including cyber, governance and ethics; financial advisory 
services in relation to transformation, mergers and acquisitions and capital restructuring; legal managed 
services; and consulting services including, human capital, enterprise and legal technology, operational and 
strategy and management consulting.

 
 
 
 
Anglo American plc 
Integrated Annual Report 2023

Governance 
Directors’ remuneration report

211

Directors’ service agreements
The terms of employment are set out in the executive 
directors’ service agreements which are rolling contracts with 
no fixed term. Notice periods for both executive directors are 
12 months.

The dates of the executive directors’ service agreements are 
set out below.

Duncan Wanblad

John Heasley

Date of appointment

19 April 2022

1 December 2023

The chairman and NEDs are appointed by the Company under 
letters of appointment and do not have service agreements. 
The dates of appointment for each NED are set out below.

Stuart Chambers

Magali Anderson

Ian Ashby

Marcelo Bastos

Hilary Maxson

Hixonia Nyasulu

Nonkululeko Nyembezi

Ian Tyler

Date of appointment
1 September 2017

1 April 2023

25 July 2017

1 April 2019

1 June 2021

1 November 2019

Remuneration Committee in 2023
Membership
The Committee comprised the independent NEDs listed on 
page 178 as at 31 December 2023.

External advisers to the Committee
The table on the previous page details the external advisers to 
the Committee and the fees paid for services provided during 
2023. The fees for external advisers are charged on a time 
and expenses basis and are in accordance with the terms 
and conditions set out in each relevant engagement letter. 
Deloitte is one of the founding members of the Remuneration 
Consulting Group. 

The Committee is satisfied that the Deloitte engagement team, 
which provides remuneration advice to the Committee, does 
not have connections with Anglo American plc or its directors 
that may impair its independence. The Committee reviewed 
the potential for conflicts of interest and judged that there were 
appropriate safeguards against such conflicts.

Approval
This directors’ remuneration report has been approved by the 
Board of directors of Anglo American plc.

1 January 2020

Signed on behalf of the Board of directors.

1 January 2022

Ian Tyler
Chairman, Remuneration Committee

21 February 2024

The Company’s policy on termination is consistent with 
provisions relating to termination of employment in the 
executive directors’ service agreements and with provisions 
in the incentive plan rules. Also set out are the key terms 
relating to change in control, where there is no termination. 
There are no provisions for enhanced payments in the event 
of a change in control of the Company.

Non-executive directors
All NEDs have letters of appointment with the Company 
and are expected to serve for an initial period of three years, 
subject to annual re-appointment by shareholders. The 
Company Chair’s appointment may be terminated by either 
side giving six months’ notice. All other NEDs have a notice 
period of one month. The appointment letters for the Chair and 
NEDs provide that no compensation is payable on termination, 
other than any accrued fees and expenses.

212

Anglo American plc 
Integrated Annual Report 2023

Governance 

Statement of directors’ responsibilities 

The directors are responsible for preparing the Integrated 
Annual Report and the financial statements in accordance 
with applicable law and regulation.

subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the 
financial statements

– Make judgements and accounting estimates that are reasonable 

Company law requires the directors to prepare financial statements for 
each financial year. Under that law the directors have prepared the 
Group financial statements in accordance with UK-adopted 
International Accounting Standards and the Parent Company financial 
statements in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted 
Accounting Practice (United Kingdom Accounting Standards, 
comprising FRS 101 “Reduced Disclosure Framework”, and 
applicable law).

Under company law, directors must not approve the financial 
statements unless they are satisfied that they give a true and fair view 
of the state of affairs of the Group and Parent Company and of the 
profit or loss of the Group for that period. In preparing the financial 
statements, the directors are required to:

– Select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently

– State whether applicable UK-adopted International Accounting 

Standards have been followed for the Group financial statements 
and United Kingdom Accounting Standards, comprising FRS 101 
have been followed for the Parent Company financial statements, 

and prudent

– Prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless 
it is inappropriate to presume that the Group and Parent Company 
will continue in business.

The directors are responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Group 
and Parent Company and hence for taking reasonable steps for the 
prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.

The directors are also responsible for keeping adequate accounting 
records that are sufficient to show and explain the Group’s and Parent 
Company’s transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any 
time the financial position of the Group and Parent Company and 
enable them to ensure that the financial statements and the Directors’ 
Remuneration Report comply with the Companies Act 2006.

The directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the 
Parent Company’s website. Legislation in the United Kingdom 
governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements 
may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.

Directors’ confirmations
for the year ended 31 December 2023 

The directors consider that the Integrated Annual Report and accounts, 
taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable and provides 
the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Group’s and 
Parent Company’s position and performance, business model and 
strategy.

We confirm that, to the best of our knowledge:

– the Group financial statements, which have been prepared in 

accordance with UK-adopted international accounting standards, 
give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and 
profit of the Group

– the Parent Company financial statements, which have been 
prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Accounting 
Standards, comprising FRS 101, give a true and fair view of the 
assets, liabilities and financial position of the Parent Company and

– the Strategic Report includes a fair review of the development and 
performance of the business and the position of the Group and 
Parent Company, together with a description of the principal risks 
and uncertainties that it faces.

By order of the Board

Duncan Wanblad 
Chief Executive 

21 February 2024 

John Heasley
Finance Director

 
 
Anglo American plc 
Integrated Annual Report 2023

213

Financial statements 
and other financial 
information

Contents

Independent auditors’ report to the members of 

214

Net debt and financial risk management

Anglo American plc

Primary statements

Consolidated income statement

Consolidated statement of comprehensive 

income

Consolidated balance sheet

Consolidated cash flow statement

Consolidated statement of changes in equity

Notes to the financial statements

Financial performance

222

222

223

224

225

1.  Operating profit from subsidiaries and joint 

226

operations

2.  Financial performance by segment
3.  Earnings per share
4.  Net finance costs
5.  Income tax expense
6.  Dividends
Significant items

7.  Significant accounting matters
8.  Impairment and impairment reversals
9.  Special items and remeasurements
Capital base

10. Capital by segment
11. Intangible assets
12. Property, plant and equipment
13. Capital expenditure
14. Investments in associates and joint 

ventures

15. Financial asset investments
16. Provisions for liabilities and charges
17. Deferred tax
Working capital

18. Inventories
19. Trade and other receivables
20. Trade and other payables

227

229

230

230

233

234

237

240

242

243

244

245

246

248

248

250

252

253

253

21. Net debt
22. Borrowings
23. Leases
24. Financial instruments and derivatives
25. Financial risk management
Equity

254

255

256

257

261

26. Called-up share capital and consolidated 

264

equity analysis

27. Non-controlling interests
Employees

28. Employee numbers and costs
29. Retirement benefits
30. Share-based payments
Unrecognised items and uncertain events

31. Events occurring after end of year
32. Commitments
33. Contingent assets and liabilities
Group structure

34. Disposals
35. Basis of consolidation
36. Related undertakings of the Group
Other items

37. Related party transactions
38. Auditors’ remuneration
39. Accounting policies

Financial statements of the Parent Company

Summary by operation

Key financial data

Exchange rates and commodity prices

265

267

268

273

274

274

274

276

277

279

294

294

295

304

307

309

310

214

Anglo American plc 
Integrated Annual Report 2023

Financial statements and other financial information  

Independent auditors’ report to the 
members of Anglo American plc

Report on the audit of the financial statements

Our audit approach

Opinion
In our opinion:

– Anglo American plc’s Group financial statements and Parent 

Company financial statements (the “financial statements”) give 
a true and fair view of the state of the Group’s and of the Parent 
Company’s affairs as at 31 December 2023 and of the Group’s 
profit and the Group’s cash flows for the year then ended;

– the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in 

accordance with UK-adopted international accounting standards 
as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies 
Act 2006;

– the Parent Company financial statements have been properly 

prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted 
Accounting Practice (United Kingdom Accounting Standards, 
including FRS 101 “Reduced Disclosure Framework”, and applicable 
law); and

– the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the 

requirements of the Companies Act 2006.

We have audited the financial statements, included within the 
Integrated Annual Report 2023 (the “Annual Report”), which comprise: 
the Consolidated and Parent Company balance sheets as at 
31 December 2023; the Consolidated income statement, the 
Consolidated statement of comprehensive income, the Consolidated 
cash flow statement and the Consolidated and Parent Company 
statements of changes in equity for the year then ended; and the notes 
to the financial statements, comprising material accounting policy 
information and other explanatory information.

Our opinion is consistent with our reporting to the Audit Committee.

Basis for opinion
We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards 
on Auditing (UK) (“ISAs (UK)”) and applicable law. Our responsibilities 
under ISAs (UK) are further described in the Auditors’ responsibilities for 
the audit of the financial statements section of our report. We believe 
that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate 
to provide a basis for our opinion.

Independence
We remained independent of the Group in accordance with the ethical 
requirements that are relevant to our audit of the financial statements 
in the UK, which includes the FRC’s Ethical Standard, as applicable to 
listed public interest entities, and we have fulfilled our other ethical 
responsibilities in accordance with these requirements.

To the best of our knowledge and belief, we declare that non-audit 
services prohibited by the FRC’s Ethical Standard were not provided.

Other than those disclosed in note 38, we have provided no non-audit 
services to the Parent Company or its controlled undertakings in the 
period under audit.

Overview
Audit scope
– Our audit included full scope audits, audit of specific account 

balances or specified procedures at each of the Group’s twelve in-
scope businesses, joint ventures and associates (“components”).

– Taken together, the components at which audit work was performed 
accounted for 98% of consolidated revenue, 95% of consolidated 
profit before tax and 94% of consolidated profit before tax, special 
items and remeasurements.

Key audit matters
– Assessment of impairment and impairment reversals for intangible 
assets, property, plant and equipment (Group) and investments in 
subsidiaries (Parent Company)

– Provisions for environmental restoration and decommissioning 

(Group)

Materiality
– Overall Group materiality: $400 million (2022: $400 million) based 

on approximately 3.4% of the Group’s three year-average 
consolidated profit before tax, special items and remeasurements.

– Overall Parent Company materiality: $300 million 

(2022: $300 million) based on approximately 1% of the Parent 
Company’s total assets.

– Performance materiality: $300 million (2022: $300 million) (Group) 

and $225 million (2022: $225 million) (Parent Company).

The scope of our audit
As part of designing our audit, we determined materiality and assessed 
the risks of material misstatement in the financial statements.

Key audit matters
Key audit matters are those matters that, in the auditors’ professional 
judgement, were of most significance in the audit of the financial 
statements of the current period and include the most significant 
assessed risks of material misstatement (whether or not due to fraud) 
identified by the auditors, including those which had the greatest effect 
on: the overall audit strategy; the allocation of resources in the audit; 
and directing the efforts of the engagement team. These matters, and 
any comments we make on the results of our procedures thereon, were 
addressed in the context of our audit of the financial statements as a 
whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, and we do not provide a 
separate opinion on these matters.

This is not a complete list of all risks identified by our audit.

The key audit matters below are consistent with last year.

Anglo American plc 
Integrated Annual Report 2023

Financial statements and other financial information  
Independent auditors’ report to the members of Anglo American plc

215

Key audit matter

How our audit addressed the key audit matter

Assessment of impairment and impairment reversals for intangible 
assets, property, plant and equipment (Group) and investments in 
subsidiaries (Parent Company)

As at 31 December 2023, the Group has intangible assets of 
$1,479 million (2022: $2,828 million) and property, plant and 
equipment of $43,949 million (2022: $41,125 million). All of these 
asset categories require review for indicators of impairment, and 
where relevant, impairment reversal. 

The determination of whether an impairment or impairment reversal 
indicator exists can be judgemental. Management must determine 
the recoverable amount when impairment indicators or indicators of 
impairment reversal are identified. 

Goodwill is required to be tested for impairment at least annually. The 
Group’s goodwill of $270 million (2022: $1,671 million), decreased 
following the impairment recorded during the year at De Beers of 
$1.6 billion.

The determination of recoverable amount, being the higher of value-in-
use (“VIU”) and fair value less costs of disposal (“FVLCD”), requires 
judgement and estimation on the part of management in identifying 
and then determining the recoverable amounts for the relevant cash-
generating units (“CGUs”). Recoverable amounts are based on 
management’s view of key value driver inputs and external market 
conditions such as future commodity prices, budgeted operating 
expenditure, the timing and approval of future capital expenditure, 
and the most appropriate discount rate. As these assumptions were 
derived from observable data available to a market participant as 
required under IFRS, they are not necessarily aligned with the Paris 
Agreement scenario. Estimation uncertainty is considered to be 
significant due to the long lives of the majority of assets and 
uncertainty in the quantum and timing of cash flows, including the 
uncertain impact of climate change on the Group’s operations, as 
described in note 7 to the financial statements.

Impairment indicators were identified in the year for Minas-Rio (Iron 
Ore Brazil) and Barro Alto (Nickel). No indicators for impairment 
reversal were identified. As indicators for impairment were identified in 
respect of these CGUs, management prepared a detailed cash flow 
model on a FVLCD basis to estimate the recoverable amount. 
Management’s analysis over those CGUs with indicators for 
impairment determined that an impairment loss during the year had 
occurred within the Barro Alto CGU of $0.8 billion. This includes the 
impairment of $0.4 billion recognised within Barro Alto at the half year 
ended 30 June 2023.

Separately, the Group holds goodwill associated with the De Beers 
and Platinum Group Metals segments and the Los Bronces - Chagres 
(Copper Chile) CGU and so annual goodwill impairment tests are 
performed for these assets. Management’s analysis over those assets 
with goodwill determined that an impairment loss had occurred at 
De Beers ($1.6 billion).

Refer to notes 7 and 8 for management conclusions and the Audit 
Committee’s views on page 170. 

At 31 December 2023, the Parent Company holds investments in 
subsidiaries amounting to $33,113 million (2022: $32,971 million). 
Investments in subsidiaries are accounted for at historical cost less 
accumulated impairment. Judgement is required to assess if 
impairment indicators exist and where indicators are identified, if the 
investment carrying value is supported by the recoverable amount. 
In forming this assessment, management compares the underlying 
net assets of the investments to their carrying amount and any other 
relevant facts and circumstances, including the impact of any 
impairments recorded in the Group financial statements.

Refer to note 1 to the Parent Company’s financial statements.

For all material finite-lived intangible assets and property, plant and 
equipment, we undertook the following to test management’s 
assessment for indicators of impairment/impairment reversal: 

– we understood management’s processes and evaluated the design 

and implementation of controls in respect of the impairment 
indicator assessment process; 

– we assessed the appropriateness of management’s identification of 

the Group’s CGUs; and 

– we evaluated and challenged management’s assessment and 

judgements in respect of impairment/impairment reversal indicators, 
including ensuring that the impact of climate change, and recent 
commodity price and foreign exchange volatility, were appropriately 
considered in management’s impairment indicator assessment and 
conclusions. 

For each CGU where indicators for impairment were identified, and in 
respect of the De Beers segment and other CGUs where an annual 
goodwill impairment test was required, management prepared a 
detailed cash flow model on a FVLCD basis to estimate the 
recoverable amount, or compared the carrying value to the fair value 
indicated by the share price of listed subsidiaries, where relevant. Our 
procedures in respect of each model included: 

– verifying the integrity of formulae and the mathematical accuracy of 

management’s valuation models;

– consideration of the impact of the latest life of asset plan 

assumptions and ensuring that the valuation model reflects the 
latest plans and, where relevant, sufficient value has been attributed 
to residual reserves and resources to the extent this would be 
undertaken by a third party market participant. This included 
assessing the competence and objectivity of management’s internal 
technical experts in preparing the plan as well as reviewing the 
supporting information underpinning the internal expert’s report, 
where appropriate; 

– assessing the reliability of management’s forecast capital and 

operating expenses with reference to comparing budgeted results 
with actual performance in prior periods; 

– with the support of our valuations experts, assessing the discount 
rate used in each model and whether it fell within a reasonable 
range taking into account external market data. Our assessment of 
discount rates also included consideration of country and asset 
specific risks and challenging management to ensure that these had 
been appropriately captured in either the discount rate or underlying 
cash flow forecasts; 

– benchmarking management’s forecast commodity price and 

foreign exchange assumptions against our own collated consensus 
data to assess whether they fell within an external analyst range. 
Specifically in respect of De Beers, we engaged our economics 
experts to challenge and assess the appropriateness of the 
methodology and assumptions used in deriving forecast diamond 
prices; 

– challenging and verifying that the cash flow forecasts appropriately 
captured and considered the impact of carbon emissions on price, 
mine plan costs and cost of capital, where material; 

– verifying that costs and benefits of the implementation of projects to 
mitigate physical climate risk were appropriately included in cash 
flow forecasts, where such costs and benefits have been 
incorporated into the approved life of asset plan;

– assessing whether the assumptions had been determined and 

applied on a consistent basis, where relevant, across the Group; and

– assessing the disclosure made over the impairment charges and 

sensitivities within note 8 to the financial statements and challenging 
management where any inconsistencies were noted. 

216

Anglo American plc 
Integrated Annual Report 2023

Financial statements and other financial information
Independent auditors’ report to the members of Anglo American plc

Key audit matter

How our audit addressed the key audit matter

Based on the procedures performed, we noted no material issues 
arising from our work.

In respect of investments in subsidiaries in the Parent Company, 
we undertook the following to test management’s assessment for 
indicators of impairment: 

– evaluated and challenged management’s assessment and 

judgements, including ensuring that consideration had been given 
to the results of the Group’s impairment assessment in respect of 
intangible assets and property, plant and equipment; 

– verified the mathematical accuracy of management’s assessment 
including that the net assets of the subsidiaries being assessed 
agreed to the respective subsidiary balance sheet at 31 December 
2023; and 

– examined management’s assessment of other internal and external 

impairment indicators, including considering the market 
capitalisation of the Group with reference to the carrying value of 
investments in subsidiaries in the Parent Company to identify other 
possible impairment indicators. 

Based on the procedures performed, we noted no material issues 
arising from our work.

Anglo American plc 
Integrated Annual Report 2023

Financial statements and other financial information  
Independent auditors’ report to the members of Anglo American plc

217

Key audit matter

How our audit addressed the key audit matter

Provisions for environmental restoration and 
decommissioning (Group)

The Group has provisions for environmental restoration and 
decommissioning of $2,801 million as at 31 December 2023 
(2022: $2,667 million). 

The calculation of these provisions requires management to estimate 
the quantum and timing of future costs, taking into account the unique 
nature of each site, the long timescales involved and the potential 
associated obligations. These calculations also require management 
to determine an appropriate rate to discount future costs to their net 
present value. 

Management reviews the environmental restoration and 
decommissioning obligations at each reporting period, using experts 
to provide support in its assessment where appropriate. This review 
incorporates the effects of any changes in local regulations, mining 
disturbance and rehabilitation activities that have taken place during 
the year, and management’s anticipated approach to restoration 
and rehabilitation. 

During the 2023 financial year, the Group announced its significant 
progress towards conformance for all tailings dams in the highest 
priority rankings according to the GISTM. The Group continues to refine 
designs and all material costs of conformance with GISTM have been 
recorded within decommissioning and environmental restoration 
provisions.

Refer to note 16 for management’s conclusions and the Audit 
Committee’s views on page 171.

We assessed management’s process for the review of environmental 
restoration and decommissioning provisions and, for those estimates 
we consider to be material, performed detailed testing in respect of the 
cost estimates. 

We validated the existence of legal and/or constructive obligations 
with respect to the provision and considered whether the intended 
method of restoration and rehabilitation was appropriate. We 
evaluated the competence and objectivity of management’s experts 
who produced cost estimates. We read correspondence between 
management and management’s experts, as well as with mining 
regulatory bodies, where applicable, and also held meetings with the 
experts, where relevant, to understand their methodology and inputs. 
We considered whether any risks associated with climate change 
impacted either the timing or extent of remediation activities. 

For certain of the Group’s environmental restoration and 
decommissioning provisions, we engaged our own internal experts to 
assess the work performed by management’s expert. This assessment 
included a review of any potential contingent liabilities which are not 
provided for, and identification of any other potential costs requiring 
recognition or disclosure that could be material. 

In assessing the appropriateness of cost estimates, we focused on 
validating that costs underpinning the accounting provision represent 
management’s and the experts’ best estimate of expenditure, based 
on the current extent of mine disturbance as well as any risk 
adjustments included in the estimate. In respect of claims that have 
been made by regulatory authorities or government bodies regarding 
closure estimates, we met with legal counsel, where relevant, to assess 
the probable outcomes in relation to ongoing claims and exposure and 
areas where legal requirements are open to interpretation. We 
assessed the timing of the cash flows and discount rates applied to 
calculate the present value of estimated costs by comparing the rates 
applied by management to the yields on government bonds with 
maturities approximating the timing of cash flows for each territory and 
currency. 

Specifically in relation to the Group’s conformance with the GISTM, we 
obtained the assessments performed by management to ensure cost 
estimates had been included for any material expenditure required 
with respect to the tailings facilities.

We validated the integrity of formulae and mathematical accuracy of 
management’s calculations.

Based on the procedures performed, we noted no material issues 
arising from our work.

218

Anglo American plc 
Integrated Annual Report 2023

Financial statements and other financial information
Independent auditors’ report to the members of Anglo American plc

How we tailored the audit scope
We tailored the scope of our audit to ensure that we performed 
enough work to be able to give an opinion on the financial statements 
as a whole, taking into account the structure of the Group and the 
Parent Company, the accounting processes and controls, and the 
industry in which they operate.

The Group is organised into eight reportable segments – De Beers, 
Copper, Platinum Group Metals, Iron Ore, Steelmaking Coal, Nickel, 
Manganese and Crop Nutrients, as well as a Corporate function. Each 
segment is further divided into businesses which align to discrete 
country or joint venture operations. We have identified each business 
as a component, with each component typically representing a 
consolidation of a number of discrete country operations.

The Group’s accounting processes for managed operations are 
structured around a local finance function at each component, which 
is supported by the Group’s central functions including: i) one of the 
Group’s three shared service centres in South Africa, Brazil or Australia; 
and ii) with the exception of De Beers and Steelmaking Coal, the 
Group’s Marketing business in Singapore where the majority of the 
Group’s commodity sales are transacted and processed. Each 
component reports to the Group through an integrated consolidation 
system.

Based on our risk and materiality assessments, we determined which 
components required an audit of their complete financial information 
having consideration to the relative significance of each component to 
the Group, locations with significant inherent risks and the overall 
coverage obtained over each material line item in the consolidated 
financial statements.

We scoped in ten components requiring an audit of their complete 
financial information, of which five were considered to be financially 
significant components. The additional five components subject to a 
complete audit were selected due to specific risk characteristics and 
in order to achieve sufficient coverage in respect of each material line 
item in the financial statements, including the Group’s Corporate 
function. In addition, one component was scoped in for an audit of 
specific account balances and one component was scoped in for 
specified procedures to obtain appropriate coverage of all material 
balances.

Recognising that not every operation or business in a component is 
included in our Group audit scope, we considered as part of our Group 
audit oversight responsibility what audit coverage had been obtained 
in aggregate by our component teams by reference to operations or 
businesses at which audit work had been undertaken. For all other 
components, the Group team performed analytical review procedures.

Where the work was performed by component audit teams or at a 
central function, we determined the level of involvement we needed 
to have in the audit work at those components to be able to conclude 
whether sufficient appropriate audit evidence had been obtained as 
a basis for our opinion on the Group financial statements as a whole.

The Group audit team visited component teams and local operations 
in South Africa, Singapore and Brazil during the 2023 audit. This is in 
addition to site visits to component teams and local operations in 
Chile, Peru, South Africa, Australia and Singapore in the prior year. 
Furthermore, our oversight procedures included the issuance of formal, 
written instructions to component auditors setting out the work to be 
performed at each location and regular communication throughout 
the audit cycle including regular component calls through video 
conferencing, review of component auditor workpapers and 
participation in audit clearance meetings.

Taken together, the components where we performed our audit work 
accounted for 98% of consolidated revenue, 95% of consolidated 
profit before tax and 94% of consolidated profit before tax, special 
items and remeasurements. This was before considering the 
contribution to our audit evidence from performing audit work at the 
Group level, including disaggregated analytical review procedures 
and our evaluation of entity level controls, which covers a significant 

portion of the Group’s smaller and lower risk components that were not 
directly included in our Group audit scope.

The financial statements of the Parent Company are prepared using 
the same accounting processes as the Group’s central functions and 
were audited by the Group audit team.

The impact of climate risk on our audit
Climate change is one of the Group’s principal risks. As part of our 
audit, we made enquiries of management to understand its process to 
assess the extent of the potential impact of climate change risks on the 
Group and its financial statements. Management has explained how it 
has considered the impact of climate change on the financial 
statements, including specifically in respect of cash flow projections for 
impairment testing, in note 7 to the financial statements. This includes 
its consideration of risks and opportunities that could impact the 
financial statements.

We used our knowledge of the Group to consider the risk assessment 
performed by management, including its assessment of the strategic 
and financial resilience of the Group’s portfolio under various scenarios. 
Management remains committed to achieving its previously stated 
2040 climate ambitions. During 2022, management engaged the 
Carbon Trust to conduct an independent assessment to provide 
external verification regarding the alignment of the Group’s Scope 1 
and 2 ambitions with a well-below 2° scenario. As a result of this 
assessment, and recognising that with forecasts of any type there is a 
margin of error, management has confidence that capital deployment 
in accordance with the Group’s operational carbon neutrality ambitions 
is capital aligned with a contribution to achieving the goals of the Paris 
Agreement. For financial statement reporting purposes, as detailed in 
note 7, no specific climate scenario is used when determining asset 
valuations as no single scenario is representative of management’s 
best estimate of the likely assumptions that would be used by a market 
participant when valuing the Group’s assets. The forecasts for 
determining asset valuations also include an adjustment for the cost of 
unabated future Scope 1 and 2 emissions irrespective of whether each 
jurisdiction currently has a carbon tax or similar regime in place. 

We considered management’s financial statement reporting risk 
assessment in respect of climate change, focusing on those areas 
considered to be most heavily impacted such as management’s 
impairment assessment over non-current assets. Whilst the impact is 
uncertain, we particularly considered the impact of both physical and 
transition risks arising due to climate change, as well as related 
opportunities and climate targets made by the Group, including any 
incremental capital expenditure and/or operating costs, on the 
recoverable value of the Group’s assets. 

The Group has set climate targets, which include a commitment to be 
carbon neutral (Scopes 1 and 2) by 2040. Whilst a pathway has been 
set out to achieve this commitment, further project studies are required 
to determine how specific categories of emissions can be managed 
effectively. As a result, not all costs and benefits associated with the 
projects that will be required to achieve this commitment are included 
in forward looking estimates including those used to determine the 
recoverable amount of the Group’s assets. However, this is factored 
into asset valuations through the application of a carbon cost as 
described above. Where the Group has a high degree of confidence 
that projects supporting the achievement of these targets are 
technically feasible, the related costs and benefits are included in the 
relevant Life of Asset Plan and relevant forward looking estimates.

The useful lives of the Group’s mines are reassessed annually and 
changes could impact depreciation charges and timing of mine 
restoration activities. Based on the current life of asset plans there were 
no indications that useful lives had been materially impacted by 
climate change. Our work on impairment is further described in the 
relevant Key Audit Matter. We have also read the disclosures made in 
relation to climate change, in the other information within the Annual 
Report, and considered their consistency with the financial statements 
and our knowledge from our audit.

Anglo American plc 
Integrated Annual Report 2023

Financial statements and other financial information  
Independent auditors’ report to the members of Anglo American plc

219

Materiality
The scope of our audit was influenced by our application of materiality. We set certain quantitative thresholds for materiality. These, together with 
qualitative considerations, helped us to determine the scope of our audit and the nature, timing and extent of our audit procedures on the 
individual financial statement line items and disclosures and in evaluating the effect of misstatements, both individually and in aggregate on the 
financial statements as a whole.

Based on our professional judgement, we determined materiality for the financial statements as a whole as follows:

Overall materiality

How we determined it

Rationale for benchmark applied

Financial statements – Group

Financial statements – Parent Company 

$400 million (2022: $400 million).

$300 million (2022: $300 million).

approximately 3.4% of the Group’s three year-average 
consolidated profit before tax, special items and 
remeasurements

Profit before tax, special items and remeasurements is 
used as the materiality benchmark. The directors use 
this measure as they believe that it reflects the 
underlying performance of the Group. We consider that 
it is most appropriate to calculate materiality based on a 
three-year average of profit before tax, special items 
and remeasurements to respond to longer-term trends 
in commodity markets and to dampen the impact of 
short-term price volatility. We used judgement to cap 
our materiality at $400 million.

approximately 1% of the Parent Company’s total assets

We considered total assets to be an appropriate 
benchmark for the Parent Company, given that it is the 
ultimate holding company and holds material 
investments in subsidiary undertakings. We used 
judgement to cap our materiality at $300 million.

For each component in the scope of our Group audit, we allocated 
a materiality that is less than our overall Group materiality. The range 
of materiality allocated across components was $60 million to 
$110 million.

We use performance materiality to reduce to an appropriately low 
level the probability that the aggregate of uncorrected and undetected 
misstatements exceeds overall materiality. Specifically, we use 
performance materiality in determining the scope of our audit and the 
nature and extent of our testing of account balances, classes of 
transactions and disclosures, for example in determining sample sizes. 
Our performance materiality was 75% (2022: 75%) of overall 
materiality, amounting to $300 million (2022: $300 million) for the 
Group financial statements and $225 million (2022: $225 million) for 
the Parent Company financial statements.

In determining the performance materiality, we considered a number 
of factors - the history of misstatements, risk assessment and 
aggregation risk and the effectiveness of controls - and concluded that 
an amount at the upper end of our normal range was appropriate.

We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to them 
misstatements identified during our audit above $20 million (Group 
audit) (2022: $20 million) and $15 million (Parent Company audit) 
(2022: $15 million) as well as misstatements below those amounts 
that, in our view, warranted reporting for qualitative reasons.

Conclusions relating to going concern
Our evaluation of the directors’ assessment of the Group’s and the 
Parent Company’s ability to continue to adopt the going concern basis 
of accounting included:

– Obtaining and examining management’s base case forecast and 

downside scenarios, which include pricing and production 
downsides alongside a significant operational incident, and 
checking that the forecasts have been subject to board review and 
approval;

– Considering the historical reliability of management forecasting for 
cash flow and net debt by comparing budgeted results to actual 
performance;

– Checking the key inputs into the models, such as commodity prices 
and production forecasts, to ensure that these were consistent with 
our understanding and the inputs used in other key accounting 
judgements in the financial statements;

– Performing our own independent sensitivity analysis to understand 
the impact of changes in cash flow and net debt on the resources 
available to the Group;

– Checking the covenants applicable to the Group’s borrowings and 
examining whether management’s assessment supports ongoing 
compliance with those covenants; and

– Reading management’s paper to the Audit Committee in respect of 
going concern, and agreeing the forecasts set out in this paper to 
the underlying base case cash flow model.

Based on the work we have performed, we have not identified any 
material uncertainties relating to events or conditions that, individually 
or collectively, may cast significant doubt on the Group’s and the 
Parent Company’s ability to continue as a going concern for a period 
of at least twelve months from when the financial statements are 
authorised for issue.

In auditing the financial statements, we have concluded that the 
directors’ use of the going concern basis of accounting in the 
preparation of the financial statements is appropriate.

However, because not all future events or conditions can be predicted, 
this conclusion is not a guarantee as to the Group’s and the Parent 
Company’s ability to continue as a going concern.

In relation to the directors’ reporting on how they have applied the UK 
Corporate Governance Code, we have nothing material to add or 
draw attention to in relation to the directors’ statement in the financial 
statements about whether the directors considered it appropriate to 
adopt the going concern basis of accounting.

Our responsibilities and the responsibilities of the directors with respect 
to going concern are described in the relevant sections of this report.

Reporting on other information
The other information comprises all of the information in the Annual 
Report other than the financial statements and our auditors’ report 
thereon. The directors are responsible for the other information. Our 
opinion on the financial statements does not cover the other 
information and, accordingly, we do not express an audit opinion or, 
except to the extent otherwise explicitly stated in this report, any form 
of assurance thereon.

In connection with our audit of the financial statements, our 
responsibility is to read the other information and, in doing so, consider 
whether the other information is materially inconsistent with the 
financial statements or our knowledge obtained in the audit, or 
otherwise appears to be materially misstated. If we identify an 

220

Anglo American plc 
Integrated Annual Report 2023

Financial statements and other financial information
Independent auditors’ report to the members of Anglo American plc

apparent material inconsistency or material misstatement, we are 
required to perform procedures to conclude whether there is a material 
misstatement of the financial statements or a material misstatement of 
the other information. If, based on the work we have performed, we 
conclude that there is a material misstatement of this other information, 
we are required to report that fact. We have nothing to report based on 
these responsibilities.

With respect to the Strategic Report and Directors’ report, we also 
considered whether the disclosures required by the UK Companies Act 
2006 have been included.

considering the directors’ process supporting their statement; checking 
that the statement is in alignment with the relevant provisions of the UK 
Corporate Governance Code; and considering whether the statement 
is consistent with the financial statements and our knowledge and 
understanding of the Group and Parent Company and their 
environment obtained in the course of the audit.

In addition, based on the work undertaken as part of our audit, we have 
concluded that each of the following elements of the corporate 
governance statement is materially consistent with the financial 
statements and our knowledge obtained during the audit:

Based on our work undertaken in the course of the audit, the 
Companies Act 2006 requires us also to report certain opinions and 
matters as described below.

Strategic Report and Directors’ report
In our opinion, based on the work undertaken in the course of the audit, 
the information given in the Strategic Report and Directors’ report for 
the year ended 31 December 2023 is consistent with the financial 
statements and has been prepared in accordance with applicable 
legal requirements.

In light of the knowledge and understanding of the Group and Parent 
Company and their environment obtained in the course of the audit, 
we did not identify any material misstatements in the Strategic Report 
and Directors’ report.

Directors’ Remuneration
In our opinion, the part of the Directors’ remuneration report to be 
audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the 
Companies Act 2006.

Corporate governance statement
The Listing Rules require us to review the directors’ statements in 
relation to going concern, longer-term viability and that part of the 
corporate governance statement relating to the Parent Company’s 
compliance with the provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code 
specified for our review. Our additional responsibilities with respect to 
the corporate governance statement as other information are 
described in the Reporting on other information section of this report.

Based on the work undertaken as part of our audit, we have concluded 
that each of the following elements of the corporate governance 
statement, included within the Directors’ report is materially consistent 
with the financial statements and our knowledge obtained during the 
audit, and we have nothing material to add or draw attention to in 
relation to:

– The directors’ confirmation that they have carried out a robust 

assessment of the emerging and principal risks;

– The disclosures in the Annual Report that describe those principal 

risks, what procedures are in place to identify emerging risks and an 
explanation of how these are being managed or mitigated;

– The directors’ statement in the financial statements about whether 
they considered it appropriate to adopt the going concern basis of 
accounting in preparing them, and their identification of any material 
uncertainties to the Group’s and Parent Company’s ability to 
continue to do so over a period of at least twelve months from the 
date of approval of the financial statements;

– The directors’ explanation as to their assessment of the Group's and 
Parent Company’s prospects, the period this assessment covers and 
why the period is appropriate; and

– The directors’ statement as to whether they have a reasonable 
expectation that the Parent Company will be able to continue in 
operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of its 
assessment, including any related disclosures drawing attention to 
any necessary qualifications or assumptions.

Our review of the directors’ statement regarding the longer-term 
viability of the Group and Parent Company was substantially less in 
scope than an audit and only consisted of making inquiries and 

– The directors’ statement that they consider the Annual Report, taken 
as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable, and provides the 
information necessary for the members to assess the Group’s and 
Parent Company’s position, performance, business model and 
strategy;

– The section of the Annual Report that describes the review of 

effectiveness of risk management and internal control systems; and

– The section of the Annual Report describing the work of the Audit 

Committee.

We have nothing to report in respect of our responsibility to report 
when the directors’ statement relating to the Parent Company’s 
compliance with the Code does not properly disclose a departure from 
a relevant provision of the Code specified under the Listing Rules for 
review by the auditors.

Responsibilities for the financial statements and the audit

Responsibilities of the directors for the financial statements
As explained more fully in the Statement of directors’ responsibilities, 
the directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial 
statements in accordance with the applicable framework and for 
being satisfied that they give a true and fair view. The directors are also 
responsible for such internal control as they determine is necessary to 
enable the preparation of financial statements that are free from 
material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error.

In preparing the financial statements, the directors are responsible for 
assessing the Group’s and the Parent Company’s ability to continue 
as a going concern, disclosing, as applicable, matters related to going 
concern and using the going concern basis of accounting unless the 
directors either intend to liquidate the Group or the Parent Company 
or to cease operations, or have no realistic alternative but to do so.

Auditors’ responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements
Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the 
financial statements as a whole are free from material misstatement, 
whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an auditors’ report that 
includes our opinion. Reasonable assurance is a high level of 
assurance, but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in 
accordance with ISAs (UK) will always detect a material misstatement 
when it exists. Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are 
considered material if, individually or in the aggregate, they could 
reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of users 
taken on the basis of these financial statements.

Irregularities, including fraud, are instances of non-compliance with 
laws and regulations. We design procedures in line with our 
responsibilities, outlined above, to detect material misstatements in 
respect of irregularities, including fraud. The extent to which our 
procedures are capable of detecting irregularities, including fraud, 
is detailed below.

Based on our understanding of the Group and industry, we identified 
that the principal risks of non-compliance with laws and regulations 
related to the failure to comply with environmental regulations, health 
and safety regulations and anti-bribery and corruption laws, and we 
considered the extent to which non-compliance might have a material 
effect on the financial statements. We also considered those laws and 
regulations that have a direct impact on the financial statements such 
as the Companies Act 2006 and applicable tax legislation in the 

Anglo American plc 
Integrated Annual Report 2023

Financial statements and other financial information  
Independent auditors’ report to the members of Anglo American plc

221

Appointment
Following the recommendation of the Audit Committee, we were 
appointed by the members on 5 May 2020 to audit the financial 
statements for the year ended 31 December 2020 and subsequent 
financial periods. The period of total uninterrupted engagement is 
four years, covering the years ended 31 December 2020 to 
31 December 2023.

Other matter
In due course, as required by the Financial Conduct Authority 
Disclosure Guidance and Transparency Rule 4.1.14R, these financial 
statements will form part of the ESEF-prepared annual financial report 
filed on the National Storage Mechanism of the Financial Conduct 
Authority in accordance with the ESEF Regulatory Technical Standard 
(‘ESEF RTS’). This auditors’ report provides no assurance over whether 
the annual financial report will be prepared using the single electronic 
format specified in the ESEF RTS.

Mark King (Senior Statutory Auditor)
for and on behalf of PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP
Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors
London
21 February 2024

jurisdictions in which the Group has material operations. We evaluated 
management’s incentives and opportunities for fraudulent 
manipulation of the financial statements (including the risk of override 
of controls), and determined that the principal risks were related to 
posting inappropriate journal entries and management bias in 
accounting estimates. The Group engagement team shared this risk 
assessment with the component auditors so that they could include 
appropriate audit procedures in response to such risks in their work. 
Audit procedures performed by the Group engagement team and/or 
component auditors included:

– Understanding and evaluating the design and implementation of 
controls designed to prevent and detect irregularities and fraud;

– Inquiry of management, Internal Audit and the Group’s legal 

advisors regarding their consideration of known or suspected 
instances of non-compliance with laws and regulations and fraud;

– Identifying and testing journal entries, in particular any journal entries 

posted with unusual account combinations; and

– Challenging assumptions and judgements made by management in 
respect of significant accounting judgements and estimates, and 
assessing these judgements and estimates for management bias.

There are inherent limitations in the audit procedures described above. 
We are less likely to become aware of instances of non-compliance 
with laws and regulations that are not closely related to events and 
transactions reflected in the financial statements. Also, the risk of not 
detecting a material misstatement due to fraud is higher than the risk of 
not detecting one resulting from error, as fraud may involve deliberate 
concealment by, for example, forgery or intentional misrepresentations, 
or through collusion.

Our audit testing might include testing complete populations of certain 
transactions and balances, possibly using data auditing techniques. 
However, it typically involves selecting a limited number of items for 
testing, rather than testing complete populations. We will often seek 
to target particular items for testing based on their size or risk 
characteristics. In other cases, we will use audit sampling to enable 
us to draw a conclusion about the population from which the sample 
is selected.

A further description of our responsibilities for the audit of the financial 
statements is located on the FRC’s website at: www.frc.org.uk/
auditorsresponsibilities. This description forms part of our auditors’ 
report.

Use of this report
This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only for 
the Parent Company’s members as a body in accordance with 
Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other 
purpose. We do not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume 
responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to whom this 
report is shown or into whose hands it may come save where expressly 
agreed by our prior consent in writing.

Other required reporting

Companies Act 2006 exception reporting
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in 
our opinion:

– we have not obtained all the information and explanations we 

require for our audit; or

– adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Parent 

Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received 
from branches not visited by us; or

– certain disclosures of directors’ remuneration specified by law are 

not made; or

– the Parent Company financial statements and the part of the 

Directors’ remuneration report to be audited are not in agreement 
with the accounting records and returns.

We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.

222

Anglo American plc 
Integrated Annual Report 2023

Financial statements and other financial information
Primary statements

 Consolidated income statement
for the year ended 31 December 2023

US$ million
Revenue

Operating costs

Operating profit

Non-operating special items

Net income from associates and joint ventures

Profit before net finance costs and tax

Investment income

Interest expense

Other net financing gains/(losses)

Net finance costs

Profit before tax

Income tax expense

Profit for the financial year

Attributable to:

Non-controlling interests

Equity shareholders of the Company

Earnings per share (US$)

Basic

Diluted

Before special
items and
remeasurements

Special items and
remeasurements
(note 9)

Note

2023

Total

Before special
items and
remeasurements

Special items and
remeasurements
(note 9)

2022

Total

2  

30,656 

(4)   

30,652 

(24,100)   

(2,648)   

(26,748) 

(2,652)   

3,904 

(100)   

— 

(100) 

378 

35,127 

(24,203)   

10,924 

— 

641 

(9)   

35,118 

(1,672)   

(25,875) 

(1,681)   

9,243 

(77)   

— 

(77) 

641 

(2,752)   

4,182 

11,565 

(1,758)   

9,807 

— 

— 

(31)   

(31)   

427 

(990) 

(24) 

(587) 

(2,783)   

3,595 

86 

(2,251) 

(2,697)   

1,344 

214 

(515)   

(41)   

(342)   

11,223 

(3,570)   

7,653 

— 

— 

15 

15 

214 

(515) 

(26) 

(327) 

(1,743)   

9,480 

114 

(3,456) 

(1,629)   

6,024 

6,556 

— 

378 

6,934 

427 

(990)   

7 

(556)   

6,378 

(2,337)   

4,041 

1, 2  

9  

2, 14  

4  

5  

27  

1,109 

2,932 

(48)   

1,061 

(2,649)   

283 

1,617 

6,036 

(107)   

(1,522)   

1,510 

4,514 

3  

3  

2.42 

2.40 

(2.19)   

(2.17)   

0.23 

0.23 

4.97 

4.92 

(1.25)   

(1.24)   

3.72 

3.68 

Consolidated statement of comprehensive income
for the year ended 31 December 2023

US$ million

Profit for the financial year
Items that will not be reclassified to the income statement (net of tax)(1)
Remeasurement of net retirement benefit obligation

Net revaluation (loss)/gain on equity investments
Items that have been or may subsequently be reclassified to the income statement (net of tax)(1)
Net exchange differences:

Net loss (including associates and joint ventures)

Cumulative loss transferred to the income statement on disposal of foreign operations

Revaluation of cash flow hedges:

Net revaluation loss

Other comprehensive loss for the financial year (net of tax)

Total comprehensive income for the financial year (net of tax)

Attributable to:

Non-controlling interests

Equity shareholders of the Company

(1) Tax amounts are shown in note 5C. 

2023 

1,344 

2022 

6,024 

(53)   

(40)   

(207) 

20 

(938)   

(1,153) 

9 

— 

(11)   

(80) 

(1,033)   

(1,420) 

311 

4,604 

850 

(539)   

1,285 

3,319 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Anglo American plc 
Integrated Annual Report 2023

Financial statements and other financial information  
Primary statements

223

Consolidated balance sheet 
as at 31 December 2023

US$ million
ASSETS
Non-current assets
Intangible assets
Property, plant and equipment
Environmental rehabilitation trusts
Investments in associates and joint ventures
Financial asset investments 
Inventories
Trade and other receivables 
Deferred tax assets 
Derivative financial assets
Pension asset surplus and other non-current assets

Total non-current assets

Current assets
Inventories
Trade and other receivables
Current tax assets
Derivative financial assets
Current financial asset investments
Cash and cash equivalents

Total current assets

Total assets

LIABILITIES
Current liabilities
Trade and other payables
Short term borrowings
Provisions for liabilities and charges
Current tax liabilities
Derivative financial liabilities

Total current liabilities

Non-current liabilities
Trade and other payables
Medium and long term borrowings
Royalty liability
Retirement benefit obligations
Deferred tax liabilities
Derivative financial liabilities
Provisions for liabilities and charges

Total non-current liabilities

Total liabilities

Net assets

EQUITY
Called-up share capital
Share premium account
Own shares
Other reserves
Retained earnings

Equity attributable to equity shareholders of the Company
Non-controlling interests

Total equity

(1) Comparative figures are restated for the adoption of the amendment to IAS 12, see note 39A.

Note  

2023 

2022

 (restated)(1)

11  
12  
16, 24  
14  
15  
18  
19  
17  
24  

18  
19  

24  
15  
21  

20  
21, 22  
16  

24  

20  
21, 22  
24  
29  
17  
24  
16  

1,479 
43,949 
108 
1,066 
391 
847 
467 
262 
238 
410 
49,217 

6,387 
4,516 
170 
118 
48 
6,088 
17,327 

66,544 

2,828 
41,125 
107 
1,056 
390 
809 
440 
198 
49 
469 
47,471 

6,598 
4,483 
201 
204 
38 
8,412 
19,936 

67,407 

(6,511)   
(1,740)   
(684)   
(326)   
(94)   
(9,355)   

(189)   
(15,172)   
(578)   
(531)   
(5,580)   
(648)   
(2,874)   
(25,572)   

(7,380) 
(1,420) 
(684) 
(569) 
(441) 
(10,494) 

(249) 
(12,945) 
(510) 
(510) 
(5,249) 
(888) 
(2,609) 
(22,960) 

(34,927)   

(33,454) 

31,617 

33,953 

26  

26  

27  

734 
2,558 
(6,275)   
(12,820)   
40,860 
25,057 
6,560 
31,617 

734 
2,558 
(6,272) 
(12,070) 
42,368 
27,318 
6,635 
33,953 

The financial statements of Anglo American plc, registered number 03564138, were approved by the Board of directors on 21 February 2024 
and signed on its behalf by:

Duncan Wanblad 
Chief Executive 

John Heasley
Finance Director

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
224

Anglo American plc 
Integrated Annual Report 2023

Financial statements and other financial information
Primary statements

Consolidated cash flow statement
for the year ended 31 December 2023

US$ million
Cash flows from operating activities

Profit before tax

Net finance costs including financing special items and remeasurements

Net income from associates and joint ventures

Non-operating special items

Operating profit

Revenue and operating special items and remeasurements

Cash element of special items

Depreciation and amortisation

Share-based payment charges

Increase in provisions and net retirement benefit obligations

Decrease/(increase) in inventories

Increase in operating receivables

(Decrease)/increase in operating payables

Other adjustments

Cash flows from operations

Dividends from associates and joint ventures

Dividends from financial asset investments

Income tax paid

Net cash inflows from operating activities

Cash flows from investing activities

Expenditure on property, plant and equipment

Cash flows used in derivatives related to capital expenditure

Proceeds from disposal of property, plant and equipment

Investments in associates and joint ventures

Expenditure on intangible assets

Net issuance of financial asset investments

Interest received and other investment income

Net cash outflow on acquisitions

Net cash inflow on disposals

Other investing activities

Net cash used in investing activities

Cash flows from financing activities

Interest paid

Cash flows used in derivatives related to financing activities

Dividends paid to Company shareholders

Distributions paid to non-controlling interests

Proceeds from issuance of bonds

Proceeds from other borrowings

Capital repayment of lease obligations

Repayments of bonds and borrowings

Purchase of shares by Group companies 

Other financing activities

Net cash used in financing activities

Net decrease in cash and cash equivalents

Cash and cash equivalents at start of year

Cash movements in the year

Effects of changes in foreign exchange rates

Cash and cash equivalents at end of year

Note  

2023 

2022 

4  

14  

9  

1  

9  

3,595 

587 

(378)   

100 

3,904 

2,652 

(89)   

1  

2,685 

175 

25 

2 

(384)   

(785)   

(70)   

9,480 

327 

(641) 

77 

9,243 

1,681 

(12) 

2,446 

215 

250 

(1,776) 

(374) 

48 

168 

14  

13  

13  

13  

14  

15  

34  

21  

6  

27  

8,115 

11,889 

379 

3 

602 

— 

(2,001)   

(2,726) 

6,496 

9,765 

(5,876)   

(6,191) 

(3)   

16 

(15)   

(133)   

(63)   

377 

(10)   

210 

(63)   

— 

7 

(37) 

(129) 

(142) 

181 

— 

564 

(70) 

(5,560)   

(5,817) 

(701)   

(605)   

(1,564)   

(978)   

1,950 

1,113 

(420) 

(1) 

(3,549) 

(1,794) 

1,963 

1,537 

(309)   

(266) 

(1,650)   

(1,098) 

(274)   

(205)   

(527) 

(213) 

(3,223)   

(4,368) 

(2,287)   

(420) 

21  

8,400 

(2,287)   

(39)   

21  

6,074 

9,057 

(420) 

(237) 

8,400 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Anglo American plc 
Integrated Annual Report 2023

Financial statements and other financial information  
Primary statements

225

Consolidated statement of changes in equity 
for the year ended 31 December 2023

US$ million
At 31 December 2021

Adoption of amendments to IAS 12 (see note 39A)

—    

—    

(43)   

— 

3,295    

(6,141)   

41,716 

(11,696)   

3,295    

(6,141)   

41,673 

(11,696)   

Total share

capital(1)

Own
shares(2)

Retained
 earnings

Cumulative 
translation 
adjustment 
reserve

Other 
reserves 
(note 26)

Total equity 
attributable
to equity
shareholders
of the
Company

Non-
controlling 
interests

Total equity

(183)   

(963)   

(49)   

(1,195)   

(225)   

(1,420) 

651 

— 

651 

— 

27,825 

6,945 

34,770 

(43)   

(28)   

(71) 

27,782 

4,514 

6,917 

1,510 

34,699 

6,024 

— 

1 

— 

3 

(17)   

589 

— 

(3,549)   

(1,566)   

(5,115) 

339 

(527)   

— 

(46)   

(1)   

— 

— 

— 

338 

(527) 

— 

(46) 

27,318 

283 

6,635 

1,061 

33,953 

1,344 

4,514 

— 

(3,549)   

(59)   

— 

— 

(28)   

— 

— 

— 

— 

— 

283 

— 

(45)   

(730)   

(47)   

(822)   

(211)   

(1,033) 

(1,564)   

(137)   

— 

(38)   

(7)   

— 

— 

— 

— 

— 

— 

25 

— 

— 

2 

(1,564)   

(957)   

(2,521) 

160 

(275)   

(38)   

(5)   

(3)   

— 

37 

(2)   

157 

(275) 

(1) 

(7) 

—    

—    

—    

—    

—    

(3)   

—    

—    

—    

—    

397    

(527)   

—    

(1)   

—    

—    

—    

—    

—    

—    

—    

—    

—    

—    

272    

(275)   

—    

—    

3,292    

(6,275)   

  40,860 

(13,389)   

569 

25,057 

6,560 

31,617 

At 1 January 2022 (restated)

Profit for the year

Other comprehensive loss

Dividends
Equity settled share-based payment schemes(3)
Treasury shares purchased(3)
Shares cancelled during the year

Other

Profit for the year

Other comprehensive loss

Dividends

Equity settled share-based payment schemes

Treasury shares purchased

Change in ownership interest in subsidiaries

Other

At 31 December 2023

(1)

Includes share capital and share premium.

At 31 December 2022 (restated) 

3,292    

(6,272)   

  42,368 

(12,659)   

(2) Own shares comprise shares of Anglo American plc held by the Company, its subsidiaries and employee benefit trusts (note 26).
(3)  The prior year equity settled share-based payment schemes were presented net of treasury shares purchased. Comparatives were re-presented to align with the current presentation. 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
226

Anglo American plc 
Integrated Annual Report 2023

Financial statements and other financial information

 Notes to the financial statements

Financial performance

Profit attributable to equity shareholders 
decreased by 94% to $283 million 
(2022: $4,514 million). 
Underlying earnings decreased by 51% to 
$2,932 million (2022: $6,036 million).

Profit attributable to equity shareholders

$0.3 bn 

(2022: $4.5 bn)

The following disclosures provide further information about the 
drivers of the Group’s financial performance in the year. This 
includes analysis of the respective contribution of the Group’s 
reportable segments along with information about its 
operating cost base, net finance costs and tax. In addition, 
disclosure on earnings per share and the dividend is provided.

1. Operating profit from subsidiaries and joint operations

Overview

US$ million
Revenue before special items and remeasurements

Operating costs:

Employee costs

Depreciation of property, plant and equipment

Amortisation of intangible assets

Third-party commodity purchases

Consumables, maintenance and production input costs

Logistics, marketing and selling costs

Royalties

Exploration and evaluation

Net foreign exchange gains/(losses)

Other operating income

Other operating expenses

Operating profit before special items and remeasurements

Revenue special items and remeasurements

Operating special items and remeasurements

Operating profit

Note  

2023 
30,656 

2022
35,127 

28  

(3,839)   

(2,623)   

(62)   

(4,488)   

(7,464)   

(2,749)   

(971)   

(319)   

45 

190 

(3,630) 

(2,401) 

(45) 

(6,350) 

(5,492) 

(2,898) 

(1,238) 

(322) 

(6) 

313 

(1,820)   

(2,134) 

6,556 

10,924 

(4)   

(9) 

(2,648)   

(1,672) 

3,904 

9,243 

9  

9  

Royalties exclude items which meet the definition of income tax on profit and which have been accounted for as taxes. Exploration and evaluation 
excludes associated employee costs. The full exploration and evaluation expenditure (including associated employee costs) is presented in the 
table below:

Operating profit before special items and remeasurements is stated after charging:

US$ million
Exploration expenditure

Evaluation expenditure

Research and development expenditure

Provisional pricing adjustment

2023 
(145)   

(197)   

(147)   

(6)   

2022 
(155) 

(191) 

(167) 

(96) 

Accounting policy
See note 39C for the Group’s accounting policy on revenue and exploration and evaluation expenditure.

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Anglo American plc 
Integrated Annual Report 2023

Financial statements and other financial information  
Notes to the financial statements

227

Financial performance

2. Financial performance by segment

Overview
The Group’s operating segments are aligned to those businesses that are evaluated regularly by the chief operating decision maker in deciding 
how to allocate resources and in assessing performance. Operating segments with similar economic characteristics are aggregated into 
reportable segments. 

The Group aggregates the following operating segments into reportable segments: 

– Kumba Iron Ore and Iron Ore Brazil are aggregated into Iron Ore

– Copper Chile and Copper Peru are aggregated into Copper.

Shipping revenue related to shipments of the Group’s products is shown within the relevant operating segment. Revenue from other marketing 
and trading activities from shipping and energy solutions within the Marketing business is presented within the ‘Corporate and other’ segment, 
which also includes unallocated corporate costs and exploration costs.

The disclosures in this note include certain Alternative Performance Measures (APMs). For more information on the APMs used by the Group, 
including definitions, please refer to page 318.

Segment results

US$ million
Copper
Nickel
Platinum Group Metals
De Beers
Iron Ore
Steelmaking Coal
Manganese
Crop Nutrients
Corporate and other

Less: associates and joint ventures
Subsidiaries and joint operations
Reconciliation:
Net income from associates and joint ventures
Special items and remeasurements
Revenue
Profit before net finance costs and tax
Profit attributable to equity shareholders of the Company

US$ million
Copper
Nickel
Platinum Group Metals
De Beers
Iron Ore
Steelmaking Coal
Manganese
Crop Nutrients
Corporate and other

Less: associates and joint ventures

Subsidiaries and joint operations

Reconciliation:
Net income from associates and joint ventures
Special items and remeasurements
Revenue
Profit before net finance costs and tax
Profit attributable to equity shareholders of the Company

Group 
revenue
  7,360 
653 
  6,734 
  4,267 
  8,000 
  4,153 
670 
225  (1)
440 

  32,502 
  (1,846) 
  30,656 

(4) 
  30,652 

Group 
revenue
  5,599 
858 
  10,096 
  6,622 
  7,534 
  5,034 
840 
254  (1)
554 
  37,391 

Underlying 
EBITDA
3,233 
133 
1,209 
72 
4,013 
1,320 
231 
(60)   
(193)   

Depreciation
and
amortisation

Underlying 
EBIT
2,451 
62 
855 
(252)   
3,549 
822 
145 
(61)   
(403)   

(782)   
(71)   
(354)   
(324)   
(464)   
(498)   
(86)   
(1)   
(210)   

9,958 
(717)   
9,241 

(2,790)   
105 
(2,685)   

7,168 
(612)   
6,556 

Net finance 
costs and 
income tax 
expense
(1,127) 
3 
(226) 
(113) 
(987) 
(138) 
(77) 
(14) 
(447) 
(3,126) (2)
233 
(2,893) 

2023 

Non-
controlling 
interests

Underlying 
earnings
1,099 
65 
448 
(314) 
1,792 
684 
66 
(75) 
(833) 

(225)   
— 
(181)   
51 
(770)   
— 
(2)   
— 
17 

  (1,110)   

1 

  (1,109)   

2,932 
(378) 
2,554 

378 
(2,649) 

283 

2022

378 
(2,752) 

4,182 

Underlying 
EBIT
1,595 
317 
4,052 
994 
2,962 
2,369 
312 
(45)   
(593)   

11,963 

Depreciation
and
amortisation

Net finance 
costs and 
income tax 
expense

Non-
controlling 
interests

Underlying 
EBITDA
2,182 
381 
4,417 
1,417 
3,455 
2,749 
378 
(44)   
(440)   

  14,495 

(587)   
(64)   
(365)   
(423)   
(493)   
(380)   
(66)   
(1)   
(153)   
(2,532)   

Underlying 
earnings
760 
259 
2,266 
552 
1,337 
1,640 
148 
(51) 
(875) 
6,036 

(151)   
— 
(654)   
(108)   
(698)   
— 
(3)   
— 
(6)   
(1,620)   

3 

(641) 

(684) 
(58) 
(1,132) 
(334) 
(927) 
(729) 
(161) 
(6) 
(276) 
(4,307)  (2) 
395 

(2,264) 

(1,125)   

86 

(1,039)   

  35,127 

  13,370 

(2,446)   

10,924 

(3,912) 

(1,617)   

5,395 

(9) 
  35,118 

641 
(1,758) 

9,807 

641 
(1,522) 

4,514 

(1) Group revenue in respect of Crop Nutrients principally relates to revenue from its associate, The Cibra Group, a fertiliser distributor based in Brazil.
(2) Comprises net finance costs of $593 million (2022: $358 million) and income tax expense of $2,533 million (2022: $3,949 million).

The segment results are stated after elimination of inter-segment interest and dividends and include an allocation of corporate costs.

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
228

Anglo American plc 
Integrated Annual Report 2023

Financial statements and other financial information
Notes to the financial statements

Financial performance

2. Financial performance by segment continued

Further information

Group revenue by product
Segments predominantly derive revenue as follows – Copper: copper; De Beers: rough and polished diamonds; Platinum Group Metals: platinum 
group metals and nickel; Iron Ore: iron ore; Steelmaking Coal: steelmaking coal; Nickel: nickel; Manganese: manganese ore. Revenue reported 
within Corporate and other includes margins from marketing and trading activities in the Group’s Energy Solutions activities and shipping services 
provided to third parties. See note 39C for the Group’s accounting policy on revenue recognition.

Other revenue principally relates to iridium, gold, ruthenium and molybdenum. The revenue analysis below includes the Group’s share of revenue 
in equity accounted associates and joint ventures excluding special items and remeasurements. See note 14. 

US$ million
Copper
Nickel
Platinum
Palladium
Rhodium
Diamonds
Iron ore
Steelmaking coal
Thermal coal(1)
Manganese ore
Shipping
Other

Reconciliation:

Less: Revenue from associates and joint ventures
Special items and remeasurements

Revenue

Revenue from 
contracts with 
customers
6,824 
1,046 
1,723 
1,681 
1,509 
4,198 
6,548 
3,155 
213 
— 
1,115 
1,770 
29,782 

— 

— 

29,782 

Revenue from 
other sources
86 
47 
8 
9 
22 
69 
606 
755 
169 
670 
— 
279 
2,720 

2023

Group 
revenue
6,910 
1,093 
1,731 
1,690 
1,531 
4,267 
7,154 
3,910 
382 
670 
1,115 
2,049 
32,502 

(1,846)   

(1,846) 

Revenue from 
contracts with 
customers
5,247 
1,422 
1,680 
2,542 
4,066 
6,608 
6,597 
3,544 
495 
— 
1,362 
1,484 
35,047 

— 

— 

Revenue from 
other sources

(80)   
15 
6 
6 
21 
14 
(45)   
990 
188 
840 
— 
389 
2,344 

2022

Group
 revenue
5,167 
1,437 
1,686 
2,548 
4,087 
6,622 
6,552 
4,534 
683 
840 
1,362 
1,873 
37,391 

(2,264)   

(2,264) 

(9)   

71 

(9) 

35,118 

(4)   

870 

(4) 

30,652 

35,047 

(1)  For the year ended 31 December 2023, thermal coal represents 1% of Group revenue and comprises sales volumes of 15.3Mt. These arise from transitional marketing support provided to 

Thungela Resources, purchases from other third parties included within the Marketing business’ energy solutions activities, and secondary product sales from the Steelmaking Coal business.

Revenue from other sources for subsidiaries and joint operations of $870 million (2022: $71 million) includes net fair value gains relating to 
derivatives of $880 million (2022: net fair value gains of $176 million), net fair value losses relating to provisionally priced contracts of $6 million 
and revenue remeasurements loss of $4 million (2022: $96 million and $9 million respectively). Derivative net gains/losses include both financial 
derivatives and the net margin arising on contracts for the physical sale and purchase of third-party material (third-party sales) where these 
contracts are accounted for as derivatives prior to settlement and are entered into to generate a trading margin.

Group revenue by destination
The Group’s geographical analysis of segment revenue is allocated based on the customer’s port of destination. Where the port of destination 
is not known, revenue is allocated based on the customer’s country of domicile.

China

India

Japan

Other Asia

South Africa

Other Africa

Brazil

Chile

Other South America

North America

Australia
United Kingdom(1)
Other Europe

(1)  United Kingdom is Anglo American plc’s country of domicile.

US$ million
9,891 

2,275 

3,783 

5,710 

833 

1,403 

923 

882 

63 

1,230 

103 

1,902 

3,504 

32,502 

2023

%
 30% 

 7% 

 12% 

 18% 

 3% 

 4% 

 3% 

 3% 

—  

 4% 

—  

 6% 

 10% 

 100% 

US$ million
8,965 

2,798 

5,542 

6,944 

1,312 

2,080 

986 

811 

10 

1,160 

309 

1,502 

4,972 

37,391 

2022

%
 24% 

 7% 

 15% 

 18% 

 4% 

 6% 

 3% 

 2% 

—

 3% 

 1% 

 4% 

 13% 

 100% 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Anglo American plc 
Integrated Annual Report 2023

Financial statements and other financial information  
Notes to the financial statements

229

Financial performance

3. Earnings per share

Overview
The disclosures in this note include certain Alternative Performance Measures (APMs). For more information on the APMs used by the Group, 
including definitions, please refer to page 318.

US$
Earnings per share

Basic

Diluted

Underlying earnings per share

Basic

Diluted

Headline earnings per share

Basic

Diluted

2023 

2022 

0.23 

0.23 

2.42 

2.40 

2.06 

2.05 

3.72 

3.68 

4.97 

4.92 

4.98 

4.93 

Further information
The calculation of basic and diluted earnings per share is based on the following data:

Earnings (US$ million)

Basic and diluted earnings

Weighted average number of shares (million)

Basic number of ordinary shares outstanding

Effect of dilutive potential ordinary shares

Diluted number of ordinary shares outstanding

Profit attributable to equity 
shareholders of the Company

Underlying earnings

Headline earnings

2023 

2022 

2023 

2022 

2023 

2022 

283 

4,514 

2,932 

6,036 

2,496 

6,050 

1,214 

6 

1,220 

1,215 

11 

1,226 

1,214 

6 

1,220 

1,215 

11 

1,226 

1,214 

6 

1,220 

1,215 

11 

1,226 

The weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue is the weighted number of shares in issue throughout the year, and excludes shares 
held by employee benefit trusts and Anglo American plc shares held by Group companies. The diluted number of ordinary shares outstanding, 
including share options and awards, is calculated on the assumption of conversion of all dilutive potential ordinary shares. In the year ended 
31 December 2023 there were 345,152 (2022: 342,939) share options that were potentially dilutive but not included in the calculation of diluted 
earnings because they were anti-dilutive.

Headline earnings, a Johannesburg Stock Exchange defined performance measure, is reconciled from profit attributable to equity shareholders 
of the Company as follows, and the reconciling items below are shown gross and net of tax and non-controlling interests:

US$ million
Profit attributable to equity shareholders of the Company

Special items and remeasurements

Underlying earnings for the financial year

Revenue remeasurements

Operating special items – restructuring

Operating remeasurements 

Non-operating special items – charges relating to BEE transactions

Non-operating special items – remeasurement of deferred consideration

Non-operating special items – disposals

Financing special items and remeasurements 

Tax special items and remeasurements 

Other reconciling items 

Headline earnings for the financial year 

Gross

(4)   

(142)   

(86)   

— 

(17)   

8 

(31)   

— 

(4)   

2023 

Net

283 

2,649 

2,932 

(3) 

(131) 

(82) 

— 

(14) 

6 

(31) 

(183) 

2 
2,496 

Gross

(9)   

— 

(80)   

(10)   

(111)   

(3)   

15 

— 

63 

2022 

Net

4,514 

1,522 

6,036 

(14) 

— 

(72) 

(9) 

(73) 

(4) 

15 

126 

45 
6,050 

Other reconciling items principally comprise adjustments relating to business combinations in prior years partially offset by impairments in 
De Beers (2022: relate to adjustments to former operations and disposals of Property, plant and equipment).

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
230

Anglo American plc 
Integrated Annual Report 2023

Financial statements and other financial information
Notes to the financial statements

Financial performance

4. Net finance costs

Overview

US$ million
Investment income

Interest income from cash and cash equivalents

Interest income from associates and joint ventures

Net interest income on defined benefit arrangements 

Other interest income

Less: Interest income capitalised

Investment income

Interest expense

Interest and other finance expense

Lease liability interest expense

Net interest cost on defined benefit arrangements

Unwinding of discount relating to provisions and other liabilities

Less: Interest expense capitalised

Interest expense

Other net financing (losses)/gains

Net foreign exchange (losses)/gains

Other net fair value gains/(losses)

Other net financing gains/(losses) before special items and remeasurements

Financing remeasurements

Other net financing losses

Net finance costs

2023 

2022 

345 

15 

24 

43 

427 

— 

427 

173 

6 

20 

16 

215 

(1) 

214 

(1,322)   

(721) 

(62)   

(42)   

(79)   

(1,505)   

515 

(990)   

(51)   

58 

7 

(31)   

(24)   

(42) 

(45) 

(86) 

(894) 

379 

(515) 

105 

(146) 

(41) 

15 

(26) 

(587)   

(327) 

Further information
Interest income recognised on financial assets at amortised cost is $183 million (2022: $96 million) and interest expense recognised on financial 
liabilities at amortised cost is $769 million (2022: $302 million).

Interest expense capitalised predominantly relates to US dollar denominated borrowings which were capitalised at a weighted average interest 
rate of 7.1% (2022: 3.7%).

Included in other net fair value gains/losses is $46 million (2022: loss of $47 million) in respect of fair value gains on the revaluation of deferred 
consideration balances relating to the Mototolo acquisition. Revaluation of deferred consideration balances are classified as special items and 
remeasurements only when the original gain or loss on disposal or acquisition has been classified as a special item. 

5.

Income tax expense

Overview

Calculation of effective tax rate (statutory basis)

Adjusted for:

Special items and remeasurements

Associates’ and joint ventures’ tax and non-controlling interests 

Calculation of underlying effective tax rate

2023

Profit
before tax
US$ million

Tax charge
US$ million

Effective 
tax rate

3,595 

(2,251) 

 62.6% 

2,783 

197 

6,575 

(86) 

(196) 

(2,533) 

 38.5% 

The underlying effective tax rate was 38.5% for the year ended 31 December 2023. This is higher than the underlying effective tax rate of 34.0% 
for the year ended 31 December 2022. The underlying effective tax rate in 2023 was mainly impacted by the relative level of profits arising in the 
Group’s operating jurisdictions.

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Anglo American plc 
Integrated Annual Report 2023

Financial statements and other financial information  
Notes to the financial statements

231

Financial performance

5. Income tax expense continued

Uncertainty and changes to tax regimes can materialise in any country in which we operate and the Group has no control over political acts, 
actions of regulators, or changes in local tax regimes. Global and local economic and social conditions can have a significant influence on 
governments’ policy decisions and these have the potential to change tax and other political risks faced by the Group.

A new Mining Royalty Bill in Chile was enacted during August 2023. This legislation creates a new mining royalty regime including both an 
‘ad valorem tax’ and a ‘specific mining tax’. While current taxes do not start to accrue until 1 January 2024, the rebasing of the Group's 
Chilean deferred taxes to reflect the impact of this new regime, has increased the Group's underlying effective tax rate for the year ended 
31 December 2023 by 1.2 percentage points. 

In line with our published Tax Strategy, the Group actively monitors tax developments at a national level, as well as global themes and 
international policy trends, on a continuous basis, and has active engagement strategies with governments, regulators and other stakeholders 
within the countries in which the Group operates, or plans to operate, as well as at an international level. This includes global tax reforms such as 
those being agreed through the OECD’s Digitalisation of the Economy Project which seeks to reallocate taxing rights for large profitable groups 
(‘Pillar 1’) and implement a minimum effective tax rate of 15% on profits of large multinational groups in each country in which they operate (‘Pillar 
2’). On 23 March 2023, HM Treasury released draft legislation for the Global Minimum Tax rules in the UK which was enacted on 11 July 2023. 

Although these rules will only apply to the Group from the financial year ended 31 December 2024 onwards, the Group has carried out an 
assessment of its potential exposure to Pillar 2 taxes. This assessment is principally based on the application of the transitional safe harbour 
exemptions within the UK's Pillar 2 legislation and uses data from the most recent submission of the Group’s Country-by-Country report, being for 
the year ended 31 December 2022. As part of this assessment, the Group has adjusted for one-off events in the year ended 31 December 2022, 
which are not expected to be repeated in future periods. The Group is not aware of any events in the current year ended 31 December 2023 
which would give a materially different result. The assessment has identified a potential exposure where the Pillar 2 effective tax rate is estimated 
to have been lower than 15%. This exposure is estimated to have had an impact of less than one percentage point to the Group's underlying 
effective tax rate based on underlying profit before tax for 2022. 

The Group continues to review legislation to evaluate the potential impact and is engaging with policymakers in efforts to ensure that guidance 
and any required additional legislation is aligned to the stated policy objectives and that the Group is well placed to comply. 

The Group has applied the mandatory temporary exception under IAS 12 in relation to the accounting for deferred taxes arising from the 
implementation of the Pillar 2 rules.

The disclosures in this note include certain Alternative Performance Measures (APMs). For more information on the APMs used by the Group, 
including definitions, please refer to page 318.

A. Analysis of charge for the year

US$ million

United Kingdom tax

South Africa tax

Other overseas tax

Prior year adjustments

Current tax

Deferred tax

Income tax expense before special items and remeasurements

Special items and remeasurements tax (note 9)

Income tax expense

2023 

165 

585 

1,074 

(76)   

1,748 

589 

2,337 

(86)   

2,251 

2022 

106 

1,409 

1,128 

(80) 

2,563 

1,007 

3,570 

(114) 

3,456 

Current tax includes royalties which meet the definition of income tax and are in addition to royalties recorded in operating costs.

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
232

Anglo American plc 
Integrated Annual Report 2023

Financial statements and other financial information
Notes to the financial statements

Financial performance

5. Income tax expense continued

B. Factors affecting tax charge for the year
The reconciling items between the statutory corporation tax rate and the income tax expense are:

US$ million
Profit before tax

Less: Net income from associates and joint ventures

Profit before tax (excluding associates and joint ventures)

Tax calculated at the weighted average annual statutory rate of corporation tax in the United Kingdom of 23.5% (2022: 
19.0%)

Tax effects of:

Items non-deductible/taxable for tax purposes

Temporary difference adjustments

Current year losses and temporary differences not recognised

Recognition of losses and temporary differences not previously recognised

Utilisation of losses and temporary differences not previously recognised

Write-off of losses and temporary differences previously recognised

Other temporary differences

Special items and remeasurements

Functional currency remeasurements (note 9)

Taxable income on intercompany loan write-off

Utilisation of losses and other temporary differences not previously recognised against intercompany loan write-off income

Other special items and remeasurements

Other adjustments

Withholding taxes

Effect of differences between local and United Kingdom tax rates

Prior year adjustments to current tax

Other adjustments

Income tax expense

2023 

3,595 
(378)   

3,217 

2022 
9,480 

(641) 

8,839 

756 

1,679 

61 

(2) 

523 

(96)   

(25)   

33 

105 

(119)   

— 

— 

687 

108 

396 

(76)   

(102)   

390 

(6) 

(55) 

54 

(23) 

(72) 

298 

(298) 

289 

104 

1,176 

(80) 

2 

2,251 

3,456 

The special items and remeasurements reconciling charge of $568 million (2022: $217 million) relates to the net tax impact of total special items 
and remeasurements before tax calculated at the United Kingdom corporation tax rate less the associated tax recorded against these items and 
tax special items and remeasurements.

Included within withholding taxes for the year ended 31 December 2023 is a charge of $2 million (2022: credit of $67 million) due to 
a reassessment of future dividend distributions.

Associates’ and joint ventures’ tax included within Net income from associates and joint ventures for the year ended 31 December 2023 is 
a charge of $196 million (2022: $379 million). Excluding special items and remeasurements, this remains a charge of $196 million 
(2022: $379 million).

C. Tax amounts included in other comprehensive income
The Consolidated statement of comprehensive income includes a tax credit on the remeasurement of net retirement benefit obligations 
recognised directly in equity that will not be reclassified to the income statement of $18 million (2022: $80 million). In addition, there is a tax credit 
on the net revaluation credit on equity investments recognised directly in equity that will not subsequently be reclassified to the income statement 
of $1 million (2022: $3 million).

D. Tax amounts recognised directly in equity 
In 2023, deferred tax of $6 million (2022: $6 million) was charged directly to equity mainly in relation to movements in share-based payments.

Accounting judgement
The Group’s tax affairs are governed by complex domestic tax legislations, international tax treaties between countries and the interpretation of 
these by tax authorities and courts. Given the many uncertainties that could arise from these factors, judgement is often required in determining 
the tax that is due. Where management is aware of potential uncertainties, and where it is judged not probable that the taxation authorities would 
accept the uncertain tax treatment, a provision is made following the appropriate requirements set out in IFRIC 23 Uncertainty over income tax 
treatments, and determined with reference to similar transactions and, in some cases, reports from independent experts.

Accounting policy
See note 39G for the Group’s accounting policy on tax.

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Anglo American plc 
Integrated Annual Report 2023

Financial statements and other financial information  
Notes to the financial statements

233

Financial performance

6. Dividends

Proposed final ordinary dividend per share (US cents)

Proposed final ordinary dividend (US$ million)

These financial statements do not reflect the proposed final ordinary dividend as it is still subject to shareholder approval.

Dividends paid during the year are as follows:

US$ million

Final ordinary dividend for 2022 – 74 US cents per ordinary share (2021: 118 US cents per ordinary share)

Final special dividend for 2021 – 50 US cents per ordinary share

Interim ordinary dividend for 2023 – 55 US cents per ordinary share (2022: 124 US cents per ordinary share)

2023 

41 

500 

2022 

74 

905 

2023 

905 

— 

659 

1,564 

2022 

1,440 

612 

1,497 

3,549 

As at the dividend record date, there are forecasted to be 1,219,991,762 (2022: 1,222,809,154) dividend bearing shares in issue.

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
234

Anglo American plc 
Integrated Annual Report 2023

Financial statements and other financial information
Notes to the financial statements

Significant items

Special items and remeasurements are a net 
charge of $2.6 billion and include a $1.6 billion 
impairment of De Beers assets and a $0.8 billion 
impairment of Nickel assets.

Special items and remeasurements loss

$2.6 bn

(2022: $1.5 bn)

During 2023, the significant accounting judgements and 
estimates made by management included:

– The assessment of impairment and impairment 

reversal indicators

– The estimation of recoverable amount for impairment testing

7. Significant accounting matters

Management necessarily makes judgements and estimates that can 
have a significant impact on the financial statements. The significant 
judgements and key sources of estimation uncertainty that affect the 
results for the year ended 31 December 2023 are set out below and 
relate to the impairment and impairment reversal of assets. In addition 
to these items, information about other judgements and estimates 
determined by management is provided, where applicable, in the 
relevant note to the financial statements.

The Group also considers the impact of climate change on judgements 
and estimates. Although not a key judgement or estimate in itself, 
climate change potentially impacts a number of judgements and 
estimates made by the Group, particularly where these are reliant on 
longer term forecasts.

Significant accounting judgements and estimates

Impairment and impairment reversals of assets

Significant accounting judgement – identification of impairment and 
impairment reversal indicators 
The Group assesses at each reporting date whether there are any 
indicators that its assets and cash generating units (CGUs) may be 
impaired, or that an impairment reversal is required for previously 
impaired assets and CGUs (other than goodwill). Assets which have 
previously been impaired are generally carried on the balance sheet at 
a value close to their recoverable amount at the last assessment. 
Therefore in principle any change in operational assumptions or 
economic parameters could result in further impairment or impairment 
reversal if an indicator is identified. 

The assessment considers a wide range of potential indicators, 
including revisions to forecast operating performance, changes to 
capital projects, the impact of external factors such as tax rates for 
relevant geographies and both the Group’s internal long term 
economic forecasts and external market data. Judgement is required 
to determine whether the updates represent significant changes in the 
service potential of an asset or CGU, and are therefore indicators of 
impairment or impairment reversal. 

Particular judgement may be required to determine whether multiple 
changes are linked to the same underlying factor and hence should be 
assessed together, for example where inflationary pressures lead to 
offsetting increases in both forecast revenues and costs. The Group 
uses quantitative data and sensitivity analysis using discounted 
cashflow models to inform these judgements where relevant.
For certain previously impaired assets where an impairment or 
impairment reversal trigger has not been identified at 
31 December 2023, it is reasonably possible that an impairment 

or reversal trigger, and hence a potential material adjustment to 
the carrying value, may arise within the next twelve months. Further 
information about these assets is provided below:

Woodsmith 
The Woodsmith polyhalite project is currently under construction and 
has recognised previous impairments of $1.7 billion (2022) which 
remain eligible for potential impairment reversal. The valuation remains 
inherently sensitive to changes in economic and operational 
assumptions, in particular the forecast polyhalite price and discount 
rate. The Group has reassessed key input assumptions as at 
31 December 2023. At this stage the Group believes the 
assumptions for these key inputs used in the valuation prepared at 
31 December 2022 remain appropriate and hence no indicators of 
impairment or reversal have been identified. 

Moranbah-Grosvenor
Moranbah-Grosvenor is a CGU within the Steelmaking Coal segment 
and has recognised previous impairments of $0.1 billion which remain 
eligible for potential impairment reversal. The asset valuation is 
inherently sensitive to changes in economic and operational 
assumptions, in particular the steelmaking coal price and the AUD/
USD exchange rate. The Group has reviewed operational and 
macroeconomic developments in the year, including the potential 
impact of global decarbonisation efforts in response to climate change 
on forecast steelmaking coal prices, and concluded that there are no 
indicators of impairment or impairment reversal. 

Significant accounting estimate – estimation of recoverable amount
Where indicators of impairment or impairment reversal are identified 
(or at least annually for goodwill and indefinite life assets), the Group 
performs impairment reviews to assess the recoverable amount of the 
relevant operating assets. The recoverable amount is assessed with 
reference to fair value less costs of disposal, as this is higher than the 
value in use model for the Group’s assets. The fair value less cost of 
disposal is estimated with reference to the share price of listed 
subsidiaries, where appropriate, and for other assets is based on 
discounted cash flow models. The expected future cash flows used in 
these models are inherently uncertain and could materially change 
over time. They may be significantly affected by a number of factors 
including Ore Reserves and Mineral Resources, together with 
economic factors such as commodity prices, exchange rates, discount 
rates and estimates of production costs and future capital expenditure. 
Where discounted cash flow models based on management’s 
assumptions are used, the resulting fair value measurements are 
considered to be at level 3 in the fair value hierarchy, as defined in IFRS 
13 Fair Value Measurement, as they depend to a significant extent on 
unobservable valuation inputs.

Anglo American plc 
Integrated Annual Report 2023

Financial statements and other financial information  
Notes to the financial statements

235

Significant items

7. Significant accounting matters continued

Cash flow projections are based on financial budgets and Life of Asset 
Plans or, for non-mine assets, an equivalent appropriate long term 
forecast, incorporating key assumptions as detailed below: 

– Ore Reserves and Mineral Resources 

Ore Reserves and, where considered appropriate, Mineral 
Resources are incorporated in projected cash flows, based on Ore 
Reserves and Mineral Resources statements and exploration and 
evaluation work undertaken by appropriately qualified persons. 
Mineral Resources are included where management has a high 
degree of confidence in their economic extraction, despite 
additional evaluation still being required prior to meeting the 
required confidence to convert to Ore Reserves. Risk adjustments 
are applied to the inclusion of these resources where appropriate. 
For further information refer to the unaudited Ore Reserves and 
Mineral Resources Report 2023. 

– Commodity and product prices 

Commodity and product prices are based on latest internal 
forecasts, benchmarked with external sources of information such 
as the range of available analyst forecasts and for the short term, 
spot prices where applicable. In estimating the forecast cash flows, 
management also takes into account the expected realised price 
from existing contractual arrangements. Price forecasts are made 
with reference to the impact of climate change on supply and 
demand fundamentals for each commodity but are not aligned to 
any particular emissions scenario. 

– Foreign exchange rates 

Foreign exchange rates are based on latest internal forecasts, 
benchmarked with external sources of information for relevant 
countries of operation or directly from external forecasts.

– Discount rates 

Cash flow projections used in fair value less costs of disposal 
impairment models are discounted based on real post-tax discount 
rates, assessed annually. Adjustments to the rates are made for any 
risks that are not reflected in the underlying cash flows, including the 
risk profile of the individual asset and country risk. 

– Operating costs, capital expenditure and other operating factors 
Operating costs and capital expenditure are based on the most 
recently approved financial budgets. Cash flow projections beyond 
the budget period are based on Life of Asset Plans, as applicable, 
and internal management forecasts. Cost assumptions incorporate 
management experience and expectations, as well as the nature 
and location of the operation and the risks associated therewith 
(for example, the grade of Ore Reserves varying significantly over 
time and unforeseen operational issues). Underlying input cost 
assumptions are consistent with related output price assumptions. 
Other operating factors, such as the timelines of granting licences 
and permits, are based on management’s best estimate of the 
outcome of uncertain future events at the balance sheet date. 

Where an asset has potential for future development through capital 
investment, to which a market participant would attribute value, and 
the costs and economic benefits can be estimated reliably, this 
development is included in the recoverable amount (with appropriate 
risk adjustments). 

Significant estimate: sensitivity disclosures
The recoverable amounts of the following assets are considered to be 
significant accounting estimates as a material impairment or an 
impairment reversal could arise within the next twelve months due to a 
realistic change in assumptions:

– De Beers

– Barro Alto 

– Minas-Rio. 

Key input and sensitivity information for these assets is provided in 
note 8.

Climate change
Tackling climate change is the defining challenge of our time and 
understanding and addressing the implications of climate change for 
our business is embedded in our strategy. The Group’s response to 
climate change is implemented at an asset-level through the Group’s 
Sustainable Mining Plan and related Life of Asset Plans. Climate 
change potentially impacts judgements and estimates made when 
preparing the Group’s financial statements. Potential impacts arise in 
three principal areas; physical risk such as extreme weather events or 
long term changes in climate patterns, transition risk as demand shifts 
between commodities and the Group’s climate ambitions as the 
financial impact of climate targets is reflected in operational decisions 
and cost structures.

The estimation of recoverable amounts for the Group’s non-current 
assets is currently the only judgement or estimate which is materially 
impacted by climate change. Further information about this estimate, 
together with additional information in other areas which may be 
impacted in the medium to long term, is provided below: 

Judgement/Estimate

Estimation of recoverable amounts

Useful economic lives of non-current assets

Net realisable value of inventory

Measurement of rehabilitation and 
decommissioning provisions

↟ Significant impact on judgement/estimate 
↥  Moderate impact on judgement/estimate
—  Limited impact on judgement/estimate

Physical 
Risk

Transition 
Risk

↥

_

_

↥

↟

↥

_

↥

Estimation of recoverable amounts
Physical risk 
The cashflow forecasts used to determine the recoverable amount of 
the Group’s assets reflect our current best-estimate of the impact of 
material physical risks. The most significant impacts generally relate to 
managing either an excess or scarcity of water resources and the 
resulting impact on production levels. Cashflow forecasts also include 
the costs (and benefits) of risk mitigation actions included in the Life of 
Asset Plan, such as water purchases and the cost of new infrastructure. 
These forecasts may be revised in future periods as the Group 
continues its programme of detailed site-specific monitoring and 
assessments. 

Transition risk 
Transition risk may impact the recoverable amount of the Group’s 
assets as forecast commodity prices are a key input in the discounted 
cashflow models which are used to calculate the recoverable amount. 
The Group’s discounted cashflow models are prepared on a fair value 
less cost of disposal basis, which requires input assumptions to be 
determined from the perspective of a market participant. While the 
Group has confirmed the strategic and financial resilience of its 
portfolio under a 1.5°C scenario as part of its Task Force on Climate-
Related Financial Disclosures (TCFD) reporting, this scenario is not 
used for financial reporting purposes as it is not representative of 
management’s best estimate of the likely assumptions that would be 
used by a market participant when valuing the Group’s assets. 

The Group has not performed a full assessment of the implications of 
any resilience scenario on asset valuations used for financial reporting 
purposes. While there is a wide range of possible transition impacts for 
each level of warming depending on the assumptions made, we 
anticipate that prices for the majority of the Group’s commodities 
would be higher than existing forecasts in the short and medium term 
under a 1.5°C scenario, driven by growing investment in infrastructure 
associated with the transition to a low carbon economy while carbon 
prices are also likely to be higher than existing forecasts.

236

Anglo American plc 
Integrated Annual Report 2023

Financial statements and other financial information
Notes to the financial statements

Significant items

7. Significant accounting matters continued

In the longer term, the more rapid decarbonisation of the steel value 
chain under a 1.5°C scenario through higher steel recycling rates and 
technological change would be expected to lead to lower benchmark 
prices for both iron ore and steelmaking coal, although we anticipate 
that for iron ore this may largely be offset by higher product premiums 
for the Group’s high quality lump and high grade pellet-feed products 
given these are particularly well-suited to less carbon intensive 
steelmaking technologies. The valuation of the Group’s steelmaking 
coal assets is less sensitive to changes in the long term price than other 
operations given the remaining asset lives.

Increased demand for battery electric vehicles in a 1.5°C scenario may 
also pose a downside risk to demand for the PGM-containing catalytic 
converters used in internal combustion engine (ICE) vehicles, although 
this is expected to be partly offset by hybrids, which require similar 
quantities of PGMs, and in the longer term, fuel cell electric vehicles. 
The recoverable amount of the Group’s PGM assets is currently 
significantly in excess of their accounting carrying values, which makes 
these carrying values less sensitive to changing valuation input 
assumptions than other assets. 

Climate ambitions and targets
The Group has announced a number of climate targets, which are 
disclosed on pages 54-57.

When preparing valuation models on a fair value less cost of disposal 
basis the Group generally assumes that any purchaser would retain 
similar climate targets and ambitions. The Group therefore includes the 
cost and commercial benefits of achieving its emissions reduction 
ambitions and targets once the Group has a high degree of 
confidence that a project is technically feasible and it is included in the 
Life of Asset Plan, which typically aligns with the related capital project 
being internally approved. This is consistent with the approach taken 
for other key assumptions such as forecasted operating costs and 
capital expenditures as outlined above. 

Some projects relating to the Group’s climate targets and ambitions 
are not included in the Life of Asset Plans, generally because it is not 
yet possible to reliably estimate the costs and benefits or technical 
feasibility has not been demonstrated. While the costs and benefits of 
such projects are not included in cashflow forecasts (other than study 
costs within the next five years), the Group includes an adjustment 
within the forecast for the cost of unabated future Scope 1 and 2 
emissions irrespective of whether each jurisdiction currently has a 
carbon tax or similar regime in place. When new emissions reduction 
projects are included in the Life of Asset Plan, the valuation impact of 
including the related project’s cost is therefore offset by the removal of 
the cost of the emissions. 

Carbon prices are used both as an input into our commodity price 
forecasts and in our forecast carbon cost for each operation. Carbon 
costs included in the valuation of each asset are based on the forecast 
carbon price per tonne/CO2e, multiplied by estimated Scope 1 and 2 
emissions for the relevant operation. Short term carbon prices are 
incorporated based on currently enacted legislation (where relevant). 
Short term carbon prices for jurisdictions without currently enacted 
legislation and long term prices for all jurisdictions are based on the 
latest internal views of what a market participant would assess, formed 
with reference to external forecasts. Separate carbon prices are used for 
each region in which the Group operates. These internal prices range 
between $20 and $95 per tonne (2023 real basis) by 2030. 

The Group has an ambition to reduce its Scope 3 emissions by 50% 
(against a 2020 baseline) by 2040. The Group has signed a number 
of agreements with steel producers to explore how the Group’s high 
quality iron ore and steelmaking coal products can facilitate the 
decarbonisation of the steel value chain. The financial cost of these 

agreements is incurred centrally and is not expected to be material to 
the Group. It is therefore not included in asset-level valuation models.

Useful economic lives of non-current assets 
Physical risk
Physical risk is not expected to have a material impact on the useful 
economic lives of the Group’s assets based on the risk assessments 
conducted to date, given the risk mitigation strategies in place. 

Transition risk 
Transition risk may impact the useful economic lives of the Group’s 
mining properties if changing commodity prices extend or reduce the 
period in which resources can be extracted from an orebody 
economically. This would in turn impact the depreciation charge. 

The depreciation charge relating to mining properties is $859 million. 
Considering the alignment of the Group’s portfolio to future-enabling 
products we believe any impact of transition risk is not likely to be 
material. 

The useful economic lives of other assets are generally shorter and 
therefore less exposed to transition risk than mining properties.

Climate ambitions and targets
Any impact is not currently expected to be material as new 
technologies will be phased in as existing equipment or other 
infrastructure naturally come to the end of their life. The introduction of 
new dual-fuelled LNG vessels into the Group’s shipping fleet has not 
significantly impacted asset lives as vessels have previously been 
leased for relatively short periods of up to two years. 

Net realisable value of inventory 
Physical risk
Any impact is not currently expected to be material.

Transition risk 
Transition risk could result in the recognition of an impairment if falling 
commodity prices mean that the net realisable value is lower than the 
production cost at which inventory balances are generally recorded. 

Notwithstanding this, the majority of the Group’s inventory is expected 
to be used within one year and is therefore less exposed to transition 
risk, which will principally impact prices in the medium and long term. 
The Group’s long term inventory balances principally relate to the Iron 
Ore and Nickel reportable segments. These commodities are future-
enabling for a more sustainable world and hence the carrying value of 
related inventory is less likely to be impacted by climate change. 

Climate ambitions and targets
Any impact is not currently expected to be material.

Measurement of rehabilitation and decommissioning provisions
Physical risk
Physical risk may impact the cost of rehabilitating the Group’s sites, for 
example higher average rainfall may impact the water management 
strategies required for the tailings storage facilities. Changing weather 
patterns may also lead to increased rates of soil erosion and reduced 
vegetation rates. Cashflow forecasts include the Group’s current best 
estimate of the impact of such changes. 

Transition risk 
Transition risk may impact the useful economic lives of the Group’s 
mines and hence the present value of rehabilitation and 
decommissioning provisions by changing the period over which the 
future costs are discounted. The Group has reviewed the sensitivity of 
its provisions to changing asset lives and concluded that this does not 
represent an area of material estimation uncertainty. 

Climate ambitions and targets
Any impact is not expected to be material.

Anglo American plc 
Integrated Annual Report 2023

Financial statements and other financial information  
Notes to the financial statements

237

Significant items

8.

Impairment and impairment reversals

Overview
The Group has recognised the following impairments as special items in the year ended 31 December 2023:

US$ million
Impairments
De Beers (Diamonds)

Barro Alto (Nickel)

Codemin (Nickel)

Kolomela (Iron Ore)

Woodsmith (Crop Nutrients)

Impairments recognised as special items

Impairment reversals
Moranbah-Grosvenor (Steelmaking Coal)

Dawson (Steelmaking Coal)

Impairment reversals recognised as special items

Net impairments recognised as special items

Before tax

Tax

Non-
controlling 
interests

2023

2022

Net

Before tax

Net

(1,601)   

(779)   

(40)   

— 

— 

12 

235 

— 

— 

— 

31 

(1,558) 

— 

— 

— 

— 

(544) 

(40) 

— 

— 

(2,420)   

247 

31 

(2,142) 

— 

— 

— 

— 

— 

— 

(313)   

(1,707)   

(2,020)   

(122) 

(1,707) 

(1,829) 

— 

— 

— 

— 

— 

— 

(2,420)   

247 

— 

— 

— 

31 

— 

— 

— 

211 

217 

428 

147 

152 

299 

(2,142) 

(1,592)   

(1,530) 

Further information 
Additional information is provided for each of the Group’s assets where an impairment or impairment reversal has been recorded. Additional 
sensitivity disclosures are also provided for CGUs or groups of CGUs containing the most significant goodwill balances and for other assets where 
the recoverable amount is considered to be a significant estimate (see note 7). 

US$ million

Allocates as:

Intangibles

Property, plant and equipment

Other

Total

Recognised before tax:

As special items

Within operating costs before special items

Total

2023 

Impairments

Impairments

2022 

Impairment 
reversals

(1,438) 

(1,044) 

(10) 

(40)   

(2,025)   

(3)   

(2,492) 

(2,068)   

(2,420) 

(2,020)   

(72) 

(48)   

(2,492) 

(2,068)   

— 

438 

— 

438 

428 

10 

438 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
238

Anglo American plc 
Integrated Annual Report 2023

Financial statements and other financial information
Notes to the financial statements

Significant items

8. Impairment and impairment reversals continued

Impairments recorded

De Beers
Overview
The recoverable amount of De Beers was assessed as at 
31 December 2023 and an impairment of $1.6 billion ($1.6 billion after 
tax and non-controlling interest) was recorded to bring the carrying 
value into line with the recoverable amount of $7.6 billion, calculated 
using a discount rate of 7.5% (2022: 7.5%). The impairment was 
allocated primarily to goodwill ($1.4 billion), which has been fully 
impaired, and property, plant and equipment ($0.2 billion).

Changes in 2023
The reduction in the recoverable amount is primarily driven by lower 
prices than previous forecasts reflecting a reduction in forecast 
consumer demand. This reflects macroeconomic uncertainty mainly in 
the US and China, as well as a strengthening of the US dollar against 
consumer country currencies which has had an adverse impact on 
demand in US dollar terms. Management has also updated its best 
estimates of the timing of differentiation between lab grown and 
natural diamonds, the impact of recycling, the latest Ore Reserves and 
Mineral Resources estimates and life of asset plans for the Group’s 
mines and, less significantly, the financial impact of revised contractual 
terms relating to De Beers’ longstanding mutually beneficial 
relationship with the Government of the Republic of Botswana (which 
are expected to be finalised during 2024).

Inputs to the valuation
The following are key inputs in the consumer demand forecast which in 
turn drives forecast prices:

– The model assumes real GDP growth, weighted by the markets in 

which we operate, of 3.3% (2022: 3.4%) over the next five years and 
starting from a lower base in 2023.

– The external foreign exchange medium term forecast against the US 
dollar in our end consumer markets is annual US dollar depreciation 
of 2.5% against the Chinese renminbi, 6.2% against the Japanese 
yen, 1.7% against the euro and 1.3% against the Indian rupee for the 
medium term compared to 2023 actual average rates.

– It is still assumed that lab grown diamonds will become clearly 
established as a product distinct from natural diamonds (as is 
increasingly clear in the market today given the significant and clear 
price and consumer offering differential). The model forecasts an 
imminent bifurcation between lab grown and natural diamond 
product offerings with only limited residual impact on the natural 
diamond market in the medium to long term.

Forecast producer currencies are also a key input to the model as the 
forecasts impact operating costs in US dollar terms. In the medium 
term, we assume the Southern African producer currencies exchange 
rates depreciate by 0.1% for the Botswana pula and 0.6% for the South 
African rand per annum against the US dollar compared to the 2023 
actual rates. Thereafter we assume purchasing power parity against 
the US dollar.

Sensitivities
The valuation remains sensitive to reasonably possible changes in the 
key inputs. Sensitivities are presented below on the basis that all other 
assumptions remain constant, although in reality changes may not 
occur independently of each other:

– A 0.5 percentage point increase or decrease in consumer countries 
GDP growth rate results in a change in the impairment charge of 
$0.6 billion.

– A 5% appreciation or depreciation of the US dollar against consumer 
countries’ currencies results in a change in the impairment charge of 
$0.3 billion.

– A 5% appreciation or depreciation of producer country currencies 

against our assumed US dollar results in a change in the impairment 
charge of $0.6 billion.

– An increased level of residual competition from lab grown diamonds 
or a 1 year delay in bifurcation of natural diamonds and lab grown 
diamonds would result in an increase in the impairment charge of 
$0.4 billion and $0.3 billion respectively.

– A 0.5% change in the discount rate would result in a change in the 

impairment charge of $0.2 billion.

Impairments of goodwill are not eligible for reversal in future periods. 
The maximum potential reversal within the next twelve months is 
therefore $0.2 billion. 

Barro Alto
The Barro Alto nickel operations had been previously impaired, of 
which $1 billion remained eligible for potential reversal at the start of 
the year. The recoverable amount of the CGU was assessed at 
30 June 2023 as changes in the long term cost profile were identified 
as an indicator of impairment. This resulted in an impairment of 
$0.4 billion. 

At 31 December 2023 the recoverable amount of the CGU was 
assessed again principally due to the short and medium term price 
outlook changes in the second half of the year, which were considered 
to be an indicator of impairment. The valuation, calculated using a 
discount rate of 8.3%, resulted in a further impairment of $0.4 billion, 
total for the year of $0.8 billion ($0.5 billion after tax), allocated to 
property, plant and equipment. The remaining carrying value of the 
CGU represents long term ore stockpiles (non-current inventory), which 
are required to be blended with future production. The net realisable 
value of these stockpiles is assessed under IAS 2 Inventories and 
currently exceeds their carrying value of $0.2 billion. 

The valuation is inherently sensitive to changes in economic and 
operational assumptions. The model prepared at 31 December 2023 
uses forecast nickel prices that fell within the analyst range throughout 
the model. The long term price from 2028 in the model fell within the 
third quartile of the analyst price range of $8.41/lb to $8.83/lb (LME 
Nickel, 2023 real basis). The model used a forecast for the average 
Brazilian real to US dollar real exchange rate which fell within the range 
of 5.0 BRL/$ to 5.3 BRL/$. 

Sensitivities were considered to assess the impact of changes in key 
assumptions, principally price and foreign exchange forecasts. If the 
future nickel prices were increased by 10% throughout the valuation 
model with all other valuation assumptions remaining the same, the 
valuation would have increased by $0.4 billion. A 10% depreciation of 
the Brazilian real compared to the valuation assumptions would have 
resulted in an increase to the valuation of $0.3 billion.

Other assets 

Minas-Rio
The Minas-Rio CGU includes the Minas-Rio iron ore mine and the 
Ferroport joint venture, which provides port services to ship the mine’s 
production. The CGU has been previously impaired, of which $5.9 
billion remained eligible for potential reversal at the start of the year. At 
31 December 2023 the recoverable amount of the CGU was assessed 
as changes to the medium and long term price outlook and revisions to 
the forecast production and capital expenditure profile indicated that 
the recoverable amount may have changed. The valuation, calculated 
using a discounted cashflow model and a discount rate of 7.8% was 
consistent with the carrying amount of $7.3 billion. 

Anglo American plc 
Integrated Annual Report 2023

Financial statements and other financial information  
Notes to the financial statements

239

Accounting judgements
Impairment testing involves a number of significant accounting 
judgements and estimates, which are set out in note 7.

CGU assessment 
As set out in note 7, the Group regularly assesses each of its cash 
generating units (CGUs) for indicators of impairment or impairment 
reversal. The Group applies judgement when allocating its assets to 
CGUs, which are defined as the smallest group of assets that generate 
cash inflows that are largely independent of the cash inflows from 
other assets or groups of assets. Where an operation is vertically 
integrated so that each activity/process feeds into the next one until 
a final product is produced, particular judgement may be required to 
determine whether there is an active market for any intermediate 
product. 

The Group’s platinum group metals mining, smelting and processing 
business is considered to be a single CGU on the basis that there is 
only an active market for the final refined product and hence none of 
the preceding stages in the production process would be capable of 
generating independent cash inflows. 

Significant items

8. Impairment and impairment reversals continued

The valuation is inherently sensitive to changes in economic and 
operational assumptions and the recoverable amount is considered to 
be a significant accounting estimate. The valuation model uses 
forecast iron ore prices that fall within the analyst range throughout the 
model. The long term price from 2028 fell within the top quartile of the 
analyst price range of $84/tonne to $100/tonne (Platts 62% CFR 
Reference basis, 2023 real basis). The model used a forecast for the 
average Brazilian real to US dollar real exchange rate which fell within 
the range of 5.0 BRL/$ to 5.3 BRL/$. 

Sensitivities were considered to assess the impact of changes in key 
assumptions, principally price and foreign exchange forecasts. If the 
future iron ore prices were increased or decreased by 10% throughout 
the valuation model with all other valuation assumptions remaining the 
same, the valuation would have changed by $2.0 billion. A 10% 
depreciation of the Brazilian real compared to the valuation 
assumptions would have resulted in an increase to the valuation of 
$0.9 billion. A 10% appreciation of the Brazilian real compared to the 
valuation assumptions would have resulted in a decrease to the 
valuation of $1.0 billion.

2022

Impairments/impairment reversals recorded 

Kolomela 
At 31 December 2022, following revisions to the forecast production 
and cost profile in the latest Life of Asset Plan, the valuation of the 
Kolomela mine was assessed and an impairment of $0.3 billion 
($0.1 billion after tax and non-controlling interest) was recorded 
against property, plant and equipment to bring the carrying value in 
line with the recoverable amount of $0.7 billion, calculated using a 
discount rate of 8.8%. 

Moranbah-Grosvenor
Improvements in the economic environment and the current market 
conditions were considered to be a trigger for impairment reversal. 
A partial impairment reversal of $0.2 billion ($0.1 billion after tax) was 
recognised against property, plant and equipment, based on 
discounted cashflows using a discount rate of 6.7%, to bring the 
carrying value to $2.4 billion. 

Dawson
Improvements in the economic environment and the current market 
conditions were considered to be a trigger for impairment reversal. 
An impairment reversal of $0.2 billion ($0.2 billion after tax) was 
recognised against property, plant and equipment, based on 
discounted cashflows using a discount rate of 6.7%, bringing the 
carrying value to $0.3 billion. 

Woodsmith
In 2022, project team proposals, endorsed by the Board at the end of 
the year, indicated there would be changes to the configuration of the 
project that would incur higher future capital expenditure and result in 
a longer construction schedule with first product expected to be 
brought to market in 2027. These items were identified as an indicator 
of impairment and the carrying value of the related assets was 
assessed as at 31 December 2022 based on discounted cashflows 
using a discount rate of 9.58%. This resulted in an impairment of 
$1.7 billion ($1.7 billion after tax) to bring the carrying value into line 
with the recoverable amount of $0.9 billion. The impairment was 
allocated primarily to property, plant and equipment.

240

Anglo American plc 
Integrated Annual Report 2023

Financial statements and other financial information
Notes to the financial statements

Significant items

9. Special items and remeasurements

Overview

US$ million
Revenue remeasurements

Impairments

Impairment reversals

Restructuring costs

Operating remeasurements

Operating special items and remeasurements

Disposals of businesses and investments

Adjustments relating to business combinations

Adjustments relating to former operations

Charges relating to BEE transactions

Non-operating special items

Financing special items and remeasurements

Tax special items and remeasurements

Total

Before tax

(4)   

Non-
controlling 
interests
3 

Tax
(2)   

(2,420)   

247 

— 

(142)   

(86)   

— 

5 

5 

31 

— 

6 

(1)   

2023

2022

Net
(3) 

Net
(14) 

(2,142) 

(1,829) 

— 

(131) 

(82) 

299 

— 

(72) 

(2,648)   

257 

36 

(2,355) 

(1,602) 

(40)   

(36)   

(24)   

— 

(100)   

(31)   

3 

10 

(1)   

— 

12 

— 

8 

— 

3 

— 

11 

— 

(29) 

(26) 

(22) 

— 

(77) 

(31) 

— 

(181)   

(2)   

(183) 

32 

(24) 

(46) 

(9) 

(47) 

15 

126 

(2,783)   

86 

48 

(2,649) 

(1,522) 

Special items
Special items are those items of financial performance that, due to their 
size and nature, the Group believes should be separately disclosed on 
the face of the income statement. The Group classifies subsequent 
adjustments to items classified as special items on initial recognition in 
subsequent periods as special items. These items, along with related 
tax and non-controlling interests, are excluded from underlying 
earnings, which is an Alternative Performance Measure (APM). For 
more information on the APMs used by the Group, including definitions, 
please refer to page 318.

– Operating special items are those that relate to the operating 
performance of the Group and principally include impairment 
charges and reversals and restructuring costs relating to significant 
reorganisation programmes.

– Non-operating special items are those that relate to changes in the 
Group’s asset portfolio. This category principally includes profits and 
losses on disposals of businesses and investments or closure of 
operations, adjustments relating to business combinations, and 
adjustments relating to former operations of the Group, such as 
changes in the measurement of deferred consideration receivable 
or provisions recognised on disposal or closure of operations in prior 
periods. This category also includes charges relating to Black 
Economic Empowerment (BEE) transactions.

– Financing special items are those that relate to financing activities 

Remeasurements
Remeasurements are items that are excluded from underlying 
earnings in order to reverse timing differences in the recognition of 
gains and losses in the income statement in relation to transactions 
that, whilst economically linked, are subject to different accounting 
measurement or recognition criteria. Remeasurements include mark-
to-market movements on derivatives that are economic hedges of 
transactions not yet recorded in the financial statements, in order to 
ensure that the overall economic impact of such transactions is 
reflected within the Group’s underlying earnings in the period in which 
they occur. When the underlying transaction is recorded in the income 
statement, the realised gains or losses are recorded in underlying 
earnings within either revenue, operating costs or net finance costs as 
appropriate. If the underlying transaction is recorded in the balance 
sheet, for example capital expenditure, the realised amount remains in 
remeasurements on settlement of the derivative.

– Revenue remeasurements, presented within revenue from other 

sources, include gains and losses on unsettled derivatives relating 
to revenue.

– Operating remeasurements include unrealised gains and losses 
on derivatives relating to operating costs or capital expenditure 
transactions. They also include the reversal through depreciation 
and amortisation of a fair value gain or loss, arising on revaluation 
of a previously held equity interest in a business combination.

and include realised gains and losses on early repayment of 
borrowings, and the unwinding of the discount on material 
provisions previously recognised as special items.

– Financing remeasurements include unrealised gains and losses on 
financial assets and liabilities that represent economic hedges, 
including accounting hedges, related to financing arrangements.

– Tax special items are those that relate to tax charges or credits 

where the associated cash outflow or inflow is anticipated to be 
significant due to its size and nature, principally including resolution 
of tax enquiries.

– Tax remeasurements include foreign exchange impacts arising in 
US dollar functional currency entities where tax calculations are 
generated based on local currency financial information and hence 
tax is susceptible to currency fluctuations.

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Anglo American plc 
Integrated Annual Report 2023

Financial statements and other financial information  
Notes to the financial statements

241

2022
The charge of $9 million relates to a modification charge under IFRS 2 
Share-based Payments following the amendment of the De Beers 
agreement with Ponahalo Investments (Pty) Ltd.

Financing special items and remeasurements
Financing special items and remeasurements comprise a net fair value 
loss of $31 million (2022: a net fair value gain of $15 million) in respect 
of fair value adjustments in relation to cross currency and interest rate 
swap derivatives and the related bonds.

Tax associated with special items and remeasurements
Tax associated with special items and remeasurements includes 
a tax remeasurement credit of $119 million (2022: credit of $72 million) 
principally arising on Brazilian deferred tax, a tax on special items and 
remeasurement credit of $267 million (2022: charge of $14 million) 
and a tax special items charge of $300 million (2022: credit of 
$56 million).

Of the total tax credit of $86 million (2022: credit of $114 million), there 
is a net current tax charge of $34 million (2022: charge of $41 million) 
and a net deferred tax credit of $120 million (2022: credit of 
$155 million).

Significant items

9. Special items and remeasurements continued

Revenue remeasurements
The loss of $4 million ($3 million after tax and non-controlling interests) 
(2022: loss of $14 million) relates to remeasurements on derivatives 
presented in revenue from other sources. For further details see note 2. 

Operating special items

Impairments 
Impairments of $2,420 million ($2,142 million after tax and non-
controlling interests) recognised for the year ended 31 December 2023 
primarily relate to impairments within De Beers: $1,601 million 
($1,558 million after tax and non-controlling interests) and Barro Alto 
(Nickel): $779 million ($544 million after tax). 

Further information on significant accounting matters relating to 
impairments is provided in note 8.

2022
Impairments of $1,829 million recognised for the year ended 
31 December 2022 comprise impairments within Woodsmith (Crop 
Nutrients) $1,707 million and Kolomela (Iron Ore): $122 million.

Impairment reversals
There were no impairment reversals recognised for the year ended 
31 December 2023. 

2022
Impairment reversals of $299 million for the year ended 
31 December 2022 relate to Steelmaking Coal.

Restructuring costs
Restructuring costs associated with an organisational change 
programme of $142 million ($131 million after tax and non-controlling 
interests) have been recognised for the year ended 
31 December 2023 (2022: nil).

Operating remeasurements
Operating remeasurements reflect a loss of $86 million ($82 million 
after tax and non-controlling interests) (2022: $72 million) which 
principally relates to a $82 million (2022: $84 million) depreciation and 
amortisation charge arising due to the fair value uplift on the Group’s 
pre-existing 45% shareholding in De Beers, which was required on 
acquisition of a controlling stake in 2012.

Non-operating special items

Disposals of businesses and investments
The $40 million loss ($29 million after tax and non-controlling interests) 
relates to the disposal of Kroondal (Platinum Group Metals). Further 
information is provided in note 34. 

2022
The $32 million profit relates to the disposal of Bokoni (Platinum Group 
Metals). 

Adjustments relating to business combinations
The $36 million loss ($26 million after tax) (2022: $24 million) related to 
adjustments in respect of business combinations in prior years.

Adjustments relating to former operations
The net loss of $24 million ($22 million after tax and non-controlling 
interests) (2022: $46 million) principally related to deferred 
consideration adjustments in respect of the Group’s interests in 
Rustenburg and Union (Platinum Group Metals). The Rustenburg 
consideration was received in full in March 2023.

Charges relating to BEE transactions
There were no charges relating to BEE transactions for the year ended 
31 December 2023.

242

Anglo American plc 
Integrated Annual Report 2023

Financial statements and other financial information
Notes to the financial statements

Capital base

We have a value-focused approach to capital allocation with clear 
prioritisation: maintain asset integrity; pay dividends to our shareholders 
while ensuring a strong balance sheet. Discretionary capital is then 
allocated based on a balanced approach.

Copper

Nickel

Platinum Group Metals

De Beers

Iron Ore

Steelmaking Coal

Manganese

Crop Nutrients

Corporate and other

Attributable ROCE %

2023 
 20 

 6 

 15 

 (3) 

 34 

 27 

 81 

n/a

n/a

 16 

2022
 16 

 24 

 86 

 11 

 28 

 85 

 138 

n/a

n/a

 30 

Value-disciplined capital allocation throughout the cycle is 
critical to protecting and enhancing our shareholders’ capital, 
given the long term and capital intensive nature of our 
business.

The Group uses attributable return on capital employed 
(ROCE) to monitor how efficiently assets are generating profit 
on invested capital for the equity shareholders of the 
Company. Attributable ROCE is an Alternative Performance 
Measure (APM). For more information on the APMs used by the 
Group, including definitions, please refer to page 318.

Attributable ROCE decreased to 16% (2022: 30%). 
Attributable underlying EBIT decreased to $5.4 billion 
(2022: $9.7 billion), reflecting the impact of lower realised 
prices for the Group’s products and inflationary cost pressures. 
Average attributable capital employed increased to 
$33.2 billion (2022: $32.0 billion(1)), primarily due to capital 
expenditure, largely at Quellaveco and Collahuasi (Copper), 
and shipping vessel lease additions and revaluations 
(Corporate and Other), partly offset by the reduction in capital 
employed following the De Beers and Nickel impairments 
recorded in 2023.

(1) Comparative figures are restated for the adoption of the amendment to IAS 12, see note 39A.

10. Capital by segment

The disclosures in this note include certain Alternative Performance Measures (APMs). For more information on the APMs used by the Group, 
including definitions, please refer to page 318.

Capital employed by segment
Capital employed is the principal measure of segment assets and liabilities reported to the Executive Leadership Team. Capital employed is 
defined as net assets excluding net debt, vessel lease contracts that are priced with reference to a freight index, the debit valuation adjustment 
attributable to derivatives hedging net debt and financial asset investments.

US$ million
Copper(1)
Nickel

Platinum Group Metals

De Beers

Iron Ore

Steelmaking Coal

Manganese

Crop Nutrients

Corporate and other

Capital employed

Reconciliation to Consolidated balance sheet:

Net debt

Variable vessel leases excluded from net debt (see note 21)

Debit valuation adjustment attributable to derivatives hedging net debt

Financial asset investments

Net assets

(1) Comparative figures are restated for the adoption of the amendment to IAS 12, see note 39A.

Capital employed

2023 
14,309 

2022

 (restated)(1)
13,661 

588 

5,175 

7,257 

9,044 

3,364 

141 

1,309 

1,240 

1,393 

4,753 

8,218 

8,488 

2,837 

210 

489 

492 

42,427 

40,541 

(10,615)   

(6,918) 

(637)   

(127) 

3 

439 

29 

428 

31,617 

33,953 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Anglo American plc 
Integrated Annual Report 2023

Financial statements and other financial information  
Notes to the financial statements

243

Capital base

10. Capital by segment continued

Non-current assets by location

US$ million
South Africa 
Botswana
Other Africa 
Brazil
Chile
Peru
Other South America 
North America 
Australia and Asia 
United Kingdom(1)
Other Europe 

Non-current assets by location 

Unallocated assets 

Total non-current assets 

(1) United Kingdom is Anglo American plc’s country of domicile.

Intangible assets,
Property, plant and equipment

Total non-current assets

2023 
10,352 
2,025 
844 
7,112 
8,253 
8,654 
— 
630 
4,357 
3,102 
99 

45,428 

2022 
10,074 
2,979 
1,084 
7,529 
7,424 
8,075 
— 
563 
3,591 
2,536 
98 

43,953 

2023 
10,986 
2,031 
848 
7,817 
8,330 
8,693 
1 
642 
4,838 
3,291 
99 

47,576 

1,641 

49,217 

2022 
10,778   
2,982   
1,088   
8,138   
7,498   
8,079   
2   
581   
4,083   
2,653   
98   

45,980   

1,491   

47,471   

Total non-current assets by location primarily comprise Intangible assets, Property, plant and equipment and Investments in associates and 
joint ventures.

11.

Intangible assets

Overview
Intangible assets comprise goodwill acquired through business combinations, brands, contracts and other non-mining assets.

US$ million
Net book value
At 1 January
Acquired through business combinations
Additions
Amortisation charge for the year
Impairments
Currency movements

At 31 December

Cost

Contracts 
and other 
intangibles 

Brands

Goodwill

Total

Brands

Contracts 
and other 
intangibles 

Goodwill

Total

2023 

2022 

517 
— 
— 
— 
(21)   
— 

496 

517 

640 
— 
191 
(76)   
(27)   
(15)   

713 

1,258 

1,671 
50 
— 
— 

(1,390)   
(61)   

270 

1,732 

2,828 
50 
191 
(76) 
(1,438) 
(76) 

1,479 

3,507 

517 
— 
— 
— 
— 
— 

517 

517 

— 

608 
— 
153 
(59)   
(40)   
(22)   

640 

1,183 

1,877 
— 
— 
— 
— 
(206)   

1,671 

1,742 

3,002 
— 
153 
(59) 
(40) 
(228) 

2,828 

3,442 

(543)   

(71)   

(614) 

Accumulated amortisation and impairment

(21)   

(545)   

(1,462)   

(2,028) 

Brands, contracts and other intangibles includes $822 million (2022: $889 million) relating to De Beers, principally comprising assets 
that were recognised at fair value on acquisition of a controlling interest in De Beers in August 2012. At 31 December 2023, $496 million 
(2022: $517 million) of intangible assets that are deemed to have indefinite useful lives relating to brands in De Beers. 

Further information
Goodwill relates to the following cash generating units (CGUs) or groups of CGUs:

US$ million
Copper Chile

Platinum Group Metals

De Beers

Other

2023 
124 

96 

— 

50 

270 

2022 
124 

103 

1,434 

10 

1,671 

Accounting judgements and estimates
Goodwill and brands are tested at least annually for impairment by assessing the recoverable amount of the related CGU or group of CGUs. 
Further information in relation to De Beers is set out in note 8. Management believes that any reasonably possible change in a key assumption, on 
which the recoverable amount of goodwill allocated to the Los Bronces - Chagres CGU (Copper Chile) and Platinum Group Metals is based, 
would not cause the carrying values to exceed their recoverable amounts. Further details about how the recoverable amounts have been 
determined are set out in notes 7 and 8. 

Accounting policy
See note 39D for the Group’s accounting policies on intangible assets.

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
244

Anglo American plc 
Integrated Annual Report 2023

Financial statements and other financial information
Notes to the financial statements

Capital base

12. Property, plant and equipment

Overview
Property, plant and equipment comprises the physical assets that make up the Group’s operations. These include acquired mineral rights, 
capitalised waste stripping and mine development costs, processing plants and infrastructure, vehicles and other equipment.

US$ million
Net book value

At 1 January 

Additions

Depreciation charge for the year

Impairments

Revaluation of shipping leases

Disposals

Reclassifications

Currency movements

At 31 December 

Cost

2023

Owned and leased assets

Mining 
properties 
– Owned

Land and 
buildings 
– Owned

Land and 
buildings 
– Right-of-
use assets

Plant and 
equipment 
– Owned

Plant and 
equipment 
– Right-of-
use assets

Capital 
works in 
progress

Total

  10,032 

1,655 

464 

  13,999 

312 

  14,663 

  41,125 

307 

(859)   

(283)   

— 

12 

(147)   

(310)   

— 

(20)   

(11)   

2,825 

4,453 

53 

258 

536 

6,162 

7,328 

(52)   

(1,437)   

(240)   

— 

(2,735) 

(11)   

(268)   

(34)   

(138)   

(1,044) 

— 

— 

— 

— 

(88)   

362 

(1)   

— 

362 

(1)   

(121) 

3,689 

— 

  (10,967)   

— 

(473)   

(51)   

(11)   

(147)   

(1)   

(283)   

(966) 

  11,529 

  25,913 

5,601 

7,052 

443 

  16,006 

934 

9,436 

  43,949 

682 

  35,130 

1,840 

  11,381 

  81,998 

Accumulated depreciation and impairment

  (14,384)   

(1,451)   

(239)    (19,124)   

(906)   

(1,945)    (38,049) 

US$ million
Net book value
At 1 January 
Additions
Depreciation charge for the year
Impairments
Impairments reversed
Revaluation of shipping leases
Disposals
Reclassifications
Currency movements

At 31 December

Cost
Accumulated depreciation and impairment

Mining 
properties 
– Owned

Land and 
buildings 
– Owned

Land and 
buildings 
– Right-of-
use assets

Plant and 
equipment 
– Owned

Plant and 
equipment 
– Right-of-
use assets

Capital 
works in 
progress

Total

2022 

Owned and leased assets

  10,119 
586 
(890)   
(106)   
181 
— 
(12)   
664 
(510)   

  10,032 

  25,896 

(15,864)   

1,776 
16 
(81)   
(82)   
24 
— 
(1)   
50 
(47)   

1,655 

2,673 
(1,018)   

454 
76 
(44)   
(32)   
— 
— 
(6)   
22 
(6)   

  13,590 
102 
(1,347)   
(142)   
197 
— 
(35)   

1,827 
(193)   

312 
194 
(195)   
— 
4 
8 
(7)   
— 
(4)   

  13,250 
5,860 
— 

  39,501 
6,834 
(2,557) 
(2,025) 
430 
8 
(84) 
— 
(982) 

(1,663)   
24 
— 
(23)   
(2,563)   
(222)   

464 

  13,999 

312 

  14,663 

  41,125 

648 
(184)   

  32,394 

(18,395)   

987 
(675)   

  16,496 

(1,833)   

  79,094 
(37,969) 

Additions include $515 million (2022: $378 million) of net interest expense incurred on borrowings which fund the construction of qualifying 
assets that have been capitalised during the year, principally for the Quellaveco copper project in Peru and the Woodsmith project in the UK. The 
Quellaveco project achieved commercial production on 1 June 2023, after which interest expense incurred on borrowings was recognised within 
finance costs in the Consolidated income statement.

Depreciation includes $2,623 million (2022: $2,401 million) of depreciation within operating profit, $68 million (2022: $69 million) of depreciation 
arising due to the fair value uplift on the pre-existing 45% shareholding in De Beers which has been included within operating remeasurements 
(see note 9), and $44 million (2022: $87 million) of pre-commercial production depreciation on assets used in capital projects which has been 
capitalised.

The impairment charge for the year relates principally to the Group’s Nickel reportable segment. A charge of $213 million relates to the De Beers 
reportable segment and was primarily recorded within the mining properties asset class. 

Disposals includes disposals of assets and businesses.

Accounting judgements and estimates
Impairment testing
Impairment testing involves a number of significant accounting judgements and estimates, which are set out in note 7.

Commercial production
The Group applies judgement in determining when a mine reaches commercial production. The Group assesses a number of factors when making 
this judgement. Typically, a mine reaches commercial production when mine assets are consistently operating at 80% of nameplate production 
capacity. The Group’s Quellaveco copper project is most affected by this judgement in the current year. The Quellaveco project achieved 
commercial production on 1 June 2023, after which borrowing costs were recognised within finance costs in the Consolidated income statement 
and assets considered ready for use were reclassified from Capital Work in Progress to appropriate asset classes and subsequently depreciated.

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Anglo American plc 
Integrated Annual Report 2023

Financial statements and other financial information  
Notes to the financial statements

245

Capital base

12. Property, plant and equipment continued

Depreciation 
Depreciation is calculated with reference to the Group’s best estimate of useful economic lives of assets. Useful economic lives of mining 
properties are generally limited to the expected life of the related orebody. The life of the orebody, in turn, is estimated on the basis of the Life of 
Asset Plan. Where an asset is not dependent on the life of a related orebody, management applies judgment in estimating the remaining useful 
economic life of the asset. Climate change may impact the useful economic lives of the Group’s mining properties if changing commodity prices 
extend or reduce the period in which resources can be extracted from an orebody economically. 

Deferred stripping
In certain mining operations, rock or soil overlying a mineral deposit, known as overburden, and other waste materials must be removed to access 
the orebody. The process of removing overburden and other mine waste materials is referred to as stripping.

The Group defers stripping costs onto the balance sheet where they are considered to improve access to ore in future periods. Where the amount 
to be capitalised cannot be specifically identified because stripping activities and production occur simultaneously, the amount to be capitalised 
is calculated based on the waste moved in excess of the life of mine average for the component. Determining the average strip ratio for the mine 
is an accounting estimate. The identification of components is an area of judgement, reflecting the design of each mine. Both accounting 
judgements and estimates are made with reference to the Life of Asset Plan. 

Accounting policy
See note 39D for the Group’s accounting policies on property, plant and equipment.

13. Capital expenditure

The disclosures in this note include certain Alternative Performance Measures (APMs). For more information on the APMs used by the Group, 
including definitions, please refer to page 318.

Capital expenditure by segment

US$ million
Copper

Nickel

Platinum Group Metals

De Beers

Iron Ore

Steelmaking Coal

Crop Nutrients

Corporate and other

Capital expenditure 

Reconciliation to Consolidated cash flow statement:

Cash flows used in derivatives related to capital expenditure

Proceeds from disposal of property, plant and equipment 

Direct funding for capital expenditure received from non-controlling interests 

Expenditure on property, plant and equipment 

2023 
1,684 

91 

1,108 

623 

909 

619 

641 

59 

2022
2,031 

79 

1,017 

593 

834 

648 

522 

14 

5,734 

5,738 

(3)   

16 

129 

5,876 

— 

7 

446 

6,191 

Direct funding for capital expenditure from non-controlling interests related to the Quellaveco project was fully drawn in April 2023. Mitsubishi has 
continued to provide direct funding for its 40% share of capital expenditure relating to the coarse particle recovery project via draw-downs 
against a committed shareholder facility which are recorded as borrowings on the Group’s Consolidated balance sheet. 

Capital expenditure by category

US$ million
Growth projects

Life-extension projects

Stay-in-business

Development and stripping

Proceeds from disposal of property, plant and equipment

2023 
1,330 

598 

2,902 

920 

2022 
1,595 

582 

2,558 

1,010 

(16)   

(7) 

5,734 

5,738 

Growth projects and life-extension projects capital expenditure includes the cash flows from derivatives related to capital expenditure and is net 
of direct funding for capital expenditure received from non-controlling interests.

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
246

Anglo American plc 
Integrated Annual Report 2023

Financial statements and other financial information
Notes to the financial statements

Capital base

14.

Investments in associates and joint ventures

Overview
Investments in associates and joint ventures represent businesses the Group does not control, but instead exercises significant influence or joint 
control. These include (within the respective businesses) the associate Jellinbah (steelmaking coal production in the Steelmaking Coal segment) 
and the joint ventures Ferroport (port operations in the Iron Ore segment) and Samancor (manganese mining in the Manganese segment). The 
Group’s other investments in associates and joint ventures arise primarily in the Platinum Group Metals segment and Crop Nutrients segment.

The disclosures in this note include certain Alternative Performance Measures (APMs). For more information on the APMs used by the Group, 
including definitions, please refer to page 318.

US$ million
At 1 January
Net income from associates and joint ventures
Dividends received
Investments in equity and capitalised loans
Impairments
Other movements
Currency movements

At 31 December

Associates
416 
248 
(203)   
4 
(10)   
2 
(1)   

Joint ventures
640 
130 
(184)   
11 
— 
(2)   
15 

456 

610 

2023 

Total
1,056 
378 
(387) 
15 
(10) 
— 
14 

1,066 

Associates
388 
452 
(398)   
6 
(3)   
3 
(32)   

Joint ventures
633 
189 
(210)   
31 
— 
(2)   
(1)   

416 

640 

2022 

Total
1,021 
641 
(608) 
37 
(3) 
1 
(33) 

1,056 

Further information
The Group’s total investments in associates and joint ventures include long term loans of $125 million (2022: $137 million), which in substance 
form part of the Group’s net investment. These loans are not repayable in the foreseeable future.

The Group’s share of the results of the associates and joint ventures is as follows:

Income statement

US$ million
Group revenue
Operating costs (before special items and remeasurements)

Associates’ and joint ventures’ underlying EBIT
Net finance costs 
Income tax expense 
Non-controlling interests 

Net income from associates and joint ventures

Balance sheet

US$ million
Non-current assets
Current assets
Current liabilities
Non-current liabilities

Net assets as at 31 December 2023

Net assets as at 31 December 2022

2023 
1,846 
(1,234)   

612 
(37)   
(196)   
(1)   

378 

Associates
179 
494 
(155)   
(62)   

Joint ventures
1,087 
416 
(214)   
(679)   

456 

416 

610 

640 

2022 
2,264 
(1,225) 

1,039 
(16) 
(379) 
(3) 

641 

Total
1,266 
910 
(369) 
(741) 

1,066 

1,056 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Anglo American plc 
Integrated Annual Report 2023

Financial statements and other financial information  
Notes to the financial statements

247

Capital base

14. Investments in associates and joint ventures continued

Further information
The Group’s share of the results of the associates and joint ventures is as follows:

US$ million
Samancor

Jellinbah

Ferroport

Other

US$ million
Samancor

Jellinbah

Ferroport

Other

US$ million
Samancor

Jellinbah

Ferroport

Other

Underlying 
EBITDA
231 

Underlying 
EBIT
145 

Share of net 
income
66 

373 

82 

31 

717 

360 

74 

33 

612 

244 

50 

18 

378 

2023 

Dividends 
received
127 

198 

55 

7 

387 

2022 

Underlying 
EBITDA
378 

Underlying 
EBIT
312 

Share of net 
income
148 

Dividends 
received
169 

Group 
revenue
670 

779 

105 

292 

1,846 

Group 
revenue
840 

1,056 

99 

269 

674 

75 

660 

69 

(2)   

(2)   

2,264 

1,125 

1,039 

454 

47 

(8)   

641 

393 

41 

5 

608 

Aggregate investment

2023 
147 

415 

290 

214 

2022 
212 

370 

280 

194 

1,066 

1,056 

Accounting judgements
Impairment 
No indicators of impairment were identified for the Group’s material investments in associates and joint ventures during 2023. The key 
assumptions used in determining the recoverable amounts are set out in note 7. 

Accounting policy
See note 39I for the Group’s accounting policy on associates and joint arrangements, which includes joint ventures.

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
248

Anglo American plc 
Integrated Annual Report 2023

Financial statements and other financial information
Notes to the financial statements

Capital base

15. Financial asset investments

Overview
Financial asset investments include three categories. Financial assets at amortised cost principally comprise loans to and deposits with third 
parties including the Group’s associates and joint ventures. Assets classified at fair value through other comprehensive income principally 
comprise investments in equities of other companies. Financial assets held at fair value through profit and loss comprise financial assets that 
do not meet the criteria to be classified under either of the other two categories.

US$ million
At 1 January

Additions

Interest receivable

Net loans (repaid)/advanced

Disposals

Impairments

Impairment reversals

Fair value and other movements

Currency movements

At 31 December

Current

Non-current

Financial 
assets at 
amortised cost
226 

At fair value 
through 
profit and loss
35 

At fair value
through other 
comprehensive 
income
167 

— 

6 

(1)   

— 

— 

— 

— 

3 

234 

17 

217 

6 

2 

39 

— 

— 

— 

(9)   

— 

73 

31 

42 

50 

— 

— 

(5)   

— 

— 

(76)   

(4)   

132 

— 

132 

2023 

Total
428 

56 

8 

38 

(5) 

— 

— 

(85) 

(1) 

439 

48 

391 

Financial 
assets at 
amortised cost
127 

At fair value 
through 
profit and loss
60 

At fair value 
through other 
comprehensive 
income
182 

2022 

Total
369 

87 

2 

84 

80 

— 

— 

(134)   

(134) 

— 

— 

50 

(11)   

167 

— 

167 

(2) 

17 

9 

(4) 

428 

38 

390 

7 

— 

(5)   

— 

— 

— 

(29)   

2 

35 

24 

11 

Accounting policy
See note 39D for the Group’s accounting policies on financial asset investments.

16. Provisions for liabilities and charges

Overview

US$ million
At 1 January
Additional provisions charged to income 

statement

Changes in discount rate
Capitalised
Unwinding of discount
Amounts applied
Unused amounts reversed
Disposals
Currency movements

At 31 December

Current
Non-current

Environmental 

restoration Decommissioning

Employee 
benefits

Onerous 
contracts

(1,761)   

(906)   

(161)   

(30)   

(246)   
38 
(42)   
(48)   
97 
7 
28 
39 

(1,888)   

(148)   
(1,740)   

(29)   
29 
(121)   
(26)   
56 
65 
15 
4 

(913)   

(30)   
(883)   

(76)   
— 
— 
(3)   
52 
7 
— 
1 

(180)   

(160)   
(20)   

(4)   
— 
— 
(2)   
4 
18 
— 
(9)   

(23)   

(23)   
— 

Restructuring

(17)   

(56)   
— 
— 
— 
17 
1 
— 
1 

(54)   

(53)   
(1)   

Other
(168)   

Total
(3,293) 

(18)   
— 
(130)   
— 
14 
24 
— 
7 

(271)   

(247)   
(24)   

(463) 
67 
(295) 
(79) 
279 
155 
43 
28 

(3,558) 

(684) 
(2,874) 

— 

2 

89 

— 

(2)   

17 

(12)   

5 

226 

14 

212 

Legal
(250)   

(34)   
— 
(2)   
— 
39 
33 
— 
(15)   

(229)   

(23)   
(206)   

Further information
Environmental restoration
The Group has an obligation to undertake restoration, rehabilitation and environmental work when environmental disturbance is caused by the 
development or ongoing production of a mining property. A provision is recognised for the present value of such costs, based on management’s 
best estimate of the legal and constructive obligations incurred. Changes in legislation could result in changes in provisions recognised. It is 
anticipated that the majority of these costs will be incurred over a period in excess of 20 years. 

Decommissioning
Provision is made for the present value of costs relating to the decommissioning of plant or other site restoration work. It is anticipated that the 
majority of these costs will be incurred over a period in excess of 20 years.

The pre-tax, real discount rates that have been used in calculating the environmental restoration and decommissioning liabilities as at 
31 December 2023, in the principal currencies in which these liabilities are denominated and with matching maturities to the timelines are 
as follows: US dollar: 1.7%–1.9% (2022: 1.7%–1.9%); South African rand: 4.9%–5.0% (2022: 4.5%–5.0%); Australian dollar: 1.5%–1.8% 
(2022: 1.5%–1.8%); Chilean peso: 2.2%–2.6% (2022: 1.7%–2.2%); and Brazilian real: 5.5%–5.9% (2022: 5.6%–6.0%). 

Movements in environmental restoration and decommissioning provisions resulted in a net charge of $219 million within operating profit 
(2022: net charge of $324 million). In addition, the Group is required to provide guarantees in several jurisdictions in respect of environmental 
restoration and decommissioning obligations. These have not resulted in the recognition of any additional liabilities.

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Anglo American plc 
Integrated Annual Report 2023

Financial statements and other financial information  
Notes to the financial statements

249

Capital base

16. Provisions for liabilities and charges continued

Decommissioning and environmental restoration provisions also includes management's best estimates of all material costs of conformance with 
Global Industry Standard for Tailing Management (GISTM). For further details see note 33. 

Employee benefits
Provision is made for statutory or contractual employee entitlements where there is significant uncertainty over the timing or amount of 
settlement. It is anticipated that these costs will be incurred when employees choose to take their benefits.

Onerous contracts
Provision is made for the present value of certain long term contracts where the unavoidable cost of meeting the Group’s obligations is expected 
to exceed the benefits to be received. 

Other
Other provisions relate to social commitments and other claims and liabilities.

Environmental rehabilitation trusts
The Group makes contributions to controlled funds that were established to meet the cost of some of its restoration and environmental 
rehabilitation liabilities in South Africa. The funds comprise the following investments, which with the exception of some cash balances, are held in 
unit trusts:

US$ million
Equity

Bonds

Cash and cash equivalents

2023 
76 

14 

18 

108 

2022 
74 

13 

20 

107 

These assets are primarily denominated in South African rand. Where not held in a unit trust, cash and cash equivalents are held in short term 
fixed deposits or earn interest at floating inter-bank rates. Bonds held in unit trusts earn interest at a weighted average fixed rate of 10.0% 
(2022: 10.0%) for an average period of eight years (2022: seven years). 

These funds are not available for the general purposes of the Group (see note 24). All income from these assets is reinvested to meet specific 
environmental obligations. These obligations are included in provisions as stated above.

Accounting judgements and estimates
Environmental restoration and decommissioning provisions
The recognition and measurement of environmental restoration and decommissioning provisions requires judgement and is based on 
assumptions and estimates, including the required closure and rehabilitation costs, the timing of future cash flows, and the discount rates applied. 
Future cash flows used to determine environmental restoration and decommissioning provisions are risk adjusted to reflect potential changes in 
relation to the key assumptions made in the mine closure plan. Discount rates applied to determine environmental restoration and 
decommissioning provisions represent a market assessment of the time value of money only i.e. a risk-free rate. These rates are calculated on a 
real basis with reference to the yield for government bonds of the appropriate currency and duration. The Group has considered reasonably 
possible changes to discount rates and if the discount rates at 31 December 2023 were decreased by 1.0% then the total environmental 
restoration and decommissioning provisions would increase by $0.5 billion. Increase in discount rates by 1.0% would decrease the total 
restoration and decommissioning provisions by $0.4 billion. 

The Group considers the impact of climate change on environmental restoration and decommissioning provisions, specifically the timing of future 
cash flows, and has concluded that it does not currently represent a key source of estimation uncertainty. Changes to legislation, including in 
relation to climate change, are factored into the provisions when the legislation becomes enacted.

Accounting policy
See note 39D for the Group’s accounting policy on environmental restoration and decommissioning obligations.

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
250

Anglo American plc 
Integrated Annual Report 2023

Financial statements and other financial information
Notes to the financial statements

Capital base

17. Deferred tax

Overview
The movement in net deferred tax liabilities during the year is as follows:

US$ million
At 1 January

Charged to the income statement

Credited to equity

Currency movements

At 31 December

2023 
(5,051)   

2022

 (restated)(1)
(4,404) 

(469)   

(852) 

13 

189 

77 

128 

(5,318)   

(5,051) 

(1)  Comparative figures are restated for the adoption of the amendment to IAS 12, see note 39A.

Further information
Where there is a right of offset of deferred tax balances within the same tax jurisdiction, IAS 12 Income Taxes requires these to be presented after 
such offset in the Consolidated balance sheet. The closing deferred tax balances before this offset are as follows:

US$ million
Deferred tax assets before offset

Tax losses

Depreciation in excess of capital allowances

Other temporary differences

Deferred tax liabilities before offset

Capital allowances in excess of depreciation

Fair value adjustments

Withholding tax

Other temporary differences

(1)  Comparative figures are restated for the adoption of the amendment to IAS 12, see note 39A.

The closing deferred tax balances after offset are as follows:

US$ million
Deferred tax assets

Deferred tax liabilities

(1)  Comparative figures are restated for the adoption of the amendment to IAS 12, see note 39A.

Other temporary differences primarily arise in relation to deferred stripping costs and functional currency differences.

The amount of deferred tax charged to the Consolidated income statement is as follows:

US$ million
Capital allowances in excess of depreciation

Fair value adjustments

Tax losses

Provisions

Other temporary differences

2023 

706 

240 

638 

2022

 (restated)(1)

875 

163 

745 

1,584 

1,783 

(4,410)   

(4,317) 

(548)   

(22)   

(1,922)   

(6,902)   

(645) 

(20) 

(1,852) 

(6,834) 

2023 

262 

(5,580)   

(5,318)   

2022

 (restated)(1)

198 

(5,249) 

(5,051) 

2023 

(252)   

67 

(92)   

(123)   

(69)   

(469)   

2022 

(712) 

1 

(404) 

45 

218 

(852) 

Deferred tax charged to the income statement includes a credit of $119 million (2022: $72 million) relating to deferred tax remeasurements, 
a deferred tax on special items and remeasurement credit of $301 million (2022: $27 million) and a deferred tax special items charge of 
$300 million (2022: credit of $56 million). 

Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that the business has forecast taxable profits against which the assets can be recovered. While 
the Group is in an overall net deferred tax liability (2022: liability) position, some deferred tax assets remain unrecognised in jurisdictions where 
no taxable profits are forecast and no right of offset against the Group's deferred tax liabilities exists.

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Anglo American plc 
Integrated Annual Report 2023

Financial statements and other financial information  
Notes to the financial statements

251

Capital base

17. Deferred tax continued

The Group has the following temporary differences for which no deferred tax assets have been recognised:

US$ million
Expiry date

Less than five years

Greater than five years

No expiry date

Tax losses 
– revenue

Tax losses 
– capital

Other 
temporary 
differences

2023

Total

Tax losses 
– revenue

Tax losses 
– capital

Other 
temporary 
differences

2022 (restated)(1)

155 

864 

9,767 

  10,786 

— 

— 

139 

898 

294 

1,762 

2,394 

2,394 

6,594 

  18,755 

7,631 

  20,811 

126 

832 

6,239 

7,197 

— 

— 

2,501 

2,501 

Total

128 

832 

2 

— 

5,509 

  14,249 

5,511 

  15,209 

(1) The 2022 comparative figures have been restated to include $1,279 million of revenue tax losses and other temporary differences.

No deferred tax has been recognised in respect of temporary differences associated with investments in subsidiaries, branches, associates and 
interests in joint ventures and joint operations where the Group is in a position to control the timing of the reversal of the temporary differences and 
it is probable that such differences will not reverse in the foreseeable future. Consistent with the Group's impairment testing, the Group uses the 
Board approved forecasts as the basis for the profits expected to arise in the foreseeable future. The aggregate amount of temporary differences 
associated with such investments in subsidiaries, branches, associates and interests in joint ventures and joint operations is represented by the 
contribution of those investments to the Group’s retained earnings and amounted to $20,969 million (2022: $20,620 million).

Accounting judgements and estimates
Recognition of deferred tax asset
In accordance with the requirements of IAS 12 Income Taxes, the Group reassesses the recognition and recoverability of deferred tax assets at 
the end of each reporting period. 

Accounting policy
See note 39G for the Group’s accounting policy on tax.

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
252

Anglo American plc 
Integrated Annual Report 2023

Financial statements and other financial information
Notes to the financial statements

Working capital

This section includes analysis of inventories, receivables and payables. 
These balances principally relate to current assets and liabilities held to 
support operating activities.

US$ million
Inventories

Trade and other receivables

Trade and other payables

18.

Inventories

2023 
7,234 

4,983 

2022 
7,407 

4,923 

(6,700)   

(7,629) 

5,517 

4,701 

Net working capital increased in 2023 led by a decrease in 
payables largely driven by the impact of lower Platinum Group 
Metals prices. Inventory and receivables remain broadly flat.

Overview
Inventories represent goods held for sale in the ordinary course of business (finished products), ore being processed into a saleable condition 
(work in progress) and spares, raw materials and consumables to be used in the production process (raw materials and consumables).

US$ million
Raw materials, consumables and other

Work in progress

Finished products

Expected to 
be used 
within one 
year
1,100 

Expected to 
be used 
after more 
than one year
8 

2,138 

3,149 

6,387 

822 

17 

847 

2023 

Total
1,108 

2,960 

3,166 

7,234 

Expected to 
be used 
within one 
year
889 

Expected to 
be used 
after more
than one year
— 

2,777 

2,932 

6,598 

798 

11 

809 

2022 

Total
889 

3,575 

2,943 

7,407 

Further information
The cost of inventories recognised as an expense and included in operating costs amounted to $15,457 million (2022: $16,983 million). The 
write-down of inventories to net realisable value (net of revaluation of provisionally priced purchases) amounted to $357 million 
(2022: $106 million).

Accounting estimates
Accounting for inventory involves the use of judgements and estimates, particularly in relation to the measurement and valuation of work in 
progress inventory within the production process. Certain estimates, including expected metal recoveries and work in progress volumes, are 
calculated by engineers using available industry, engineering and scientific data. Estimates used are periodically reassessed taking into account 
technical analysis, historical performance and physical counts. During the year, the Platinum Group Metals business updated its estimate of work 
in progress quantities following the completion of a physical count. This change in estimate reduced the carrying value of inventories by 
$89 million. 

Accounting policy
See note 39E for the Group’s accounting policy on inventories. 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Anglo American plc 
Integrated Annual Report 2023

Financial statements and other financial information  
Notes to the financial statements

253

Working capital

19. Trade and other receivables

Overview
Trade receivables are amounts due from the Group’s customers for commodities and services the Group has provided. Many of the Group’s sales 
are provisionally priced, which means that the price is finalised at a date after the sale takes place. When there is uncertainty about the final 
amount that will be received, the receivable is marked to market based on the forward price.

Trade and other receivables also includes amounts receivable for VAT and other indirect taxes, prepaid expenses and deferred consideration. 

US$ million
Trade receivables

Tax receivables

Accrued income

Prepayments

Contract assets

Other receivables

Due within
one year
2,468 

974 

182 

391 

67 

434 

4,516 

Due after
one year
43 

214 

— 

22 

— 

188 

467 

2023 

Total
2,511 

1,188 

182 

413 

67 

622 

Due within
one year
2,175 

978 

254 

530 

46 

500 

4,983 

4,483 

Due after
one year 
46 

120 

— 

41 

— 

233 

440 

2022 

Total
2,221 

1,098 

254 

571 

46 

733 

4,923 

Further information
The Group applies the simplified expected credit loss model for its trade receivables measured at amortised cost, as permitted by IFRS 9 Financial 
Instruments. The expected credit losses on trade receivables are estimated using a provision matrix by reference to past default experience, 
credit profiles and financial metrics, adjusted as appropriate for current observable data.

As part of its approach to working capital management, the Group uses debtor discounting arrangements. These arrangements are on 
a non-recourse basis and hence the related receivables are derecognised from the Consolidated balance sheet.

Of the year end trade receivables balance $82 million (2022: $76 million) were past due, stated after an associated impairment provision of 
$33 million (2022: $22 million). Given the use of payment security instruments and the nature of the related counterparties, these amounts are 
considered recoverable. The historical level of customer default is minimal and there is no current observable data to indicate a material future 
default. As a result, the credit quality of year end trade receivables is considered to be high.

Trade receivables do not incur any interest as they are principally short term in nature and therefore are measured at their nominal value (with the 
exception of receivables relating to provisionally priced sales, as set out in the revenue recognition accounting policy, see note 39C), net of 
appropriate provisions for estimated irrecoverable amounts.

20. Trade and other payables

Overview
Trade and other payables include amounts owed to suppliers, tax authorities and other parties that are typically due to be settled within 12 
months. The total also includes contract liabilities, which represents monies received from customers but for which we have not yet delivered the 
associated goods or service. These amounts are recognised as revenue when the goods are delivered or the service is provided. All revenue 
relating to performance obligations which were incomplete as at 31 December 2022 was recognised during the year. Other payables include 
deferred consideration in respect of business combinations and dividends payable to non-controlling interests. 

US$ million
Trade payables

Accruals

Contract liabilities and deferred income

Tax and social security

Other payables

2023 
2,716 

2,504 

719 

198 

563 

2022 
2,987 

2,399 

1,492 

131 

620 

6,700 

7,629 

Further information
Trade payables are non-interest bearing and are measured at their nominal value (with the exception of payables relating to provisionally priced 
commodity purchases which are marked to market using the appropriate forward price) until settled. $189 million (2022: $249 million) of trade 
and other payables are included within non-current liabilities.

Contract liabilities and deferred income include $608 million (2022: $1,358 million) for payments received in advance for metal which is expected 
to be delivered within six months and $80 million (2022: $99 million) in respect of freight and performance obligations which are expected to be 
completed within 30 to 45 days. The decrease in contract liabilities and deferred income is primarily driven by a decrease in metal prices. 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
254

Anglo American plc 
Integrated Annual Report 2023

Financial statements and other financial information
Notes to the financial statements

Net debt and financial risk management

Net debt increased from $6.9 billion to $10.6 billion during the year, which includes a 
working capital cash outflow of $1.2 billion, primarily due to a reduction in payables. 
Gearing has increased from 17% at 31 December 2022 to 25% at 31 December 2023.

US$ million

Net assets

Net debt including related derivatives (note 21)
Variable vessel leases

Total capital

Gearing

2023 

31,617

10,615
637

42,869

 25% 

2022

 (restated)(1)

33,953

6,918
127

40,998

 17% 

(1)  Comparative figures are restated for the adoption of the amendment to IAS 12, see note 39A.

Net debt is calculated as total borrowings excluding variable 
vessel lease contracts that are priced with reference to a 
freight index, less cash and cash equivalents (including 
derivatives that provide an economic hedge of net debt but 
excluding the impact of the debit valuation adjustment on 
these derivatives). Total capital is calculated as ‘Net assets’ (as 
shown in the Consolidated balance sheet) excluding net debt 
and variable vessel leases.

21. Net debt

Overview
The disclosures in this note include certain Alternative Performance Measures (APMs). For more information on the APMs used by the Group, 
including definitions, please refer to page 318.

Movement in net debt

US$ million

At 1 January 2022

Cash flow

Interest accrued on borrowings

Reclassifications

Movement in fair value

Other movements

Currency movements

At 31 December 2022

Cash flow

Interest accrued on borrowings

Reclassifications

Movement in fair value

Other movements

Currency movements

At 31 December 2023

Short term 
borrowings

Medium and 
long term 
borrowings

Total 
financing 
activity 
liabilities

Removal of 
variable 
vessel leases

Cash
and cash 
equivalents

Derivatives 
hedging
net debt

Net debt 
including 
derivatives 

(1,226)   

(11,621)   

(12,847)   

1,274 

(2,990)   

(1,716)   

74 

(86)   

9,057 

(420)   

(126)   

103 

(430)   

(940)   

8 

(130)   

(560)   

940 

886 

— 

894 

(141)   

(143)   

(284)   

47 

113 

160 

(1,408)   

(12,945)   

(14,353)   

1,538 

(1,941)   

(719)   

(847)   

14 

(329)   

25 

(75)   

847 

(293)   

(622)   

(143)   

(403)   

(794)   

— 

(279)   

(951)   

(118)   

(1,726)   

(15,172)   

(16,898)   

1 

— 

— 

138 

— 

127 

— 

— 

— 

— 

(237)   

— 

— 

(1,069)   

— 

— 

8,400 

(1,092)   

(133)   

(2,287)   

610 

12 

— 

— 

631 

— 

637 

— 

— 

— 

— 

(39)   

— 

— 

54 

— 

— 

6,074 

(428)   

(10,615) 

(3,842) 

(2,119) 

(559) 

— 

(175) 

(146) 

(77) 

(6,918) 

(2,213) 

(782) 

— 

(225) 

(320) 

(157) 

Other movements within financing activity liabilities include $576 million relating to leases entered into in the year ended 31 December 2023 
(2022: $278 million) and $362 million (2022: $8 million) relating to shipping lease revaluations, refer to note 23.

Further information
Reconciliation to the Consolidated balance sheet

US$ million
Balance sheet

Bank overdrafts

Net cash/(debt) classifications

Cash and cash equivalents

Short term borrowings

Medium and
 long term borrowings 

2023 
6,088 

(14)   

6,074 

2022 
8,412 

(12) 

8,400 

2023 
(1,740)   

14 

2022 
(1,420) 

12 

2023 
(15,172)   

2022 
(12,945) 

— 

— 

(1,726)   

(1,408) 

(15,172)   

(12,945) 

Other
Debit valuation adjustments of $3 million (2022: $29 million) reduce the valuation of derivative liabilities hedging net debt reflecting the impact 
of the Group’s own credit risk. These adjustments are excluded from the Group’s definition of net debt.

Cash and cash equivalents includes $532 million which is restricted (2022: $513 million). This primarily relates to cash which is held in joint 
operations where the timing of dividends is jointly controlled by the joint operators.

Accounting policy
See note 39F for the Group’s accounting policy on cash and debt.

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Anglo American plc 
Integrated Annual Report 2023

Financial statements and other financial information  
Notes to the financial statements

255

Net debt and financial risk management

22. Borrowings

Overview
The Group borrows mostly in the capital markets through bonds issued in the US markets and under the Euro Medium Term Note (EMTN) 
programme. The Group uses interest rate and cross currency swaps to ensure that the majority of the Group’s borrowings are exposed to floating 
rate US dollar interest rates.

As part of its routine financing activities, in March 2023, the Group issued €500 million 4.5% Senior Notes due September 2028 and €500 million 
5% Senior Notes due March 2031, and in May 2023, $900 million 5.5% Senior Notes due May 2033.

At 31 December 2022, the following bonds were retained as fixed rate exposure: $193 million 5.375% due April 2025, $99 million 5% due May 
2027, $500 million 3.95% due September 2050, and $750 million 4.75% due March 2052. During the year ended 31 December 2023, the Group 
converted the following bonds to floating rates of interest for the next ten years by entering into interest rate swaps for a notional amount totalling 
$1.25 billion: $500 million 3.95% due September 2050 and $750 million 4.75% due March 2052. All other bonds at 31 December 2023 and 
31 December 2022 were swapped to floating rate exposures.

Further information

US$ million
Secured

Bank loans and overdrafts

Leases

Unsecured

Bank loans and overdrafts

Bank sustainability linked loans

Bonds issued under EMTN programme

3.25% €750m bond due April 2023
1.625% €600m bond due September 2025
1.625% €500m bond due March 2026
4.5% €500m bond due September 2028
3.375% £300 million bond due March 2029
5% €500m bond due March 2031
4.75% €745m sustainability linked bond due 
September 2032

US bonds

3.625% $650m bond due September 2024
5.375% $193m bond due April 2025
4.875% $339m bond due May 2025
4.75% $700m bond due April 2027
5% $99m bond due May 2027(1)
4% $650m bond due September 2027
2.25% $500m bond due March 2028
4.5% $650m bond due March 2028
3.875% $500m bond due March 2029
5.625% $750m bond due April 2030
2.625% $1bn bond due September 2030
2.875% $500m bond due March 2031
5.5% $900m bond due May 2033
3.95% $500m bond due September 2050
4.75% $750m bond due March 2052

Mitsubishi facility

Interest payable and other loans

Total borrowings

Short term 
borrowings

Medium and 
long term 
borrowings

Total 
borrowings

Contractual 
repayment at 
hedge rates

Short term 
borrowings

Medium and 
long term 
borrowings

Total 
borrowings

2023

2022

Contractual 
repayment at 
hedge rates

43 

408 

451 

489 

— 

— 
— 
— 
— 
— 
— 

— 

635 
— 
— 
— 
— 
— 
— 
— 
— 
— 
— 
— 
— 
— 
— 

— 

165 

71 

1,107 

1,178 

114 

1,515 

1,629 

114 

1,515 

1,629 

503 

66

— 
637 
523 
570 
341 
578 

825 

— 
193 
326 
664 
128 
609 
448 
622 
464 
753 
811 
430 
874 
499 
749 

992 

66

— 
637 
523 
570 
341 
578 

825 

635 
193 
326 
664 
128 
609 
448 
622 
464 
753 
811 
430 
874 
499 
749 

2,381 

— 

2,381 

165 

992 

66  

— 
714 
566 
528 
395 
528 

745 

650 
193 
339 
700 
159 
650 
500 
650 
500 
750 
1,000 
500 
900 
500 
750 

2,381 

165 

1,289 

  13,994 

  15,283 

1,740 

  15,172 

  16,912 

15,821 

17,450 

38 

184 

222 

253 

— 

800 
— 
— 
— 
— 
— 

— 

— 
— 
— 
— 
— 
— 
— 
— 
— 
— 
— 
— 
— 
— 
— 

— 

145 

1,198 

1,420 

96 

676 

772 

509 

40 

— 
595 
485 
— 
306 
— 

749 

620 
192 
320 
651 
120 
595 
433 
612 
454 
748 
780 
419 
— 
490 
732 

134 

860 

994 

762 

40 

800 
595 
485 
— 
306 
— 

749 

620 
192 
320 
651 
120 
595 
433 
612 
454 
748 
780 
419 
— 
490 
732 

2,323 

— 

12,173 

12,945 

2,323 

145 

13,371 

14,365 

134 

860 

994 

762 

40 

1,033 
714 
566 
— 
395 
— 

745 

650 
193 
339 
700 
159 
650 
500 
650 
500 
750 
1,000 
500 
— 
500 
750 

2,323 

145 

14,564 

15,558 

(1)  Bond acquired as part of the acquisition of Sirius Minerals plc (Crop Nutrients). At maturity the bond will be redeemed at 160% of par value.

Accounting policy
See note 39F for the Group’s accounting policies on bank borrowings and lease liabilities.

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
256

Anglo American plc 
Integrated Annual Report 2023

Financial statements and other financial information
Notes to the financial statements

Net debt and financial risk management

23. Leases

Overview 
Leases relate principally to shipping vessels, corporate offices, employee accommodation and diamond jewellery retail outlets. Leases for 
shipping vessels typically run for 1 to 10 years and the majority are priced with reference to a freight index and the lease liability is therefore 
revalued to the spot freight rate at the end of each period. The leases for office space typically run for 5 to 25 years, employee accommodation 
up to 25 years and leases of retail stores 5 to 25 years. Some longer leases incorporate fixed increases in rentals or provide for annual uplifts 
based upon an index, typically a measure of inflation. 

Further information
Amounts recognised in the Consolidated balance sheet
Lease agreements give rise to the recognition of a right-of-use asset (see note 12) and a related liability for future lease payments (see note 22).

Lease liabilities balance and maturity analysis:

US$ million

Amount due for repayment within one year

Greater than one year, less than two years

Greater than two years, less than three years

Greater than three years, less than four years

Greater than four years, less than five years

Greater than five years

Total due for repayment after more than one year

Total

Effect of discounting

Lease liabilities

Amounts recognised in the statement of profit or loss

US$ million
Depreciation of right-of-use assets (see note 12)

Interest expense for lease liabilities (included in finance costs, see note 4)

Expense relating to short term leases less than 12 months, variable leasing costs and leases of low value 

2023 

450 

266 

176 

153 

124 

806 

1,525 

1,975 

(460)   

1,515 

2023 

292 

62 

145 

2022 

204 

121 

96 

80 

67 

579 

943 

1,147 

(287) 

860 

2022 

239 

42 

167 

Amounts recognised in the Consolidated cash flow statement
In the Consolidated cash flow statement for the year ended 31 December 2023, the total amount of cash paid in respect of leases recognised 
on the Consolidated balance sheet are split between repayments of principal of $309 million (2022: $266 million) and repayments of interest of 
$53 million (2022: $31 million), both included within cash flows from financing activities. The repayment of both principal and interest forms part 
of both the Attributable free cash flow and Sustaining attributable free cash flow Alternative Performance Measures (APMs). For more information 
on the APMs used by the Group, including definitions, please refer to page 318.

Further disclosures
In addition to the lease commitments above, the Group has lease commitments in relation to leases not yet commenced of $204 million. 

Accounting judgements
At the date of inception of a new contract or significant modification of an existing contract, the Group assesses whether the contract is, or 
contains, a lease. A contract is, or contains, a lease if the contract conveys the right to control the asset for a period of time in exchange for 
consideration. To identify lease arrangements, the Group assesses whether:

– The contract specifies the use of an identified asset or collection of assets

– The Group has the right to obtain substantially all of the economic benefits from the use of the identified asset(s)

– The Group has the right to direct the use of the asset(s).

The Group has paid particular attention to the judgement over whether the lessor has a substantive right to substitute the specified assets for 
alternatives.

– Many assets used by the Group are highly specialised in nature and are purpose-built or modified to meet the Group’s specification. 

Judgement is required to assess whether the assets can be substituted and used for other purposes without significant additional modification.

– The remote location of some of the Group’s operations presents practical difficulties to the substitution of assets. Judgement is required to 

determine whether assets in remote locations can be relocated to other locations within a reasonable timeframe and cost.

– At some locations, high levels of security restrict the movement of assets to alternative locations, limiting the ability to substitute assets.

– The Group’s health and safety standards exceed statutory requirements in some jurisdictions. This places limitations on the ability to substitute 
certain assets, such as vehicles. Judgement is required to assess whether equivalent assets meeting the Group’s requirements can be sourced 
within required operational timeframes.

Accounting policy
Accounting policies applied to lease liabilities and corresponding right-of-use assets are set out respectively in notes 39F and 39D.

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Anglo American plc 
Integrated Annual Report 2023

Financial statements and other financial information  
Notes to the financial statements

257

Net debt and financial risk management

24. Financial instruments and derivatives

Financial instruments overview
For financial assets and liabilities which are traded on an active market, such as listed investments or listed debt instruments, fair value is 
determined by reference to market value. For non-traded financial assets and liabilities, fair value is calculated using discounted cash flows, 
considered to be reasonable and consistent with those that would be used by a market participant, and based on observable market data 
where available (for example forward exchange rate, interest rate or commodity price curve), unless carrying value is considered to approximate 
fair value.

Where discounted cash flow models based on management’s assumptions are used, the resulting fair value measurements are considered to be 
at level 3 in the fair value hierarchy, as defined in IFRS 13 Fair Value Measurement, as they depend to a significant extent on unobservable 
valuation inputs.

All derivatives that have been designated into hedge relationships have been separately disclosed.

US$ million
Financial assets

Trade and other receivables

Derivative financial assets

Cash and cash equivalents

Financial asset investments
Environmental rehabilitation trusts(1)

Financial liabilities

Trade and other payables

Derivative financial liabilities

Royalty liability

Borrowings

Net financial assets/(liabilities)

US$ million
Financial assets

Trade and other receivables

Derivative financial assets

Cash and cash equivalents

Financial asset investments
Environmental rehabilitation trusts(1)

Financial liabilities

Trade and other payables

Derivative financial liabilities

Royalty liability

Borrowings

Net financial assets/(liabilities)

At fair value
through profit
and loss

Financial 
assets at 
amortised cost

At fair value 
through other 
comprehensive 
income

Designated 
into hedges

Financial 
liabilities at 
amortised cost

2,247 

241 

4,359 

73 

103 

7,023 

(668)   

(172)   

— 

— 

(840)   

6,183 

1,082 

— 

1,729 

234 

5 

3,050 

— 

— 

— 

— 

— 

— 

— 

— 

132 

— 

132 

— 

— 

— 

— 

— 

3,050 

132 

— 

115 

— 

— 

— 

115 

— 

— 

— 

— 

— 

— 

— 

(570)   

(91)   

(11,509)   

(12,170)   

(12,055)   

(5,115)   

— 

(487)   

(5,403)   

(11,005)   

(11,005)   

At fair value 
through profit 
and loss

Financial 
assets at 
amortised cost

At fair value 
through other 
comprehensive 
income

Designated 
into hedges

Financial 
liabilities at 
amortised cost

2,106 

241 

6,447 

35 

100 

8,929 

(735)   

(592)   

— 

— 

(1,327)   

7,602 

1,114 

— 

1,965 

226 

7 

3,312 

— 

— 

— 

— 

— 

— 

— 

— 

167 

— 

167 

— 

— 

— 

— 

— 

3,312 

167 

— 

12 

— 

— 

— 

12 

— 

(737)   

(80)   

(8,681)   

(9,498)   

(9,486)   

— 

— 

— 

— 

— 

— 

(5,271)   

— 

(430)   

(5,684)   

(11,385)   

(11,385)   

2023 

Total

3,329 

356 

6,088 

439 

108 

10,320 

(5,783) 
(742) 

(578) 

(16,912) 

(24,015) 

(13,695) 

2022 

Total

3,220 

253 

8,412 

428 

107 

12,420 

(6,006) 

(1,329) 

(510) 

(14,365) 

(22,210) 

(9,790) 

(1)  These funds are not available for the general purposes of the Group. All income from these assets is reinvested to meet specific environmental obligations. These obligations are included in 

provisions as per note 16.

The Group’s cash and cash equivalents at 31 December 2023 include $4,359 million (2022: $6,447 million) held in high grade money market 
funds. These funds are selected to ensure compliance with the minimum credit rating requirements and counterparty exposure limits set out in the 
Group’s Treasury policy. 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
258

Anglo American plc 
Integrated Annual Report 2023

Financial statements and other financial information
Notes to the financial statements

Net debt and financial risk management

24. Financial instruments and derivatives continued

Fair value hierarchy
An analysis of financial assets and liabilities carried at fair value is set out below:

US$ million
Financial assets

At fair value through profit and loss

Provisionally priced trade receivables 

Other receivables 

Derivatives hedging net debt 

Other derivatives 

Cash and cash equivalents

Financial asset investments
Environmental rehabilitation trusts(1)

Designated into hedges 

Derivatives hedging net debt 

At fair value through other comprehensive income 

Financial asset investments

Financial liabilities

At fair value through profit and loss

Provisionally priced trade payables

Other payables

Derivatives hedging net debt 

Other derivatives 

Debit valuation adjustment to derivative liabilities

Designated into hedges 

Derivatives hedging net debt

Royalty liability

Level 1

Level 2

Level 3

Level 1

Level 2

Level 3

— 

— 

— 

— 

4,359 

— 

— 

— 

2,113 

12 

119 

122 

— 

68 

103 

115 

— 

122 

— 

— 

— 

5 

— 

— 

2023 

Total

2,113 

134 

119 

122 

73 

103 

115 

4,359 

6,447 

— 

— 

— 

— 

— 

— 

— 

60 

1,799 

— 

49 

192 

— 

31 

100 

12 

— 

2022 

Total

1,799 

307 

49 

192 

6,447 

35 

100 

12 

— 

307 

— 

— 

— 

4 

— 

— 

46 

— 

4,405 

2,652 

86 

213 

132 

7,270 

6,507 

2,183 

107 

418 

167 

9,108 

— 

— 

— 

— 

— 

— 

— 

— 

(426)   

— 

— 

(242)   

(92)   

(82)   

3 

— 

(1)   

— 

(426) 

(242) 

(92) 

(83) 

3 

(570)   

— 

— 

(91)   

(570) 

(91) 

(1,167)   

(334)   

(1,501) 

— 

— 

— 

— 

— 

— 

— 

— 

(368)   

— 

— 

(367)   

(416)   

(205)   

29 

(737)   

— 

— 

— 

— 

— 

(80)   

(368) 

(367) 

(416) 

(205) 

29 

(737) 

(80) 

(1,697)   

(447)   

(2,144) 

Net assets carried at fair value

4,405 

1,485 

(121)   

5,769 

6,507 

486 

(29)   

6,964 

(1)  These funds are not available for the general purposes of the Group. All income from these assets is reinvested to meet specific environmental obligations. These obligations are included in 

provisions as per note 16.

Fair value hierarchy Valuation technique

Level 1

Level 2

Level 3

Valued using unadjusted quoted prices in active markets for identical financial instruments. This category includes cash and cash 
equivalents held in money market funds, listed equity shares and quoted futures.

Instruments in this category are valued using valuation techniques where all of the inputs that have a significant effect on the 
valuation are directly or indirectly based on observable market data. This category includes provisionally priced trade receivables 
and payables and over-the-counter derivatives.

Instruments in this category have been valued using a valuation technique where at least one input (which could have a significant 
effect on the instrument’s valuation) is not based on observable market data. Where inputs can be observed from market data 
without undue cost and effort, the observed input is used. Otherwise, management determines a reasonable estimate for the input. 
This category includes deferred consideration, receivables relating to disposals, unlisted equity investments and the embedded 
derivative relating to the Royalty liability.

The movements in the fair value of the level 3 financial assets and liabilities are shown as follows:

US$ million
At 1 January

Net (loss)/profit recorded in the income statement

Net (loss)/profit recorded in the statement of comprehensive income

Reclassification (from)/to level 3 financial assets/(liabilities)

Additions
Settlements and disposals

Currency movements

At 31 December

2023 
418 

(22)   

(12)   

(7)   

94 

(233)   

(25)   

213 

Assets

2022 
830 

(79) 

53 

9 

22 

(388) 

(29) 

418 

2023 
(447)   

9 

(11)   

(23)   

— 

119 

19 

Liabilities

2022 
(464) 

(73) 

(80) 

— 

— 

153 

17 

(334)   

(447) 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Anglo American plc 
Integrated Annual Report 2023

Financial statements and other financial information  
Notes to the financial statements

259

Net debt and financial risk management

24. Financial instruments and derivatives continued

Further information on financial instruments
Borrowings designated in fair value hedges represent listed debt which is held at amortised cost, adjusted for the fair value of the hedged interest 
rate risk. The fair value of these borrowings is $11,546 million (2022: $8,846 million), which is measured using quoted indicative broker prices and 
consequently categorised as level 2 in the fair value hierarchy. The carrying value of the remaining borrowings at amortised cost includes bonds 
which are not designated into hedge relationships, bank borrowings and lease liabilities. The carrying value of these bonds is $323 million 
(2022: $1,608 million) and the fair value is $330 million (2022: $1,381 million). The carrying value of the remaining borrowings at amortised cost 
are considered to approximate the fair value.

Offsetting of financial assets and liabilities
The Group offsets financial assets and liabilities and presents them on a net basis in the Consolidated balance sheet only where there is a legally 
enforceable right to offset the recognised amounts, and the Group intends to either settle the recognised amounts on a net basis or to realise the 
asset and settle the liability simultaneously.

At 31 December 2023, certain over-the-counter derivatives entered into by the Group and recognised at fair value through profit and loss are 
both subject to enforceable ISDA master netting arrangements and intended to be settled on a net basis. In accordance with the requirements 
of IAS 32 Financial Instruments: Presentation, the positions of these derivatives have been offset; those in a liability position totalling $9 million 
(2022: $7 million) were offset against those in an asset position totalling $281 million (2022: $149 million). The net asset position of $272 million 
(2022: $142 million) is presented within derivative assets (2022: within derivative assets) in the Consolidated balance sheet. 

If certain credit events (such as default) were to occur, additional derivative instruments would be settled on a net basis under ISDA agreements. 
Interest rate and cross currency interest rate swaps in an asset position totalling $243 million (2022: $78 million) would be offset against those in 
a liability position totalling $681 million (2022: $1,129 million). These instruments are presented on a gross basis in the Consolidated balance 
sheet as the Group does not have a legally enforceable right to offset the amounts in the absence of a credit event occurring.

Royalty liability
When the Group acquired the Woodsmith project, the Hancock royalty liability and related embedded derivative were recognised. The royalty 
liability and associated derivative does not form part of borrowings on the basis that obligations to make cash payments against this liability only 
arise when the Woodsmith project generates revenues, and that otherwise the Group is not currently contractually liable to make any payments 
under this arrangement (other than in the event of Anglo American Crop Nutrients Limited’s insolvency). 

Derivatives overview
The Group utilises derivative instruments to manage certain market risk exposures; however, it may choose not to designate certain derivatives as 
hedges for accounting purposes. Such derivatives are classified as ‘Held for trading’ and fair value movements are recorded in the Consolidated 
income statement.

The use of derivative instruments is subject to limits and the positions are regularly monitored and reported to senior management.

Fair value hedges
In accordance with the Group’s policy, interest rate swaps are taken out to swap the Group’s fixed rate borrowings to floating rate. These have 
been designated as fair value hedges. The carrying value of the hedged debt is adjusted at each balance sheet date to reflect the impact on 
its fair value of changes in market interest rates. At 31 December 2023, this adjustment was to decrease the carrying value of borrowings by 
$508 million (2022: $787 million decrease). Changes in the fair value of the hedged debt are offset against fair value changes in the interest rate 
swap and recognised in the Consolidated income statement as financing remeasurements. Recognised in the Consolidated income statement 
is a loss on fair value hedged items of $279 million (2022: $894 million gain), offset by a gain on fair value hedging instruments of $274 million 
(2022: $906 million loss).

Cash flow hedges
The royalty liability contains an embedded derivative as future payments are linked directly to future revenues. The Group has designated this 
embedded derivative as a cash flow hedge of future revenue from the Woodsmith project. During the year the Group recognised a loss within 
other comprehensive income of $11 million (2022: loss of $80 million) and a liability of $91 million (2022: liability of $80 million) within the royalty 
liability in respect of this derivative. 

Held for trading
The Group may choose not to designate certain derivatives as hedges. This may occur where the Group is economically hedged but IFRS 9 
Financial Instruments hedge accounting cannot be achieved or where gains and losses on both the derivative and hedged item naturally offset 
in the Consolidated income statement, as is the case for certain cross currency swaps of non-US dollar debt. A fair value gain of $149 million in 
respect of these cross currency swaps has been recognised in the Consolidated income statement (2022: loss of $1 million) and is presented 
within financing remeasurements net of foreign exchange losses on the related borrowings of $149 million (2022: gains of $30 million). Fair value 
changes on held for trading derivatives are recognised in the Consolidated income statement as remeasurements or within underlying earnings 
in accordance with the policy set out in note 9.

260

Anglo American plc 
Integrated Annual Report 2023

Financial statements and other financial information
Notes to the financial statements

Net debt and financial risk management

24. Financial instruments and derivatives continued

Further information on derivatives

Fair value of derivative positions
The fair value of the Group’s open derivative positions at 31 December (excluding normal purchase and sale contracts held off balance sheet) 
recorded within ‘Derivative financial assets’ and ‘Derivative financial liabilities’, is as follows:

US$ million
Derivatives hedging net debt

Fair value hedge

Interest rate swaps

Held for trading 

Cross currency swaps

Debit valuation adjustment to derivative liabilities

Other derivatives

Total derivatives

2023 

Current

2022 

2023 

Non-current

2022 

Asset

Liability

Asset

Liability

Asset

Liability

Asset

Liability

— 

— 

— 

— 

118 

118 

(11) 

12 

— 

115 

(559) 

— 

(737) 

— 

— 

(11) 

(83) 

(94) 

— 

— 

12 

192 

204 

(265) 

29 

(236) 

(205) 

(441) 

119 

— 

234 

4 

238 

(92) 

3 

(648) 

— 

(648) 

49 

— 

49 

— 

49 

(151) 

— 

(888) 

— 

(888) 

Other derivatives primarily relate to forward foreign currency contracts hedging capital expenditure, forward commodity contracts and other 
commodity contracts that are accounted for as ‘Held for trading’. These marked to market valuations are not predictive of the future value of 
the hedged position, nor of the future impact on the profit of the Group. The valuations represent the cost of closing all hedge contracts at 
31 December, at market prices and rates available at the time.

Interest Rate Benchmark Reform
Benchmark transition progress
The Group transitioned all remaining trades referenced to the USD LIBOR rate to incorporate alternative risk-free rates with the principal 
benchmarks used now being EURIBOR, SOFR and SONIA. The Group does not hold any material lease agreements that contain references to 
existing benchmarks and as a result there is no material impact on the lease liabilities or right-of-use assets at 31 December 2023. Further details 
of the Group’s transition is included in note 39F.

Fair value of financial instruments
Certain of the Group’s financial instruments, principally derivatives, are required to be measured on the balance sheet at fair value. Where a 
quoted market price for an identical instrument is not available, a valuation model is used to estimate the fair value based on the net present value 
of the expected cash flows under the contract. Valuation assumptions are usually based on observable market data (for example forward foreign 
exchange rate, interest rate or commodity price curves) where available.

Accounting policies
See notes 39D and 39F for the Group’s accounting policies on financial asset investments, impairment of financial assets, derivative financial 
instruments and hedge accounting.

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Anglo American plc 
Integrated Annual Report 2023

Financial statements and other financial information  
Notes to the financial statements

261

Net debt and financial risk management

25. Financial risk management

Overview
The Board approves and monitors the risk management processes, including documented treasury policies, counterparty limits and controlling 
and reporting structures. The risk management processes of the Group’s independently listed subsidiaries are in line with the Group’s own 
policies.

The types of risk exposure, the way in which such exposure is managed and quantification of the level of exposure in the Consolidated balance 
sheet at 31 December is as follows:

– Liquidity risk

– Credit risk

– Commodity price risk

– Foreign exchange risk

– Interest rate risk.

A. Liquidity risk
The Group ensures that there are sufficient committed loan facilities (including refinancing, where necessary) in order to meet short term business 
requirements, after taking into account cash flows from operations and its holding of cash and cash equivalents, as well as any Group distribution 
restrictions that exist. In addition, certain projects may be financed by means of limited recourse project finance, if appropriate.

Certain borrowing facilities within the Group are the subject of financial covenants that vary from facility to facility, but which would be considered 
normal for such facilities, such as the ratio of debt to tangible net worth. The respective borrowers were not in breach with these financial 
covenants as at 31 December 2023. 

The expected undiscounted cash flows of the Group’s financial liabilities, by remaining contractual maturity, based on conditions existing at the 
balance sheet date, are as follows:

US$ million
Net financial liabilities

Borrowings

Expected future interest payments

Derivatives hedging debt – net settled

Derivatives hedging debt – gross settled:

– gross inflows

– gross outflows

Other financial liabilities

Total

US$ million
Net financial liabilities

Borrowings

Expected future interest payments

Derivatives hedging debt – net settled

Derivatives hedging debt – gross settled:

– gross inflows

– gross outflows

Other financial liabilities

Total

Amount due for 
repayment 
within one year

Greater than
one year, less
than two
years

Greater than 
two years, less 
than three 
years

Greater than 
three years, 
less than four 
years

Greater than 
four years, less 
than five years

Greater than 
five years

2023 

Total

(1,590)   

(1,523)   

(1,166)   

(1,651)   

(1,805)   

(9,726)   

(17,461) 

(547)   

(257)   

496 

(560)   

(5,651)   

(8,109)   

(491)   

(122)   

721 

(801)   

— 

(460)   

(73)   

578 

(595)   

(11)   

(430)   

(67)   

(359)   

(45)   

(2,140)   

(4,427) 

(61)   

(625) 

20 

(22)   

(8)   

19 

(22)   

(14)   

387 

(400)   

(445)   

2,221 

(2,400) 

(6,129) 

(2,216)   

(1,727)   

(2,158)   

(2,226)   

(12,385)   

(28,821) 

Amount due for 
repayment 
within one year

Greater than
one year, less
than two
 years

Greater than 
two years, less 
than three 
years

Greater than 
three years, 
less than four 
years

Greater than 
four years, less 
than five years

Greater than 
five years

2022 

Total

(1,267)   

(459)   

(237)   

1,044 

(1,343)   

(5,963)   

(8,225)   

(773)   

(420)   

(198)   

80 

(104)   

(95)   

(1,340)   

(1,056)   

(1,568)   

(379)   

(127)   

709 

(796)   

— 

(350)   

(87)   

563 

(595)   

(15)   

(321)   

(79)   

22 

(22)   

(14)   

(9,077)   

(2,012)   

(115)   

(15,081) 

(3,941) 

(843) 

388 

(423)   

(358)   

2,806 

(3,283) 

(6,445) 

(1,510)   

(1,933)   

(1,540)   

(1,982)   

(11,597)   

(26,787) 

The table above does not include cash flows in relation to the Woodsmith royalty financing on the basis that cash flows under this arrangement 
are not contractually defined, but instead are wholly dependent upon Woodsmith revenue in future years. However, should the Woodsmith 
primary subsidiary, Anglo American Crop Nutrients Limited, enter insolvency, then it would be required to repay Hancock the principal value of 
$250 million upon its request.

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
262

Anglo American plc 
Integrated Annual Report 2023

Financial statements and other financial information
Notes to the financial statements

Net debt and financial risk management

25. Financial risk management continued

The Group had the following undrawn committed borrowing facilities at 31 December:

US$ million
Expiry date

Within one year

Greater than one year, less than two years

Greater than two years, less than three years

Greater than three years, less than four years

Greater than four years, less than five years

Greater than five years

2023 

2022 

1,383 

691 

789 

547 

3,747 

1 

414 

1,082 

5,632 

— 

587 

— 

7,158 

7,715 

In the second half of 2023, the Group refinanced its $4.7 billion revolving credit facility maturing in March 2025, to a one year $1.0 billion facility 
maturing in November 2024, and a $3.7 billion five year facility maturing in November 2028.

B. Credit risk
Credit risk is the risk that a counterparty to a financial instrument will cause a loss to the Group by failing to pay its obligation.

The Group’s principal financial assets are cash, trade and other receivables, investments and derivative financial instruments. The Group’s 
maximum exposure to credit risk primarily arises from these financial assets and is as follows:

US$ million
Cash and cash equivalents

Trade and other receivables

Financial asset investments

Derivative financial assets

Environmental rehabilitation trust

2023 
6,088 

3,329 

307 

356 

108 

2022 
8,412 

3,220 

261 

253 

107 

10,188 

12,253 

The Group limits credit risk on liquid funds and derivative financial instruments through diversification of exposures with a range of financial 
institutions. Counterparty limits are set for each financial institution with reference to credit ratings assigned by Standard & Poor’s, Moody’s and 
Fitch Ratings, shareholder equity (in the case of relationship banks) and fund size (in the case of asset managers). 

Given the diverse nature of the Group’s operations (both in relation to commodity markets and geographically), and the use of payment security 
instruments (including letters of credit from financial institutions), it does not have significant concentration of credit risk in respect of trade 
receivables, with exposure spread over a large number of customers. 

The classification of trade and other receivables excludes prepayments and tax receivables, the classification of financial asset investments 
excludes equity investments held at fair value through other comprehensive income.

C. Commodity price risk
The Group’s earnings are exposed to movements in the prices of the commodities it produces.

The Group’s policy is to sell its products at prevailing market prices and is generally not to hedge commodity price risk, although some hedging 
may be undertaken for strategic reasons. In such cases, the Group generally uses forward contracts and other derivative instruments to 
economically hedge the price risk.

Certain of the Group’s sales and purchases are provisionally priced, meaning that the selling price is determined normally 30 to 180 days after 
delivery to the customer, based on quoted market prices stipulated in the contract, and as a result are susceptible to future price movements. 
The exposure of the Group’s financial assets and liabilities to commodity price risk is as follows:

US$ million

Total net financial instruments 

(excluding derivatives)

Derivatives

Commodity price linked

Subject to 
price 
movements

Fixed price

Not linked to 
commodity 
price

2023 

Total

Commodity price linked

Subject to 
price 
movements

Fixed price

Not linked to 
commodity 
price

2022

Total

1,691 

42 

1,733 

67 

— 

67 

(15,067)   

(13,309) 

1,254 

(428)   

(386) 

(13)   

(15,495)   

(13,695) 

1,241 

203 

— 

203 

(10,171)   

(1,063)   

(11,234)   

(8,714) 

(1,076) 

(9,790) 

Commodity price linked financial instruments subject to price movements include provisionally priced trade receivables and trade payables.

Commodity price linked financial instruments at fixed price include receivables and payables for commodity sales and purchases no longer 
subject to price adjustment at the balance sheet date.

D. Foreign exchange risk
As a global business, the Group is exposed to many currencies principally as a result of non-US dollar operating costs and, to a lesser extent, from 
non-US dollar revenue.

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Anglo American plc 
Integrated Annual Report 2023

Financial statements and other financial information  
Notes to the financial statements

263

Net debt and financial risk management

25. Financial risk management continued

The South African rand, Australian dollar, Chilean peso, and Brazilian real are the most significant non-US dollar currencies influencing costs. 
A strengthening of the US dollar against the currencies to which the Group is exposed has a positive effect on the Group’s earnings. The Group’s 
policy is generally not to hedge such exposures given the correlation, over the longer term, with commodity prices and the diversified nature of the 
Group, although exceptions can be approved by a committee with delegated authority from the Executive Leadership Team.

In addition, currency exposures exist in respect of non-US dollar capital expenditure projects and non-US dollar borrowings in US dollar functional 
currency entities. The Group’s policy is to evaluate whether or not to hedge its non-US dollar capital expenditure on a case-by-case basis, taking 
into account the estimated foreign exchange exposure, liquidity of foreign exchange markets and the cost of executing a hedging strategy. 
Further detail with respect to the Group’s non-US dollar borrowings approach is included in note 22.

Net other financial liabilities (excluding net debt related balances, variable vessel leases and cash in disposal groups, but including the debit 
valuation adjustment attributable to derivatives hedging net debt) are $2,443 million. This includes net assets of $220 million denominated in 
US dollars, and net liabilities of $506 million denominated in Brazilian real, $413 million denominated in Australian dollars, $343 million 
denominated in Chilean pesos and $949 million denominated in South African rand.

E. Interest rate risk
Interest rate risk arises due to fluctuations in interest rates which impact the value of short term investments and financing activities. The Group 
is principally exposed to US and South African interest rates. 

The Group transitioned all derivative instruments referenced to USD LIBOR to alternative risk-free rates during the year. Please see note 39F for 
further details.

The Group’s policy is to borrow funds at fixed rates of interest. The Group uses interest rate derivatives to convert the majority of borrowings to 
floating rates of interest and manage its exposure to interest rate movements on its debt.

In respect of financial assets, the Group’s policy is to invest cash at floating rates of interest and to maintain cash reserves in short term 
investments (less than one year) in order to maintain liquidity.

Analysis of interest rate risk associated with net debt balances and the impact of derivatives to hedge against this risk is included within the table 
below. Net other financial liabilities (excluding net debt related balances, variable vessel leases and cash in disposal groups, but including the 
debit valuation adjustment attributable to derivatives hedging net debt) of $2,443 million (2022: $2,745 million) are primarily non-interest bearing.

The table below reflects the exposure of the Group’s net debt to currency and interest rate risk:

US$ million
US dollar
Euro
South African rand
Brazilian real
Australian dollar
Sterling
Other
Impact of interest rate derivatives

Total

Reconciliation:
Variable vessel leases

Net debt 

US$ million
US dollar
Euro
South African rand
Brazilian real
Australian dollar
Sterling
Other
Impact of interest rate derivatives

Total

Reconciliation:
Variable vessel leases

Net debt

Cash
and cash 
equivalents
5,058 
22 
280 
16 
254 
95 
349 
— 

Floating rate 
borrowings

Fixed rate 
borrowings

Derivatives 
hedging
net debt

Impact of 
currency 
derivatives

(3,049)   

— 
(240)   
— 
— 
(7)   
(3)   
(11,509)   

(9,432)   
(3,185)   
(150)   
(38)   
(43)   
(663)   
(88)   

11,509 

(428)   
— 
— 
— 
— 
— 
— 
— 

(428)   

(3,534)   
3,183 
— 
— 
— 
351 
— 
— 

6,074 

(14,808)   

(2,090)   

— 

(11,252) 

2023

Total

(11,385) 
20 
(110) 
(22) 
211 
(224) 
258 
— 

Cash
and cash 
equivalents
6,667 
29 
421 
735 
161 
84 
303 
— 

Floating rate 
borrowings

Fixed rate 
borrowings

(2,994)   

— 
(11)   
— 
— 
(6)   
(1)   
(8,682)   

(7,742)   
(2,673)   
(168)   
(18)   
(45)   
(613)   
(82)   

8,682 

Derivatives 
hedging
net debt
(1,092)   

— 
— 
— 
— 
— 
— 
— 

Impact of 
currency 
derivatives

(2,985)   
2,669 
— 
— 
— 
316 
— 
— 

8,400 

(11,694)   

(2,659)   

(1,092)   

— 

637 

(10,615) 

2022

Total
(8,146) 
25 
242 
717 
116 
(219) 
220 
— 

(7,045) 

127 

(6,918) 

Based on the net foreign currency and interest rate risk exposures detailed above, and taking into account the effects of the hedging 
arrangements in place, management considers that earnings and equity are not materially sensitive to reasonable foreign exchange or interest 
rate movements in respect of the financial instruments held as at 31 December 2023 or 2022.

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
264

Anglo American plc 
Integrated Annual Report 2023

Financial statements and other financial information
Notes to the financial statements

Equity

Equity represents the capital of the Group 
attributable to Company shareholders and non-
controlling interests, and includes share capital, 
share premium and reserves.

Total equity

$31.6 bn 

(2022: $34.0 bn)

Total equity has decreased from $34.0 billion to $31.6 billion in 
the year, driven by dividends to Company shareholders and 
non-controlling interests of $2.5 billion.

26. Called-up share capital and consolidated equity analysis

Called-up share capital

Ordinary shares of 5486/91 US cents each:
At 1 January
Shares cancelled(1)
At 31 December

Number of shares

US$ million

Number of shares

US$ million

2023 

2022 

 1,337,577,913 

734 

  1,341,651,975 

— 

— 

(4,074,062)   

 1,337,577,913 

734 

  1,337,577,913 

737 

(3) 

734 

(1)   During the year, no shares were cancelled under the buyback programme. In 2022, 4,074,062 shares were cancelled under the buyback programme.

The number and carrying value of called-up, allotted and fully paid ordinary shares as at 31 December 2023 (including the shares held by the 
Group in other structures, as outlined below) was 1,337,577,913 and $734 million (2022: 1,337,577,913 and $734 million).

At general meetings, every member who is present in person has one vote on a show of hands and, on a poll, every member who is present in 
person or by proxy has one vote for every ordinary share held.

Own shares

Own shares

Number of shares

US$ million

Number of shares

US$ million

2023 

2022 

Own shares held by subsidiaries and employee benefit trusts

Total

  125,245,665 

  125,245,665 

6,275 

  124,618,014 

6,275 

  124,618,014 

6,272 

6,272 

Included in Own shares are 112,300,129 (2022: 112,300,129) Anglo American plc shares held by Epoch Investment Holdings (RF) Proprietary 
Limited, Epoch Two Investment Holdings (RF) Proprietary Limited and Tarl Investment Holdings (RF) Proprietary Limited, which are consolidated 
by the Group by virtue of their contractual arrangements with Tenon Investment Holdings Proprietary Limited, a wholly owned subsidiary of 
Anglo American South Africa Proprietary Limited. Further details of these arrangements are provided in note 39B.

Included in the calculation of the dividend payable are 4,561,006 ($115 million) shares held in the Employee Benefit Trust in respect of forfeitable 
share awards granted to certain employees. Under the terms of these awards, the shares are beneficially owned by the respective employees, 
who are entitled to receive dividends in respect of the shares. The shares are released to the employees on vesting of the awards, and any shares 
that do not vest are returned to the Company or the Employee Benefit Trust. These shares are recognised on the Consolidated balance sheet 
within Own shares and are excluded from the calculation of basic earnings per share. They are included in the calculation of diluted earnings per 
share to the extent that the related share awards are dilutive (see note 3).

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Anglo American plc 
Integrated Annual Report 2023

Financial statements and other financial information  
Notes to the financial statements

265

Equity

26. Called-up share capital and consolidated equity analysis continued

Consolidated equity analysis
Fair value and other reserves comprise:

US$ million
At 1 January 2022

Other comprehensive income/(loss)

Equity settled share-based payment schemes

Cancellation of treasury shares

Other

At 31 December 2022

Other comprehensive loss

Equity settled share-based payment schemes

Other

At 31 December 2023

Share-based 
payment 
reserve
460 

Financial 
asset 
revaluation 
reserve
31 

— 

1 

— 

(4)   

457 

— 

25 

(3)   

479 

31 

— 

— 

(32)   

30 

(36)   

— 

4 

(2)   

Other 
reserves
160 

Total
fair value
and other
reserves
651 

(80)   

(49) 

— 

3 

19 

102 

(11)   

— 

1 

92 

1 

3 

(17) 

589 

(47) 

25 

2 

569 

Other reserves comprise a capital redemption reserve of $153 million (2022: $153 million) and other reserves.

27. Non-controlling interests

Overview
Non-controlling interests that are material to the Group relate to the following subsidiaries:

– Anglo American Sur S.A. (Anglo American Sur) is a company incorporated in Chile. Its principal operations are the Los Bronces and El Soldado 

copper mines and the Chagres smelter, which are located in Chile. Non-controlling interests hold a 49.9% (2022: 49.9%) interest in 
Anglo American Sur.

– Anglo American Quellaveco S.A. (Anglo American Quellaveco) is a company incorporated in Peru. Its principal operation is the Quellaveco 

copper mine, which is located in Peru. Non-controlling interests hold a 40.0% (2022: 40.0%) interest in Anglo American Quellaveco.

– Anglo American Platinum Limited (Anglo American Platinum) is a company incorporated in South Africa and listed on the Johannesburg Stock 
Exchange (JSE). Its principal mining operations are the Mogalakwena and Amandelbult platinum group metals mines, which are located in 
South Africa. Non-controlling interests hold an effective 20.8% (2022: 20.8%) interest in the operations of Anglo American Platinum, which 
represents the whole of the Platinum Group Metals reportable segment.

– De Beers plc (De Beers) is a company incorporated in Jersey. It is one of the world’s leading diamond companies with operations across all key 
parts of the diamond value chain. Non-controlling interests hold a 15.0% (2022: 15.0%) interest in De Beers, which represents the whole of the 
Diamonds reportable segment.

– Kumba Iron Ore Limited (Kumba Iron Ore) is a company incorporated in South Africa and listed on the JSE. Its principal mining operations are 
the Sishen and Kolomela iron ore mines, which are located in South Africa. Non-controlling interests hold an effective 46.6% (2022: 46.6%) 
interest in the operations of Kumba Iron Ore, comprising the 30.0% (2022: 30.0%) interest held by other shareholders in Kumba Iron Ore and 
the 23.7% (2022: 23.7%) of Kumba Iron Ore’s principal operating subsidiary, Sishen Iron Ore Company Proprietary Limited, that is held by 
shareholders outside the Group.

The disclosures in this note include certain Alternative Performance Measures (APMs). For more information on the APMs used by the Group, 
including definitions, please refer to page 318.

US$ million

Sur Quellaveco

Anglo 
American 

Anglo 
American 
Platinum

De 
Beers

Kumba 
Iron Ore Other

Anglo 
American 

Total

Sur Quellaveco

Anglo 
American 
Platinum

De 
Beers

Kumba 
Iron Ore Other

Total

2023 

2022 

Underlying earnings 

attributable to non-
controlling interests

(Loss)/profit attributable to 
non-controlling interests

Distributions paid to non-
controlling interests(1)

Balance sheet information:

Equity attributable to non-
controlling interests(2)

(92)   

317 

181 

  (56)    757 

2 

 1,109 

(93)   

319 

170 

  (89)    753 

1 

 1,061 

88 

88 

63 

653 

  105 

  682 

  26 

  1,617 

65 

641 

  103 

  586 

  27 

  1,510 

— 

(320)   

(149)    (46)    (420)    (43)    (978) 

(234)   

— 

(754)    (21)    (738)    (47)   (1,794) 

  1,532 

987 

  1,148 

 1,210    1,668 

  15 

 6,560 

  1,630 

988 

  1,202 

 1,378    1,434 

3 

  6,635 

(1)

Includes payments of $320 million related to share buy-backs at Quellaveco and dividend payments of $658 million. 

(2)  Comparative figures are restated for the adoption of the amendment to IAS 12, see note 39A.

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
266

Anglo American plc 
Integrated Annual Report 2023

Financial statements and other financial information
Notes to the financial statements

Equity

27. Non-controlling interests continued

Further information
Summarised financial information on a 100% basis and before inter-company eliminations for Anglo American Sur, Quellaveco, Anglo American 
Platinum, De Beers and Kumba Iron Ore is as follows:

US$ million
Non-current assets

Current assets

Current liabilities

Non-current liabilities
Net assets (restated)(1)

Revenue
(Loss)/profit for the financial year(2)
Total comprehensive (expense)/income

2023 

2022 

Anglo 
American 

Sur Quellaveco
8,831 

  5,154 

Anglo 
American 
Platinum De Beers
  6,422 
  6,249 

Kumba 
Iron Ore
  3,229 

Anglo 
American 
Sur
  4,890 

Quellaveco

(restated)(1)
8,194 

Anglo 
American 
Platinum De Beers
  8,023 
  6,125 

Kumba 
Iron Ore
  3,104 

891 

1,306 

  3,758 

  4,585 

  2,129 

  1,231 

1,188 

  5,296 

  5,147 

  1,818 

  (1,003)   

(869)    (2,531)   

(939)    (798) 

  (1,036)   

(563) 

  (3,425)   

(949)   

(915) 

  (1,968)   

(6,800)    (1,416)    (2,808)    (858) 

  (1,817)   

(6,352) 

  (1,531)   (2,489)   

(802) 

  3,074 

2,468 

  6,060 

  7,260 

  3,702 

  3,268 

2,467 

  6,465 

  9,732 

  3,205 

  2,382 

2,722 

  6,734 

  4,198 

  4,674 

  2,758 

(186)   

(195)   

798 

798 

692 

  (1,989)    1,604 

261 

  (2,328)    1,423 

177 

160 

772 

600 

162 

162 

 10,096 

  6,609 

  4,612 

  3,053 

  633 

  1,247 

  2,592 

57 

  1,034 

(193) 

  2,869 

  1,112 

  1,746 

Net cash inflow/(outflow) from operating activities

318 

1,704 

899 

(513)    1,584 

(1)  Comparative figures are restated for the adoption of the amendment to IAS 12, see note 39A.
(2)  Stated after special items and remeasurements.

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Anglo American plc 
Integrated Annual Report 2023

Financial statements and other financial information  
Notes to the financial statements

267

Employees

This section contains information about the 
Group’s employee numbers and associated costs 
as well as the post employment benefits incurred 
by the Group.

Employees(1)

58,000

(2022: 57,000)

(1)­Excluding contractors and associates’ and joint ventures’ employees and including 

a proportionate share of employees within joint operations.

28. Employee numbers and costs

Employee numbers
The average number of employees, excluding contractors and associates’ and joint ventures’ employees and including a proportionate 
share of employees within joint operations, by segment was:

Thousand

Copper

Nickel
Platinum Group Metals(1)
De Beers

Iron Ore

Steelmaking Coal

Crop Nutrients

Corporate and other

2023 

2022(1)

5 

1 

27 

9 

9 

3 

1 

3 

5 

1 

27 

9 

9 

2 

1 

3 

58 

57 

(1) Platinum Group Metals prior year number of employees was restated to exclude contractors. 

The average number of employees, excluding contractors and associates’ and joint ventures’ employees and including a proportionate share of 
employees within joint operations, by principal location of employment was:

Thousand
South Africa(1)
Other Africa

South America

North America

Australia and Asia

Europe

(1) Prior year number of employees in South Africa was restated to exclude contractors. 

Employee costs
Payroll costs in respect of the employees included in the tables above were:

US$ million
Wages and salaries

Social security costs

Post employment benefits

Share-based payments

Total payroll costs

Reconciliation:

Less: Employee costs capitalised

Less: Employee costs included within special items

Employee costs included in operating costs before special items and remeasurements

2023 

36 

4 

10 

1 

4 

3 

58 

2022(1)

36 

5 

9 

1 

3 

3 

57 

2023 
3,357 

181 

365 

193 

2022 
3,180 

193 

258 

218 

4,096 

3,849 

(160)   

(97)   

3,839 

(219) 

— 

3,630 

Post employment benefits include contributions to defined contribution pension and medical plans, current and past service costs related to 
defined benefit pension and medical plans and other benefits provided to certain employees during retirement.

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
268

Anglo American plc 
Integrated Annual Report 2023

Financial statements and other financial information
Notes to the financial statements

Employees

28. Employee numbers and costs continued

Key management
Key management personnel are those persons having authority and responsibility for planning, directing and controlling the activities of the 
Group, directly or indirectly, including any director (executive and non-executive) of the Group. Key management comprises members of the 
Board and the Executive Leadership Team.

Compensation for key management was as follows:

US$ million
Salaries and short term employee benefits

Social security costs

Termination benefits

Post employment benefits

Share-based payments

2023 
31 

10 

3 

2 

18 

64 

2022 
30 

12 

1 

2 

20 

65 

Disclosure of directors’ emoluments, pension entitlements, share options and long term incentive plan awards required by the Companies Act 
2006 and those specified for audit by Part 3 and Schedule 8 of the Large and Medium-Sized Companies and Groups (Accounts and Reports) 
(Amendment) Regulations 2013 are included in the Remuneration report.

29. Retirement benefits

Overview
The Group operates a number of defined contribution and defined benefit pension plans with the most significant plans being in South Africa and 
the United Kingdom. It also operates post employment medical plans, the majority of which are unfunded, principally in South Africa. The post 
employment medical plans provide health benefits to retired employees and certain dependants.

Defined contribution plans
The charge for the year for defined contribution pension plans (net of amounts capitalised) was $171 million (2022: $153 million) and for defined 
contribution medical plans (net of amounts capitalised) was $68 million (2022: $61 million).

Defined benefit pension plans and post employment medical plans
Characteristics of plans
The majority of the defined benefit pension plans are funded. The assets of these plans are held separately from those of the Group, in 
independently administered funds, in accordance with statutory requirements or local practice in the relevant jurisdiction. The responsibility for the 
governance of the funded retirement benefit plans, including investment and funding decisions, lies with the Trustees of each scheme. The 
unfunded liabilities are principally in relation to termination indemnity plans in Chile.

South Africa
The defined benefit pension plan in South Africa is in surplus. It is closed to new members and closed to future benefit accrual except for a small 
number of members. As the plan is in surplus no employer contributions are currently being made. The Group’s provision of anti-retroviral therapy 
to HIV positive staff does not significantly impact the post employment medical plan liability.

United Kingdom
The Group operates a number of funded pension plans in the United Kingdom. These plans are closed to new members and to the future accrual 
of benefits. The Group is committed to make payments to certain United Kingdom pension plans under deficit funding plans agreed with the 
respective Trustees.

Other
Other pension and post employment medical plans primarily comprise obligations in Chile where legislation requires employers to provide for 
a termination indemnity, entitling employees to a cash payment made on the termination of an employment contract.

Contributions
Employer contributions are made in accordance with the terms of each plan and may vary from year to year. Employer contributions made to 
funded pension plans in the year ended 31 December 2023 were $6 million (2022: $4 million). In addition, $17 million (2022: $14 million) of 
benefits were paid in relation to unfunded pension plans and $13 million (2022: $14 million) of benefits were paid in relation to post employment 
medical plans. The Group expects to contribute $32 million to its pension plans and $14 million to its post employment medical plans in 2024.

Income statement
The amounts recognised in the Consolidated income statement are as follows:

US$ million
Charged to operating costs

Net (credit)/charge to net finance costs

Total net charge to the income statement

Pension 
plans 
18 

Post 
employment 
medical plans 
1 

(2)   

16 

20 

21 

2023 

Total
19 

18 

37 

Pension
 plans 
15 

Post
employment
medical plans
2 

5 

20 

20 

22 

2022 

Total 
17 

25 

42 

Net (credit)/charge to net finance costs includes interest expense on surplus restriction of $11 million (2022: $15 million).

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Anglo American plc 
Integrated Annual Report 2023

Financial statements and other financial information  
Notes to the financial statements

269

Employees

29. Retirement benefits continued

Comprehensive income
The pre-tax amounts recognised in the Consolidated statement of comprehensive income are as follows:

US$ million
Return on plan assets, excluding interest income

Actuarial (losses)/gains on plan liabilities

Movement in surplus restriction

Remeasurement of net defined benefit obligation

Pension
plans
(32)   

(64)   

18 

(78)   

Post 
employment 
medical plans 

(2)   

9 

— 

7 

2023 

Total
(34) 

(55) 

18 

(71) 

Pension
plans
(1,576)   

1,239 

38 

(299)   

Post
employment
medical plans

(14)   

26 

— 

12 

2022 

Total
(1,590) 

1,265 

38 

(287) 

Actuarial gains on plan liabilities comprise net gains from changes in financial and demographic assumptions as well as experience on plan 
liabilities. The tax amounts arising on remeasurement of the net defined benefit obligations are disclosed in note 5.

Balance sheet
A summary of the movements in the net pension plan assets and retirement benefit obligations on the Consolidated balance sheet is as follows:

US$ million
Net (liability)/asset recognised at 1 January

Net income statement charge before special items

Remeasurement of net defined benefit obligation

Employer contributions to funded pension plans

Benefits paid to unfunded plans

Effects of curtailments/settlements

Other

Currency movements

Net liability recognised at 31 December

Amounts recognised as:

Defined benefit pension plans in surplus

Retirement benefit obligation – pension plans

Retirement benefit asset – medical plans

Retirement benefit obligation – medical plans

2023 
(56)   

(37)   

(71)   

6 

30 

2 

(32)   

32 

(126)   

339 

(285)   

66 

(246)   

(126)   

2022 
284 

(42) 

(287) 

4 

28 

— 

— 

(43) 

(56) 

381 

(243) 

73 

(267) 

(56) 

The Group, in consultation with scheme and legal advisers, has determined that once all beneficiaries of the schemes have been settled the full 
economic benefit of the surplus of each of the schemes would become payable to the relevant Group company. Therefore, defined benefit 
pension plans and post retirement medical plans assets are included in Pension asset surplus and other non-current assets on the Consolidated 
balance sheet.

Further information

Movement analysis
The changes in the fair value of plan assets are as follows:

US$ million
At 1 January

Interest income

Return on plan assets, excluding interest income

Contributions paid by employer to funded pension plans

Benefits paid

Effects of curtailments/settlements

Other

Currency movements

As at 31 December

Pension 
plans 
3,315 

Post 
employment 
medical plans 
84 

190 

(32)   

5 

(198)   

(33)   

(19)   

104 

3,332 

7 

(2)   

1 

(7)   

— 

— 

(8)   

75 

2023 

Total
3,399 

197 

(34) 

6 

(205) 

(33) 

(19) 

96 

3,407 

Pension 
plans 
5,450 

142 

Post 
employment 
medical plans 
102 

9 

2022 

Total 
5,552 

151 

(1,576)   

(14)   

(1,590) 

3 

(214)   

— 

7 

(497)   

3,315 

1 

(7)   

— 

— 

(7)   

84 

4 

(221) 

— 

7 

(504) 

3,399 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
270

Anglo American plc 
Integrated Annual Report 2023

Financial statements and other financial information
Notes to the financial statements

Employees

29. Retirement benefits continued

The changes in the present value of defined benefit obligations are as follows:

US$ million
At 1 January

Current service costs

Interest costs

Actuarial (losses)/gains

Benefits paid

Effects of curtailments/settlements

Other

Currency movements

As at 31 December

Post 
employment 
medical plans 

Post 
employment 
medical plans 

Pension 
plans 
(3,068)   

(18)   

(177)   

(64)   

215 

35 

(13)   

(93)   

(278)   

(1)   

(27)   

9 

20 

— 

— 

22 

2023 

Total
(3,346) 

(19) 

(204) 

(55) 

235 

35 

(13) 

(71) 

Pension 
plans 
(4,811)   

(15)   

(132)   

1,239 

228 

— 

(7)   

430 

(315)   

(2)   

(29)   

26 

21 

— 

— 

21 

2022 

Total 
(5,126) 

(17) 

(161) 

1,265 

249 

— 

(7) 

451 

(3,183)   

(255)   

(3,438) 

(3,068)   

(278)   

(3,346) 

The most significant actuarial loss arose from changing financial assumptions totalling $78 million (2022: $1,353 million actuarial gain).

Pension plan assets and liabilities by geography
The split of the present value of funded and unfunded obligations in defined benefit pension plans and the fair value of pension assets at 
31 December is as follows:

US$ million
Corporate bonds

Government bonds

Debt (Repurchase Agreements)

Equity

Cash

Other

Fair value of pension plan assets

Active members

Deferred members

Pensioners

Present value of funded obligations

Present value of unfunded obligations

Net surplus/(deficit) in pension plans

Surplus restriction

Recognised retirement benefit assets/(liabilities)

Non-current assets – pension asset surplus

Retirement benefit obligation – pension plans

South 
Africa
96 

326 

United 
Kingdom
1,427 

1,313 

(39)   

(452)   

77 

14 

12 

1 

448 

37 

486 

2,774 

(3)   

(1)   

— 

(629)   

(387)   

(1,832)   

(391)   

(2,461)   

— 

95 

(95)   

— 

— 

— 

(32)   

281 

— 

281 

338 

2023 

Total
1,524 

1,705 

(491) 

83 

462 

49 

3,332 

(9) 

(633) 

(2,285) 

(2,927) 

(256) 

149 

(95) 

54 

339 

Other
1 

66 

— 

5 

— 

— 

72 

(6)   

(3)   

(66)   

(75)   

(224)   

(227)   

— 

(227)   

1 

South 
Africa
115 

341 

United 
Kingdom
1,621 

1,566 

Other
1 

61 

2022 

Total
1,737 

1,968 

(27)   

(844)   

(1)   

(872) 

77 

39 

8 

1 

301 

49 

553 

2,694 

(3)   

(2)   

(407)   

(412)   

— 

141 

(109)   

32 

32 

— 

— 

(576)   

(1,792)   

(2,368)   

(25)   

301 

— 

301 

349 

6 

1 

— 

68 

(6)   

(2)   

(57)   

(65)   

(198)   

(195)   

— 

(195)   

— 

84 

341 

57 

3,315 

(9) 

(580) 

(2,256) 

(2,845) 

(223) 

247 

(109) 

138 

381 

(57)   

(228)   

(285) 

(48)   

(195)   

(243) 

Other assets principally comprise debt backed securities, annuities and property.

The fair value of assets is used to determine the funding level of the plans. The fair value of the assets of the funded plans was sufficient to cover 
114% (2022: 117%) of the benefits that had accrued to members after allowing for expected increases in future earnings and pensions. The 
present value of unfunded obligations includes $234 million (2022: $203 million) relating to active members. All material investments are quoted.

In South Africa, the asset recognised is restricted to the amount in the Employer Surplus Account. The Employer Surplus Account is the amount 
that the Group is entitled to by way of a refund, taking into consideration any contingency reserves as recommended by the funds’ actuaries.

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Anglo American plc 
Integrated Annual Report 2023

Financial statements and other financial information  
Notes to the financial statements

271

Employees

29. Retirement benefits continued

Actuarial assumptions
The principal assumptions used to determine the actuarial present value of benefit obligations and pension charges and credits are detailed 
below (shown as weighted averages):

Defined benefit pension plans

Average discount rate for plan liabilities

Average rate of inflation

Average rate of increase of pensions in payment

Post employment medical plans

Average discount rate for plan liabilities

Average rate of inflation

Expected average increase in healthcare costs

South 
Africa

United 
Kingdom

 11.4% 

 6.4% 

 6.4% 

 11.4% 

 6.4% 

 9.1% 

 4.6% 

 3.0% 

 3.3% 

n/a

n/a

n/a

2023

Other

 5.6% 

 3.0% 

 2.6% 

 11.3% 

 6.9% 

 9.4% 

South 
Africa

United 
Kingdom

 11.4% 

 6.6% 

 6.6% 

 11.4% 

 6.6% 

 8.7% 

 4.9% 

 3.1% 

 3.4% 

n/a

n/a

n/a

2022

Other

 6.1% 

 3.7% 

 3.2% 

 11.5% 

 7.1% 

 9.5% 

The weighted average duration of the South African plans is 7 years (2022: 9 years), United Kingdom plans is 13 years (2022: 13 years) and 
plans in other regions is 13 years (2022: 13 years). This represents the average period, weighted by discounted value, over which future benefit 
payments are expected to be made.

Mortality assumptions are determined based on standard mortality tables with adjustments, as appropriate, to reflect experience of conditions 
locally. In South Africa the PA90 tables are used. The main plans in the United Kingdom use CMI tables or Club Vita models with plan specific 
adjustments based on mortality investigations. The mortality tables used imply that a male or female aged 60 at the balance sheet date has the 
following future life expectancy (shown as weighted averages):

Years
South Africa

United Kingdom

Other

2023 
18.7 

27.4 

26.0 

Male

2022 
18.8 

27.8 

24.2 

2023 
23.4 

29.2 

30.2 

Female

2022 
23.4 

29.6 

28.9 

The table below summarises the expected life expectancy from the age of 60 for a male or female aged 45 at the balance sheet date. When 
viewed together with the respective life expectancy at age 60 in the table above, this indicates the anticipated improvement in life expectancy 
(shown as weighted averages):

Years
South Africa

United Kingdom

Other

2023 
18.7 

28.1 

27.8 

Male

2022 
18.8 

28.6 

25.6 

2023 
23.4 

30.3 

31.7 

Female

2022 
23.4 

30.8 

30.2 

Risk of plans
The Group has identified the main risk to its defined benefit pension schemes as being interest rate risk due to the impact on the UK discount rate 
assumption:

Risk

Description

Mitigation

Interest rate risk

An increase in longer term real and 
nominal interest rates expectations 
causes gilt yields and corporate bond 
yields to increase, which results in a 
higher discount rate being applied to 
the UK pension liabilities and so, with 
all else being held equal, the value of 
the pension scheme liabilities 
decreases.

If the pension scheme assets 
decrease by more than the decrease 
in the pension scheme liabilities 
(caused by the increase in interest 
rates) then, all else being equal, this 
will result in a worsening of the 
pension scheme funding position.

The Trustees’ investment strategies vary by plan for the UK and include investing, with the 
intention of counter-balancing the movements in the liabilities, in fully owned (fully funded) 
physical credit and gilts, and by gaining unfunded exposure to gilts (via gilt repurchase 
agreements) and other fixed income based derivatives to match the real and nominal 
interest rate sensitivity of the pension scheme liabilities.

Approximately 90-100% (depending on the scheme) of the pension scheme liabilities are 
currently hedged against movements in real and nominal interest rates.

The Trustees’ hedging strategies are typically designed to protect the respective schemes’ 
funding plans against volatility in market yields. The discount rate used to calculate any 
funding requirement for the schemes is linked to gilt yields rather than to corporate bond 
yields as required under IAS 19 Employee Benefits. Consequently the valuation of the net 
retirement benefit obligation for accounting purposes remains susceptible to movements 
in value due to the difference between corporate bond and gilt yields. In addition, since 
corporate bond yields are typically higher than gilt yields, this can result in the recognition 
of accounting surpluses in respect of schemes where cash contributions continue to be 
made to meet funding shortfalls.

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
272

Anglo American plc 
Integrated Annual Report 2023

Financial statements and other financial information
Notes to the financial statements

Employees

29. Retirement benefits continued

Sensitivity analysis
Significant actuarial assumptions for the determination of pension and medical plan liabilities are the discount rate, inflation rate and mortality. 
The sensitivity analysis below has been provided by local actuaries on an approximate basis based on changes in the assumptions occurring 
at the end of the year, assuming that all other assumptions are held constant and the effect of interrelationships is excluded. The effect on plan 
liabilities is as follows:

US$ million
Discount rate – 1% decrease

Inflation rate – pension plans – 0.5% increase

Inflation rate – medical plans – 0.5% increase

Life expectancy – increase by 1 year

South 
Africa

United 
Kingdom

(47)   

(14)   

(8)   

(20)   

(338)   

(49)   

— 

(97)   

Other

(20)   

(10)   

(3)   

(3)   

2023 

Total
(405) 

(73) 

(11) 

(120) 

Independent qualified actuaries carry out full valuations at least every three years using the projected unit credit method. The actuaries have 
updated the valuations to 31 December 2023. Assumptions are set after consultation with the qualified actuaries. While management believes 
the assumptions used are appropriate, a change in the assumptions used would impact the Group’s other comprehensive income.

Accounting judgements and estimates
Recoverability of pension asset surplus and estimation of retirement benefit obligations
The value of the Group’s obligations for defined benefit schemes and post employment medical plans is dependent on the present value of the 
amount of benefits that are expected to be paid. The most significant assumption used in the calculation of this accounting estimate is the 
discount rate. The discount rate used is based on AA rated corporate bonds of a suitable duration and currency or, where there is no deep market 
for such bonds, is based on government bonds. 

The Group does not believe that a reasonably possible change in the assumptions used to estimate retirement benefit obligations will have a 
material impact on the carrying value to the net surplus position within the next year given the hedging arrangements in place. The sensitivity of 
the gross liability value to reasonably possible changes in discount rate is presented above. 

Management apply judgement in determining how much of any surplus is recoverable considering the arrangements in place for each scheme. 

Accounting policy
See note 39H for the Group’s accounting policy on retirement benefits.

 
 
 
 
 
 
Anglo American plc 
Integrated Annual Report 2023

Financial statements and other financial information  
Notes to the financial statements

273

Employees

30. Share-based payments

Overview
During the year ended 31 December 2023 the Group had share-based payment arrangements with employees relating to shares of the 
Company. All of these Company schemes, as well as any non-cyclical awards, are equity settled either by award of ordinary shares (BSP, 
LTIP, MyShare, SIP and Non-cyclical) or award of options to acquire ordinary shares (SAYE). The awards are conditional on employment. LTIPs 
vest in accordance with the achievement of relative TSR targets and a balanced scorecard of operational and financial measures. 

The total share-based payment charge relating to Anglo American plc shares for the year is split as follows:

US$ million
BSP

LTIP

Other schemes

Share-based payment charge relating to Anglo American plc shares

2023 
123 

23 

22 

168 

2022 
99 

82 

6 

187 

In addition there are equity settled share-based payment charges of $11 million (2022: $13 million) relating to Kumba Iron Ore Limited shares 
and $13 million (2022: $14 million) relating to Anglo American Platinum Limited shares. Certain entities also operate cash settled employee 
share-based payment schemes. 

Further information
The movements in the number of shares for the more significant share-based payment arrangements are as follows:

Bonus Share Plan
Ordinary shares of 5486/91 US cents may be awarded under the terms of this scheme for no consideration.

Number of awards
Outstanding at 1 January

Conditionally awarded in year

Vested in year

Forfeited or expired in year

Outstanding at 31 December

Further information in respect of the BSP, including vesting conditions, is shown in the Remuneration report.

Long Term Incentive Plan
Ordinary shares of 5486/91 US cents may be awarded under the terms of this scheme for no consideration. 

Number of awards
Outstanding at 1 January

Conditionally awarded in year

Vested in year

Forfeited or expired in year

Outstanding at 31 December

2023 
  8,210,594 

2022 
  8,891,489 

  2,782,466 

  2,564,499 

  (4,765,627)   

(3,084,708) 

(218,488)   

(160,686) 

  6,008,945 

  8,210,594 

2023 
  10,461,665 

2022 
  12,002,419 

  3,880,609 

  2,734,704 

  (3,081,508)   

(3,465,625) 

  (3,077,814)   

(809,833) 

  8,182,952 

  10,461,665 

The early vesting of share awards is permitted at the discretion of the Company upon, inter alia, termination of employment, ill health or death. 
Further information in respect of the LTIP, including performance conditions, is shown in the Remuneration report.

Accounting policy
See note 39H for the Group’s accounting policy on share-based payments.

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
274

Anglo American plc 
Integrated Annual Report 2023

Financial statements and other financial information
Notes to the financial statements

Unrecognised items and uncertain events

This section includes disclosure of items and transactions that are not 
reflected in the Group’s results because they are uncertain or have been 
incurred after the end of the year. These disclosures are considered 
relevant to an understanding of the Group’s financial position and the 
effect of expected or possible future events.

31. Events occurring after end of year

Iron Ore resource acquisition at Minas-Rio
On 21 February 2024, the Anglo American plc Board approved the acquisition and integration of the contiguous Serra da Serpentina 
("Serpentina") high-grade iron ore resource owned by Vale SA ("Vale") into Anglo American’s Minas-Rio mine in Brazil. Vale will contribute 
Serpentina and $157.5 million in cash to acquire a 15% shareholding in Anglo American Minério De Ferro Brasil S.A, the owner of the Minas-Rio 
operation subject to normal completion adjustments. A purchase price adjustment payment will be made depending on average iron ore prices 
over a four-year period in line with an agreed formula.

Following completion of the transaction, Vale will receive its pro rata share of Minas-Rio production. Vale will also have an option to acquire an 
additional 15% shareholding in the enlarged Minas-Rio operation, for cash subject to certain licensing milestones being achieved, at fair value 
calculated at the time of exercise of the option.

Management has considered the potential impact of the transaction on the valuation of the Minas-Rio CGU (see note 8), of which the mine forms 
part, and concluded that the valuation supports the carrying value of Minas-Rio at 31 December 2023 with no impairment or impairment reversal 
required. The transaction is expected to complete in Q4 2024, subject to regulatory conditions.  

With the exception of the proposed final dividend for 2023 (see note 6), there have been no further reportable events since 31 December 2023.

32. Commitments

Overview
A commitment is a contractual obligation to make a payment in the future which is not provided for in the Consolidated balance sheet. The Group 
also has purchase obligations relating to take or pay agreements which are legally binding and enforceable.

Capital commitments (including cancellable and non-cancellable contracts) for subsidiaries and joint operations relating to the acquisition of 
property, plant and equipment are $3,055 million (2022: $4,531 million), of which 67% (2022: 55%) relates to expenditure to be incurred within 
the next year.

The Group’s outstanding commitments relating to take or pay agreements are $14,320 million (2022: $14,233 million), of which 9% (2022: 11%) 
relate to expenditure to be incurred within the next year. 

33. Contingent assets and liabilities

Overview
The assessment of risk and estimation of future outflows in respect of contingent liabilities is inherently uncertain and hence a material outflow 
may arise in future periods in relation to these matters. 

Contingent assets
Steelmaking Coal
In 2014, the Steelmaking Coal business was granted an arbitration award of $94 million (Group’s share) against MMTC Limited in respect of a 
contractual dispute. The award has since been challenged in the Indian courts, during which time interest has continued to accrue. On 17 
December 2020, the Indian Supreme Court found in favour of the Steelmaking Coal business. The award, inclusive of interest, is currently valued 
at approximately $133 million (Group’s share). The precise timing and value of receipt remains uncertain and hence no receivable has been 
recognised on the Consolidated balance sheet as at 31 December 2023.

Anglo American plc 
Integrated Annual Report 2023

Financial statements and other financial information  
Notes to the financial statements

275

Contingent liabilities
Global Industry Standard for Tailing Management (GISTM)
In 2022 the Group disclosed a contingent liability for costs of conformance with the GISTM for sites where reliable cost estimates were not 
available as technical studies and surveys were ongoing. In August 2023, the Group announced its significant progress towards conformance 
for all tailings dams in the highest priority rankings according to the GISTM. The Group continues to refine designs and all material costs of 
conformance with GISTM have been recorded within decommissioning and environmental restoration provisions.

Although the Group targets conformance with Anglo American equivalent standards for non-managed operations, there is no constructive 
obligation in respect of GISTM where the partner is not an ICMM member, unless a public commitment has been made by that partner. 

Anglo American South Africa Proprietary Limited (AASA)
In October 2020, an application was initiated against Anglo American South Africa Proprietary Limited (AASA). The application sought the 
certification of class action litigation to be brought on behalf of community members residing in the Kabwe area in Zambia in relation to alleged 
lead-related health impacts. The certification hearing was held late in January 2023.

On 15 December 2023, the High Court of South Africa issued a judgment dismissing the claimants’ application for certification and ruled that the 
applicants pay the costs incurred by AASA in responding to the application. In its judgment, the Court recognised the multiple legal and factual 
flaws in the claims made against AASA and deemed that it is not in the interests of justice for the class action to proceed.

The claimants have filed an application seeking leave to appeal against the December 2023 ruling. In light of the pending appeal lodged by the 
claimants, the outcome of this litigation is still subject to significant uncertainty, and no provision is recognised for this matter.

De Beers
Guarantees provided in respect of environmental restoration and decommissioning obligations involve judgements in terms of the outcome of 
future events. In one of the territories in which De Beers operates, conditions exist, or are proposed, with respect to backfilling pits on closure. A 
formal appeal has been lodged to remove the existing backfilling condition and no provision has been raised on the basis that it is not probable 
that this condition will be enforced. Should the appeal not be successful the estimated cost of backfilling is $217 million.

Accounting judgement
Where the existence of an asset is contingent on uncertain future events which are outside the Group’s control, the asset is only recognised once 
it becomes virtually certain that the Group will receive future economic benefits. 

A provision is recognised where it is considered probable that an outflow of resources will be required to settle a present obligation that can be 
measured reliably.

Determining the likelihood of a future event is an accounting judgement. These judgements are based on the Group’s legal views and, in some 
cases, independent advice.

276

Anglo American plc 
Integrated Annual Report 2023

Financial statements and other financial information
Notes to the financial statements

Group structure

This section includes details about the composition of the Group and 
how this is reflected in the Consolidated financial statements. It also 
includes disclosures of significant corporate transactions such as 
acquisitions and disposals.

34. Disposals

On 1 November 2023, the Platinum Group Metals business completed the disposal of its 50% interest in the Kroondal pool-and-share agreement 
(Kroondal PSA) and the Marikana pool-and-share agreement (Marikana PSA) (collectively the PSAs), to Sibanye-Stillwater Limited (Sibanye-
Stillwater), the other 50% owner of the PSAs.

The gross assets and liabilities disposed of amounted to $161 million and $51 million, respectively. Estimated deferred consideration of 
$70 million was recognised within receivables. A loss on disposal of $40 million was recognised as a non-operating special item, refer to note 9. 

Cash received of $210 million in respect of disposals principally related to the settlement of deferred consideration balances relating to the sale 
of the Rustenburg operations (Platinum Group Metals) completed in November 2016. 

2022
Cash received of $564 million in respect of disposals for year ended 31 December 2022 principally related to the settlement of deferred 
consideration balances relating to the sale of the Rustenburg operations (Platinum Group Metals) completed in November 2016, the sale of the 
Group’s remaining 8.0% shareholding in Thungela Resources Limited, the Group’s disposal of the Cerrejón associate and the sale of the Group’s 
49% interest in Bokoni mine to African Rainbow Minerals Limited (Platinum Group Metals).

Anglo American plc 
Integrated Annual Report 2023

Financial statements and other financial information  
Notes to the financial statements

277

Group structure

35. Basis of consolidation

Overview
The principal subsidiaries, joint operations, joint ventures and associates of the Group and the Group percentage of equity capital are set out 
below. All these interests are held indirectly by the Parent Company and are consolidated within these financial statements.

A complete list of the Group’s related undertakings can be found in note 36.

Location

Accounting treatment

Segment and asset
Copper

Copper Chile

Los Bronces

El Soldado

Chagres

Collahuasi

Copper Peru

Quellaveco

Nickel

Barro Alto

Platinum Group Metals(1)
Mogalakwena Mine
Amandelbult complex(2)
Twickenham Mine

Unki Mine

Platinum Refining

Modikwa Platinum Joint Operation

Mototolo
Kroondal Pooling and Sharing Agreement(3)

De Beers(4)
Debswana(5), comprising:

Jwaneng

Orapa regime

Namdeb Holdings(6), comprising:

Namdeb Diamond Corporation

Debmarine Namibia

Chile

Chile

Chile

Chile

Peru

Brazil

South Africa

South Africa
South Africa

Zimbabwe

South Africa

South Africa

South Africa

South Africa

Full consolidation

 60% 

 60% 

Full consolidation

 100% 

 100% 

Full consolidation

Full consolidation

Full consolidation

Joint operation

Full consolidation

Full consolidation
Full consolidation

Full consolidation

Full consolidation

Joint operation

Full consolidation

Joint operation

Percentage of equity owned

2023

2022

 50.1% 

 50.1% 

 50.1% 

 44% 

 50.1% 

 50.1% 

 50.1% 

 44% 

 79% 

 100% 

 100% 
 100% 

 100% 

 100% 

 50% 

 100% 

 — 

 85% 
 19.2% 

 79% 

 100% 

 100% 
 100% 

 100% 

 100% 

 50% 

 100% 

 50% 

 85% 
 19.2% 

Botswana

Joint operation

Namibia

Joint operation

 50% 

 50% 

De Beers Consolidated Mines(7), comprising:

South Africa

Full consolidation

 100% 

 100% 

Venetia

De Beers Canada, comprising:

Snap Lake

Victor

Gahcho Kué

Sales, comprising:

De Beers Global Sightholder Sales

De Beers Sightholder Sales South Africa

Auction Sales

DTC Botswana

Namibia DTC

Element Six, comprising:

Element Six Technologies

Element Six Abrasives

Brands, comprising:

Forevermark

De Beers Jewellers

See page 278 for footnotes.

Canada

Canada

Canada

Botswana

South Africa

Singapore

Botswana

Namibia

Global

Global

Global

Global

Full consolidation

Full consolidation

Joint operation

Full consolidation

Full consolidation

Full consolidation

Joint operation

Joint operation

Full consolidation

Full consolidation

Full consolidation

Full consolidation

 100% 

 100% 

 51% 

 100% 

 100% 

 100% 

 50% 

 50% 

 100% 

 60% 

 100% 

 100% 

 100% 

 100% 

 51% 

 100% 

 100% 

 100% 

 50% 

 50% 

 100% 

 60% 

 100% 

 100% 

278

Anglo American plc 
Integrated Annual Report 2023

Financial statements and other financial information
Notes to the financial statements

Group structure

35. Basis of consolidation continued

Segment and asset

Location

Accounting treatment

Iron Ore
Kumba Iron Ore
Sishen(8)
Kolomela(8)

Minas-Rio

Ferroport(9)

Steelmaking Coal

Coal Australia and Canada, comprising:

Moranbah(10)
Grosvenor(10)
Capcoal(10)
Dawson(10)
Jellinbah(11)(12)
Dalrymple Bay Coal Terminal Pty Ltd

Peace River Coal

Manganese
Samancor(11)(13)

Crop Nutrients

Woodsmith

Corporate and other

South Africa

South Africa

South Africa
Brazil

Brazil

Australia

Australia

Australia

Australia

Australia
Australia

Canada

Full consolidation

Full consolidation

Full consolidation
Full consolidation

Equity accounted joint venture

Joint operation

Joint operation 

Joint operation

Joint operation

Equity accounted associate
Equity accounted associate

Full consolidation

Percentage of equity owned

2023

2022

 69.7% 

 76.3% 

 76.3% 
 100% 

 50% 

 88% 

 88% 

 70% 

 51% 

 33.3% 
 25.3% 

 100% 

 69.7% 

 76.3% 

 76.3% 
 100% 

 50% 

 88% 

 88% 

 70% 

 51% 

 33.3% 
 25.3% 

 100% 

South Africa and Australia

Equity accounted joint venture

 40% 

 40% 

United Kingdom

Full consolidation

 100% 

 100% 

Envusa Energy Proprietary Limited

South Africa

Equity accounted joint venture

 50% 

 50% 

(1) The Group’s effective interest in Anglo American Platinum is 79.2% (2022: 79.2%), which 

excludes shares issued as part of a community empowerment deal.

(2) Amandelbult complex comprises Tumela mine and Dishaba mine.
(3) On 31 January 2022, Anglo American Platinum agreed to dispose of its 50% interest in the 

Kroondal pool-and-share agreement and Marikana pool-and-share agreement to 
Sibanye-Stillwater Limited, the other 50% owner. The remaining conditions precedent were 
waived and the disposal was effective 1 November 2023.

(4) 85% should be applied to all holdings within De Beers to determine the Group’s attributable 

share of the asset.

(5) De Beers owns 50% of equity in Debswana, but consolidates 19.2% of Debswana on a 
proportionate basis, reflecting the economic interest. The Group’s effective interest in 
Debswana is 16.3% (taking into account the Group’s 85% interest in De Beers Group).
(6) The 50% interest in Namdeb Holdings is held indirectly through De Beers. The Group’s 

effective interest in Namdeb Holdings is 42.5%.

(7) De Beers’ legal ownership of De Beers Consolidated Mines (DBCM) and its subsidiaries is 
74%. For accounting purposes De Beers consolidates 100% of DBCM as it is deemed to 
control the BEE entity, Ponahalo, which holds the remaining 26%. The Group’s effective 
interest in DBCM is 85%.

(8) Sishen  and  Kolomela  are  fully  owned  by  Sishen  Iron  Ore  Company  Proprietary  Limited 
(SIOC).  Kumba  Iron  Ore  Limited  has  a  76.3%  interest  in  SIOC  (2022:  76.3%).  Including 
shares held by Kumba Iron Ore in relation to its own employee share schemes, the Group’s 
effective interest in Kumba Iron Ore is 69.97% (2022: 69.97%). Consequently, the Group’s 
effective interest in SIOC is 53.4% (2022: 53.4%).

(9) Ferroport owns and operates the iron ore handling and shipping facilities at the port of Açu.
(10) The wholly owned subsidiary Anglo American Steelmaking Coal Holdings Limited holds the 
proportionately  consolidated  joint  operations.  These  operations  are  unincorporated  and 
jointly controlled.

(11) These entities have a 30 June year end.
(12) The Group’s effective interest in the Jellinbah operation is 23.3%.
(13) Samancor  is  comprised  of  investments  in  Groote  Eylandt  Mining  Company  Proprietary 
Limited,  Samancor  Marketing  Pte.  Limited  and  Samancor  Holdings  Proprietary  Limited. 
Samancor  Holdings  Proprietary  Limited  is  the  parent  company  of  Hotazel  Manganese 
Mines Proprietary Limited (HMM) and the Metalloys Smelter. BEE shareholders hold a 26% 
interest in HMM and therefore, the Group’s effective ownership interest in HMM is 29.6%.

Accounting judgements
Joint arrangements
Joint arrangements are classified as joint operations or joint ventures according to the rights and obligations of the parties, as described in note 
39I. Judgement is required in determining this classification through an evaluation of the facts and circumstances arising from each individual 
arrangement. When a joint arrangement has been structured through a separate vehicle, consideration has been given to the legal form of the 
separate vehicle, the terms of the contractual arrangement and, when relevant, other facts and circumstances. When the activities of an 
arrangement are primarily designed for the provision of output to the parties and, the parties are substantially the only source of cash flows 
contributing to the continuity of the operations of the arrangement, this indicates that the parties to the arrangement have rights to the assets and 
obligations for the liabilities. Certain joint arrangements that are structured through separate vehicles including Collahuasi, Debswana and 
Namdeb Holdings are accounted for as joint operations. These arrangements are primarily designed for the provision of output to the parties 
sharing joint control, indicating that the parties have rights to substantially all the economic benefits of the assets. The liabilities of the 
arrangements are in substance satisfied by cash flows received from the parties; this dependence indicates that the parties effectively have 
obligations for the liabilities. It is primarily these facts and circumstances that give rise to the classification as joint operations.

Functional Currency 
The Group presents its financial statements in US dollars, the currency in which its business is primarily conducted. The functional currency for 
each subsidiary, joint operation, joint venture and associate is the currency of the primary economic environment in which it operates. The Group 
applies judgement in determining the functional currency of its operations, particularly where businesses primarily incur costs in local currencies 
and earn revenue in US dollars. Where the functional currency is unclear from analysis of the revenue and costs, particular attention is paid to the 
currency in which financing activities are conducted. The determination of functional currency affects the measurement of non-current assets 
such as property, plant and equipment and intangible assets and therefore the depreciation and amortisation charge for those assets. It also 
impacts the presentation of exchange gains and losses included in the income statement and in equity.

Anglo American plc 
Integrated Annual Report 2023

Financial statements and other financial information  
Notes to the financial statements

279

Group structure

36. Related undertakings of the Group

The Group consists of the Parent Company, Anglo American plc, incorporated in the United Kingdom and its subsidiaries, joint operations, joint 
ventures and associates. In accordance with Section 409 of the Companies Act 2006 a full list of related undertakings, the country of 
incorporation and the effective percentage of equity owned as at 31 December 2023 is disclosed below. Unless otherwise disclosed all entities 
with an indirect equity holding of greater than 50% are considered subsidiary undertakings. See note 35 for the Group’s principal subsidiaries, 
joint operations, joint ventures and associates.

As disclosed in the Group’s published tax strategy, the Group does not use tax haven jurisdictions to manage taxes. There remain a small 
number of undertakings in the Group which are registered in tax haven jurisdictions and have remained so for other business purposes. The 
Group is well advanced in our strategy to remove legacy undertakings from tax haven jurisdictions, and, where possible, these entities are 
resident for tax purposes in the United Kingdom regardless of where they are registered. Where the tax residency of a related undertaking is 
different from its country of incorporation, this is referenced in the notes to the list below.

Country of 
incorporation(1)(2)

Name of undertaking

See page 293 for footnotes.

Percentage
of equity
owned(3)

Share class

Registered address

Angola

 Anglo American Discovery (Moxico) - 

100%

Quota

Rua Rainha Ginga, no. 87 - 9th floor, Urban District of 

Prospeccao E Exploracao Mineira (SU), 
LDA

Ingombota, Luanda

Angola

Anglo American Discovery (Cunene) - 

100%

Quota

Rua Rainha Ginga, no. 87 - 9th floor, Urban District of 

Prospeccao E Exploracao Mineira (SU), 
LDA

Ingombota, Luanda

Angola

De Beers Angola Holdings SARL

85%

Quota

Rua Rainha Ginga, no. 87 - 9th floor, Urban District of 

Ingombota, Luanda

Angola

De Beers Angola Lunda Norte, Limitada

77%

Quota

Rua Rainha Ginga, no. 87 - 9th floor, Urban District of 

Ingombota, Luanda

Angola

De Beers Angola Lunda Sul, Limitada

77%

Quota

Rua Rainha Ginga, no. 87 - 9th floor, Urban District of 

Argentina

Minera Anglo American Argentina S.A.U

100%

Ingombota, Luanda

Esteban Echeverría 1776, Piso 2, Godoy Cruz, Mendoza

Ordinary
Nominative
Non-Endorsable

Australia

Australia

Australia

Australia

Anglo American Australia Finance Limited

Anglo American Australia Holdings Pty 

100%

100%

Ordinary

Ordinary

Level 11, 201 Charlotte Street, Brisbane QLD 4000

Level 11, 201 Charlotte Street, Brisbane QLD 4000

Limited

Anglo American Australia Limited

100%

Ordinary

Level 11, 201 Charlotte Street, Brisbane QLD 4000

Anglo American Energy Solutions (Australia) 

100%

Ordinary

Level 11, 201 Charlotte Street, Brisbane QLD 4000

Pty Ltd

Australia

Anglo American Exploration (Australia) Pty 

100%

Ordinary

Level 11, 201 Charlotte Street, Brisbane QLD 4000

Limited

Australia

Anglo American Steelmaking Coal Assets 

100%

Ordinary

Level 11, 201 Charlotte Street, Brisbane QLD 4000

Eastern Australia Limited

Australia

Anglo American Steelmaking Coal Assets 

100%

Ordinary

Level 11, 201 Charlotte Street, Brisbane QLD 4000

Pty Ltd

Australia

Anglo American Steelmaking Coal Finance 

100%

Ordinary

Level 11, 201 Charlotte Street, Brisbane QLD 4000

Limited

Australia

Anglo American Steelmaking Coal Holdings 

100%

Ordinary

Level 11, 201 Charlotte Street, Brisbane QLD 4000

Limited

Australia

Australia

Australia

Australia

Australia

Anglo American Steelmaking Coal Pty Ltd

100%

Ordinary

Level 11, 201 Charlotte Street, Brisbane QLD 4000

Anglo Coal (Archveyor Management) Pty Ltd  100%

Ordinary

Level 11, 201 Charlotte Street, Brisbane QLD 4000

Anglo Coal (Capcoal Management) Pty 

100%

Limited 

A Class Ordinary
B Class Ordinary
C Class Ordinary
D Class Ordinary
E Class Ordinary
F Class Ordinary
G Class Ordinary
H Class Ordinary

Level 11, 201 Charlotte Street, Brisbane QLD 4000

Anglo Coal (Dawson Management) Pty Ltd

100%

Ordinary

Level 11, 201 Charlotte Street, Brisbane QLD 4000

Anglo Coal (Dawson Services) Pty Ltd

100%

Ordinary

Level 11, 201 Charlotte Street, Brisbane QLD 4000

280

Anglo American plc 
Integrated Annual Report 2023

Financial statements and other financial information
Notes to the financial statements

Group structure

36. Related undertakings of the Group continued

Country of 
incorporation(1)(2)

Name of undertaking

See page 293 for footnotes.

Percentage
of equity
owned(3)

Share class

Registered address

Australia

Anglo Coal (Dawson South Management) 

100%

Ordinary

Level 11, 201 Charlotte Street, Brisbane QLD 4000

Australia

Australia

Australia

Australia

Australia

Pty Ltd 

Anglo Coal (Dawson South) Pty Ltd

Anglo Coal (Dawson) Holdings Pty Ltd

Anglo Coal (Dawson) Limited

Anglo Coal (German Creek) Pty Ltd

Anglo Coal (Grasstree Management) Pty 

Limited

100%

100%

100%

100%

100%

Ordinary

Ordinary

Limited by 
guarantee

Ordinary

Ordinary

Level 11, 201 Charlotte Street, Brisbane QLD 4000

Level 11, 201 Charlotte Street, Brisbane QLD 4000

Level 11, 201 Charlotte Street, Brisbane QLD 4000

Level 11, 201 Charlotte Street, Brisbane QLD 4000

Level 11, 201 Charlotte Street, Brisbane QLD 4000

Australia

Anglo Coal (Grosvenor Management) Pty 

100%

Ordinary

Level 11, 201 Charlotte Street, Brisbane QLD 4000

Ltd

Australia

Australia

Australia

Australia

Australia

Australia

Australia

Australia

Australia

Australia

Australia

Australia

Australia

Australia

Australia

Australia

Australia

Australia

Australia

Anglo Coal (Grosvenor) Pty Ltd

Anglo Coal (Jellinbah) Holdings Pty Ltd

100%

100%

Ordinary

Ordinary

Level 11, 201 Charlotte Street, Brisbane QLD 4000

Level 11, 201 Charlotte Street, Brisbane QLD 4000

Anglo Coal (Moranbah North Management) 

100%

Ordinary

Level 11, 201 Charlotte Street, Brisbane QLD 4000

Pty Limited 

Anglo Coal (Roper Creek) Pty Ltd

Anglo Coal (Theodore South) Pty Ltd

Anglo Operations (Australia) Pty Ltd

Bowen Basin Coal Pty. Ltd.

100%

100%

100%

23%

Ordinary

Ordinary

Ordinary

Ordinary

Level 11, 201 Charlotte Street, Brisbane QLD 4000

Level 11, 201 Charlotte Street, Brisbane QLD 4000

Level 11, 201 Charlotte Street, Brisbane QLD 4000

Level 20, 66 Eagle Street, Brisbane QLD 4000

Capricorn Coal Developments Joint Venture 70%

N/A

N/A

Dalrymple Bay Coal Terminal Pty. Ltd.

Dawson Coal Processing Pty Ltd

Dawson Highwall Mining Pty Ltd

Dawson Joint Venture

Dawson Sales Pty Ltd

Dawson South Exploration Joint Venture

Dawson South Joint Venture

Dawson South Sales Pty Ltd

De Beers Australia Exploration Limited

First Mode Pty Ltd

German Creek Coal Pty. Limited

25%

100%

100%

51%

51%

51%

51%

51%

85%

81%

70%

Martin Armstrong Drive, Hay Point QLD 4740

Level 11, 201 Charlotte Street, Brisbane QLD 4000

Level 11, 201 Charlotte Street, Brisbane QLD 4000

N/A

Level 11, 201 Charlotte Street, Brisbane QLD 4000

N/A

N/A

Level 11, 201 Charlotte Street, Brisbane QLD 4000

23 North Street, Mount Lawley, WA 6050

165-169 Aberdeen Street, Northbridge, 6003,

Level 11, 201 Charlotte Street, Brisbane QLD 4000

Ordinary

Ordinary

Ordinary

N/A

Ordinary

N/A

N/A

Ordinary

Ordinary

Ordinary

B Class Ordinary
C Class Ordinary
D Class Ordinary
E Class Ordinary

Australia

Groote Eylandt Mining Company Proprietary 

40%

Ordinary

Level 35, 108 St Georges Terrace, Perth WA 6000

Limited

Australia

Australia

Jellinbah East Joint Venture

Jellinbah Group Pty Ltd

Australia

Australia

Australia

Australia

Australia

Australia

Australia

Australia

Australia

Australia

Australia

Jellinbah Mining Pty Ltd

Jellinbah Resources Pty Ltd

Jena Pty. Limited

Jena Unit Trust

JG Land Company Pty Ltd

Lake Vermont Joint Venture

Lake Vermont Marketing Pty Ltd

Lake Vermont Resources Pty Ltd

Monash Energy Coal Limited

Moranbah North Coal (No2) Pty Ltd

Moranbah North Coal (Sales) Pty Ltd

23%

33%

33%

33%

100%

100%

23%

23%

33%

33%

100%

100%

88%

N/A

N/A

Ordinary
A Class Ordinary
E Class Ordinary
F Class Ordinary

Ordinary

Ordinary

Ordinary

N/A

Ordinary

N/A

Ordinary

Ordinary

Ordinary

Ordinary

Ordinary

Level 20, 66 Eagle Street, Brisbane QLD 4000

Level 20, 66 Eagle Street, Brisbane QLD 4000

Level 20, 66 Eagle Street, Brisbane QLD 4000

Level 11, 201 Charlotte Street, Brisbane QLD 4000

Level 11, 201 Charlotte Street, Brisbane QLD 4000

Level 20, 66 Eagle Street, Brisbane QLD 4000

N/A

Level 20, 66 Eagle Street, Brisbane QLD 4000

Level 20, 66 Eagle Street, Brisbane QLD 4000

Level 11, 201 Charlotte Street, Brisbane QLD 4000

Level 11, 201 Charlotte Street, Brisbane QLD 4000

Level 11, 201 Charlotte Street, Brisbane QLD 4000

Anglo American plc 
Integrated Annual Report 2023

Financial statements and other financial information  
Notes to the financial statements

281

Group structure

36. Related undertakings of the Group continued

Country of 
incorporation(1)(2)

Name of undertaking

See page 293 for footnotes.

Percentage
of equity
owned(3)

Share class

Registered address

Australia

Australia

Australia

Australia

Australia

Australia

Australia

Australia

Belgium

Belgium

Moranbah North Coal Joint Venture

Moranbah North Coal Pty Ltd

Moranbah South Exploration Joint Venture

QCMM (Lake Vermont Holdings) Pty Ltd

QCMM Finance Pty Ltd

Roper Creek Joint Venture

Theodore South Joint Venture

Tremell Pty. Ltd.

De Beers Auction Sales Belgium NV

International Institute of Diamond Grading 

and Research (Belgium) NV

Bermuda

Bermuda

Coromin Insurance Limited

Holdac Insurance Limited

Botswana

Ambase Prospecting (Botswana) (Pty) Ltd

88%

100%

50%

33%

33%

86%

51%

33%

85%

85%

100%

100%

100%

N/A

Ordinary

N/A

Ordinary

Ordinary

N/A

N/A

Ordinary

Ordinary

Ordinary

Common

Common

Ordinary

N/A

Level 11, 201 Charlotte Street, Brisbane QLD 4000

N/A

Level 20, 66 Eagle Street, Brisbane QLD 4000

Level 20, 66 Eagle Street, Brisbane QLD 4000

N/A

N/A

Level 20, 66 Eagle Street, Brisbane QLD 4000

21 Schupstraat, 2018 Antwerp

21 Schupstraat, 2018 Antwerp

Wellesley House, 90 Pitts Bay Road, Hamilton

Wellesley House, 90 Pitts Bay Road, Hamilton

Plot 32, Unit G3 Victoria House, Independence Avenue, 

Gaborone, AD54 ACJ

Botswana

Anglo American Corporation Botswana 

100%

Ordinary

Plot 67977, Fairground Office Park, Gaborone

(Services) Limited

Botswana

Broadhurst Primary School (Proprietary) 

45%

Ordinary

Plot 113, Unit 28 Kgale Mews, Gaborone International 

Limited

Finance Park, Gaborone

Botswana

De Beers Global Sightholder Sales (Pty) Ltd

85%

Ordinary

3rd Floor, DTCB Building, Plot 63016, Block 8, Airport 

Botswana

Botswana

De Beers Holdings Botswana (Pty) Ltd

85%

Debswana Diamond Company (Proprietary) 

43%

Ordinary

Ordinary

Limited(4)

Road, Gaborone

5th Floor, Debswana House, Main Mall, Gaborone

First Floor Debswana Corporate Centre, Plot 64288 

Airport Road, Block 8, Gaborone

Botswana

Debswana Wellness Fund

43%

N/A

First Floor Debswana Corporate Centre, Plot 64288 

Airport Road, Block 8, Gaborone

Botswana

Diamond Trading Company Botswana (Pty) 

43%

Ordinary

Plot 63016, Airport Road, Block 8, Gaborone

Ltd

Botswana

Naledi Mining Services Company 

43%

Ordinary

First Floor Debswana Corporate Centre, Plot 64288 

(Proprietary) Limited

Airport Road, Block 8, Gaborone

Botswana

Sesiro Insurance Company (Proprietary) 

43%

Ordinary

First Floor Debswana Corporate Centre, Plot 64288 

Botswana

Botswana

Limited

The Diamond Trust

Tokafala (Proprietary) Limited 

85%

57%

N/A

Ordinary

Brazil

Brazil

Brazil

Anglo American Comercializadora E 

100%

Exportadora Ltda.

Anglo American Holding Patrimonial Ltda.

100%

Anglo American Investimentos - Minério de 

100%

Ferro Ltda.

Membership 
interest

Membership 
interest

Membership 
interest

Brazil

Anglo American Minério de Ferro Brasil S.A

100%

Ordinary

Brazil

Anglo American Niquel Brasil Ltda.

100%

Membership 
interest

Brazil

Anglo Ferrous Brazil Participações S.A.

100%

Ordinary

Brazil

Ferroport Logística Comercial Exportadora 

50%

Ordinary

S.A.

Airport Road, Block 8, Gaborone

Debswana House, The Mall, Gaborone 

3rd Floor, DTCB Building, Plot 63016, Block 8, Airport 

Road, Gaborone

Rua Maria Luiza Santiago, n.,200, 16º andar, parte, 

bairro Santa Lúcia, CEP 30360-740

Rua Maria Luiza Santiago, n.,200, 16º andar, parte, 

bairro Santa Lúcia, CEP 30360-740

Rua Maria Luiza Santiago, nº 200, 16º andar, sala 1603, 
bairro Santa Lúcia, CEP 30360-740, Belo Horizonte, 
Minas Gerais

Rua Maria Luiza Santiago, nº 200, 16º andar, sala 1601, 
bairro Santa Lucia, CEP 30360-740, Belo Horizonte, 
Minas Gerais

Rua Maria Luiza Santiago, nº. 200, 8º andar (parte), 

Santa Lúcia, CEP 30360-740, Belo Horizonte, Minas 
Gerais

Rua Maria Luiza Santiago, nº 200, 16º andar, sala 1601, 
bairro Santa Lucia, CEP 30360-740, Belo Horizonte, 
Minas Gerais

Rua da Passagem, nº 123, 11º andar, sala 1101, 
Botafogo, CEP 22290-030, Rio de Janeiro/RJ

Brazil

Brazil

Brazil

Brazil

Brazil

Brazil

Brazil

Brazil

British Virgin 
Islands

British Virgin 
Islands

British Virgin 
Islands

282

Anglo American plc 
Integrated Annual Report 2023

Financial statements and other financial information
Notes to the financial statements

Group structure

36. Related undertakings of the Group continued

Country of 
incorporation(1)(2)

Name of undertaking

See page 293 for footnotes.

Percentage
of equity
owned(3)

Share class

Registered address

GD Empreendimentos Imobiliários S.A.

33%

Guaporé Mineração Ltda.

Ordinary
Preference

Membership 
interest

Membership 
interest

49%

49%

Brazil

Mineração Tanagra Ltda.

Ventos de Santa Alice Energias Renováveis 

98%

Ordinary

S/A

Ventos de Santa Alice Holding S/A

98%

Ordinary

Ventos de Santa Sara Energias Renováveis 

98%

Ordinary

S/A

Ventos de Santa Sara Holding S/A

98%

Ordinary

Ventos de São Felipe Energias Renováveis 

98%

Ordinary

S/A

Ventos de São Felipe Holding S/A

98%

Ordinary

Rua Visconde de Ouro Preto, nº 5, 11º andar (parte), 

Botafogo, Rio de Janeiro/RJ

Rua Maria Luiza Santiago, nº. 200, 8º andar (parte), 

bairro Santa Lúcia, CEP 30.360-740, Belo Horizonte, 
Minas Gerais

Rua Maria Luiza Santiago, nº. 200, 20º andar (parte), 

bairro Santa Lúcia, CEP 30.360-740, Belo Horizonte, 
Minas Gerais

Rodovia Doutor Mendel Steinbruch, nº 10.800, sala 236, 
Distrito Industrial, Maracanaú/CE, CEP 61939-906

Rodovia Doutor Mendel Steinbruch, nº 10.800, sala 236, 
Distrito Industrial, Maracanaú/CE, CEP 61939-906

Rodovia Doutor Mendel Steinbruch, nº 10.800, sala 236, 
Distrito Industrial, Maracanaú/CE, CEP 61939-906

Rodovia Doutor Mendel Steinbruch, nº 10.800, sala 236, 
Distrito Industrial, Maracanaú/CE, CEP 61939-906

Rodovia Doutor Mendel Steinbruch, nº 10.800, sala 236, 
Distrito Industrial, Maracanaú/CE, CEP 61939-906

Rodovia Doutor Mendel Steinbruch, nº 10.800, sala 236, 
Distrito Industrial, Maracanaú/CE, CEP 61939-906

De Beers Centenary Angola Properties Ltd 

85%

Ordinary

Craigmuir Chambers, Road Town, Tortola, VG1109

Delibes Holdings Limited(5)

85%

A Ordinary

Craigmuir Chambers, Road Town, Tortola, VG1110

Loma de Niquel Holdings Limited(5)

94%

Class A1
Class A2
Class B
Class C

Craigmuir Chambers, Road Town, Tortola, VG1110

Canada

0912055 B.C. Ltd. 

100%

Common

c/- McCarthy Tetrault, Suite 2400, 745 Thurlow Street, 

Canada

Anglo American Exploration (Canada) Ltd.

100%

Canada

Canada

Auspotash Corporation

Central Ecuador Holdings Ltd.

Canada

De Beers Canada Holdings Inc.

Canada

Canada

De Beers Canada Inc.

Lion Battery Technologies Inc. 

Canada

Peace River Coal Inc.

Canada

Peregrine Diamonds Ltd

100%

70%

85%

85%

37%

100%

85%

Vancouver, BC, V6E 0C5

Suite 620 – 650 West Georgia Street, Vancouver, BC, 

V6B 4N8

Common
Class B Preference
Class C Preference

N/A

333 Bay Street, Suite 2400, Toronto, ON, M5H2T6

Class A Common
Class B Common

c/o Borden Ladner Gervais, 1200 Waterfront Centre, 

200 Burrard Street, Vancouver, BC, V6C 3L6

A Ordinary
B Ordinary 

2400-333 Bay St, Toronto, ON, M5H2T6

Preference 

2400-333 Bay St, Toronto, ON, M5H2T6

Class A Preferred

Suite 2600, Three Bentall Centre, 595 Burrard Street, 

P.O. Box 49314, Vancouver, BC, V7X 1L3 

Common
Class A Non-
Voting Preference

Common
Preference 

c/- McCarthy Tetrault, Suite 2400, 745 Thurlow Street, 

Vancouver, BC, V6E 0C5

2400-333 Bay St, Toronto, ON, M5H 2T6

Chile

Chile

Chile

Chile

Chile

Anglo American Chile Limitada

100%

Ordinary

Isidora Goyenechea 2800, piso 46, Las Condes, 

Santiago 

Anglo American Copper Finance SpA

100%

Ordinary

Isidora Goyenechea 2800, piso 46, Las Condes, 

Santiago 

Anglo American Marketing Chile SpA

100%

Ordinary

Isidora Goyenechea 2800, piso 46, Las Condes, 

Santiago 

Anglo American Sur S.A.

50%

Ordinary

Isidora Goyenechea 2800, piso 46, Las Condes, 

Santiago 

Compañía Minera Dona Ines De Collahuasi 

44%

Ordinary

Av. Andrés Bello 2457 Piso 39 Providencia, Santiago, 

SCM

Región Metropolitana

Anglo American plc 
Integrated Annual Report 2023

Financial statements and other financial information  
Notes to the financial statements

283

Group structure

36. Related undertakings of the Group continued

Country of 
incorporation(1)(2)

Name of undertaking

See page 293 for footnotes.

Percentage
of equity
owned(3)

Share class

Registered address

Chile

Chile

Chile

Chile

Chile

Compañía Minera Westwall S.C.M

50%

Ordinary

Av. Andrés Bello 2457 Piso 39 Providencia, Santiago, 

First Mode Chile SpA

81%

Nominative and 
without par value

Región Metropolitana

Alonso De Cordova 4355, Of 1503, Vitacura

Inversiones Anglo American Norte SpA

100%

Ordinary

Isidora Goyenechea 2800, piso 46, Las Condes, 

Santiago 

Inversiones Anglo American Sur SpA

100%

Ordinary

Isidora Goyenechea 2800, piso 46, Las Condes, 

Santiago 

Inversiones Minorco Chile SpA

100%

Ordinary

Isidora Goyenechea 2800, piso 46, Las Condes, 

Santiago 

China

Anglo American Resources Trading (China) 

100%

Equity interest

Units 01, 02A, 07A, 08, Floor 32, No. 1198 Century 

Co., Ltd.

Avenue, Pudong New Area, Shanghai

China

De Beers Jewellers Commercial (Shanghai) 

85%

Equity interest

Suite 4607, The Park Place, No.1601 Nan Jing West 

Co., Ltd

Road, Shanghai

China

Element Six Trading (Shanghai) Co., Ltd

51%

Equity interest

Room 807, Floor 8, No 390-408 East Beijing Road, 

Huangpu District, Shanghai

China

Forevermark Marketing (Shanghai) 

85%

Equity interest

Suite 4601, 4602 and 4608, The Park Place, No.1601 

Company Limited

Nan Jing West Road, Shanghai

China

Platinum Guild International (Shanghai) Co., 

77%

Ordinary

Room 601, L'Avenue, 99 XianXia Road, Shanghai 

Limited

200051

China

Suzhou Yibai Environmental Protection 

24%

N/A

No. 558, Fenhu Avenue, Lili Town, Wujiang District, 

Technologies Co., Ltd

Suzhou

Colombia

Anglo American Colombia Exploration S.A.

100%

Ordinary

Carrera 7 No. 71-52 Torre B, Piso 9, Bogotá

Democratic 
Republic 
of Congo

Ecuador

Ecuador

Ambase Exploration Africa (DRC) SPRL

100%

Ordinary

c/o KPMG, 500b. Av. Mpala/Quartier Golf, Lubumbashi

Anglo American Ecuador S.A.

Central Ecuador EC-CT S.A.

100%

70%

Ordinary

Ordinary

Av. Patria E4-69 y Av. Amazonas, Cofiec ,16th Floor

Av. Patria E4-69 y Av. Amazonas, Edif.COFIEC, piso 17, 

Quito

Finland

AA Sakatti Mining Oy

100%

Ordinary

AA Sakatti Mining Oy, Tuohiaavantie 2, 99600, 

Sodankylä

Gabon

Samancor Gabon SA 

40%

Ordinary

C/- Fiduge SARL, Battery IV, Soraya Building, PO Box 

Germany

Germany

Element Six GmbH 

Kupfer Copper Germany GmbH

51%

80%

Ordinary

Ordinary

15.950, Liberville

Staedeweg 18, 36151, Burghaun

Alfred-Herrhausen-Allee 3-5, 65760 Eschborn, 

Deutschland

Germany 

Anglo American Exploration Germany GmbH 100%

Ordinary

Alfred-Herrhausen-Allee 3-5, 65760 Eschborn, 

Greenland

NAIP West Exploration A/S 

Hong Kong

De Beers Auction Sales Holdings Limited

75%

85%

Ordinary

Ordinary

Deutschland

Issortarfimmut 6, 3905 Nuussuaq

2602-2606, 26/F, Kinwick Centre, 32 Hollywood Road, 

Central

Hong Kong

De Beers Jewellers (Hong Kong) Limited

85%

Ordinary

RM 02B&03-06 26/F, Kinwick Centre, 32 Hollywood 

Road, Central 

Hong Kong

Forevermark Limited

85%

Ordinary

RM 02B&03-06 26/F, Kinwick Centre, 32 Hollywood 

Road, Central 

Hong Kong

Platinum Guild International (Hong Kong) 

77%

Ordinary

Suites 2901-2, Global Trade Square, No.21 Wong Chuk 

Limited

Hang Road

India

India

India

Anglo American Crop Nutrients (India) 

100%

Ordinary

Regus Elegance, 2F, Elegance, Jasola Districe Centre 

Private Limited

Old Mathura Road, New Delhi, 110025

Anglo American Services (India) Private 

100%

Equity 

A- 1/292, Janakpuri, New Delhi - 110058

Limited

De Beers India Private Ltd

85%

Ordinary Equity
Preference Equity

601, 6th floor, TCG Financial Centre, C -53, G Block, 

Bandra Kurla Complex, Bandrar (East), Mumbai - 400 
058

284

Anglo American plc 
Integrated Annual Report 2023

Financial statements and other financial information
Notes to the financial statements

Group structure

36. Related undertakings of the Group continued

Country of 
incorporation(1)(2)

Name of undertaking

See page 293 for footnotes.

Percentage
of equity
owned(3)

Share class

Registered address

India

India

Hindustan Diamond Company Private 

43%

Ordinary equity 

Office No. 12, 14th Floor, Navjivan Society Building, No.3, 

Limited

Lamington Road, Mumbai - 400 008

Platinum Guild India Private Limited

77%

Ordinary

Notan Classic, 3rd Floor, 114 Turner Road, Bandra West, 

Mumbai 400 050

Indonesia

PT Anglo American Indonesia

100%

Ordinary

Treasury Tower, 11th Floor Unit A & B, District 8, SCBD 

Lot. 28 Jl. Jend. Sudirman Kav. 52-53, RT/RW 5/3, Kel. 
Senayan, Kec. Kebayoran Baru, South Jakarta 12190

Indonesia

PT Minorco Services Indonesia

100%

Ordinary

Treasury Tower, 11th Floor Unit A & B, District 8, SCBD 

Lot. 28 Jl. Jend. Sudirman Kav. 52-53, RT/RW 5/3, Kel. 
Senayan, Kec. Kebayoran Baru, South Jakarta 12190

Coromin Insurance (Ireland) DAC

100%

Ordinary

Charlotte House, Charlemont Street, Dublin 2, D02 NV26

Ireland

Ireland

Ireland

Ireland

Ireland

Ireland

Ireland

Element Six (Holdings) Limited

Element Six (Trade Marks) Limited

Element Six Abrasives Treasury Limited

Element Six Limited 

Element Six Technologies Limited

Element Six Treasury Limited

Isle of Man

Element Six (Legacy Pensions) Limited 

51%

51%

51%

51%

85%

85%

85%

Ordinary

Ordinary
A Ordinary

Ordinary

Ordinary

Ordinary

Ordinary

Ordinary
A Ordinary

Shannon Airport, Shannon, Co.Clare

Shannon Airport, Shannon, Co.Clare

Shannon Airport, Shannon, Co.Clare

Shannon Airport, Shannon, Co.Clare

Shannon Airport, Shannon, Co.Clare

Shannon Airport, Shannon, Co.Clare

1st Floor, 18-20 North Quay, Douglas, IM1 4LE

Israel

De Beers Auction Sales Israel Ltd

85%

Ordinary

11th Floor, Yahalom (Diamond) Building, 21 Tuval Street 

Ramat Gan 5252236

Italy

Japan

Forevermark Italy S.R.L.

De Beers Jewellers Japan K.K.

85%

85%

Ordinary

Via Burlamacchi Francesco 14, 20135, Milan

Common stock

New Otani Garden Court 7th Floor, 4-1 Kioi-cho, 

Chiyoda-ku, Tokyo.

Japan

De Beers K.K.

43%

Common stock

New Otani Garden Court, 7th Floor, 4-1 Kioi-cho, 

Chiyoda-ku, Tokyo

Japan

Element Six Limited

51%

Ordinary

9F PMO Hatchobori, 3-22-13 Hatchobori, Chuo-ku, 

Tokyo, 104

Japan

Forevermark KK

85%

Common stock

New Otani Garden Court, 7th Floor, 4-1 Kioi-cho, 

Chiyoda-ku, Tokyo

Japan

Furuya Eco-Front Technology Co., Ltd

31%

Common

MSB-21 Minami Otsuka Building, 2-37-5 Minami Otsuka, 

Toshima-ku, Tokyo

Japan

PGI KK

77%

Ordinary

Imperial Hotel Tower 17F, 1-1-1 Uchisaiwai-cho, 

Jersey

Jersey

A.R.H. Investments Limited(5)
A.R.H. Limited(5)

Jersey

Ambras Holdings Limited(5)(6)

Chiyoda-ku,Tokyo, 100-8575

3rd Floor, 44 Esplanade, St Helier, JE4 9WG

3rd Floor, 44 Esplanade, St Helier, JE4 9WG

3rd Floor, 44 Esplanade, St Helier, JE4 9WG

100%

100%

100%

Ordinary

Class A
Class B
Class C

Repurchaseable 
Class A Ordinary
Repurchaseable 
Class B Ordinary

Jersey

Jersey

Jersey

Jersey

Jersey

Jersey

Jersey

Ammin Coal Holdings Limited(5)
100%
Anglo African Exploration Holdings Limited(5) 100%

Ordinary

Ordinary

3rd Floor, 44 Esplanade, St Helier, JE4 9WG

3rd Floor, 44 Esplanade, St Helier, JE4 9WG

Anglo American Amcoll UK Ltd(5)

Anglo American Buttercup Company 

Limited(5)

Anglo American Chile Investments UK Ltd(5)
Anglo American Clarent UK Ltd(5)

Anglo American Corporation de Chile 

Holdings Limited(5)

100%

100%

100%

100%

100%

Ordinary

Ordinary

Ordinary

Ordinary

Ordinary

3rd Floor, 44 Esplanade, St Helier, JE4 9WG

3rd Floor, 44 Esplanade, St Helier, JE4 9WG

3rd Floor, 44 Esplanade, St Helier, JE4 9WG

3rd Floor, 44 Esplanade, St Helier, JE4 9WG

3rd Floor, 44 Esplanade, St Helier, JE4 9WG

Anglo American plc 
Integrated Annual Report 2023

Financial statements and other financial information  
Notes to the financial statements

285

Group structure

36. Related undertakings of the Group continued

Country of 
incorporation(1)(2)

Name of undertaking

See page 293 for footnotes.

Percentage
of equity
owned(3)

Share class

Registered address

Jersey

Anglo American Exploration Colombia 

100%

Ordinary

3rd Floor, 44 Esplanade, St Helier, JE4 9WG

Limited(5)

Jersey

Anglo American Exploration Overseas 

100%

Ordinary

3rd Floor, 44 Esplanade, St Helier, JE4 9WG

Holdings Limited(5)

Jersey

Anglo American Finland Holdings 2 Limited(5) 100%

Ordinary

3rd Floor, 44 Esplanade, St Helier, JE4 9WG

Jersey

Anglo American Midway Investment 

100%

Limited(5)

Jersey

Anglo American Overseas Limited(5)(7)

100%

Jersey

Jersey

Jersey

Jersey

Jersey

Jersey

Jersey

Jersey

Jersey

Jersey

Jersey

Jersey

Jersey

Jersey

Jersey

Jersey

Jersey

Jersey

Jersey

Jersey

Jersey

Jersey

100%

Anglo Australia Investments Limited(5)
Anglo Diamond Investments Limited(5)
Anglo Iron Ore Investments Limited(5)
Anglo Operations (International) Limited(5)
Anglo Peru Investments Limited(5)
Anglo Quellaveco Limited(5)
100%
Anglo South American Investments Limited(5) 100%

100%

100%

100%

100%

Anglo Venezuela Investments Limited(5)
Aval Holdings Limited(5)
Cheviot Holdings Limited(5)
De Beers Centenary Limited(5)
De Beers Exploration Holdings Limited(5)
De Beers Holdings Investments Limited(5)
De Beers Investments plc(5)
De Beers plc(5)

Highbirch Limited(5)

Kumba International Trading Limited(5)
Minorco Overseas Holdings Limited(5)
Minorco Peru Holdings Limited(5)
Minpress Investments Limited(5)
Sirius Minerals Finance Limited(5)

100%

100%

85%

85%

85%

85%

85%

85%

100%

53%

100%

100%

100%

100%

Sirius Minerals Finance No.2 Limited(5)

100%

Luxembourg

Kumba Iron Ore Holdings S.à r.l.

Macau

De Beers Jewellers (Macau) Company 

53%

85%

Limited

A Shares
B Shares

Repurchaseable 
Class A Ordinary
Repurchaseable 
Class B Ordinary
Repurchaseable 
Class C Ordinary

Ordinary

Ordinary

Ordinary

Ordinary

Ordinary

Ordinary

Ordinary

Ordinary

Ordinary

Ordinary

Ordinary

Ordinary

Ordinary

Ordinary

A Ordinary
B Ordinary

Class A
Class B

Ordinary

Ordinary

Ordinary

Ordinary

Ordinary
Preference 

Ordinary
Preference 

Ordinary

Ordinary

3rd Floor, 44 Esplanade, St Helier, JE4 9WG

3rd Floor, 44 Esplanade, St Helier, JE4 9WG

3rd Floor, 44 Esplanade, St Helier, JE4 9WG

3rd Floor, 44 Esplanade, St Helier, JE4 9WG

3rd Floor, 44 Esplanade, St Helier, JE4 9WG

3rd Floor, 44 Esplanade, St Helier, JE4 9WG

3rd Floor, 44 Esplanade, St Helier, JE4 9WG

3rd Floor, 44 Esplanade, St Helier, JE4 9WG

3rd Floor, 44 Esplanade, St Helier, JE4 9WG

3rd Floor, 44 Esplanade, St Helier, JE4 9WG

3rd Floor, 44 Esplanade, St Helier, JE4 9WG

3rd Floor, 44 Esplanade, St Helier, JE4 9WG

3rd Floor, 44 Esplanade, St Helier, JE4 9WG

3rd Floor, 44 Esplanade, St Helier, JE4 9WG

3rd Floor, 44 Esplanade, St Helier, JE4 9WG

3rd Floor, 44 Esplanade, St Helier, JE4 9WG

3rd Floor, 44 Esplanade, St Helier, JE4 9WG

3rd Floor, 44 Esplanade, St Helier, JE4 9WG

3rd Floor, 44 Esplanade, St Helier, JE4 9WG

3rd Floor, 44 Esplanade, St Helier, JE4 9WG

3rd Floor, 44 Esplanade, St Helier, JE4 9WG

3rd Floor, 44 Esplanade, St Helier, JE4 9WG

3rd Floor, 44 Esplanade, St Helier, JE4 9WG

3rd Floor, 44 Esplanade, St Helier, JE4 9WG

58 rue Charles Martel, L-2134

Avenida da Praia Grande No. 409, China Law Building 

16/F – B79

Madagascar

Societe Civille De Prospection De Nickel A 

32%

N/A

Unknown

Madagascar

Mauritius

Anglo American International Limited(5)

100%

C/o AXIS Fiduciary Ltd, 2nd Floor, The AXIS, 26 Bank 

Street, Cybercity Ebene, 72201

Normal Class A 
Ordinary
Ordinary-B
Repurchaseable 
Class A Ordinary

Mexico

Anglo American Mexico S.A. de C.V.

100%

Common

c/o Sanchez Mejorada, Velasco y Ribe, S.C., Paseo de la 
Reforma No. 450, Col. Lomas de Chapultepec, 11000

286

Anglo American plc 
Integrated Annual Report 2023

Financial statements and other financial information
Notes to the financial statements

Group structure

36. Related undertakings of the Group continued

Country of 
incorporation(1)(2)

Name of undertaking

See page 293 for footnotes.

Percentage
of equity
owned(3)

Share class

Registered address

Mexico

Servicios Anglo American Mexico S.A. de C.V. 100%

Common

c/o Sanchez Mejorada, Velasco y Ribe, S.C., Paseo de la 
Reforma No. 450, Col. Lomas de Chapultepec, 11000

Mozambique

Anglo American Corporation Mocambique 

100%

Quota

PricewaterhouseCoopers, Ltda. Avenida Vladimir 

Servicos Limitada 

Lenine, No 174, 4o andar, Edifício Millennium Park, 
Maputo 

Namibia

Namibia

Ambase Prospecting (Namibia) (Pty) Ltd

De Beers Marine Namibia (Pty) Ltd

100%

43%

Ordinary

Ordinary

c/o SGA, 24 Orban Street, Klein Windhoek, Windhoek

4th Floor, Namdeb Centre, 10 Dr Frans Indongo Street, 

Windhoek

Namibia

De Beers Namibia Holdings (Pty) Ltd

85%

Ordinary

6th floor, Namdeb Centre, 10 Dr Frans Indongo Street, 

Windhoek

Namibia

Debmarine Namdeb Foundation

43%

N/A

10th Floor, Namdeb Centre, 10 Dr Frans Indongo Street, 

Windhoek

Namibia

DTC Valuations Namibia (Pty) Ltd

85%

Ordinary

4th Floor, Namdeb Centre, 10 Dr Frans Indongo Street, 

Windhoek

Namibia

Exclusive Properties (Pty) Ltd

43%

Ordinary

10th Floor, Namdeb Centre, 10 Dr Frans Indongo Street, 

Windhoek

Namibia

Namibia

Longboat Trading (Pty) Ltd

Mamora Mines & Estates Limited 

100%

28%

Ordinary

Ordinary

24 Orban Street, Klein Windhoek, Windhoek

10th Floor, Namdeb Centre, 10 Dr Frans Indongo Street, 

Windhoek

Namibia

Namdeb Diamond Corporation (Pty) Ltd

43%

Ordinary

10th Floor, Namdeb Centre, 10 Dr Frans Indongo Street, 

Windhoek

Namibia

Namdeb Holdings (Pty) Ltd

43%

Ordinary

10th Floor, Namdeb Centre, 10 Dr Frans Indongo Street, 

Windhoek

Namibia

Namdeb Properties (Pty) Ltd

43%

Ordinary

10th Floor, Namdeb Centre, 10 Dr Frans Indongo Street, 

Windhoek

Namibia

Namibia Diamond Trading Company (Pty) 

43%

Ordinary

9th Floor, Namdeb Centre, 10 Dr Frans Indongo Street, 

Ltd

Windhoek

Namibia

OMDis Town Transformation Agency

43%

N/A

Unit 6, Gold Street Business Park, Gold Street, Prosperita, 

Windhoek

Namibia

Oranjemund Private Hospital (Proprietary) 

43%

Ordinary

10th Floor, Namdeb Centre, 10 Dr Frans Indongo Street, 

Limited

Windhoek

Namibia

Oranjemund Town Management Company 

43%

Ordinary

10th Floor, Namdeb Centre, 10 Dr Frans Indongo Street, 

(Pty) Ltd

Windhoek

Namibia 

Namdeb Hospital Pharmacy (Pty) Ltd

43%

Ordinary

10th Floor, Namdeb Centre, 10 Dr Frans Indongo Street, 

Netherlands

Netherlands

Netherlands

Netherlands

Netherlands

Netherlands

Netherlands

Netherlands

Netherlands

Netherlands

100%

100%

Anglo American (TIH) B.V.(5)
Anglo American Europe B.V.(5)
Anglo American Exploration B.V.(5)
100%
Anglo American Exploration (Philippines) B.V.(5) 100%
Anglo American International B.V.(5)
Anglo American Netherlands B.V.(5)
Anglo Operations (Netherlands) B.V.(5)
Erabas B.V.(5)
Loma de Niquel Holdings B.V.(5)
Minorco Exploration (Indonesia) B.V.(5)

100%

100%

100%

100%

100%

77%

Ordinary

Ordinary

Ordinary

Ordinary

Ordinary

Ordinary

Ordinary

Ordinary

Ordinary

Ordinary

Windhoek

17 Charterhouse Street, London, EC1N 6RA

Kingsfordweg 151, 1043GR, Amsterdam

17 Charterhouse Street, London, EC1N 6RA

17 Charterhouse Street, London, EC1N 6RA

17 Charterhouse Street, London, EC1N 6RA

17 Charterhouse Street, London, EC1N 6RA

17 Charterhouse Street, London, EC1N 6RA

17 Charterhouse Street, London, EC1N 6RA

17 Charterhouse Street, London, EC1N 6RA

17 Charterhouse Street, London, EC1N 6RA

North 

Anglo American Exploration West Tetyan 

100%

Ordinary

Str. Risto Ravanovski no. 13A, 1000, Skopje, Municipality 

Macedonia 

Skopje

of Karpos

Papua New 
Guinea

Papua New 
Guinea

Anglo American (Star Mountain) Limited

100%

Ordinary

c/o Pacific Legal Group Lawyers, Ground Floor, 

Iaraguma Haus, Lot 30 Section 38 Off Cameron Road, 
Gordons, National Capital District

Anglo American Exploration (PNG) Limited

100%

Ordinary

c/o Pacific Legal Group Lawyers, Ground Floor, 

Iaraguma Haus, Lot 30 Section 38 Off Cameron Road, 
Gordons, National Capital District

Peru

Anglo American Marketing Peru S.A.

100%

Ordinary

Calle Esquilache 371, Piso 10, San Isidro, Lima 27

Anglo American plc 
Integrated Annual Report 2023

Financial statements and other financial information  
Notes to the financial statements

287

Group structure

36. Related undertakings of the Group continued

Country of 
incorporation(1)(2)

Name of undertaking

See page 293 for footnotes.

Anglo American Peru S.A.

Anglo American Quellaveco S.A.

Peru

Peru

Peru

Peru

Peru

Percentage
of equity
owned(3)

100%

60%

Share class

Registered address

Ordinary

Calle Esquilache 371, Piso 10, San Isidro, Lima 27

Class A Ordinary
Class B Non-
Voting 

Calle Esquilache 371, Piso 10, San Isidro, Lima 27

Anglo American Servicios Perú S.A. en 

100%

Ordinary

Calle Esquilache 371, Piso 10, San Isidro, Lima 27

Liquidación

Asociación Quellaveco

Cobre del Norte S.A.

100%

100%

N/A

Ordinary

Calle Esquilache 371, Piso 10, San Isidro, Lima 27

Calle Esquilache 371, Piso 10, San Isidro, Lima 27

Philippines

Anglo American Exploration (Philippines) Inc. 100%

Ordinary

c/o SyCipLaw Center, 105 Paseo de Roxas, Makati City 

1226, Metro Manila

Sierra Leone

Gemfair (SL) Limited

85%

Ordinary

31 Lightfoot Boston Street, Freetown

Singapore

Anglo American Crop Nutrients (Singapore) 

100%

Ordinary

9 Raffles Place, #26-01 Republic Plaza, 048619

Pte Ltd

Singapore

Anglo American Shipping Pte. Limited

100%

Ordinary

10 Collyer Quay, #38-00 Ocean Financial Centre, 

049315

Singapore

De Beers Auction Sales Singapore Pte. Ltd.

85%

Ordinary

10 Collyer Quay, #03-04 Ocean Financial Centre, 

049315

Singapore

Kumba Singapore Pte. Ltd.

53%

Ordinary

10 Collyer Quay, #38-00 Ocean Financial Centre, 

049315

Singapore

MR Iron Ore Marketing Services Pte. Ltd.

50%

Ordinary

10 Collyer Quay, #38-00 Ocean Financial Centre, 

049315

Singapore

Singapore

Samancor Marketing Pte.Ltd.

Sulista Forte Pte. Ltd. 

40%

100%

Ordinary

Ordinary

16 Collyer Quay #18-00 Collyer Quay Centre, 049318

77 Robinson Road, #13-00 Robinson 77 Singapore 

068896

South Africa

African Pipe Industries North (Pty) Ltd

40%

Ordinary

144 Oxford Road, Rosebank, Melrose 2196, 

Johannesburg

South Africa

Amandelbult Solar Pv (Pty) Ltd

100%

Ordinary

144 Oxford Road, Rosebank, Melrose 2196, 

Johannesburg

South Africa

Amaprop Townships Ltd

100%

Ordinary

61 Katherine Street, Sandton, 2196

South Africa

Ambase Investment Africa (Botswana) (Pty) 

100%

Ordinary

144 Oxford Road, Rosebank, Melrose 2196, 

Ltd

Johannesburg

South Africa

Ambase Investment Africa (DRC) (Pty) Ltd

100%

Ordinary

144 Oxford Road, Rosebank, Melrose 2196, 

Johannesburg

South Africa

Ambase Investment Africa (Tanzania) (Pty) 

100%

Ordinary

144 Oxford Road, Rosebank, Melrose 2196, 

Ltd

Johannesburg

South Africa

Ambase Investment Africa (Zambia) (Pty) 

100%

Ordinary

144 Oxford Road, Rosebank, Melrose 2196, 

Ltd

Johannesburg

South Africa

Anglo American Corporation of South Africa 

100%

Ordinary

144 Oxford Road, Rosebank, Melrose 2196, 

(Pty) Ltd

Johannesburg

South Africa

Anglo American EMEA Shared Services (Pty) 

100%

Ordinary

144 Oxford Road, Rosebank, Melrose 2196, 

Ltd

Johannesburg

South Africa

Anglo American Farms (Pty) Ltd

100%

Ordinary

Vergelegen Wine Farm, Lourensford Road, Somerset 

West, 7130

South Africa

Anglo American Farms Investment Holdings 

100%

Ordinary

Vergelegen Wine Farm, Lourensford Road, Somerset 

(Pty) Ltd

West, 7130

South Africa

Anglo American Group Employee 
Shareholder Nominees (Pty) Ltd

100%

Ordinary

144 Oxford Road, Rosebank, Melrose 2196, 

Johannesburg

South Africa

Anglo American Marketing South Africa (Pty) 

77%

Ordinary

144 Oxford Road, Rosebank, Melrose 2196, 

Ltd

Johannesburg

South Africa

Anglo American Platinum Limited

79%

Ordinary

144 Oxford Road, Rosebank, Melrose 2196, 

Johannesburg

South Africa

Anglo American Properties Ltd

100%

Ordinary

61 Katherine Street, Sandton, 2196

South Africa

Anglo American Prospecting Services (Pty) 

100%

Ordinary

55 Marshall Street, Johannesburg, 2001, 

Ltd

288

Anglo American plc 
Integrated Annual Report 2023

Financial statements and other financial information
Notes to the financial statements

Group structure

36. Related undertakings of the Group continued

Country of 
incorporation(1)(2)

Name of undertaking

See page 293 for footnotes.

Percentage
of equity
owned(3)

Share class

Registered address

South Africa

Anglo American SA Finance Proprietary 

100%

Ordinary

144 Oxford Road, Rosebank, Melrose 2196, 

Limited

Johannesburg

South Africa

Anglo American SEFA Mining Fund (Pty) Ltd

50%

Ordinary

144 Oxford Road, Rosebank, Melrose 2196, 

Johannesburg

South Africa

Anglo American South Africa Investments 

100%

Proprietary Limited

Ordinary 
Preference

144 Oxford Road, Rosebank, Melrose 2196, 

Johannesburg

South Africa

Anglo American South Africa Proprietary 

100%

Ordinary

144 Oxford Road, Rosebank, Melrose 2196, 

Limited 

Johannesburg

South Africa

Anglo American Zimele (Pty) Ltd

100%

Ordinary

144 Oxford Road, Rosebank, Melrose 2196, 

Johannesburg

South Africa

Anglo American Zimele Loan Fund (Pty) Ltd

100%

Ordinary

144 Oxford Road, Rosebank, Melrose 2196, 

Johannesburg

South Africa

Anglo Coal Investment Africa (Botswana) 

100%

Ordinary

144 Oxford Road, Rosebank, Melrose 2196, 

(Pty) Ltd

Johannesburg

South Africa

Anglo Corporate Enterprises (Pty) Ltd

100%

Ordinary

144 Oxford Road, Rosebank, Melrose 2196, 

Johannesburg

South Africa

Anglo Corporate Services South Africa 

100%

Ordinary

144 Oxford Road, Rosebank, Melrose 2196, 

Proprietary Limited 

Johannesburg

South Africa

Anglo Platinum Management Services (Pty) 

77%

Ordinary

144 Oxford Road, Rosebank, Melrose 2196, 

Ltd 

South Africa

Anglo South Africa (Pty) Ltd

100%

South Africa

Anglo South Africa Capital (Pty) Ltd

100%

Johannesburg

144 Oxford Road, Rosebank, Melrose 2196, 

Johannesburg

144 Oxford Road, Rosebank, Melrose 2196, 

Johannesburg

Ordinary 
Redeemable 
Preference

Ordinary 
Redeemable 
Preference

South Africa

Atomatic Trading (Pty) Limited

57%

Ordinary

144 Oxford Road, Rosebank, Melrose 2196, 

Johannesburg

South Africa

Balgo Nominees (Pty) Ltd

100%

Ordinary

144 Oxford Road, Rosebank, Melrose 2196, 

Johannesburg

South Africa

Blinkwater Farms 244KR (Pty) Ltd

77%

Ordinary

144 Oxford Road, Rosebank, Melrose 2196, 

South Africa

Damelin Emalahleni (Pty) Ltd

South Africa

DBCM Holdings (Pty) Ltd

20%

63%

South Africa

De Beers Consolidated Mines (Pty) Ltd(8) 

63%

South Africa

De Beers Group Services (Pty) Ltd 

85%

Johannesburg

Ordinary

Cnr OR Tambo & Beatrix Avenue, Witbank, 1035

Ordinary 
Redeemable 
Preference 

Ordinary 
Redeemable 
Preference 

Ordinary
Redeemable 
Preference

36 Stockdale Street, Kimberley, 8301

36 Stockdale Street, Kimberley, 8301

144 Oxford Road, Rosebank, Melrose 2196, 

Johannesburg

South Africa

De Beers Marine (Pty) Ltd

85%

Ordinary

DMB Gardens Golf Park, 2 Raapenberg Road, Cape 

Town, Western Cape, 7405

South Africa

Dido Nominees (Pty) Ltd

100%

Ordinary

144 Oxford Road, Rosebank, Melrose 2196, 

Johannesburg

South Africa

Dingleton Home Owners Resettlement Trust

53%

N/A

144 Oxford Road, Rosebank, Melrose 2196, 

South Africa

Element Six (Production) Proprietary Limited  51%

South Africa

Envusa Energy Proprietary Limited

South Africa

First Mode SA (Pty) Ltd

South Africa

First Mode SA Holdings (Pty) Ltd

50%

81%

81%

Johannesburg

Ordinary

Ordinary

Debid Road, Nuffield, Springs, 1559

144 Oxford Road, Rosebank, Melrose 2196, 

Johannesburg

Ordinary No Par 
Value

Ordinary No Par 
Value

144 Oxford Road, Rosebank, Johannesburg, Gauteng, 

2196

144 Oxford Road, Rosebank, Johannesburg, Gauteng, 

2196

Anglo American plc 
Integrated Annual Report 2023

Financial statements and other financial information  
Notes to the financial statements

289

Group structure

36. Related undertakings of the Group continued

Country of 
incorporation(1)(2)

Name of undertaking

See page 293 for footnotes.

Percentage
of equity
owned(3)

Share class

Registered address

South Africa

HMM Rehabilitation Trust Fund

South Africa

Hotazel Manganese Mines Proprietary 

Limited

30%

30%

N/A

Ordinary
Preference

6 Hollard Street, Johannesburg, 2001

39 Melrose Boulevard, Melrose Arch, Johannesburg, 

2076

South Africa

Khongoni Haaskraal Coal (Pty) Ltd

20%

Ordinary

Unit 3, Bauhinia Street, Highveld Technopark, Centurion, 

0157

South Africa

KIO Investments Holdings (Pty) Ltd

70%

Ordinary

144 Oxford Road, Rosebank, Melrose 2196, 

Johannesburg

South Africa

Kumba BSP Trust

53%

N/A

144 Oxford Road, Rosebank, Melrose 2196, 

Johannesburg

South Africa

Kumba Iron One Rehabilitation Trust

70%

N/A

144 Oxford Road, Rosebank, Melrose 2196, 

Johannesburg

South Africa

Kumba Iron Ore Limited

70%

Ordinary

144 Oxford Road, Rosebank, Melrose 2196, 

Johannesburg

South Africa

Lexshell 49 General Trading (Pty) Ltd 

35%

Ordinary

144 Oxford Road, Rosebank, Melrose 2196, 

Johannesburg

South Africa

Longboat (Pty) Ltd

100%

Ordinary

144 Oxford Road, Rosebank, Melrose 2196, 

Johannesburg

South Africa

Main Place Holdings Limited

39%

Ordinary

Suite 801, 76 Regent Road, Sea Point, Western Cape 

8005

South Africa

Marikana Ferrochrome Limited

South Africa

Marikana Minerals (Pty) Ltd

South Africa

Matthey Rustenburg Refiners (Pty) Ltd

100%

100%

77%

Ordinary

Ordinary

44 Main Street, Johannesburg, 2001

55 Marshall Street, Johannesburg, 2001

A Ordinary Shares
B Ordinary Shares

144 Oxford Road, Rosebank, Melrose 2196, 

Johannesburg

South Africa

Metalloys Manganese Smelter Proprietary 

40%

Ordinary NPV

39 Melrose Boulevard, Melrose Arch, Johannesburg, 

Limited

2076

South Africa

Micawber 146 (Pty) Ltd 

77%

Ordinary

144 Oxford Road, Rosebank, Melrose 2196, 

South Africa

Modikwa Mining Personnel Services (Pty) Ltd 38%

South Africa

Modikwa Platinum Mine (Pty) Ltd

South Africa

Mogalakwena Platinum Limited

38%

77%

Ordinary

Ordinary

Ordinary

Johannesburg

29 Impala Road, Chislehurston, Standton, 2196

16 North Road, Dunkeld Court, Dunkeld West, 2196

144 Oxford Road, Rosebank, Melrose 2196, 

Johannesburg

South Africa

Newshelf 480 (Pty) Ltd

55%

Ordinary

144 Oxford Road, Rosebank, Melrose 2196, 

South Africa

Norsand Holdings (Pty) Ltd

77%

Johannesburg

144 Oxford Road, Rosebank, Melrose 2196, 

Johannesburg

Ordinary
B Ordinary
Non-Cumulative 
Redeemable 
Preference

South Africa

Peglerae Hospital (Pty) Ltd

31%

Ordinary

21 Oxford Manor, Rudd & Chaplin Roads, Illovo, 

Johannesburg, 2196

South Africa

Platmed (Pty) Ltd

77%

Ordinary

144 Oxford Road, Rosebank, Melrose 2196, 

Johannesburg

South Africa

Platmed Properties (Pty) Ltd

77%

Ordinary

144 Oxford Road, Rosebank, Melrose 2196, 

Johannesburg

South Africa

Polokwane Iron Ore Company (Pty) Ltd

27%

Ordinary

144 Oxford Road, Rosebank, Melrose 2196, 

Johannesburg

South Africa

Precious Metals Refiners Proprietary Limited

77%

Ordinary

144 Oxford Road, Rosebank, Melrose 2196, 

Johannesburg

South Africa

Pro Enviro (Pty) Ltd

South Africa

Resident Nominees (Pty) Ltd

20%

100%

Ordinary

Ordinary

Greenside Colliery, PTN 0ff 331, Blackhills, 1032

144 Oxford Road, Rosebank, Melrose 2196, 

Johannesburg

South Africa

Rustenburg Base Metals Refiners Proprietary 

77%

Ordinary

144 Oxford Road, Rosebank, Melrose 2196, 

Limited

Johannesburg

290

Anglo American plc 
Integrated Annual Report 2023

Financial statements and other financial information
Notes to the financial statements

Group structure

36. Related undertakings of the Group continued

Country of 
incorporation(1)(2)

Name of undertaking

See page 293 for footnotes.

Percentage
of equity
owned(3)

Share class

Registered address

South Africa

Rustenburg Platinum Mines Limited

77%

Ordinary

144 Oxford Road, Rosebank, Melrose 2196, 

Johannesburg

South Africa

Samancor Holdings Proprietary Limited

40%

Ordinary

39 Melrose Boulevard, Melrose Arch, Johannesburg, 

2076

South Africa

Samancor Manganese Proprietary Limited

40%

Ordinary NPV

39 Melrose Boulevard, Melrose Arch, Johannesburg, 

South Africa

Samancor Manganese Rehabilitation Trust 

South Africa

Sheba's Ridge Platinum (Pty) Ltd 

South Africa

Sibelo Resource Development (Pty) Ltd

40%

27%

53%

N/A

Ordinary

Ordinary

2076

6 Hollard Street, Johannesburg, 2001

Harrowdene Office Park Building 5, Woodmead, 2128 

144 Oxford Road, Rosebank, Melrose 2196, 

Johannesburg

South Africa

SIOC Employee Benefit Trust

53%

N/A

144 Oxford Road, Rosebank, Melrose 2196, 

Johannesburg

South Africa

SIOC Employee Share Ownership Plan Trust 53%

N/A

144 Oxford Road, Rosebank, Melrose 2196, 

Johannesburg

South Africa

SIOC Solar SPV (Pty) Ltd

53%

Ordinary 

144 Oxford Road, Rosebank, Melrose 2196, 

Johannesburg

South Africa

Sishen Iron Ore Company (Pty) Ltd

53%

Ordinary

144 Oxford Road, Rosebank, Melrose 2196, 

Johannesburg

South Africa

Spectrem Air Pty Ltd

93%

Ordinary and no 
par value

144 Oxford Road, Rosebank, Melrose 2196, 

Johannesburg

South Africa

Tenon Investment Holdings (Pty) Ltd

100%

Ordinary

144 Oxford Road, Rosebank, Melrose 2196, 

Johannesburg

South Africa

Terra Nominees Proprietary Limited

40%

Ordinary

39 Melrose Boulevard, Melrose Arch, Johannesburg, 

2076

South Africa

The Village of Cullinan (Pty) Ltd

South Africa

The Work Expert (Pty) Ltd 

63%

46%

Ordinary

Ordinary

36 Stockdale Street, Kimberley, 8301

17 Du Plooy Street, FH Building, Potchefstroom, North 

West, 2530

South Africa

Venetia Solar Project Pty Ltd

64%

Ordinary

De Beers House, Corner Diamond Drive and Crownwood 

Road, Theta, Johannesburg, 2013 

South Africa

Vergelegen Wine Estate (Pty) Ltd

100%

Ordinary

Vergelegen Wine Farm, Lourensford Road, Somerset 

West, 7130

South Africa

Vergelegen Wines (Pty) Ltd

100%

Ordinary

Vergelegen Wine Farm, Lourensford Road, Somerset 

West, 7130

South Africa

Whiskey Creek Management Services (Pty) 

77%

Ordinary

144 Oxford Road, Rosebank, Melrose 2196, 

Ltd 

Johannesburg

South Africa

WPIC Holdings Pty Ltd 

40%

Ordinary

 Rosebank Towers, 19 Biermann Ave, Rosebank, 

Johannesburg, 2196 

South Africa

Zero Emissions Hydrogen Solutions (PTY) Ltd 100%

Ordinary

144 Oxford Road, Rosebank, Melrose 2196, 

Johannesburg

South Africa 

Main Street 1252 (Pty) Ltd (RF)

63%

Ordinary

Cornerstone, Corner of Diamond Drive and Crownwood 

Road, Theta, Johannesburg, 2013

Sweden

Switzerland

Element Six AB
De Beers Centenary AG(5)

51%

85%

Ordinary

Ordinary

c/o Advokatbyrån Kaiding, Box 385, 931 24 Skellefteå

c/o Telemarketing, Plus AG, Sonnenplatz 6, 6020, 

Emmenbrücke

Switzerland

PGI SA

77%

Ordinary

Avenue Mon- Repos 24, Case postale 656, CH- 1001 

Lausanne

Switzerland

Synova S.A.

28%

Ordinary

13 Route de Genolier, 1266 Duillier

Tanzania

Ambase Prospecting (Tanzania) (Pty) Ltd

100%

Ordinary

c/o Mawalla Advocates, Mawalla Road, Mawalla 

Heritage Park, Plot No. 175/20, Arusha

United Arab 
Emirates

De Beers DMCC

85%

Ordinary

Office 4D, Almas Tower, Jumeirah Lakes Towers, Dubai

United Kingdom Anglo American Australia Investments 

100%

Ordinary

17 Charterhouse Street, London, EC1N 6RA

Limited(9)

United Kingdom Anglo American Capital Australia Limited

100%

Ordinary

17 Charterhouse Street, London, EC1N 6RA

Anglo American plc 
Integrated Annual Report 2023

Financial statements and other financial information  
Notes to the financial statements

291

Group structure

36. Related undertakings of the Group continued

Country of 
incorporation(1)(2)

Name of undertaking

See page 293 for footnotes.
United Kingdom Anglo American Capital plc(9)

Percentage
of equity
owned(3)

100%

Share class

Registered address

Ordinary
3% Cumulative 
Preference

17 Charterhouse Street, London, EC1N 6RA

United Kingdom Anglo American CMC Holdings Limited

100%

Ordinary

17 Charterhouse Street, London, EC1N 6RA

United Kingdom Anglo American Corporate Secretary Limited 100%

Ordinary

17 Charterhouse Street, London, EC1N 6RA

United Kingdom Anglo American Crop Nutrients Limited

100%

Ordinary

17 Charterhouse Street, London, EC1N 6RA

United Kingdom Anglo American Diamond Holdings Limited

100%

Ordinary

17 Charterhouse Street, London, EC1N 6RA

United Kingdom Anglo American Energy Solutions Limited

United Kingdom Anglo American Finance (UK) Limited

United Kingdom Anglo American Holdings Limited

100%

100%

100%

17 Charterhouse Street, London, EC1N 6RA

17 Charterhouse Street, London, EC1N 6RA

17 Charterhouse Street, London, EC1N 6RA

Ordinary

Ordinary

Ordinary
8% Preference
8.3% Preference
B shares

United Kingdom Anglo American International Holdings 

100%

Ordinary

17 Charterhouse Street, London, EC1N 6RA

Limited

United Kingdom Anglo American Investments (UK) Limited

United Kingdom Anglo American Marketing Limited

United Kingdom Anglo American Medical Plan Limited

United Kingdom Anglo American Medical Plan Trust
United Kingdom Anglo American Prefco Limited(9)

United Kingdom Anglo American Rand Capital Limited

United Kingdom Anglo American REACH Limited
United Kingdom Anglo American Services (UK) Ltd.(9)

100%

100%

100%

100%

100%

100%

100%

100%

Ordinary

Ordinary
Preference

Ordinary

N/A

Ordinary
Capital Preference
Preference

17 Charterhouse Street, London, EC1N 6RA

17 Charterhouse Street, London, EC1N 6RA

17 Charterhouse Street, London, EC1N 6RA

17 Charterhouse Street, London, EC1N 6RA

17 Charterhouse Street, London, EC1N 6RA

Ordinary

Ordinary

Ordinary

17 Charterhouse Street, London, EC1N 6RA

17 Charterhouse Street, London, EC1N 6RA

17 Charterhouse Street, London, EC1N 6RA

United Kingdom Anglo American Technical & Sustainability 

100%

Ordinary

17 Charterhouse Street, London, EC1N 6RA

Limited

United Kingdom Anglo American Technical & Sustainability 

100%

Ordinary

17 Charterhouse Street, London, EC1N 6RA

Services Ltd

United Kingdom Anglo American Woodsmith (Teesside) 

100%

Limited

United Kingdom Anglo American Woodsmith Limited

100%

United Kingdom Anglo Base Metals Marketing Limited

United Kingdom Anglo Platinum Marketing Limited

United Kingdom Anglo UK Pension Trustee Limited

United Kingdom AP Ventures Fund I LP

United Kingdom Birchall Gardens LLP

United Kingdom Charterhouse CAP Limited

United Kingdom Curtis Fitch Limited

United Kingdom De Beers Capital Southern Africa Limited

United Kingdom De Beers Corporate Secretary Limited

United Kingdom De Beers Jewellers Limited

100%

77%

100%

39%

50%

85%

21%

85%

85%

85%

Ordinary
Non-voting

Ordinary
B preference
Non-voting

Ordinary

Ordinary

Ordinary

N/A

N/A

17 Charterhouse Street, London, EC1N 6RA

17 Charterhouse Street, London, EC1N 6RA

17 Charterhouse Street, London, EC1N 6RA

17 Charterhouse Street, London, EC1N 6RA

17 Charterhouse Street, London, EC1N 6RA

16 Littleworth Lane, Esher, Surrey, KT10 9PF

Bardon Hall, Copt Oak Road, Markfield, Leicestershire, 

LE67 9PJ

Ordinary

17 Charterhouse Street, London, EC1N 6RA

Ordinary B 

Formal House, 60 St George’s Place, Cheltenham, 

Gloucestershire, GL50 3PN

17 Charterhouse Street, London, EC1N 6RA

17 Charterhouse Street, London, EC1N 6RA

17 Charterhouse Street, London, EC1N 6RA

 Ordinary

Ordinary

A Ordinary
B Ordinary
Deferred Share
Special Dividend 
Share

United Kingdom De Beers Jewellers Trade Mark Limited

United Kingdom De Beers Jewellers UK Limited

United Kingdom De Beers UK Limited

85%

85%

85%

Ordinary

Ordinary

Ordinary

17 Charterhouse Street, London, EC1N 6RA

17 Charterhouse Street, London, EC1N 6RA

17 Charterhouse Street, London, EC1N 6RA

292

Anglo American plc 
Integrated Annual Report 2023

Financial statements and other financial information
Notes to the financial statements

Group structure

36. Related undertakings of the Group continued

Country of 
incorporation(1)(2)

Name of undertaking

See page 293 for footnotes.

United Kingdom Debcore Limited

United Kingdom Ebbsfleet Property Limited 

Percentage
of equity
owned(3)

43%

50%

Share class

Registered address

Ordinary-A

17 Charterhouse Street, London, EC1N 6RA

Ordinary

Bardon Hall, Copt Oak Road, Markfield, Leicestershire, 

LE67 9PJ

United Kingdom Element Six (UK) Limited

51%

Ordinary

Global Innovation Centre, Fermi Avenue, Harwell, Oxford, 

United Kingdom Element Six Abrasives Holdings Limited

51%

United Kingdom Element Six Holdings Limited

United Kingdom Element Six Limited

85%

85%

Ordinary 
Preference

Ordinary

Ordinary

Didcot, Oxfordshire, OX11 0QR

17 Charterhouse Street, London, EC1N 6RA

17 Charterhouse Street, London, EC1N 6RA

Global Innovation Centre, Fermi Avenue, Harwell, Oxford, 

Didcot, Oxfordshire, OX11 0QR

United Kingdom Element Six Technologies Limited

85%

Ordinary

Global Innovation Centre, Fermi Avenue, Harwell, Oxford, 

Didcot, Oxfordshire, OX11 0QR

United Kingdom Ferro Nickel Marketing Limited

100%

Ordinary

17 Charterhouse Street, London, EC1N 6RA

United Kingdom First Mode IPP Limited

United Kingdom Forevermark Limited

United Kingdom Gemfair Limited

United Kingdom IIDGR (UK) Limited

United Kingdom Lightbox Jewelry Ltd. 

United Kingdom Rhoanglo Trustees Limited

United Kingdom Sach 1 Ltd

United Kingdom Sach 2 Ltd

United Kingdom Security Nominees Limited

United Kingdom Sirius Minerals Holdings Limited

United Kingdom Swanscombe Development LLP

81%

85%

85%

85%

85%

100%

100%

100%

100%

100%

50%

Ordinary

Ordinary

Ordinary

Ordinary

Ordinary

Ordinary

Ordinary

Ordinary
Redeemable 
Preference

Ordinary

Ordinary

N/A

10 Bloomsbury Way, London, WC1A 2SL

17 Charterhouse Street, London, EC1N 6RA

17 Charterhouse Street, London, EC1N 6RA

17 Charterhouse Street, London, EC1N 6RA

17 Charterhouse Street, London, EC1N 6RA

17 Charterhouse Street, London, EC1N 6RA

17 Charterhouse Street, London, EC1N 6RA

17 Charterhouse Street, London, EC1N 6RA

17 Charterhouse Street, London, EC1N 6RA

17 Charterhouse Street, London, EC1N 6RA

Bardon Hall, Copt Oak Road, Markfield, Leicestershire, 

LE67 9PJ

United Kingdom Tarvos Limited

30%

N/A

Unit 107, 121 Upper Richmond Road, London, England, 

SW15 2DW

United Kingdom The Diamond Trading Company Limited

United Kingdom TRACR Limited

85%

85%

Ordinary

Ordinary

17 Charterhouse Street, London, EC1N 6RA

17 Charterhouse Street, London, EC1N 6RA

United Kingdom York Potash Holdings Limited

100%

Ordinary

1 More London Place, London, SE1 2AF

United Kingdom York Potash Intermediate Holdings Limited 

100%

Ordinary

1 More London Place, London, SE1 2AF

United Kingdom YPF Limited

Anglo American Crop Nutrients (USA), LLC

100%

100%

Ordinary

17 Charterhouse Street, London, EC1N 6RA

Membership 
interest

7700 E Arapahoe Road, Suite 220, Centennial Colorado, 

80112

United States 
of America

United States 
of America

United States 
of America

United States 
of America

United States 
of America

United States 
of America

United States 
of America

United States 
of America

United States 
of America

Anglo American US Holdings Inc.

100%

Common

c/o Corporation Service Company, 251 Little Falls Drive, 

Wilmington Delaware, 19808

De Beers Jewellers US, Inc.

85%

Common

300 First Stamford Place, Stamford, CT, 06902

Element Six Technologies (OR) Corp.

85%

Ordinary

Cogency Global Inc., 850 New Burton Road, Suite 201, 

Dover, DE 19904

Element Six Technologies US Corporation

85%

Ordinary 

3901 Burton Drive, Santa Clara, CA 95054

Element Six US Corporation

51%

Common stock

24900 Pitkin Road, Suite 250, Spring TX 77386

First Mode Holdings Inc.

81%

Ordinary

1209 Orange Street, City of Wilmington, Delaware, 

19801

Forevermark US Inc.

85%

Common

300 First Stamford Place, Stamford, CT, 06902

Lightbox Jewelry Inc.

85%

Ordinary

Cogency Global Inc., 850 New Burton Road, Suite 201, 

Dover, DE 19904

Anglo American plc 
Integrated Annual Report 2023

Financial statements and other financial information  
Notes to the financial statements

293

Group structure

36. Related undertakings of the Group continued

Country of 
incorporation(1)(2)

Name of undertaking

See page 293 for footnotes.

Percentage
of equity
owned(3)

Share class

Registered address

United States 
of America

United States 
of America

Platinum Guild International (U.S.A.) Jewelry 

77%

Ordinary

125 Park Avenue, 25th Floor, New York, New York 10017

Inc.

Synchronous LLC

81%

Membership Units C/O Corpserve, Inc., 1001 Fourht Avenue, Ste. 4400, 

Seattle, WA 98154

Venezuela

Minera Loma de Niquel C.A.

100%

Class A 

Torre Humboldt, floor 9, office 09-07, Rio Caura Street, 

Prados del Este. Caracas 1080. 

Zambia

Anglo Exploration (Zambia) (Pty) Ltd

100%

Ordinary

11 Katemo Road, Rhodes Park, Lusaka

Zimbabwe

Amzim Holdings Limited

Zimbabwe

Southridge Limited

Zimbabwe

Unki Mines (Private) Limited

Zimbabwe

Unki Solar PV (Private) Limited

79%

79%

79%

79%

Ordinary

Ordinary

Ordinary

Ordinary

28 Broadlands Road, Emerald Hill, Harare

28 Broadlands Road, Emerald Hill, Harare

28 Broadlands Road, Emerald Hill, Harare

28 Broadlands Road, Emerald Hill, Harare

(1) All the companies with an incorporation in the United Kingdom are registered in England 

and Wales.

(2) The country of tax residence is disclosed where different from the country of incorporation.
(3) All percentages have been rounded.
(4) The interest in Debswana Diamond Company (Pty) Ltd is held indirectly through De Beers 
and is consolidated on a 19.2% proportionate basis, reflecting economic interest. The 
Group’s effective interest in Debswana Diamond Company (Pty ) Ltd is 16.3%.

(5) Tax resident in the United Kingdom. 

(6) 2% direct holding by Anglo American plc.
(7) 0.03% direct holding by Anglo American plc.
(8) A 74% interest in De Beers Consolidated Mines (Pty) Ltd (DBCM) and its subsidiaries is held 
indirectly through De Beers. The 74% interest represents De Beers’ legal ownership share in 
DBCM. For accounting purposes De Beers consolidates 100% of DBCM as it is deemed to 
control the BEE entity, Ponahalo, which holds the remaining 26%. The Group’s effective 
interest in DBCM is 85%.

(9) 100% direct holding by Anglo American plc.

294

Anglo American plc 
Integrated Annual Report 2023

Financial statements and other financial information
Notes to the financial statements

Other items

This section includes disclosures about related party transactions, auditors’ 
remuneration and accounting policies.

37. Related party transactions

The Group has related party relationships with its subsidiaries, joint operations, associates and joint ventures (see notes 35 and 36). Members of 
the Board and the Executive Leadership Team are considered to be related parties.

The Company and its subsidiaries, in the ordinary course of business, enter into various sale, purchase and service transactions with joint 
operations, associates, joint ventures and others in which the Group has a material interest. These transactions are under terms that are no less 
favourable to the Group than those arranged with third parties.

US$ million
Transactions with related parties

Sale of goods and services

Purchase of goods and services

Balances with related parties

Trade and other receivables from related parties

Trade and other payables to related parties

Loans receivable from related parties

Associates

Joint ventures

Joint operations

2023 

2022 

2023 

2022 

2023 

2022 

— 

— 

— 

— 

2 

— 

— 

— 

— 

2 

3 

16 

118 

181 

(204)   

(190) 

(2,980)   

(4,253) 

2 

(18)   

163 

7 

(18) 

147 

18 

17 

(86)   

(250) 

1 

— 

Balances and transactions with joint operations or joint operation partners represent the portion that the Group does not have the right to offset 
against the corresponding amount recorded by the respective joint operations. These amounts primarily relate to purchases by De Beers and 
Platinum Group Metals from their joint operations in excess of the Group’s attributable share of their production.

Loans receivable from related parties are included in Financial asset investments on the Consolidated balance sheet.

Remuneration and benefits received by directors are disclosed in the Remuneration report. Remuneration and benefits of key management 
personnel, including directors, are disclosed in note 28. Information relating to pension fund arrangements is disclosed in note 29.

38. Auditors’ remuneration

US$ million

Paid to the Company’s auditor for audit 
of the Anglo American plc Annual Report(1)

Paid to the Company’s auditor for other 
services to the Group

Audit of the Company’s subsidiaries

Total audit fees

Audit related assurance services

Other assurance services

Total non-audit fees

Paid/payable to PwC

United 
Kingdom

Overseas

Total

2023 

Paid/payable 
to auditor 
(if not PwC)

United 
Kingdom and 
overseas

Paid/payable to PwC

United 
Kingdom

Overseas

Total

2022 

Paid/payable 
to auditor 
(if not PwC)

United 
Kingdom and 
overseas

4.9 

2.7 

7.6 

— 

6.0 

1.7 

7.7 

— 

1.6 

6.5 

1.0 

0.4 

1.4 

7.0 

9.7 

0.7 

0.2 

0.9 

8.6 

16.2 

1.7 

0.6 

2.3 

0.4 

0.4 

— 

— 

— 

1.1 

7.1 

0.9 

0.4 

1.3 

7.4 

9.1 

0.8 

0.1 

0.9 

8.5 

16.2 

1.7 

0.5 

2.2 

0.3 

0.3 

— 

— 

— 

(1)  In addition there is $0.6 million of audit fees paid in 2023 related to the audit for the year ended 31 December 2022.

Audit related assurance services includes $1.7 million (2022: $1.7 million) for the interim review.

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Anglo American plc 
Integrated Annual Report 2023

Financial statements and other financial information  
Notes to the financial statements

295

Other items

39. Accounting policies

A. Basis of preparation

Basis of preparation
The financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the 
requirements of the Companies Act 2006, UK-adopted International 
Accounting Standards and those parts of the Companies Act 2006 
applicable to companies reporting under those standards and the 
requirements of the Disclosure Guidance and Transparency Rules of 
the Financial Conduct Authority in the United Kingdom as applicable to 
periodic financial reporting. The financial statements have been 
prepared under the historical cost convention as modified by the 
revaluation of pension assets and liabilities and certain financial 
instruments. A summary of the material Group accounting policies is 
set out below.

The preparation of financial statements in conformity with generally 
accepted accounting principles requires the use of estimates and 
assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities 
at the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts of 
revenues and expenses during the reporting period. Although these 
estimates are based on management’s best knowledge of the 
amount, event or actions, actual results ultimately may differ from 
those estimates.

The Group’s results are presented in US dollars, the currency in which 
its business is primarily conducted.

Changes in accounting policies, estimates and disclosures
The accounting policies applied are consistent with those adopted 
and disclosed in the Group financial statements for the year ended 
31 December 2022 with the exception of new accounting 
pronouncements, which became effective on 1 January 2023 and 
have been adopted by the Group. The adoption of these new 
accounting pronouncements has not had a significant impact on the 
accounting policies, methods of computation or presentation applied 
by the Group except for the adoption of the amendment to IAS 12 
Income Taxes below. 

IAS 12 Income Taxes: Deferred Tax related to Assets and Liabilities 
arising from a Single Transaction
An amendment to IAS 12 Income Taxes was published in May 2021 
and became effective for the Group from 1 January 2023. The 
amendment narrowed the scope of the deferred tax recognition 
exemption so that it no longer applies to transactions that, on initial 
recognition, give rise to equal taxable and deductible temporary 
differences. 

The Group has considered the impact of this amendment, notably in 
relation to the accounting for deferred taxes on leases and 
decommissioning and environmental restoration provisions. The 
impact of transitioning to the revised standard was to increase net 
deferred tax liabilities and reduce total equity as at 1 January 2022 
and 31 December 2022 by $71million ($43 million reducing Retained 
earnings and $28 million reducing Non-controlling interests). 

Going concern
The financial position of the Group, its cash flows, liquidity position and 
borrowing facilities are set out in the Group financial review on pages 
90–93. Further details of our policy on financial risk management are 
set out in note 25 to the financial statements on pages 261-263. The 
Group’s net debt (including related hedges) at 31 December 2023 
was $10.6 billion (2022: $6.9 billion). During the first half of 2023, the 
Group issued $2.0 billion of bond debt. In March 2023, the Group 
issued €500 million 4.5% Senior Notes due 2028, €500 million 5.0% 
Senior Notes due 2031 and, in May 2023, $900 million 5.5% Senior 
Notes due 2033. In the second half of 2023, the Group refinanced its 
$4.7 billion revolving credit facility maturing in March 2025, to a one 

year $1 billion facility maturing in November 2024, and a $3.7 billion 
five year facility maturing in November 2028. The Group’s liquidity 
position (defined as cash and undrawn committed facilities) of 
$13.2 billion at 31 December 2023 remains strong. Further details of 
borrowings and facilities are set out in note 22 and note 25 on pages 
255 and 261–263 respectively, and net debt is set out in note 21 on 
page 254. 

The directors have considered the Group’s cash flow forecasts for the 
period to the end of December 2025 under base and downside 
scenarios, with reference to the Group’s principal risks as set out within 
the Group viability statement on pages 79–80. In the downside 
scenario modelled (including pricing and production downsides, 
alongside a significant operational incident), the Group maintains 
sufficient liquidity throughout the period of assessment without the use 
of mitigating actions.

The Board is satisfied that the Group’s forecasts and projections, 
taking account of reasonably possible changes in trading 
performance, show that the Group will be able to operate within the 
level of its current facilities for the period of at least 12 months from the 
date of approval of the financial statements. For this reason the 
Group continues to adopt the going concern basis in preparing its 
financial statements.

New IFRS accounting standards, amendments and interpretations 
not yet adopted
The Group has not early adopted any other amendment, standard or 
interpretation that has been issued but is not yet effective. It is 
expected that where applicable, these standards and amendments 
will be adopted on each respective effective date. The following new 
or amended IFRS accounting standards, amendments and 
interpretations not yet adopted are not expected to have a significant 
impact on the Group:

– Amendments to IAS 1 Presentation of financial statements: non-

current liabilities with covenants

– Amendments to IFRS 16 Leases: Lease Liability in a Sale and 

Leaseback

– Amendments to IAS 7 and IFRS 7, Supplier finance-disclosure 

requirements

B. Basis of consolidation
Basis of consolidation
The financial statements incorporate a consolidation of the financial 
statements of the Company and entities controlled by the Company 
(its subsidiaries). Control is achieved where the Company is exposed, 
or has rights, to variable returns from its involvement with the investee 
and has the ability to affect those returns through its power over the 
investee.

The results of subsidiaries acquired or disposed of during the year are 
included in the income statement from the effective date of acquisition 
or up to the effective date of disposal, as appropriate.

Where necessary, adjustments are made to the results of subsidiaries, 
joint arrangements and associates to bring their accounting policies 
into line with those used by the Group. Intra-group transactions, 
balances, income and expenses are eliminated on consolidation, 
where appropriate.

296

Anglo American plc 
Integrated Annual Report 2023

Financial statements and other financial information
Notes to the financial statements

Other items

39. Accounting policies continued

For non-wholly owned subsidiaries, non-controlling interests are 
presented in equity separately from the equity attributable to 
shareholders of the Company. Profit or loss and other comprehensive 
income are attributed to the shareholders of the Company and to non-
controlling interests even if this results in the non-controlling interests 
having a deficit balance.

Changes in ownership interest in subsidiaries that do not result in a 
change in control are accounted for in equity. The carrying amounts of 
the controlling and non-controlling interests are adjusted to reflect the 
changes in their relative interests in the subsidiary. Any difference 
between the amount by which the non-controlling interest is adjusted 
and the fair value of the consideration paid or received is recorded 
directly in equity and attributed to the shareholders of the Company.

Foreign currency transactions and translation
Foreign currency transactions by Group companies are recognised in 
the functional currencies of the companies at the exchange rate ruling 
on the date of the transaction. At each reporting date, monetary assets 
and liabilities that are denominated in foreign currencies are 
retranslated at the rates prevailing on the reporting date. Gains and 
losses arising on retranslation are included in the income statement for 
the period and are classified in the income statement according to the 
nature of the monetary item giving rise to them.

Non-monetary assets and liabilities that are measured at historical 
cost in a foreign currency are translated using the exchange rate at the 
date of the transaction.

On consolidation, the assets and liabilities of the Group’s foreign 
operations are translated into the presentation currency of the Group 
at exchange rates prevailing on the reporting date. Income and 
expense items are translated at the average exchange rates for the 
period where these approximate the rates at the dates of the 
transactions. Any exchange differences arising are classified within the 
statement of comprehensive income and transferred to the Group’s 
cumulative translation adjustment reserve. Exchange differences on 
foreign currency balances with foreign operations for which settlement 
is neither planned nor likely to occur in the foreseeable future, and 
therefore form part of the Group’s net investment in these foreign 
operations, are offset in the cumulative translation adjustment reserve.

Cumulative translation differences are recycled from equity and 
recognised as income or expense on disposal of the operation to 
which they relate.

Goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on the acquisition of 
foreign entities are treated as assets of the foreign entity and 
translated at the closing rate.

Tenon
Tenon Investment Holdings Proprietary Limited (Tenon), a wholly 
owned subsidiary of Anglo American South Africa Proprietary Limited 
(AASA), has entered into agreements with Epoch Investment Holdings 
(RF) Proprietary Limited (Epoch), Epoch Two Investment Holdings (RF) 
Proprietary Limited (Epoch Two) and Tarl Investment Holdings (RF) 
Proprietary Limited (Tarl) (collectively the Investment Companies), 
each owned by independent charitable trusts whose trustees are 
independent of the Group. Under the terms of these agreements, the 
Investment Companies have purchased Anglo American plc shares on 
the market and have granted to Tenon the right to nominate a third 
party (which may include Anglo American plc but not any of its 
subsidiaries) to take transfer of the Anglo American plc shares each 
has purchased on the market. Tenon paid the Investment Companies 
80% of the cost of the Anglo American plc shares including associated 
costs for this right to nominate, which together with subscriptions by 
Tenon for non-voting participating redeemable preference shares in 
the Investment Companies, provided all the funding required to 

acquire the Anglo American plc shares through the market. These 
payments by Tenon were sourced from the cash resources of AASA. 
Tenon is able to exercise its right of nomination at any time up to 
31 December 2025 against payment of an average amount of $2.93 
per share to Epoch, $4.56 per share to Epoch Two and $3.78 per share 
to Tarl which will be equal to 20% of the total costs respectively 
incurred by Epoch, Epoch Two and Tarl in purchasing shares 
nominated for transfer to the third party. These funds will then become 
available for redemption of the preference shares issued by the 
Investment Companies. The amount payable by the third party on 
receipt of the Anglo American plc shares will accrue to Tenon and, as 
these are own shares of the Company, any resulting gain or loss 
recorded by Tenon will not be recognised in the Consolidated income 
statement of Anglo American plc.

Under the agreements, the Investment Companies will receive 
dividends on the shares they hold and have agreed to waive the right 
to vote on those shares. The preference shares issued to the charitable 
trusts are entitled to a participating right of up to 10% of the profit after 
tax of Epoch and 5% of the profit after tax of Epoch Two and Tarl. The 
preference shares issued to Tenon will carry a fixed coupon of 3% plus 
a participating right of up to 80% of the profit after tax of Epoch and 
85% of the profit after tax of Epoch Two and Tarl. Any remaining 
distributable earnings in the Investment Companies, after the above 
dividends, are then available for distribution as ordinary dividends to 
the charitable trusts.

The structure effectively provides Tenon with a beneficial interest in the 
price risk on these shares together with participation in future dividend 
receipts. The Investment Companies will retain legal title to the shares 
until Tenon exercises its right to nominate a transferee.

At 31 December 2023 the Investment Companies together held 
112,300,129 (2022: 112,300,129) Anglo American plc shares, which 
represented 8.4% (2022: 8.4%) of the ordinary shares in issue 
(excluding treasury shares) with a market value of $2,818 million 
(2022: $4,400 million). The Investment Companies are not permitted 
to hold more than an aggregate of 10% of the issued share capital of 
Anglo American plc at any one time.

The Investment Companies are considered to be structured entities. 
Although the Group has no voting rights in the Investment Companies 
and cannot appoint or remove trustees of the charitable trusts, the 
Group considers that the agreement outlined above, including Tenon’s 
right to nominate the transferee of the Anglo American plc shares held 
by the Investment Companies, results in the Group having control over 
the Investment Companies as defined under IFRS 10 Consolidated 
Financial Statements. Accordingly, the Investment Companies are 
required to be consolidated by the Group.

C. Financial performance
Revenue recognition

Revenue from contracts with customers 
Revenue from contracts with customers is recognised in a manner that 
depicts the pattern of the transfer of goods and services to customers. 
The amount recognised reflects the amount to which the Group 
expects to be entitled in exchange for those goods and services. Sales 
contracts are evaluated to determine the performance obligations, the 
transaction price and the point at which there is transfer of control. The 
transaction price is the amount of consideration due in exchange for 
transferring the promised goods or services to the customer, and is 
allocated against the performance obligations and recognised in 
accordance with whether control is transferred over a defined period 
or at a specific point in time.

Revenue is derived principally from commodity sales. A sale is 
recognised when control has been transferred. This is usually when title 
and insurance risk have passed to the customer and the goods have 
been delivered to a contractually agreed location. Revenue from 
contracts with customers is measured at the fair value of consideration 
received or receivable as at the date control is transferred, after 
deducting discounts, volume rebates, value added tax and other sales 

Anglo American plc 
Integrated Annual Report 2023

Financial statements and other financial information  
Notes to the financial statements

297

Other items

39. Accounting policies continued

taxes. Some sales are provisionally priced such that the price is not 
settled until a predetermined future date and is based on the market 
price at that time or a specified period to that date. For these sales, 
revenue from contracts with customers is recognised on the date 
control is transferred to the customer using the relevant forward price 
at that date. Sales of metal concentrate are stated at their invoiced 
amount which is net of treatment and refining charges. 

Revenues from the sale of material by-products are recognised within 
revenue from contracts with customers at the point control passes. 
Where a by-product is not regarded as significant, revenue may be 
credited against operating costs.

Revenue from services is recognised over time in line with the policy 
above. For contracts which contain separate performance obligations 
for the sale of commodities and the provision of freight services, the 
portion of the revenue representing the obligation to perform the 
freight service is deferred and recognised over time as the obligation is 
fulfilled. In situations where the Group is acting as an agent, amounts 
billed to customers are offset against the relevant costs.

Revenue from other sources
Revenue from other sources principally relates to gains and losses on 
financial instruments which are intrinsically linked to the delivery of 
commodities to customers or to the Group’s commodity trading 
activities. 

Sales of commodities which are provisionally priced are marked to 
market at each reporting date using the forward price for the period 
equivalent to that outlined in the contract. Mark-to-market adjustments 
arising after control of the goods transfers to the customer are 
recognised in revenue from other sources.

Physically-settled contracts relating to the purchase and sale of 
material produced by third parties (third-party sales) are presented on 
a net basis within revenue from other sources where these contracts 
are entered into and managed collectively to generate a trading 
margin as part of the Group’s Marketing business and are accounted 
for as derivatives prior to settlement. This includes third-party material 
purchased for blending activities conducted to benefit from short term 
pricing differentials (usually of less than twelve months). The sale and 
purchase of third-party material to mitigate shortfalls in the Group’s 
own production are shown on a gross basis with sales reported within 
revenue from contracts with customers as such contracts are used to 
maintain customer relationships and fulfil physical sale commitments 
rather than to generate a trading margin. 

Revenue from other sources also includes fair value gains and losses 
arising from mark-to-market adjustments to inventory purchased from 
third parties as part of trading activities and accounted for at fair value less 
costs to sell under the broker-trader exemption of IAS 2 Inventories. 

Contracts with a right to repurchase 
Where the Group enters into commodity sale or purchase agreements 
in the course of its commodity trading activities in which the seller has a 
right to repurchase, consideration is given to whether the risks and 
rewards of ownership have been transferred as a result of the sale. This 
assessment is made with reference to the criteria in IFRS 9 Financial 
Instruments. Key considerations in this assessment include whether the 
purchaser has a practical ability to use the commodity and whether 
price risk has been transferred. 

Where risks and rewards have been transferred, the sale or purchase 
contract is accounted for separately from the repurchase obligation 
(which is recorded as a derivative financial instrument). Where risks 
and rewards have not been transferred or the arrangements do not 
relate to the Group’s commodity trading activities, any consideration 
received or paid is recorded as a liability or asset as appropriate and 
no adjustment is made to revenue or inventory. 

Interest income
Interest income is accrued on a time basis, by reference to the principal 
outstanding and at the effective interest rate applicable.

Dividend income 
Dividend income from investments is recognised when the 
shareholders’ rights to receive payment have been established.

Exploration and evaluation expenditure
Exploration and evaluation expenditure is expensed in the year in 
which it is incurred.

Exploration expenditure is the cost of exploring for Mineral Resources 
other than that occurring at existing operations and projects and 
comprises geological and geophysical studies, exploratory drilling and 
sampling and Mineral Resource development.

Evaluation expenditure includes the cost of conceptual and pre-
feasibility studies and evaluation of Mineral Resources at existing 
operations.

When a decision is taken that a mining project is technically feasible 
and commercially viable, usually after a pre-feasibility study has been 
completed, subsequent directly attributable expenditure, including 
feasibility study costs, are considered development expenditure and 
are capitalised within property, plant and equipment.

Exploration properties acquired are recognised on the balance 
sheet when management considers that their value is recoverable. 
These properties are measured at cost less any accumulated 
impairment losses.

Short term and low value leases
Leases with a term of less than 12 months or those with committed 
payments of less than $5,000 are not recognised in the balance sheet. 
The Group recognises payments for these leases as an expense on a 
straight-line basis over the lease term within operating costs in 
underlying EBITDA. 

Borrowing costs
Interest on borrowings directly relating to the financing of qualifying 
assets in the course of construction is added to the capitalised cost of 
those projects under ‘Capital works in progress’, until such time as the 
assets are substantially ready for their intended use or sale.

Where funds have been borrowed specifically to finance a project, the 
amount capitalised represents the actual borrowing costs incurred. 
Where the funds used to finance a project form part of general 
borrowings, the amount capitalised is calculated using a weighted 
average of rates applicable to relevant general borrowings of the 
Group during the period. All other borrowing costs are recognised in 
the income statement in the period in which they are incurred. 

All cash flows relating to interest on borrowings are presented within 
interest paid in the cash flow statement. 

D. Capital base
Business combinations and goodwill arising thereon
The identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities of a 
subsidiary, a joint arrangement or an associate, which can be 
measured reliably, are recorded at their provisional fair values at the 
date of acquisition. The estimation of the fair value of identifiable 
assets and liabilities is subjective and the use of different valuation 
assumptions could have a significant impact on financial results. 
Goodwill is the fair value of the consideration transferred (including 
contingent consideration and previously held non-controlling interests) 
less the fair value of the Group’s share of identifiable net assets on 
acquisition.

Where a business combination is achieved in stages, the Group’s 
previously held interests in the acquiree are remeasured to fair value at 
the acquisition date and the resulting gain or loss is recognised in the 
income statement.

298

Anglo American plc 
Integrated Annual Report 2023

Financial statements and other financial information
Notes to the financial statements

Other items

39. Accounting policies continued

Amounts arising from interests in the acquiree prior to the acquisition 
date that have previously been recognised in other comprehensive 
income are reclassified to the income statement, where such 
treatment would be appropriate if that interest were disposed of.

Transaction costs incurred in connection with the business 
combination are expensed. Provisional fair values are finalised within 
12 months of the acquisition date.

Goodwill in respect of subsidiaries and joint operations is included 
within intangible assets. Goodwill relating to associates and joint 
ventures is included within the carrying value of the investment.

Where the fair value of the identifiable net assets acquired exceeds the 
cost of the acquisition, the surplus, which represents the discount on 
the acquisition, is recognised directly in the income statement in the 
period of acquisition.

For non-wholly owned subsidiaries, non-controlling interests are 
initially recorded at the non-controlling interests’ proportion of the fair 
values of net assets recognised at acquisition.

Impairment of goodwill, intangible assets and property, plant and 
equipment
Goodwill arising on business combinations is allocated to the group of 
cash generating units (CGUs) that is expected to benefit from 
synergies of the combination, and represents the lowest level at which 
goodwill is monitored by the Group’s Board of directors for internal 
management purposes. The recoverable amount of the CGU, or group 
of CGUs, to which goodwill has been allocated is tested for impairment 
annually, or when events or changes in circumstances indicate that it 
may be impaired.

Any impairment loss is recognised immediately in the income 
statement. Impairment of goodwill is not subsequently reversed.

At each reporting date, the Group reviews the carrying amounts of its 
property, plant and equipment and intangible assets to determine 
whether there is any indication that those assets are impaired. If such 
an indication exists, the recoverable amount of the asset is estimated 
in order to determine the extent of any impairment. Where the asset 
does not generate cash flows that are independent from other assets, 
the Group estimates the recoverable amount of the CGU to which the 
asset belongs. An intangible asset with an indefinite useful life is tested 
for impairment annually and whenever there is an indication that the 
asset may be impaired.

Recoverable amount is the higher of fair value less costs of disposal 
and value in use (VIU) assessed using discounted cash flow models, 
as explained in note 7. In assessing VIU, the estimated future cash 
flows are discounted to their present value using a pre-tax discount 
rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of 
money and the risks specific to the asset for which estimates of future 
cash flows have not been adjusted.

If the recoverable amount of an asset or CGU is estimated to be less 
than its carrying amount, the carrying amount of the asset or CGU is 
reduced to its recoverable amount. An impairment loss is recognised 
in the income statement.

Where an impairment loss is subsequently reversed, the carrying 
amount of the asset or CGU is increased to the revised estimate of its 
recoverable amount, to the extent that the increased carrying amount 
does not exceed the carrying amount that would have been 
determined had no impairment been recognised for the asset or CGU. 

A reversal of an impairment loss is recognised in the income statement.

In addition, in making assessments for impairment, management 
necessarily applies its judgement in allocating assets, including 

goodwill, that do not generate independent cash inflows to 
appropriate CGUs.

Subsequent changes to the CGU allocation, timing of cash flows or 
assumptions used to determine the cash flows could impact the 
carrying value of the respective assets.

Non-mining licences and other intangible assets
Non-mining licences and other intangible assets are measured at cost 
less accumulated amortisation and accumulated impairment losses. 
Intangible assets acquired as part of an acquisition of a business are 
capitalised separately from goodwill if the asset is separable or arises 
from contractual or legal rights and the fair value can be measured 
reliably on initial recognition. Intangible assets are amortised over their 
estimated useful lives, usually between 3 and 20 years, except 
goodwill and those intangible assets that are considered to have 
indefinite lives. For intangible assets with a finite life, the amortisation 
period is determined as the period over which the Group expects to 
obtain economic benefits from the asset, taking account of all relevant 
facts and circumstances including contractual lives and expectations 
about the renewal of contractual arrangements without significant 
incremental costs. An intangible asset is deemed to have an indefinite 
life when, based on an analysis of all of the relevant factors, there is no 
foreseeable limit to the period over which the asset is expected to 
generate cash flows for the Group. Indefinite lived intangible assets 
are principally brands for which there is global recognition with 
no foreseeable timeframe of expected contribution that the Group 
is continuing to invest and actively market. Amortisation methods, 
residual values and estimated useful lives are reviewed at 
least annually.

Deferred stripping
The removal of rock or soil overlying a mineral deposit, overburden and 
other waste materials is often necessary during the initial development 
of an open pit mine site, in order to access the orebody. The process of 
removing overburden and other mine waste materials is referred to as 
stripping. The directly attributable cost of this activity is capitalised in 
full within ‘Mining properties – owned’, until the point at which the mine 
is considered to be capable of operating in the manner intended by 
management. This is classified as growth or life-extension capital 
expenditure, within investing cash flows.

The removal of waste material after the point at which depreciation 
commences is referred to as production stripping. When the waste 
removal activity improves access to ore extracted in the current period, 
the costs of production stripping are charged to the income statement 
as operating costs in accordance with the principles of IAS 2 
Inventories.

Where production stripping activity both produces inventory and 
improves access to ore in future periods the associated costs of waste 
removal are allocated between the two elements. The portion that 
benefits future ore extraction is capitalised within ‘Mining properties – 
owned’. This is classified as stripping and development capital 
expenditure, within investing cash flows. If the amount to be capitalised 
cannot be specifically identified, it is determined based on the volume 
of waste extracted compared with expected volume for the identified 
component of the orebody. This determination is dependent on 
an individual mine’s design and Life of Asset Plan and therefore 
changes to the design or Life of Asset Plan will result in changes to 
these estimates. Identification of the components of a mine’s orebody 
is made by reference to the Life of Asset Plan. The assessment 
depends on a range of factors including each mine’s specific 
operational features and materiality.

In certain instances, significant levels of waste removal may occur 
during the production phase with little or no associated production. 
This may occur at both open pit and underground mines, for example 
longwall development.

The cost of this waste removal is capitalised in full to ‘Mining properties 
– owned’.

Anglo American plc 
Integrated Annual Report 2023

Financial statements and other financial information  
Notes to the financial statements

299

Other items

39. Accounting policies continued

All amounts capitalised in respect of waste removal are depreciated 
using the unit of production method for the component of the orebody 
to which they relate, consistent with depreciation of property, plant and 
equipment.

The effects of changes to the Life of Asset Plan on the expected cost of 
waste removal or remaining Ore Reserves for a component are 
accounted for prospectively as a change in estimate.

Property, plant and equipment
Property, plant and equipment is stated at cost, less accumulated 
depreciation and accumulated impairment losses. Cost is the fair value 
of consideration required to acquire and develop the asset and 
includes the purchase price, acquisition of mineral rights, costs directly 
attributable to bringing the asset to the location and condition 
necessary for it to be capable of operating in the manner intended by 
management, the initial estimate of any decommissioning obligation 
and, for assets that take a substantial period of time to get ready for 
their intended use, borrowing costs. Revenue and costs arising from 
assets before they are capable of operating in the manner intended by 
management are recognised in the income statement.

Gains or losses on disposal of property, plant and equipment are 
determined by comparing the net proceeds from disposal with the 
carrying amount. The gain or loss is recognised in the income 
statement.

Depreciation of property, plant and equipment
Mining properties are depreciated to their residual values using the unit 
of production method based on Proved and Probable Ore Reserves 
and, in certain limited circumstances, other Mineral Resources included 
in the Life of Asset Plan. These other Mineral Resources are included in 
depreciation calculations where, taking into account historical rates of 
conversion to Ore Reserves, there is a high degree of confidence that 
they will be extracted in an economic manner. This is the case 
principally for diamond operations, where depreciation calculations 
are based on Diamond Reserves and Diamond Resources included in 
the Life of Asset Plan. This reflects the unique nature of diamond 
deposits where, due to the difficulty in estimating grade, Life of Asset 
Plans frequently include significant amounts of Inferred Resources.

Buildings and items of plant and equipment for which the consumption 
of economic benefit is linked primarily to utilisation or to throughput 
rather than production, are depreciated to their residual values at 
varying rates on a straight-line basis over their estimated useful lives, or 
the Reserve Life, whichever is shorter. Estimated useful lives normally 
vary from up to 20 years for items of plant and equipment to 
a maximum of 50 years for buildings. Under limited circumstances, 
items of plant and equipment may be depreciated over a period that 
exceeds the Reserve Life by taking into account additional Mineral 
Resources other than Proved and Probable Reserves included in the 
Life of Asset Plan, after making allowance for expected production 
losses based on historical rates of Mineral Resource to Ore Reserve 
conversion.

‘Capital works in progress’ are measured at cost less any recognised 
impairment. Depreciation commences when the assets are capable of 
operating in the manner intended by management, at which point they 
are transferred to the appropriate asset class.

Land is not depreciated.

When parts of an item of property, plant and equipment have different 
useful lives, they are accounted for as separate items (major 
components).

Depreciation methods, residual values and estimated useful lives are 
reviewed at least annually.

Leased right-of-use assets
Leased right-of-use assets are included within property, plant and 
equipment, and on inception of the lease are recognised at the 
amount of the corresponding lease liability, adjusted for any lease 
payments made at or before the lease commencement date, plus any 
direct costs incurred and an estimate of costs for dismantling, 
removing, or restoring the underlying asset and less any lease 
incentives received.

The right-of-use asset is depreciated on a straight-line basis over the 
term of the lease, or, if shorter, the useful life of the asset. The useful 
lives of right-of-use assets are estimated on the same basis as those of 
owned property, plant and equipment.

Financial assets
Investments, other than investments in subsidiaries, joint arrangements 
and associates, are financial asset investments and are initially 
recognised at fair value. The Group’s financial assets are classified into 
the following measurement categories: debt instruments at amortised 
cost, equity instruments and debt instruments designated at fair value 
through other comprehensive income (OCI), and debt instruments, 
derivatives and equity instruments at fair value through profit and loss. 
Financial assets are classified as at amortised cost only if the asset is 
held within a business model whose objective is to collect the 
contractual cash flows and the contractual terms of the asset give rise 
to cash flows that are solely payments of principal and interest.

At subsequent reporting dates, financial assets at amortised cost are 
measured at amortised cost less any impairment losses. Other 
investments are classified as either at fair value through profit or loss 
(which includes investments held for trading) or at fair value through 
OCI. Both categories are subsequently measured at fair value. Where 
investments are held for trading purposes, unrealised gains and losses 
for the period are included in the income statement within other gains 
and losses.

The Group has elected to measure equity instruments, which are 
neither held for trading nor are contingent consideration in a business 
combination, at fair value through OCI as this better reflects the 
strategic nature of the Group’s equity investments. For equity 
instruments at fair value through OCI, changes in fair value, including 
those related to foreign exchange, are recognised in other 
comprehensive income and there is no subsequent reclassification of 
fair value gains and losses to profit or loss.

Impairment of financial assets
A financial asset not measured at fair value through profit or loss is 
assessed at each reporting date to determine whether there is any 
objective evidence that it is impaired. The Group assesses on a 
forward-looking basis the expected credit losses, defined as the 
difference between the contractual cash flows and the cash flows 
that are expected to be received, associated with its assets carried 
at amortised cost and fair value through OCI. The impairment 
methodology applied depends on whether there has been a 
significant increase in credit risk. For trade receivables only, the 
simplified approach permitted by IFRS 9 is applied, which requires 
expected lifetime losses to be recognised from initial recognition of 
the receivables.

Losses are recognised in the income statement. When a subsequent 
event causes the amount of impairment loss to decrease, the 
decrease in impairment loss is reversed through the income statement.

Impairment losses relating to equity instruments at fair value through 
OCI are not reported separately from other changes in fair value.

Derecognition of financial assets and financial liabilities
Financial assets are derecognised when the right to receive cash flows 
from the asset has expired, the right to receive cash flows has been 
retained but an obligation to on-pay them in full without material delay 
has been assumed or the right to receive cash flows has been 
transferred together with substantially all the risks and rewards of 
ownership.

300

Anglo American plc 
Integrated Annual Report 2023

Financial statements and other financial information
Notes to the financial statements

Other items

39. Accounting policies continued

Financial liabilities are derecognised when the associated obligation 
has been discharged, cancelled or has expired.

Environmental restoration and decommissioning obligations
An obligation to incur environmental restoration, rehabilitation and 
decommissioning costs arises when disturbance is caused by the 
development or ongoing production of a mining asset. Costs for 
restoration of site damage, rehabilitation and environmental costs are 
estimated using either the work of external consultants or internal 
experts. Such costs arising from the decommissioning of plant and 
other site preparation work, discounted to their net present value, are 
provided for and capitalised at the start of each project, as soon as the 
obligation to incur such costs arises.

These costs are recognised in the income statement over the life of the 
operation, through the depreciation of the asset and the unwinding of 
the discount on the provision. Costs for restoration of subsequent site 
damage which is created on an ongoing basis during production are 
provided for at their net present values and recognised in the income 
statement as ore extraction progresses.

The amount recognised as a provision represents management’s best 
estimate of the consideration required to complete the restoration and 
rehabilitation activity, the application of the relevant regulatory 
framework and timing of expenditure. These estimates are inherently 
uncertain and could materially change over time. Changes in the 
measurement of a liability relating to the decommissioning of plant or 
other site preparation work (that result from changes in the estimated 
timing or amount of the cash flow or a change in the discount rate), are 
added to or deducted from the cost of the related asset in the current 
period. If a decrease in the liability exceeds the carrying amount of the 
asset, the excess is recognised immediately in the income statement. 
If the asset value is increased and there is an indication that the revised 
carrying value is not recoverable, an impairment test is performed in 
accordance with the accounting policy set out above.

For some South African operations, annual contributions are made to 
dedicated environmental rehabilitation trusts to fund the estimated 
cost of rehabilitation during and at the end of the life of the relevant 
mine. The Group exercises full control of these trusts and therefore the 
trusts are consolidated. The trusts’ assets are disclosed separately on 
the balance sheet as non-current assets.

The trusts’ assets are measured based on the nature of the underlying 
assets in accordance with accounting policies for similar assets.

Carbon credits
Carbon credits held for future sale as part of the Group’s trading 
activities, to meet obligations in compliance markets and those 
expected to be surrendered for the production of ‘green’ or ‘carbon 
neutral’ products are accounted for under the Group’s inventory 
accounting policy.

Carbon credits used for other purposes such as to satisfy the Group's 
voluntary carbon emission targets or for capital appreciation over an 
extended period are accounted for under the Group’s accounting 
policy for intangible assets.

Where carbon credits are required to meet obligations in compliance 
markets, provisions are recognised which reflect the cost of carbon 
credits needed to settle the obligation relating to emissions recorded 
to date.

E. Working capital
Inventories
Inventory and work in progress are measured at the lower of cost and 
net realisable value, except for inventory held by commodity broker-
traders which is measured at fair value less costs to sell and are 
disclosed separately to the extent that they are material. The 

production cost of inventory includes an appropriate proportion of 
depreciation and production overheads. Cost is determined on the 
following basis:

– Raw materials and consumables are measured at cost on a first in, 

first out (FIFO) basis or a weighted average cost basis

– Work in progress and finished products are measured at raw 

material cost, labour cost and a proportion of production overhead 
expenses

– Metal and coal stocks are included within finished products and are 

measured at average cost.

At precious metals operations that produce ‘joint products’, cost is 
allocated among precious metal products according to production 
volumes.

Inventory is recognised as a current asset where it is expected to be 
consumed in the next 12 months. Stockpiles are classified as non-
current where stockpiles are not expected to be processed in the next 
12 months and there is no market to sell the product in its current state.

Metal leasing
Where the Group enters into metal leasing arrangements and metal is 
received or provided to counterparties for a specific period of time in 
return for a lease fee, consideration is given to the purpose of the 
arrangement and whether control of the metal inventory has been 
transferred. 

Key considerations in this assessment include whether the lessee has 
a practical ability to use the commodity and whether price risk has 
been transferred.

Where control of the inventory has been transferred to the 
counterparty, inventory is derecognised and a financial receivable is 
recorded for the future receipt of metal. The financial receivable forms 
part of trade and other receivables where the purpose of the 
arrangement is to generate a trading margin and is otherwise 
presented within financial asset investments. 

Where the Group receives control of inventory as a result of a lease 
arrangement, inventory is recognised and a payable is recorded to 
reflect the future return obligation. This liability forms part of trade and 
other payables where the purpose of the arrangement is to generate 
a trading margin or manage physical delivery requirements and is 
otherwise presented within financing liabilities. 

Where control of the inventory is not transferred, the arrangement has 
no impact on the value of inventory recorded.

Trade and other payables
The majority of the Group’s trade and other payables are measured at 
amortised cost, using the effective interest method.

Payables related to the purchase of provisionally priced third party 
PGM concentrate as part of the Group’s processing activities are 
recognised at amortised cost on delivery. Any changes in pricing 
between the delivery date and the date that prices are confirmed is 
recognised as an embedded derivative. Changes in the fair value of 
the embedded derivative is capitalised to inventory as it forms part of 
the cost directly related to bringing the inventory to its present location 
and condition.

Provisionally priced payables arising from the Group’s commodity 
trading activities are recognised at fair value and subsequent fair value 
movements form part of the net margin reported within revenue from 
other sources.

Anglo American plc 
Integrated Annual Report 2023

Financial statements and other financial information  
Notes to the financial statements

301

Other items

39. Accounting policies continued

F. Net debt and financial risk management
Cash and debt
Cash and cash equivalents
Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash in hand and on demand 
deposits, together with short term, highly liquid investments that are 
readily convertible to a known amount of cash and that are subject to 
an insignificant risk of changes in value. Initial margin relating to the 
Group’s commodity trading activities is presented within cash and 
cash equivalents as the terms of the agreement allow the Group to 
request closure of the open positions and return of the margin within 
three days. Bank overdrafts are shown within short term borrowings in 
current liabilities on the balance sheet. 

Cash and cash equivalents in the cash flow statement are shown net 
of overdrafts. Cash and cash equivalents are measured at amortised 
cost except for money market fund investments which are held at fair 
value as they are redeemed through the sale of units in the funds and 
not solely through the recovery of principal and interest.

Financial liabilities and equity instruments
Financial liabilities and equity instruments are classified and 
accounted for as debt or equity according to the substance of the 
contractual arrangements entered into.

Borrowings
Interest bearing borrowings and overdrafts are initially recognised at 
fair value, net of directly attributable transaction costs. Finance 
charges, including premiums payable on settlement or redemption 
and direct issue costs, are recognised in the income statement using 
the effective interest method. They are added to the carrying amount 
of the instrument to the extent that they are not settled in the period in 
which they arise.

Where interest or principal payments are linked to non-financial ESG 
targets, the best estimate of the future payment is included in the 
calculation of the effective interest rate at inception. If this best 
estimate changes in subsequent periods, the carrying value of the 
borrowing is adjusted to reflect the revised forecast, discounted using 
the effective interest rate determined at inception and any resulting 
gain or loss is recognised in the income statement.

Lease liabilities
Lease liabilities recognised on balance sheet are recognised within 
borrowings, and with the exception of variable vessel leases are 
recognised as part of net debt. On inception, the lease liability is 
recognised as the present value of the expected future lease 
payments, discounted using the Group’s incremental borrowing rate, 
adjusted to reflect the length of the lease and country of location. For 
a minority of leases where it is possible to determine the interest rate 
implicit in the lease, it is used in place of the Group’s incremental 
borrowing rate.

Lease payments included in the lease liability consist of each of the 
following:

– Fixed payments, including in-substance fixed payments

– Payments whose variability is dependent only upon an index or 
a rate, measured initially using the index or rate at the lease 
commencement date. The lease liability is revalued when there is a 
change in future lease payments arising from a change in an index 
or rate

– Any amounts expected to be payable under a guarantee of residual 

value

– The exercise price of a purchase option that the Group is reasonably 
certain to exercise, the lease payments after the date of a renewal 
option if the Group is reasonably certain to exercise its option to 
renew the lease, and penalties for exiting a lease agreement unless 
the Group is reasonably certain not to exit the lease early.

Variable leasing costs (other than those referred to above) and the 
costs of non-lease components are not included in the lease liability 
and are charged to operating costs in underlying EBITDA as they 
are incurred.

The lease liability is measured at amortised cost using the effective 
interest method. It is remeasured when there is a change to the 
forecast lease payments. When the lease liability is remeasured, an 
adjustment is made to the corresponding right-of-use asset.

Derivative financial instruments and hedge accounting
In order to hedge its exposure to foreign exchange, interest rate and 
commodity price risk, the Group enters into forward, option and swap 
contracts. Commodity based (own use) contracts that meet the scope 
exemption in IFRS 9 are recognised in earnings when they are settled 
by physical delivery. Commodity contracts which do not meet the own 
use criteria are accounted for as derivatives. 

All derivatives are held at fair value in the balance sheet within 
‘Derivative financial assets’ or ‘Derivative financial liabilities’ except if 
they are linked to settlement and delivery of an unquoted equity 
instrument and the fair value cannot be measured reliably, in which 
case they are carried at cost. A derivative cannot be measured reliably 
where the range of reasonable fair value estimates is significant and 
the probabilities of various estimates cannot be reasonably assessed. 
Derivatives are classified as current or non-current depending on the 
contractual maturity of the derivative.

Changes in the fair value of derivative financial instruments that are 
designated and effective as hedges of future cash flows (cash flow 
hedges) are recognised directly in equity. The gain or loss relating to 
the ineffective portion is recognised immediately in the income 
statement. If the cash flow hedge of a firm commitment or forecast 
transaction results in the recognition of a non-financial asset or liability, 
then, at the time the asset or liability is recognised, the associated 
gains or losses on the derivative that had previously been recognised 
in equity are included in the initial measurement of the asset or liability. 
For hedges that do not result in the recognition of a non-financial asset 
or liability, amounts deferred in equity are recognised in the income 
statement in the same period in which the hedged item affects profit 
or loss.

For an effective hedge of an exposure to changes in fair value, the 
hedged item is adjusted for changes in fair value attributable to the risk 
being hedged. The corresponding entry and gains or losses arising 
from remeasuring the associated derivative are recognised in the 
income statement within financing remeasurements.

Hedge effectiveness is determined at the inception of the hedge 
relationship, and through periodic prospective effectiveness 
assessments to ensure that an economic relationship exists between 
the hedged item and hedging instrument. The Group’s material 
hedging instruments are interest rate swaps that have similar critical 
terms to the related debt instruments, such as payment dates, 
maturities and notional amount. As all critical terms matched during 
the year, there was no material hedge ineffectiveness. The Group also 
uses cross currency swaps to manage foreign exchange risk 
associated with borrowings denominated in foreign currencies. These 
are not designated in an accounting hedge as there is a natural offset 
against foreign exchange movements on associated borrowings.

The Group has designated the embedded derivative component of 
the royalty liability (see note 24) as a cash flow hedge of future 
revenue cash flows from the Woodsmith project. In future periods, 
assuming the hedge remains effective, fair value derivative gains and 
losses as a result of changing forecast price and production forecasts 
will be recorded within other comprehensive income and recycled to 
revenue as the related revenue is recognised. 

302

Anglo American plc 
Integrated Annual Report 2023

Financial statements and other financial information
Notes to the financial statements

Other items

39. Accounting policies continued

Hedge accounting is discontinued when the hedging instrument 
expires or is sold, terminated, exercised, revoked, or no longer qualifies 
for hedge accounting. At that time, any cumulative gain or loss on the 
hedging instrument recognised in equity is retained until the forecast 
transaction occurs. If a hedge transaction is no longer expected to 
occur, the net cumulative gain or loss previously recognised in equity is 
recycled to the income statement for the period.

Changes in the fair value of any derivative instruments that are not 
designated in a hedge relationship are recognised immediately in the 
income statement.

Derivatives embedded in other financial instruments or non-financial 
host contracts (other than financial assets in the scope of IFRS 9) are 
treated as separate derivatives when their risks and characteristics are 
not closely related to those of their host contracts and the host 
contracts themselves are not carried at fair value with unrealised gains 
or losses reported in the income statement.

Derivatives embedded in contracts which are financial assets in the 
scope of IFRS 9 are not separated and the whole contract is 
accounted for at either amortised cost or fair value.

Interest Rate Benchmark Reform: IFRS 9 Financial Instruments and 
IFRS 7 Financial Instruments: Disclosures
The Group uses interest rate derivatives to swap the majority of its 
Euro, Sterling and US dollar bonds from fixed interest rates to EURIBOR, 
SONIA and SOFR rates respectively. Any non-USD interest rate 
derivatives are swapped to SOFR using cross currency interest rate 
swaps which are not designated into accounting hedges. The interest 
rate derivatives are designated into accounting fair value hedges.

The Group transitioned all remaining trades referenced to the USD 
LIBOR rate to incorporate alternative risk-free rates with the principal 
benchmarks used now being EURIBOR, SOFR and SONIA. The Group 
does not hold any material lease agreements that contain references 
to existing benchmarks and as a result there is no material impact on 
the lease liabilities or right-of-use assets at 31 December 2023.

G. Taxation
Tax
The tax expense includes the current tax and deferred tax charge 
recognised in the income statement.

Current tax payable is based on taxable profit for the year. Taxable 
profit differs from profit before tax as reported in the income statement 
because it excludes items of income or expense that are taxable or 
deductible in other years and it further excludes items that are not 
taxable or deductible. The Group’s liability for current tax is calculated 
using tax rates that have been enacted or substantively enacted by 
the reporting date.

Deferred tax is recognised in respect of temporary differences 
between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities for financial 
reporting purposes and the amounts used for taxation purposes. 
Deferred tax liabilities are generally recognised for all taxable 
temporary differences and deferred tax assets are recognised to the 
extent that it is probable that taxable profits will be available against 
which deductible temporary differences can be utilised. Probable 
taxable profits are based on evidence of historical profitability and 
taxable profit forecasts limited by reference to the criteria set out in 
IAS 12 Income Taxes. Such assets and liabilities are not recognised if 
the temporary differences arise from the initial recognition of goodwill 
or of an asset or liability in a transaction (other than in a business 
combination) that affects neither taxable profit nor accounting profit, 
and does not give rise to equal taxable and deductible temporary 
differences.

Deferred tax liabilities are recognised for taxable temporary 
differences arising on investments in subsidiaries, joint arrangements 
and associates except where the Group is able to control the reversal 
of the temporary difference and it is probable that the temporary 
difference will not reverse in the foreseeable future.

The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed at each 
reporting date and is adjusted to the extent that it is no longer probable 
that sufficient taxable profit will be available to allow all or part of the 
asset to be recovered.

Deferred tax is calculated at the tax rates that are expected to apply in 
the period when the liability is settled or the asset is realised, based on 
the laws that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the 
reporting date. Deferred tax is charged or credited to the income 
statement, except when it relates to items charged or credited directly 
to equity, in which case the deferred tax is also taken directly to equity.

Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset when they relate to income 
taxes levied by the same taxation authority and the Group intends to 
settle its current tax assets and liabilities on a net basis with that 
taxation authority.

H. Employees
Retirement benefits
The Group’s accounting policy involves the use of ‘best estimate’ 
assumptions in calculating the schemes’ valuations in accordance with 
the accounting standard. This valuation methodology differs from that 
applied in calculating the funding valuations, which require the use of 
‘prudent’ assumptions, such as lower discount rates, higher assumed 
rates of future inflation expectations and greater improvements in life 
expectancy, leading to a higher value placed on the liabilities. The 
funding valuations are carried out every three years, using the 
projected unit credit method, by independent qualified actuaries and 
are used to determine the money that must be put into the funded 
schemes. The Group operates both defined benefit and defined 
contribution pension plans for its employees as well as post 
employment medical plans. For defined contribution plans the amount 
recognised in the income statement is the contributions paid or 
payable during the year.

For defined benefit pension and post employment medical plans, full 
actuarial valuations are carried out at least every three years using the 
projected unit credit method and updates are performed for each 
financial year end. The average discount rate for the plans’ liabilities is 
based on AA-rated corporate bonds of a suitable duration and 
currency or, where there is no deep market for such bonds, is based on 
government bonds. Pension plan assets are measured using year end 
market values.

Remeasurements comprising actuarial gains and losses, movements 
in asset surplus restrictions and the return on scheme assets (excluding 
interest income) are recognised immediately in the statement of 
comprehensive income and are not recycled to the income statement. 
Any increase in the present value of plan liabilities expected to arise 
from employee service during the year is charged to operating profit. 
The net interest income or cost on the net defined benefit asset or 
liability is included in investment income or interest expense 
respectively.

The retirement benefit obligation recognised on the balance sheet 
represents the present value of the deficit or surplus of the defined 
benefit plans. Any recognised surplus is limited to the present value of 
available refunds or reductions in future contributions to the plan.

Anglo American plc 
Integrated Annual Report 2023

Financial statements and other financial information  
Notes to the financial statements

303

Investments in associates and joint ventures are accounted for using 
the equity method of accounting except when classified as held for 
sale. The Group’s share of associates’ and joint ventures’ net income is 
based on their most recent audited financial statements or unaudited 
interim statements drawn up to the Group’s balance sheet date.

The total carrying values of investments in associates and joint 
ventures represent the cost of each investment including the carrying 
value of goodwill, the share of post-acquisition retained earnings, any 
other movements in reserves and any long term debt interests which in 
substance form part of the Group’s net investment, less any cumulative 
impairments. The carrying values of associates and joint ventures are 
reviewed on a regular basis and if there is objective evidence that an 
impairment in value has occurred as a result of one or more events 
during the period, the investment is impaired. Investments which have 
been previously impaired are regularly reviewed for indicators of 
impairment reversal. 

The Group’s share of an associate’s or joint venture’s losses in excess 
of its interest in that associate or joint venture is not recognised unless 
the Group has an obligation to fund such losses. Unrealised gains 
arising from transactions with associates and joint ventures are 
eliminated against the investment to the extent of the Group’s interest 
in the investee. Unrealised losses are eliminated in the same way, but 
only to the extent that there is no evidence of impairment.

Non-current assets and disposal groups held for sale
Non-current assets and disposal groups are classified as held for sale 
if their carrying amount will be recovered through a sale transaction 
rather than through continuing use. This condition is met only when a 
sale is highly probable within one year from the date of classification, 
management is committed to the sale and the asset or disposal group 
is available for immediate sale in its present condition.

Non-current assets and disposal groups are classified as held for sale 
from the date these conditions are met and are measured at the lower 
of carrying amount and fair value less costs to sell. Any resulting 
impairment loss is recognised in the income statement.

On classification as held for sale the assets are no longer depreciated. 
Comparative amounts are not adjusted.

Black Economic Empowerment (BEE) transactions
Where the Group disposes of a portion of a South African based 
subsidiary or operation to a BEE company at a discount to fair value, 
the transaction is considered to be a share-based payment (in line 
with the principle contained in South Africa interpretation AC 503 
Accounting for Black Economic Empowerment (BEE) Transactions).

The discount provided or value given is calculated in accordance with 
IFRS 2 Share-based Payments and the cost, representing the fair value 
of the BEE credentials obtained by the subsidiary, is recorded in the 
income statement.

Other items

39. Accounting policies continued

Share-based payments
The Group makes equity settled share-based payments to certain 
employees, which are measured at fair value at the date of grant and 
expensed on a straight-line basis over the vesting period, based on the 
Group’s estimate of shares that will eventually vest. For those share 
schemes with market related vesting conditions, the fair value is 
determined using the Monte Carlo model at the grant date. The fair 
value of share options issued with non-market vesting conditions has 
been calculated using the Black Scholes model.

For all other share awards, the fair value is determined by reference to 
the market value of the shares at the grant date. For all share schemes 
with non-market vesting conditions, the likelihood of vesting has been 
taken into account when determining the relevant charge. Vesting 
assumptions are reviewed during each reporting period to ensure they 
reflect current expectations.

I. Group structure

Associates and joint arrangements
Associates are investments over which the Group has significant 
influence, which is the power to participate in the financial and 
operating policy decisions of the investee, but without the ability to 
exercise control or joint control. Typically the Group owns between 
20% and 50% of the voting equity of its associates.

Joint arrangements are arrangements in which the Group shares joint 
control with one or more parties. Joint control is the contractually 
agreed sharing of control of an arrangement, and exists only when 
decisions about the activities that significantly affect the 
arrangement’s returns require the unanimous consent of the parties 
sharing control.

Judgement is required in determining this classification through an 
evaluation of the facts and circumstances arising from each individual 
arrangement. Joint arrangements are classified as either joint 
operations or joint ventures based on the rights and obligations of the 
parties to the arrangement. In joint operations, the parties have rights 
to the assets and obligations for the liabilities relating to the 
arrangement, whereas in joint ventures, the parties have rights to the 
net assets of the arrangement.

Joint arrangements that are not structured through a separate vehicle 
are always joint operations. Joint arrangements that are structured 
through a separate vehicle may be either joint operations or joint 
ventures depending on the substance of the arrangement. In these 
cases, consideration is given to the legal form of the separate vehicle, 
the terms of the contractual arrangement and, where relevant, other 
facts and circumstances. When the activities of an arrangement are 
primarily designed for the provision of output to the parties, and the 
parties are substantially the only source of cash flows contributing 
to the continuity of the operations of the arrangement, this indicates 
that the parties to the arrangements have rights to the assets and 
obligations for the liabilities.

Certain joint arrangements that are structured through separate 
vehicles including Collahuasi, Debswana and Namdeb are accounted 
for as joint operations. These arrangements are primarily designed for 
the provision of output to the parties sharing joint control, indicating 
that the parties have rights to substantially all the economic benefits of 
the assets. The liabilities of the arrangements are in substance satisfied 
by cash flows received from the parties; this dependence indicates 
that the parties effectively have obligations for the liabilities. It is 
primarily these facts and circumstances that give rise to the 
classification as joint operations.

The Group accounts for joint operations by recognising the assets, 
liabilities, revenue and expenses for which it has rights or obligations, 
including its share of such items held or incurred jointly.

304

Anglo American plc 
Integrated Annual Report 2023

Financial statements and other financial information

Financial statements of the Parent Company

Balance sheet of the Parent Company, Anglo American plc, as at 31 December 2023 

US$ million
Fixed assets

Investment in subsidiaries

Financial asset investments

Current assets

Cash at bank and in hand

Creditors due within one year

Amounts owed to Group undertakings

Net current liabilities

Total assets less current liabilities

Net assets

Capital and reserves

Called-up share capital

Share premium account

Capital redemption reserve

Other reserves

Retained earnings

Total shareholders’ funds

Note  

2023 

2022 

1  

33,113 

32,971 

— 

7 

33,113 

32,978 

— 

— 

2 

2 

(2,239)   

(2,239)   

(2,239)   

30,874 

30,874 

(1,874) 

(1,874) 

(1,872) 

31,106 

31,106 

2  

2  

2  

2  

2  

734 

2,558 

153 

1,955 

25,474 

30,874 

734 

2,558 

153 

1,955 

25,706 

31,106 

Statement of changes in equity of the Parent Company

US$ million
At 1 January 2022

Profit for the financial year
Dividends(1)
Equity settled share-based payments schemes

Treasury shares purchased

Shares cancelled during the year

Capital contribution to Group undertakings

Other

At 31 December 2022

Profit for the financial year
Dividends(1)
Equity settled share-based payments schemes

Treasury shares purchased

Capital contribution to Group undertakings

Other

At 31 December 2023

Called-up 
share capital
737 

Share 
premium 
account
2,558 

Capital 
redemption 
reserve
150 

Other 
reserves
1,955 

— 

— 

— 

— 

(3)   

— 

— 

— 

— 

— 

— 

— 

— 

— 

— 

— 

— 

— 

3 

— 

— 

— 

— 

— 

— 

— 

— 

— 

734 

2,558 

153 

1,955 

— 

— 

— 

— 

— 

— 

— 

— 

— 

— 

— 

— 

— 

— 

— 

— 

— 

— 

— 

— 

— 

— 

— 

— 

Retained 
earnings
26,563 

1,921 

Total
31,963 

1,921 

(2,661)   

(2,661) 

1 

1 

(308)   

(308) 

— 

187 

3 

— 

187 

3 

25,706 

1,061 

31,106 

1,061 

(1,213)   

(1,213) 

2 

(254)   

168 

4 

2 

(254) 

168 

4 

734 

2,558 

153 

1,955 

25,474 

30,874 

(1)  Dividends relate only to shareholders on the United Kingdom principal register excluding dividends waived by Wealth Nominees Limited as nominees for Estera Trust (Jersey) Limited, the 

trustee for the Anglo American employee share scheme. Dividends paid to shareholders on the Johannesburg branch register are distributed by a South African subsidiary in accordance with 
the terms of the Dividend Access Share Provisions of Anglo American plc’s Articles of Association. The directors are proposing a final dividend in respect of the year ended 31 December 2023 
of 41 US cents per share (see note 6 to the Consolidated financial statements). The profit after tax for the year of the Parent Company amounted to $1,061 million (2022: $1,921 million).

The financial statements of Anglo American plc, registered number 03564138, were approved by the Board of directors on 21 February 2024 
and signed on its behalf by:

Duncan Wanblad 
Chief Executive 

John Heasley
Finance Director

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Anglo American plc 
Integrated Annual Report 2023

Financial statements and other financial information  
Notes to the financial statements of the Parent Company

305

1.

Investment in subsidiaries

US$ million
Cost

At 1 January
Capital contributions(1)
Additions

At 31 December

Provisions for impairment

At 1 January

Impairment reversal

At 31 December

Net book value

2023 

2022 

32,971 

142 

— 

33,113 

31,804 
167 

1,000 

32,971 

— 

— 

— 

(8) 

8 

— 

33,113 

32,971 

(1)  This amount represents the Group share-based payment charge and is net of $26 million (2022: $20 million) of intra-group recharges.

Further information about subsidiaries is provided in note 36 to the Consolidated financial statements.

2. Accounting policies: Anglo American plc (the Company)

The Parent Company balance sheet and related notes have been prepared under the historical cost convention and in accordance with 
Financial Reporting Standard 100 Application of Financial Reporting Requirements (FRS 100) and Financial Reporting Standard 101 Reduced 
Disclosure Framework (FRS 101).

The Parent Company financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and The Large 
and Medium-sized Companies and Groups (Accounts and Reports) Regulations 2008 (SI 2008/410).

A summary of the material accounting policies is set out below.

The preparation of financial statements in compliance with FRS 101 requires the use of certain critical accounting estimates. It also requires 
management to exercise judgement in applying the Parent Company’s accounting policies.

As permitted by section 408 of the Companies Act 2006, the statement of comprehensive income of the Parent Company is not presented as 
part of these financial statements.

The Parent Company has taken advantage of the following disclosure exemptions under FRS 101:

– the requirements of paragraphs 45(b) and 46-52 of IFRS 2 Share-based Payments

– the requirements of IFRS 7 Financial Instruments: Disclosures

– the requirements of paragraphs 91-99 of IFRS 13 Fair Value Measurement

– the requirement in paragraph 38 of IAS 1 Presentation of Financial Statements to present comparative information in respect of paragraph 

79(a)(iv) of IAS 1

– the requirements of paragraphs 10(d), 10(f), 16, 38A, 38B, 38C, 38D, 40A, 40B, 40C, 40D, 111 and 134-136 of IAS 1 Presentation of Financial 

Statements

– the requirements of IAS 7 Statement of Cash Flows

– the requirements of paragraphs 30 and 31 of IAS 8 Accounting Policies, Changes in Accounting Estimates and Errors

– the requirements of paragraphs 17 and 18A of IAS 24 Related Party Disclosures

– the requirements in IAS 24 Related Party Disclosures to disclose related party transactions entered into between two or more members of 

a group, provided that any subsidiary which is a party to the transaction is wholly owned by such a member.

Material accounting policies
Investments
Investments represent equity holdings in subsidiaries and are measured at cost less accumulated impairment.

Financial instruments
The Parent Company recognises financial instruments when it becomes a party to the contractual arrangements of the instrument. Financial 
instruments are derecognised when they are discharged or when the contractual terms expire.

Dividends
Interim equity dividends are recognised when declared. Final equity dividends are recognised when approved by the shareholders at an Annual 
General Meeting.

Share-based payments
The Parent Company has applied the requirements of IFRS 2 Share-based Payments.

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
306

Anglo American plc 
Integrated Annual Report 2023

Financial statements and other financial information
Notes to the financial statements of the Parent Company

2. Accounting policies: Anglo American plc (the Company) continued

The Parent Company makes equity settled share-based payments to the directors, which are measured at fair value at the date of grant and 
expensed on a straight-line basis over the vesting period, based on the Parent Company’s estimate of shares that will eventually vest. For those 
share schemes with market related vesting conditions, the fair value is determined using the Monte Carlo model at the grant date. The fair value of 
share options issued with non-market vesting conditions has been calculated using the Black Scholes model. For all other share awards, the fair 
value is determined by reference to the market value of the shares at the grant date. For all share schemes with non-market vesting conditions, 
the likelihood of vesting has been taken into account when determining the relevant charge. Vesting assumptions are reviewed during each 
reporting period to ensure they reflect current expectations.

The Parent Company also makes equity settled share-based payments to certain employees of certain subsidiary undertakings. Equity settled 
share-based payments that are made to employees of the Parent Company’s subsidiaries are treated as increases in equity over the vesting 
period of the award, with a corresponding increase in the Parent Company’s investments in subsidiaries, based on an estimate of the number of 
shares that will eventually vest.

Any payments received from subsidiaries are applied to reduce the related increases in Investments in subsidiaries.

Insurance contracts
IFRS 17 Insurance Contracts was issued in May 2017 and became effective for the Parent Company from 1 January 2023.

Adoption of the new standard principally impacts issued financial guarantee contracts, which have previously been asserted to be insurance 
contacts under IFRS 4 Insurance Contracts. The Parent Company has elected to account for the majority of such arrangements under IFRS 9 
Financial Instruments. The additional liabilities under these arrangements are deemed to be of an immaterial value.

Taxation
Current and deferred tax is recognised in the statement of comprehensive income of the Parent Company, except that a charge attributable to an 
item of income and expense recognised as other comprehensive income or to an item recognised directly in equity is also recognised in other 
comprehensive income or directly in equity respectively.

The only income of the Parent Company is dividend income from subsidiaries. This income is non-taxable and there is no tax charge for the year 
(2022: nil).

Significant accounting judgements and estimates
In the course of preparing financial statements, management necessarily makes judgements and estimates that can have a significant impact on 
the financial statements. The critical judgements that affect the results for the year ended 31 December 2023 are set out below.

Impairment of investments in subsidiaries
Judgement is required to determine whether there are indicators that the Company’s equity investments in subsidiaries may be impaired. When 
making this judgement, consideration is given to various factors, including the market capitalisation of the Group, the net asset value of the 
Company’s direct subsidiaries and the recoverable amount of operating assets based on the Group’s impairment and impairment reversal 
assessments (see note 7 and note 8 for further information). 

If an impairment indicator were identified, estimation would be required to determine the recoverable amount of the investments. Recoverable 
amount is the higher of fair value less costs of disposal and value in use. 

If the recoverable amount of an investment is estimated to be less than its carrying amount, the carrying amount of the investment is reduced to its 
recoverable amount and an impairment loss is recognised in the statement of comprehensive income.

3. Fees for non-audit services

Fees payable to PwC for non-audit services to the Parent Company are not required to be disclosed because they are included within the 
consolidated disclosure in note 38 to the Consolidated financial statements.

Anglo American plc 
Integrated Annual Report 2023

Financial statements and other financial information  

307

Summary by operation

This section includes certain Alternative Performance Measures (APMs). For more information on the APMs used by the Group, including 
definitions, please refer to page 318.

Marketing activities are allocated to the underlying operation to which they relate.

US$ million (unless otherwise stated)

Sales
volume

Realised
price

Unit cost

Group
revenue(1)

Underlying
EBITDA

Underlying
EBIT

Underlying
earnings

Capital
expenditure

2023

Copper

Copper Chile

Los Bronces(5)
Collahuasi(6)
Other operations(7)

Copper Peru (Quellaveco)(8)

Nickel

Platinum Group Metals

Mogalakwena

Amandelbult
Processing and trading(13)
Other(14)

De Beers

Mining

Botswana 

Namibia 

South Africa 

Canada

Trading
Other(19) 

Iron Ore
Kumba Iron Ore(23)
Iron Ore Brazil (Minas-Rio)

Steelmaking Coal

Manganese (Samancor)

Crop Nutrients

Woodsmith
Other(27)

Corporate and other(28)

Exploration

Corporate activities and 
unallocated costs

See page 308 for footnotes.

kt
843 (2)

505 (2)

c/lb
384 (3)

384 (3)

217

248

40

339

kt

40

koz

n/a

n/a

n/a

384

$/lb

7.71

$/PGM oz

3,925 (10)
1,011 (10)

1,657 (11)

1,718 (11)

$/PGM oz
968 

884 

(12)

(12)

(12)

668 (10)

1,934 (11)

  1,189 

1,352 (10)

894

’000 cts
24,682 (15)

n/a

1,587

n/a

973

$/ct
147 (16)

$/ct
71 (17)

c/lb
166 (4)

200

304 (4)

113 (4)

n/a

7,360

4,615

1,724

2,197

694

  2,451 

  1,099 

  3,233 

  1,452 

114 

893 

(94) 

  1,372 

  1,124 

(34) 

(137) 

111 (4)

2,745

  1,781 

  1,558 

c/lb
541 (9)

653

133 

62 

6,734

1,740

1,294

2,247

1,453

  1,209 

778 

323 

(138) 

246 

855 

601 

276 

(173) 

151 

n/a

n/a

760 

n/a

578 

65 

448 

n/a

n/a

n/a

n/a

n/a

n/a

n/a

n/a

n/a

n/a

Mt
61.5 (20)

37.2 (20)

24.3 

(20)

Mt
14.9 (24)

Mt
3.7

n/a

n/a

n/a

n/a

n/a

n/a

n/a

168 (16)

515 (16)

109 (16)

85 

(16)

n/a

n/a

$/t

114 (21)

117 (21)

110 (21)

$/t

261 (25)

$/t
n/a

n/a

n/a

n/a

n/a

n/a

n/a

n/a

n/a

n/a

$/t
38 

41 

33 

$/t
121 

$/t
n/a

n/a

n/a

n/a

n/a

n/a

n/a

n/a

31 (17)

246 (17)

97 (17)

48 (17)

4,267 (18)

72 

(252) 

(314) 

n/a

n/a

n/a

n/a

n/a

n/a

412 

159 

26 

35 

(104) 

(456) 

349 

123 

5 

(6) 

(111) 

(612) 

n/a

n/a

n/a

n/a

n/a

n/a

(22)

(22)

(22)

8,000

4,680

3,320

  4,013 

  2,415 

  1,598 

  3,549 

  2,136 

  1,413 

  1,792 

772 

  1,020 

(26)

4,153

  1,320 

822 

145 

(61) 

n/a

(61) 

(403) 

(107) 

684 

66 

(75) 

n/a

(75) 

(833) 

(97) 

231 

(60) 

n/a

(60) 

(193) 

(107) 

670

225

n/a

225

440

n/a

440

(86) 

(296) 

(736) 

32,502

  9,958 

  7,168 

  2,932 

1,684 

1,268 

552 

678 

38 

416 

91 

1,108 

519 

75 

n/a

514 

623 

74 

35 

403 

63 

2 

46 

909 

538 

371 

619 

— 

641 

641 

— 

59 

3 

56 

5,734 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
308

Anglo American plc 
Integrated Annual Report 2023

Financial statements and other financial information
Summary by operation

US$ million (unless otherwise stated)

Sales
volume

Realised
price

Unit
cost

Group
revenue(1)

Underlying
EBITDA

Underlying
EBIT

Underlying
earnings

Capital
expenditure

2022

(4)

(4)

c/lb
154 
157 
214 
87 
n/a
136 
c/lb
513 (9)

(4)

(4)

5,599 
4,991 
2,185 
2,180 
626 
608 

2,182 
1,952 
533 
1,512 
(93) 
230 

1,595 
1,387 
306 
1,259 
(178) 
208 

858 

381 

317 

$/PGM oz

937 (12)
826 (12)
1,127 (12)
n/a
928 
$/ct
59 

(17)

  10,096 
2,466 
2,010 
3,350 
2,270 

4,417 
1,548 
1,036 
800 
1,033 

6,622 

(18)

1,417 

4,052 
1,380 
982 
768 
922 

994 

537 
149 
315 
(68) 
582 
(521) 

2,962 
1,894 
1,068 

n/a
n/a
n/a
n/a
n/a
n/a

7,534 
4,580 
2,954 

614 
181 
413 
(10) 
589 
(370) 

3,455 
2,211 
1,244 

Copper
Copper Chile

Los Bronces(5)
Collahuasi(6)
Other operations(7)

Copper Peru (Quellaveco)(8)

Nickel

Platinum Group Metals
Mogalakwena
Amandelbult
Processing and trading(13)
Other(14)

De Beers
Mining

Botswana 
Namibia 
South Africa
Canada

Trading
Other(19)

Iron Ore
Kumba Iron Ore(23)
Iron Ore Brazil (Minas-Rio)

Steelmaking Coal

Manganese (Samancor)

Crop Nutrients

Woodsmith
Other(27)

Corporate and other(28)
Exploration
Corporate activities and 
unallocated costs

(2)

(2)

kt
641 
563 
268
256
39
78
kt
39
koz
3,861 (10)
1,010 (10)
700 (10)
1,309 (10)
842
’000 cts
30,355 (15)

n/a
n/a
n/a
n/a
n/a
n/a
Mt
58.0 
36.7 (20)
21.3 (20)
Mt
14.7 (24)
Mt
3.6

(20)

n/a
n/a

n/a

n/a
n/a

n/a

n/a

c/lb
385 (3)
386 (3)
n/a
n/a
n/a
379 
$/lb
10.26
$/PGM oz

2,551 (11)
2,451 (11)
2,883 (11)
n/a
  2,615 
$/ct
197 (16)

193 (16)
599 (16)
134 (16)
100 (16)
n/a
n/a
$/t
111 
113 (21)
108 
$/t
304 
$/t
n/a

(21)

(21)

(25)

n/a

n/a

n/a

n/a
n/a

n/a

n/a

(17)

(17)

(17)

(17)

(22)

(22)

(22)

(26)

32 
293 
42 
50 
n/a
n/a
$/t
38 
40 
35 
$/t
107 
$/t
n/a

n/a

n/a

n/a

n/a
n/a

n/a

n/a

5,034 

2,749 

2,369 

1,640 

378 

312 

148 

840 

254

n/a

254 

554 
n/a

554 

(44) 

n/a

(44) 

(440) 
(155) 

(45) 

n/a

(45) 

(593) 
(162) 

(285) 

(431) 

  37,391 

  14,495 

  11,963 

760 
n/a
n/a
865 
n/a
87

259 

2,266 
n/a
n/a
n/a
n/a

552 

n/a
n/a
n/a
n/a
n/a
n/a

1,337 
653 
684 

(51)

n/a

(51) 

(875) 
(148) 

(727) 

6,036 

2,031 
1,217 
725 
419 
73 
814 

79 

1,017 
394 
74 
n/a
549 

593 

70 
34 
378 
48 
4 
59 

834 
674 
160 

648 

— 

522

522

— 

14 
2 

12 

5,738 

(1) Group revenue is shown after deduction of treatment and refining charges (TC/RCs). 
(2) Excludes 444 kt third-party sales (2022: 422 kt).
(3) Represents realised copper price and excludes impact of third-party sales.
(4) C1 unit cost includes by-product credits.
(5) Figures on a 100% basis (Group’s share: 50.1%). 
(6) 44% share of Collahuasi sales and financials.
(7) Other operations form part of the results of Copper Chile. Production and sales are from El 

Soldado mine (figures on a 100% basis, Group’s share 50.1%). Financials include El 
Soldado and Chagres (figures on a 100% basis, Group’s share 50.1%), third-party trading, 
projects and corporate costs.

(8) Figures on a 100% basis (Group’s share: 60%). Included in capex is the project capex 

which represents the Group’s share after deducting direct funding from non-controlling 
interests. The Group’s share of project capex was $138 million (on a 100% basis, 
$230 million). In 2022, the Group’s share was $633 million (on a 100% basis, 
$1,055 million). 

(9) C1 unit cost.
(10) Sales volumes exclude tolling and third-party trading activities. PGM volumes consist of 5E 

metals and gold.

(16) Pricing for the mining businesses is based on 100% selling value post-aggregation of 

goods. Realised price includes the price impact of the sale of non-equity product and, as a 
result, is not directly comparable to the unit cost. 

(17) Unit cost is based on consolidated production and operating costs, excluding depreciation 

and operating special items, divided by carats recovered. 
(18) Includes rough diamond sales of $3.6 billion (2022: $6.0 billion).
(19) Other includes Element Six, brands and consumer markets, and corporate. 
(20) Sales volumes are reported as wet metric tonnes. Product is shipped with c.1.6% moisture 

from Kumba and c.9% moisture from Minas-Rio.

(21) Prices for Kumba Iron Ore are the average realised export basket price (FOB Saldanha) 

(wet basis). Prices for Minas-Rio are the average realised export basket price (FOB Brazil) 
(wet basis). Prices for total iron ore are a blended average.

(22) Unit costs are reported on an FOB wet basis. Unit costs for total iron ore are a blended 

average. 

(23) Sales volumes and realised price could differ to Kumba’s stand-alone reported results due 

to sales to other Group companies. 

(24) Sales volumes exclude thermal coal sales of 1.7 Mt (2022: 1.7 Mt). Includes sales relating to 

third-party product purchased and processed by Anglo American.

(11) Average US$ realised basket price, based on sold ounces (own mined and purchased 

(25) Realised price is the weighted average hard coking coal and PCI export sales price 

concentrate). Excludes the impact of the sale of refined metal purchased from third parties. 

achieved at managed operations. 

(12) Total cash operating costs (includes on-mine, smelting and refining costs only) per own 

mined PGM ounce of production.

(13) Includes purchase of concentrate from joint operations and third parties for processing into 
refined metals, tolling and third-party trading activities, with the exception of production 
and sales volumes which exclude tolling and trading. The disposal of our 50% interest in 
Kroondal on 1 November 2023, resulted in Kroondal moving to a 100% third-party POC 
arrangement, until it transitions to a toll arrangement expected at the end of H1 2024.
(14) Includes Unki, Mototolo, our 50% share of Modikwa (joint operation), and our 50% share of 
Kroondal until the disposal of our interest in the joint operation on 1 November 2023.
(15) Total sales volumes on a 100% basis were 27.4 million carats (2022: 33.7 million carats). 
Total sales volumes (100%) include De Beers Group’s joint arrangement partners’ 50% 
proportionate share of sales to entities outside De Beers Group from Diamond Trading 
Company Botswana and Namibia Diamond Trading Company. 

(26) FOB unit cost comprises managed operations and excludes royalties. 
(27) Other comprises projects and corporate costs as well as the share in associate results from 

The Cibra Group, a fertiliser distributor based in Brazil. 

(28) Revenue within Corporate activities and unallocated costs primarily relates to third-party 

shipping activities, as well as the Marketing business’s energy solutions activities.

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Anglo American plc 
Integrated Annual Report 2023

Financial statements and other financial information  

309

Key financial data

This section includes certain Alternative Performance Measures (APMs). For more information on the APMs used by the Group, including 
definitions, please refer to page 318.

US$ million (unless otherwise stated)

Income statement measures
Group revenue(1)

Underlying EBIT

Underlying EBITDA
Revenue(1)

Net finance costs (before special 
items and remeasurements)

Profit/(loss) before tax

Profit/(loss) for the financial year

Profit/(loss) attributable to equity 
shareholders of the Company

Underlying earnings

Balance sheet measures
Capital employed(2)
Net assets(2)
Non-controlling interests(2)

Equity attributable to equity 

shareholders of the Company(2)

Cash flow measures

2023

2022
(restated)

2021

2020
 (restated)

2019
(restated)

2018

2017

2016

2015

2014

32,502 

37,391 

43,258 

26,883 

31,825 

30,196 

28,650 

23,142 

23,003 

30,988 

7,168 

11,963 

17,790 

7,050 

7,010 

9,958 

14,495 

20,634 

9,802 

10,006 

6,377 

9,161 

6,247 

8,823 

3,766 

6,075 

2,223 

4,854 

4,933 

7,832 

30,652 

35,118 

41,554 

25,447 

29,870 

27,610 

26,243 

21,378 

20,455 

27,073 

(556)

3,595  

1,344  

(342)

9,480 

6,024 

(277)

(775)

(420)

17,629 

5,464 

6,146 

11,699 

3,328 

4,582 

283 

2,932 

4,514 

6,036 

8,562 

2,089 

3,547 

8,925 

3,135 

3,468 

(380)

6,189 

4,373 

(824)

3,549 

3,237 

(473)

5,505 

4,059 

(893)

3,166 

3,272 

(209)

(458)

2,624 

(5,454)

(256)

(259)

1,926 

(5,842)

(1,524)

(332)

218 

(989)

1,594 

(5,624)

(2,513)

2,210 

827 

2,217 

42,427 

40,541

38,312

37,970

35,576

32,269

32,813

31,904

32,842

43,782

31,617 

33,953

34,770

32,766

31,385

29,832

28,882

24,325

21,342

32,177

(6,560)

(6,635)

(6,945)

(6,942)

(6,590)

(6,234)

(5,910)

(5,309)

(4,773)

(5,760)

25,057 

27,318 

27,825 

25,824 

24,795 

23,598 

22,972 

19,016 

16,569 

26,417 

Non-controlling interests

(1,061)

(1,510)

(3,137)

(1,239)

(1,035)

Cash flows from operations 

8,115 

11,889 

20,588 

7,998 

9,260 

7,782 

8,375 

5,838 

4,240 

6,949 

Capital expenditure
Net debt(3)

Metrics and ratios

Underlying earnings per share (US$)

Earnings per share (US$)

Ordinary dividend per share 

(US cents)

Ordinary dividend cover (based on 
underlying earnings per share)

Underlying EBIT margin
Underlying EBIT interest cover(4)

Underlying effective tax rate
Gearing (net debt to total capital)(5)

(5,734)

(5,738)

(5,193)

(4,125)

(3,840)

(2,818)

(2,150)

(2,387)

(4,177)

(6,018)

(10,615)

(6,918)

(3,842)

(5,530)

(4,535)

(2,848)

(4,501)

(8,487)

(12,901)

(12,871)

2.42 

0.23 

4.97 

3.72 

7.22 

6.93 

2.53 

1.69 

2.75 

2.81 

2.55 

2.80 

2.57 

2.48 

1.72 

1.24 

0.64 

(4.36)

1.73 

(1.96)

96 

198

289

100

109

100

102

2.5 

2.5 

2.5 

2.5 

2.5 

2.6 

2.5 

—

—

 22.1% 

 32.0% 

 41.1% 

 26.2% 

 22.0% 

 21.1% 

 21.8% 

 16.3% 

15.5 

31.8 

45.2 

11.2 

18.0 

19.9 

16.5 

16.7 

32

85

2.0 

 9.7% 

10.1 

2.0 

 15.9% 

30.1 

 38.5% 

 34.0% 

 31.4% 

 31.2% 

 30.8% 

 31.3% 

 29.7% 

 24.6% 

 31.0% 

 29.8% 

 25% 

 17% 

 10% 

 14% 

 13% 

 9% 

 13% 

 26% 

 38% 

 29% 

(1) Third-party trading amounts restated from a gross to a net presentation in 2020. Amounts prior to 2020 have not been restated.
(2) 2022 figures are restated for the adoption of the amendment to IAS 12, see note 39A.
(3) The Group amended the definition of net debt in 2021 to exclude variable vessel leases. The amounts for 2020 and 2019 were therefore restated from $5,575 million to $5,530 million in 2020 

and from $4,626 million to $4,535 million in 2019. Amounts prior to 2019 have not been restated.

(4) Underlying EBIT interest cover is underlying EBIT divided by net finance costs, excluding net foreign exchange gains and losses, unwinding of discount relating to provisions and other liabilities, 

financing special items and remeasurements, and including the Group’s attributable share of associates’ and joint ventures’ net finance costs.

(5) Net debt to total capital is calculated as net debt divided by total capital (being ‘Net assets’ as shown in the Consolidated balance sheet excluding net debt and variable vessel leases). 2020 

restated to exclude variable vessel leases. Amounts prior to 2020 have not been restated.

310

Anglo American plc 
Integrated Annual Report 2023

Financial statements and other financial information

Exchange rates and commodity prices

US$ exchange rates
Year end spot rates

South African rand

Brazilian real

Sterling

Australian dollar

Euro

Chilean peso

Botswanan pula

Peruvian sol

Average rates for the year

South African rand

Brazilian real

Sterling

Australian dollar

Euro

Chilean peso

Botswanan pula

Peruvian sol

Commodity prices
Year end spot prices
Copper(1)
Nickel(1)
Platinum(2)
Palladium(2)
Rhodium(3)
Iron ore (62% Fe CFR)(4)
Iron ore (65% Fe Fines CFR)(5)
Hard coking coal (FOB Australia)(4)
PCI (FOB Australia)(4)
Manganese ore (44% CIF China)(5)

Average market prices for the year
Copper(1)
Nickel(1)
Platinum(2)
Palladium(2)
Rhodium(3)
Iron ore (62% Fe CFR)(4)
Iron ore (65% Fe Fines CFR)(5)
Hard coking coal (FOB Australia)(4)
PCI (FOB Australia)(4)
Manganese ore (44% CIF China)(5)

(1)  Source: London Metal Exchange (LME).
(2)  Source: London Platinum and Palladium Market (LPPM).
(3)  Source: Johnson Matthey.
(4)  Source: Platts.
(5)  Source: Metal Bulletin.

2023 

2022 

18.52 

16.94 

4.86 

0.79 

1.47 

0.90 

885 

13.43 

3.70 

5.28 

0.83 

1.47 

0.93 

859 

12.76 

3.82 

18.46 

16.37 

4.99 

0.80 

1.51 

0.92 

840 

13.35 

3.74 

5.16 

0.81 

1.44 

0.95 

874 

12.34 

3.83 

2023 

2022 

384 

7.39 

1,006 

1,119 

4,425 

141 

152 

324 

176

4.17 

385 

9.74 

965 

1,336 

6,611 

120 

132 
296 

219 

4.75 

380 

13.80

1,065 

1,788 

12,250 

117

132

295

285

5.13 

399

11.61

961

2,111

15,465 

120

139
364

331

6.06 

US cents/lb

US$/lb

US$/oz

US$/oz

US$/oz

US$/tonne

US$/tonne

US$/tonne

US$/tonne

US$/dmtu

US cents/lb

US$/lb

US$/oz

US$/oz

US$/oz

US$/tonne

US$/tonne
US$/tonne

US$/tonne

US$/dmtu

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Anglo American plc 
Integrated Annual Report 2023

Financial statements and other financial information  

311

Ore Reserves and Mineral Resources
as at 31 December 2023

The Ore Reserve and Mineral Resource estimates presented in this 
report were prepared in accordance with the Anglo American Group 
Ore Reserves and Mineral Resources Reporting Policy. This policy 
stipulates that the Australasian Code for Reporting of Exploration 
Results, Mineral Resources and Ore Reserves (the JORC Code), 2012 
edition, be used as a minimum standard. This section should be read 
in conjunction with the Ore Reserves and Mineral Resources 
Report 2023. 

Mineral Resource classification defines the confidence associated with 
different parts of the Mineral Resource. The confidence that is assigned 
refers collectively to the reliability of estimates of grade and tonnage. 
This includes considering the quality of the underlying sample data, 
the demonstrated continuity of the geology and the likely precision of 
grade and density estimates that collectively affect confidence in the 
Mineral Resource. Most businesses have developed commodity-
specific approaches to the classification of their Mineral Resources. 

Some Anglo American subsidiaries have a primary listing in South 
Africa where public reporting is carried out in accordance with the 
South African Code for Reporting of Exploration Results, Mineral 
Resources and Mineral Reserves (the SAMREC Code), 2016 edition. 
The SAMREC Code is similar to the JORC Code and the Ore Reserve 
and Mineral Resource terminology appearing in this section follows the 
definitions in both the JORC (2012) and SAMREC (2016) Codes. Ore 
Reserves in the context of this report have the same meaning as 
‘Mineral Reserves’ as defined by the SAMREC Code and the CIM 
(Canadian Institute of Mining Metallurgy and Petroleum) Definition 
Standards on Mineral Resources and Mineral Reserves. 

The Anglo American Mineral Resources and Reserves (MinRes) team is 
responsible for ensuring the implementation of the Ore Reserve and 
Mineral Resource Reporting Policy and associated requirements 
document by all Anglo American businesses. This team provides 
technical assurance, through the Technical & Operations director, to 
the Anglo American Audit Committee and the Anglo American Board 
of directors on the integrity of the published estimates. MinRes’s role is 
to plan and manage the annual reporting process, to validate the 
information supplied by the businesses and from that, compile the Ore 
Reserves and Mineral Resources Report. Anglo American has well-
established governance processes and internal controls to support the 
generation and publication of Ore Reserves and Mineral Resources, 
including a series of peer reviews.

The information on Ore Reserves and Mineral Resources was prepared 
by or under the supervision of Competent Persons (CPs) as defined in 
the JORC or SAMREC Codes. All CPs have sufficient experience 
relevant to the style of mineralisation and type of deposit under 
consideration and to the activity which they are undertaking. All the 
CPs consent to the inclusion of the information in this report, in the form 
and context in which it appears. The names of the CPs, along with 
their Recognised Professional Organisation (RPO) affiliation and years 
of relevant experience, are listed in the Ore Reserves and Mineral 
Resources Report 2023.

The Anglo American Group of companies is subject to reviews aimed 
at providing assurance in respect of Ore Reserve and Mineral Resource 
estimates. The reviews are conducted by suitably qualified CPs from 
within the Group or independent consultants. The frequency and depth 
of review are a function of the perceived risks and/or uncertainties 
associated with a particular Ore Reserve and Mineral Resource. The 
overall value of the entity and time that has elapsed since an 
independent third-party review are also considered. Those operations/
projects subjected to independent third-party reviews during the year 
are indicated in explanatory notes to the tables in the Ore Reserves 
and Mineral Resources Report 2023.

Both the JORC and SAMREC Codes require due consideration of 
reasonable prospects for eventual economic extraction for Mineral 
Resource definition. The estimation of Ore Reserves and Mineral 
Resources is based on long term price assumptions, which include long 
range commodity price forecasts that are prepared by in-house 
specialists using projections of future supply and demand and long 
term economic outlooks. Ore Reserves are dynamic and likely to be 
affected by fluctuations in the prices of commodities, uncertainties in 
production costs, processing costs and other mining, infrastructure, 
legal, environmental, social and governmental factors which may 
impact the financial condition and prospects of the Group. Mineral 
Resource estimates also change in time and tend to be mostly 
influenced by new information pertaining to the understanding of the 
deposit, as well as by conversion to Ore Reserves. 

The appropriate Mineral Resource classification is determined by the 
appointed CPs. The choice of appropriate category of Mineral 
Resource depends upon the quantity, distribution and quality of 
geoscientific information available and the level of confidence in 
this data. 

Anglo American makes use of a web-based Group reporting database 
called the Anglo Reserve and Resource Reporting system (ARR) for the 
compilation, review and approval of Ore Reserve and Mineral 
Resource data. The system allows the CPs to capture the estimates, 
year-on-year reconciliations and other supplementary information, 
thus supporting the Ore Reserves and Mineral Resources publication.

The estimates of Ore Reserves and Mineral Resources are stated as 
at 31 December 2023. The tabulated estimates are rounded and, if 
used to derive totals and averages, minor differences may result. 
Unless stated otherwise, Mineral Resources are additional to 
(i.e. exclusive of) those resources converted to Ore Reserves and are 
reported on a dry tonnes basis. Mineral Resources should not be added 
to Ore Reserves, as Modifying Factors have been applied to 
Ore Reserves.

The Ore Reserves and Mineral Resources Report 2023 should be 
considered the only valid source of Ore Reserve and Mineral Resource 
information for the Group exclusive of Kumba Iron Ore Limited and 
Anglo American Platinum Limited, which publish their own independent 
annual reports.

It is accepted that mine planning may include some Inferred Mineral 
Resources. Inferred Mineral Resources in the Life of Asset Plan (LoAP) 
are described as ‘Inferred (in LoAP)’ separately from the remaining 
Inferred Mineral Resources described as ‘Inferred (ex. LoAP)’, as 
required. These resources are declared without application of 
Modifying Factors. Reserve Life reflects the scheduled extraction or 
processing period in years for the total Ore Reserves (in situ and 
stockpiles) in the approved LoAP.

The ownership (attributable) percentage that Anglo American holds 
in each operation and project is presented beside the name of each 
entity and reflects the Group’s share of equity owned. The reported 
estimates represent 100% of the Ore Reserves and Mineral Resources. 
Operations and projects which fall below the internal threshold for 
reporting (25% attributable interest) are not reported. Operations 
which were disposed of during 2023 and hence not reported are: 
Kroondal, Marikana, Siphumelele 3 shaft (Platinum Group Metals).

Ore Reserves and Mineral Resources are reported for properties over 
which mineral tenure has been granted and is valid, or where 
applications have been submitted or will be submitted at the 
appropriate time and there is a reasonable expectation that the rights 
will be granted in due course (any associated comments appear in the 
Ore Reserves and Mineral Resources Report 2023). 

The effective management of risk is integral to good management 
practice. Anglo American is committed to an effective, robust system of 
risk identification and an appropriate response to such risks, in order to 
support the achievement of our objectives. Risk registers related to Ore 
Reserves and Mineral Resources are maintained for each operation, 
covering key risks pertaining to, but not limited to, technical, 
environmental, social, health, safety, economic and political aspects. 
Mitigation measures are identified and actioned to address the 
material risks at each operation. 

u­The detailed Ore Reserve and Mineral Resource estimates, Ore Reserve and Mineral 

Resource reconciliation overview, Definitions and Glossary are contained in the separate 
Ore Reserves and Mineral Resources Report 2023, which is available in the Annual 
Reporting Centre on the Anglo American website.

312

Anglo American plc 
Integrated Annual Report 2023

Financial statements and other financial information
Ore Reserves and Mineral Resources

Estimated Ore Reserves(1)
as at 31 December 2023

Detailed Proved and Probable estimates appear on the referenced pages in the Ore Reserves and Mineral Resources Report 2023.

COPPER OPERATIONS
(See pages 23 & 24 in R&R Report for details)

Collahuasi

Sulphide (direct feed)

El Soldado

Los Bronces

Low grade sulphide (incl. stockpile)

Sulphide – flotation (incl. stockpile)

Sulphide – flotation

Sulphide – dump leach

Ownership
%
44.0

50.1

50.1

Mining
Method

OP  

OP  

OP  

Quellaveco

Sulphide – flotation (incl. stockpile)

60.0

OP  

Total Proved and Probable

Reserve Life(2)

(years)
74 

Contained 
Copper (kt)
25,578 

ROM Tonnes 
(Mt)
2,634.3 

5 

33 

35 

7,243 

208 

6,520 

1,204 

8,212 

1,483.7 

28.9 

1,227.7 

426.3 

1,595.2 

NICKEL OPERATIONS
(See page 33 in R&R Report for details)

Barro Alto 

Niquelândia

Saprolite (incl. stockpile)

Saprolite

PGMs(3) OPERATIONS
(See page 39 in R&R Report for details)

Amandelbult 

Mogalakwena

MR & UG2 Reefs

Platreef (incl. stockpile)

Modikwa

Mototolo

Unki

UG2 Reef

UG2 Reef

Main Sulphide Zone

DIAMOND(4) OPERATION – DBCi
(See page 46 in R&R Report for details)

Gahcho Kué

Kimberlite

DIAMOND(4) OPERATION – DBCM
(See page 50 in R&R Report for details)

Venetia (UG)

Kimberlite

DIAMOND(4) OPERATIONS – Debswana
(See page 54 in R&R Report for details)

Jwaneng

Letlhakane

Orapa

Kimberlite

TMR & ORT

Kimberlite

DIAMOND(4) OPERATIONS – Namdeb
(See pages 60 & 63 in R&R Report for details)

Mining Area 1

Orange River

Beaches

Fluvial placers

Atlantic 1

Marine placers

58.5 

6.2 

ROM Tonnes 
(Mt)
84.0 

1,201.5 

37.8 

126.5 

44.6 

Ownership
%

Mining
Method

Reserve Life(2)

(years)

Contained Nickel 
(kt)

ROM Tonnes 
(Mt)

100

100

OP  

OP  

18 

13 

737 

77 

Ownership
%
78.6

Mining
Method
UG

78.6

39.3

78.6

78.6

OP

UG

UG  

UG

Ownership
%
43.4

Mining
Method

OP  

Ownership
%
62.9

Ownership
%
42.5

42.5

42.5

Ownership
%
42.5

42.5

Mining
Method
UG

Mining
Method

OP  

n/a  

OP  

Mining
Method

OC  

OC  

Ownership
%
42.5

Mining
Method

MM  

Contained Metal
(4E Moz)
12.3 

114.3 

5.1 

13.3 

4.7 

Reserve Life(2)

(years)

25  

74  

25  

51 

19  

LoA(5)

(years)
8 

LoA(5)

(years)

22  

Saleable Carats 
(Mct)
32.0 

Treated Tonnes 
(Mt)
22.0 

Saleable Carats 
(Mct)
59.7 

Treated Tonnes 
(Mt)
79.1 

LoA(5)

(years)
13 

Saleable Carats 
(Mct)
113.2 

Treated Tonnes 
(Mt)
90.2 

20 

14 

LoA(5)

(years)
19 

5 

LoA(5)

(years)
34 

5.6 

127.2 

25.9 

79.7 

Saleable Carats 
(kct)
18 

Treated Tonnes 
(kt)
346 

95 

16,476 

Saleable Carats 
(kct)
9,682 

Area
k (m2)
165,681 

Operations = mines in steady-state or projects in ramp-up phase.
Mining method: OP = open pit, UG = underground, OC = opencast/cut, MM = marine mining. TMR = Tailings Mineral Resource. ORT = Old Recovery Tailings.
Mt = Million tonnes. kt = thousand tonnes. Moz = Million troy ounces. Mct = Million carats. kct = thousand carats. k (m²) = thousand square metres.
ROM = run of mine.
TCu = total copper.
4E is the sum of platinum, palladium, rhodium and gold. g/t = grams per tonne. MR = Merensky Reef.
Diamond Recovered Grade is quoted as carats per hundred metric tonnes (cpht) or as carats per square metre (cpm²).

Grade
(%TCu)
0.97 

0.49 

0.72 

0.53 

0.28 

0.51 

Grade
(%Ni)

1.26 

1.24 

Grade
(4E g/t)
4.55 

2.95 

4.22 

3.27 

3.27 

Recovered 
Grade
(cpht)
145.4 

Recovered 
Grade
(cpht)
75.4 

Recovered 
Grade
(cpht)
125.4 

21.5 

159.5 

Recovered 
Grade
(cpht)
5.20 

0.58 

Recovered 
Grade
(cpm2)
0.06 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Anglo American plc 
Integrated Annual Report 2023

Financial statements and other financial information  
Ore Reserves and Mineral Resources

313

Estimated Ore Reserves continued

KUMBA IRON ORE OPERATIONS
(See page 68 in R&R Report for details)

Kolomela

Sishen

Haematite (incl. stockpile)

Haematite (incl. stockpile)

IRON ORE BRAZIL OPERATION
(See page 72 in R&R Report for details)

Serra do Sapo

Friable itabirite & haematite

Itabirite

STEELMAKING COAL OPERATIONS 
(See page 77 in R&R Report for details)

Capcoal (OC)*

Metallurgical – coking 

Metallurgical – other 

Thermal – export

Capcoal (UG) – Aquila*

Metallurgical – coking 

Dawson

Grosvenor

Moranbah North 

Metallurgical – coking 

Thermal – export

Metallurgical – coking 

Metallurgical – coking 

SAMANCOR MANGANESE(8) OPERATIONS
(See page 84 in R&R Report for details)
GEMCO(9)

ROM
Sands

Mamatwan

Wessels

CROP NUTRIENTS PROJECT
(See page 88 in R&R Report for details)

Woodsmith

Shelf

Ownership
%
52.5

52.5

Ownership
%
100

Mining
Method

OP  

OP  

Reserve Life(2)

(years)
11 

15 

Mining
Method

OP  

Reserve Life(2)

(years)
51 

Ownership
%

79.5

Mining
Method

OC

70.0

51.0

88.0

88.0

UG  

OC  

UG  

UG  

Reserve Life(2)

(years)

17

6 

13 

13 

21 

Ownership
%
40.0

Mining
Method

OP  

Reserve Life(2)

(years)
5 

29.6

29.6

OP  

UG  

14 

38 

Ownership
%
100

Mining
Method

UG  

Reserve Life(2)

(years)
27 

Operations = mines in steady-state or projects in ramp-up phase. 
Mining method: OP = open pit, UG = underground, OC = opencast/cut.
Mt = Million tonnes.
ROM = run of mine.
*Capcoal comprises opencast operations at Lake Lindsay and Oak Park, with an underground longwall operation at Aquila.

Total Proved and Probable

Saleable Product
(Mt)
125.3 

379.6 

Saleable Product(6)

(Mt)
619.7 

1,062.8 

Saleable Tonnes(7)

(Mt)
32.8 

44.3 

10.6 

26.6 

64.6 

26.3 

63.1 

151.6 

Tonnes 
(Mt)
37 
6.3 

39 

57 

ROM Tonnes 
(Mt)
290.0 

Grade
(%Fe)
63.4 

64.1 

Grade(6)
(%Fe)
67.0 

67.0 

Saleable Quality(7)

5.0 CSN

6,750 kcal/kg

5,970 kcal/kg

9.0 CSN

7.0 CSN

5,930 kcal/kg

8.0 CSN

7.5 CSN

Grade
(%Mn)
42.6 
40.0 

36.1 

41.8 

Grade
 (%Pht)
88.8 

(1)  Estimated Ore Reserves are the sum of Proved and Probable Ore Reserves (Mineral Resources are reported as additional to Ore Reserves unless stated otherwise). Refer to the detailed 

Ore Reserve estimate tables in the Anglo American Ore Reserves and Mineral Resources Report for the individual Proved and Probable Ore Reserve estimates. The Ore Reserve estimates 
are reported in accordance with the Australasian Code for Reporting of Exploration Results, Mineral Resources and Ore Reserves (the JORC Code, 2012) as a minimum standard. Ore 
Reserve estimates for operations in South Africa are reported in accordance with the South African Code for the Reporting of Exploration Results, Mineral Resources and Mineral Reserves 
(the SAMREC Code, 2016), unless stated otherwise. The figures reported represent 100% of the Ore Reserves. Anglo American ownership is stated separately and reflects the Group’s 
share of equity owned in each operation. Rounding of figures may cause computational discrepancies.

(2)  Reserve Life = The scheduled extraction or processing period in years for the total Ore Reserves (in situ and stockpiles) in the approved LoAP. 
(3)  In the 2022 report, Reserve Life was defined as the scheduled extraction restricted by the current mining right. In this report the mining right restriction has been removed and Reserve Life is 

stated per the schedule in the approved LoAP.

(4)  DBCi = De Beers Canada, DBCM = De Beers Consolidated Mines, Debswana = Debswana Diamond Company, Namdeb = Namdeb Holdings. Reported Diamond Reserves are based on a 
bottom cut-off (BCO), which refers to the bottom screen size aperture and varies between 1.00 mm and 3.00 mm (nominal square mesh). Specific BCOs applied to derive estimates are 
included in the detailed Diamond Reserve tables in the Anglo American Ore Reserves and Mineral Resources Report. 

(5)  LoA = Life of Asset is the scheduled extraction or processing period in years of Probable Diamond Reserves, including some Inferred Diamond Resources, considered in the LoAP.
(6)  Iron Ore Brazil Saleable Product tonnes are reported on a wet basis (average moisture content is 9.5 weight % of the wet mass) with grade stated on a dry basis.
(7)  Total Saleable Tonnes represents the product tonnes quoted as metric tonnes on a product moisture basis. The coal quality for Coal Reserves is quoted as either kilocalories per kilogram 

(kcal/kg) or Crucible Swell Number (CSN). Kilocalories per kilogram represent Calorific Value (CV) on a Gross As Received (GAR) basis. CV is rounded to the nearest 10 kcal/kg and CSN to the 
nearest 0.5 index. 

(8)  The Ore Reserve estimates are reported in accordance with the Australasian Code for Reporting of Exploration Results, Mineral Resources and Ore Reserves (the JORC Code, 2012) for 

Australian and South African operations. 

(9)  GEMCO Ore Reserve manganese grades are reported as expected product and should be read together with their respective mass yields, ROM: 56%, Sands: 22%.

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
314

Anglo American plc 
Integrated Annual Report 2023

Financial statements and other financial information
Ore Reserves and Mineral Resources

Estimated Mineral Resources(1)
as at 31 December 2023

Detailed Measured, Indicated and Inferred estimates appear on the referenced pages in the Ore Reserves and Mineral Resources Report 2023.

Total Measured and Indicated

Total Inferred(2)

COPPER OPERATIONS
(See pages 25, 26 & 27 in R&R Report for details)

Ownership
%

Mining 
Method

Contained 
Copper (kt)

Tonnes
(Mt)

Grade 
(%TCu)

Contained 
Copper (kt)

Tonnes 
(Mt)

Grade
(%TCu)

Collahuasi

Oxide and mixed leach

44.0

OP  

468 

66.7 

  0.70 

551 

110.3 

  0.50 

El Soldado

Los Bronces

Sulphide – flotation 

Low grade sulphide 

Sulphide – flotation (incl. stockpile)

Sulphide – flotation

Sulphide – dump leach

8,884 

  987.9 

  0.90 

25,979 

  2,885.3 

  0.90 

1,873 

  398.4 

  0.47 

9,399 

  2,040.2 

  0.46 

50.1

50.1

OP  

1,109 

  193.8 

  0.57 

121 

28.7 

  0.42 

OP  

13,056 

  2,887.7 

  0.45 

3,194 

738.2 

  0.43 

— 

— 

— 

29 

8.7 

  0.33 

Quellaveco

Sulphide – flotation

60.0

OP  

2,744 

  703.7 

  0.39 

4,888 

  1,186.0 

  0.41 

NICKEL OPERATIONS
(See pages 33 & 34 in R&R Report for details)

Ownership
%

Mining 
Method

Contained 
Nickel (kt)

Tonnes
(Mt)

Grade 
(%Ni)

Contained 
Nickel (kt)

Tonnes
(Mt)

Grade 
(%Ni)

Barro Alto

Saprolite (incl. stockpile)

100

OP  

180 

16.0 

  1.13 

110 

9.2 

  1.19 

Niquelândia

Saprolite

100

OP  

Ferruginous laterite 

87 

32 

— 

6.9 

  1.26 

2.5   1.25 

— 

— 

47 

— 

36 

4.1 

  1.15 

— 

— 

3.2 

  1.13 

Amandelbult 

MR & UG2 Reefs

78.6

UG  

53.9 

  283.6 

  5.92 

23.0 

114.2 

  6.26 

Mogalakwena

Platreef (incl. stockpile)

78.6 OP, UG

129.0   1,685.3 

Ownership
%

Mining 
Method

Contained 
Metal (4E Moz)

Tonnes
(Mt)

Grade
(4E g/t)

Contained 
Metal (4E Moz)

Tonnes 
(Mt)

Grade
(4E g/t)

Ferruginous laterite

PGMs(3) OPERATIONS
(See pages 40 & 41 in R&R Report for details)

Modikwa

Mototolo

Twickenham

Unki

MR & UG2 Reefs

MR & UG2 Reefs

MR & UG2 Reefs

Main Sulphide Zone

DIAMOND(4) OPERATION – DBCi
(See page 46 in R&R Report for details)

Gahcho Kué

Kimberlite

DIAMOND(4) OPERATIONS – DBCM
(See page 50 in R&R Report for details)

Venetia (UG)

Kimberlite

DIAMOND(4) OPERATIONS – Debswana
(See pages 54 & 55 in R&R Report for details)

Damtshaa

Jwaneng

Letlhakane

Orapa

Kimberlite

Kimberlite

TMR & ORT

TMR & ORT

Kimberlite

DIAMOND(4) OPERATIONS – Namdeb
(See pages 60, 61 & 63 in R&R Report for details)

Mining Area 1

Orange River

Beaches

Fluvial placers

39.3

78.6

78.6

78.6

UG

UG

UG

UG

32.1   204.2 

28.5   208.2 

60.7   335.7 

17.1   127.9 

2.38

4.89

4.25

5.62

4.16

Ownership
%

Mining 
Method

43.4

OP  

Ownership
%

Mining 
Method

62.9

UG  

Ownership
%

Mining 
Method

OP  

OP  

n/a  

n/a  

42.5

42.5

42.5

42.5

Carats
(Mct)

3.3 

Carats
(Mct)

— 

Carats
(Mct)

5.5 

54.3 

— 

0.6 

Tonnes
(Mt)

Grade 
(cpht)

2.2 

  146.2 

Tonnes
(Mt)

— 

Grade 
(cpht)

— 

Tonnes
(Mt)

Grade 
(cpht)

25.2 

  21.9 

67.7 

  80.2 

— 

— 

0.0 

 6,644.4 

OP  

271.7 

  280.4 

  96.9 

Ownership
%

Mining 
Method

Carats
(kct)

Tonnes
(kt)

Grade 
(cpht)

26.4

27.2

26.7

56.0

4.2

Carats
(Mct)

23.8 

Carats
(Mct)

51.6 

Carats
(Mct)

6.4 

66.2 

18.1 

12.3 

64.5 

Carats
(kct)

366.3   2.24 

207.3   4.08 

197.7   4.20 

313.9   5.55 

32.6   3.96 

Tonnes
(Mt)

Grade 
(cpht)

13.3 

 179.3 

Tonnes
(Mt)

Grade 
(cpht)

59.8 

  86.3 

Tonnes
(Mt)

Grade 
(cpht)

26.6 

  24.1 

80.3 

  82.4 

20.2 

  89.8 

45.5 

  27.0 

75.0 

  86.0 

Tonnes 
(kt)

Grade
(cpht)

42.5

42.5

OC  

219 

  19,000 

  1.15 

3,332 

 187,193 

  1.78 

OC

78   20,158 

  0.39 

159 

  54,316 

  0.29 

Ownership
%

Mining 
Method

Carats
(kct)

Area 
k (m2)

Grade 
(cpm2)

Carats
(kct)

Area 
k (m2)

Grade 
(cpm2)

Atlantic 1

Midwater

Marine placers

Marine

42.5

42.5

MM  

13,605 

 204,299 

  0.07 

66,798 

 829,059 

  0.08 

MM  

998 

  5,557 

  0.18 

672 

5,173 

  0.13 

Operations = mines in steady-state or projects in ramp-up phase.
Mining method: OP = open pit, UG = underground, OC = opencast/cut, MM = marine mining. TMR = Tailings Mineral Resource. ORT = Old Recovery Tailings. 
Mt = Million tonnes. kt = thousand tonnes. Moz = Million troy ounces. Mct = Million carats. kct = thousand carats. k (m²) = thousand square metres.
TCu = total copper. 
4E is the sum of platinum, palladium, rhodium and gold. g/t = grams per tonne. MR = Merensky Reef.
Diamond Grade is quoted as carats per hundred metric tonnes (cpht) or as carats per square metre (cpm²).
Values reported as 0.0 represent estimates less than 0.05.

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Anglo American plc 
Integrated Annual Report 2023

Financial statements and other financial information  
Ore Reserves and Mineral Resources

315

Estimated Mineral Resources continued

Total Measured and Indicated

Total Inferred(2)

KUMBA IRON ORE OPERATIONS
(See page 68 in R&R Report for details)

Ownership
%

Mining 
Method

Kolomela

Sishen

Haematite

Haematite (incl. stockpile)

IRON ORE BRAZIL OPERATION
(See page 72 in R&R Report for details)

52.5

52.5

Ownership
%

Serra do Sapo

Friable itabirite & haematite

100

OP

OP

Mining 
Method

OP

Itabirite

STEELMAKING COAL OPERATIONS 
(See page 78 in R&R Report for details)

Ownership
%

Mining 
Method

Capcoal (OC)*

Capcoal (UG) – Aquila*

Dawson

Grosvenor

Moranbah North

SAMANCOR MANGANESE(7) OPERATIONS
(See page 84 in R&R Report for details)
GEMCO(8)

ROM

Sands

Mamatwan

Wessels

CROP NUTRIENTS PROJECT
(See page 88 in R&R Report for details)

Woodsmith

Shelf

Basin

79.5

70.0

51.0

88.0

88.0

OC

UG

OC

UG

UG

Ownership
%

40.0

Mining 
Method

OP

29.6

29.6

OP

UG

Ownership
%

100

Mining 
Method

UG

Tonnes
(Mt)

  114.2 

  444.0 

Grade
(%Fe)

64.0 

55.9 

Tonnes(5)
(Mt)

Grade(5)
(%Fe)

  268.1 

 1,376.4 

33.0 

31.0 

Tonnes(6)
(Mt)

Coal 
Quality(6)

(kcal/kg)

  140.5 

  6,900 

39.4 

  6,700 

  594.0 

  6,720 

  294.5 

  6,460 

  178.3 

  6,670 

Tonnes
(Mt)

97 

12 

65 

118 

Tonnes
(Mt)

  230.0 

— 

Grade 
(%Mn)

43.4 

20.0 

35.0 

41.9 

Grade 
(%Pht)

81.5 

— 

Tonnes
(Mt)

18.5

9.1

Grade
(%Fe)

62.6

49.6

Tonnes(5)
(Mt)

Grade(5)
(%Fe)

  41.6 

  363.4 

36.1 

31.0 

Tonnes(6)
(Mt)

Coal 
Quality(6)

(kcal/kg)

  137.0 

  6,840 

2.8 

  6,190 

  220.7 

  6,730 

  95.9 

  6,390 

  25.4 

  6,530 

Tonnes
(Mt)

26 

— 

— 

14 

Tonnes
(Mt)

  810.0 

  960.0 

Grade 
(%Mn)

44.2 

— 

— 

41.8 

Grade 
(%Pht)

82.3 

86.3 

Operations = mines in steady-state or projects in ramp-up phase. 
Mining method: OP = open pit, UG = underground, OC = opencast/cut. 
Mt = Million tonnes. 
*Capcoal comprises opencast operations at Lake Lindsay and Oak Park, with an underground longwall operation at Aquila.

(1)  Estimated Mineral Resources are presented on an exclusive basis, i.e. Mineral Resources are reported as additional to Ore Reserves unless stated otherwise. Refer to the detailed Mineral 

Resource estimate tables in the Anglo American Ore Reserves and Mineral Resources Report for the individual Measured, Indicated and Inferred Resource estimates. The Mineral 
Resource estimates are reported in accordance with the Australasian Code for Reporting of Exploration Results, Mineral Resources and Ore Reserves (the JORC Code, 2012) as a 
minimum standard. The Mineral Resource estimates for operations in South Africa are reported in accordance with the South African Code for the Reporting of Exploration Results, Mineral 
Resources and Mineral Reserves (the SAMREC Code, 2016), unless stated otherwise. The figures reported represent 100% of the Mineral Resources. Anglo American ownership is stated 
separately and reflects the Group’s share of equity owned in each operation. Rounding of figures may cause computational discrepancies.

(2)  Total Inferred is the sum of ‘Inferred (in LoAP)’, the Inferred Resources within the scheduled LoAP and ‘Inferred (ex. LoAP)’, the portion of Inferred Resources with reasonable prospects for 
eventual economic extraction not considered in the LoAP as relevant. Due to the uncertainty attached to Inferred Mineral Resources, it cannot be assumed that all or part of an Inferred 
Mineral Resource will necessarily be upgraded to an Indicated or Measured Mineral Resource after continued exploration. 

(3)  Merensky Reef, UG2 Reef and Main Sulphide Zone Mineral Resources are estimated over a ‘resource cut’ which takes cognisance of the mining method, potential economic viability and 

geotechnical aspects in the hangingwall or footwall of the reef.

(4)  DBCi = De Beers Canada, DBCM = De Beers Consolidated Mines, Debswana = Debswana Diamond Company, Namdeb = Namdeb Holdings. Estimated Diamond Resources are presented 

on an exclusive basis, i.e. Diamond Resources are quoted as additional to Diamond Reserves. Reported Diamond Resources are based on a bottom cut-off (BCO), which refers to the bottom 
screen size aperture and varies between 1.00 mm and 3.00 mm (nominal square mesh). Specific BCOs applied to derive estimates are included in the detailed Diamond Resource tables in the 
Anglo American Ore Reserves and Mineral Resources Report.

(5)  Iron Ore Brazil Mineral Resource tonnes and grade are reported on a dry basis.
(6)  Coal Resources are quoted on a Mineable Tonnes In Situ (MTIS) basis in million tonnes, which are in addition to those Coal Resources that have been modified to produce the reported Coal 

Reserves. Dawson, Grosvenor and Moranbah North operations have been reported on a Gross Tonnes In Situ (GTIS) basis in million tonnes. Coal Resources are reported on an in situ moisture 
basis. The coal quality for Coal Resources is quoted on an in situ heat content as kilocalories per kilogram (kcal/kg), representing Calorific Value (CV) on a Gross As Received (GAR) basis. CV is 
rounded to the nearest 10 kcal/kg.

(7)  The Mineral Resource estimates are reported in accordance with the Australasian Code for Reporting of Exploration Results, Mineral Resources and Ore Reserves (the JORC Code, 2012) for 

Australian and South African operations. Manganese Mineral Resources are quoted on an inclusive basis and must not be added to the Ore Reserves.

(8)  GEMCO ROM Mineral Resource tonnes are stated as in situ, manganese grades are given as per washed ore samples and should be read together with their respective mass recovery 

expressed as yield. GEMCO Sands Mineral Resource tonnes and manganese grades are stated as in situ.

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
316

Anglo American plc 
Integrated Annual Report 2023

Other information

Glossary of terms

Ore Reserves
An ‘Ore Reserve’ is the economically mineable part of a Measured and/
or Indicated Mineral Resource. It includes diluting materials and 
allowances for losses, which may occur when the material is mined or 
extracted and is defined by studies at pre-feasibility or feasibility level 
as appropriate that include application of Modifying Factors. Such 
studies demonstrate that, at the time of reporting, extraction could 
reasonably be justified. ‘Modifying Factors’ are (realistically assumed) 
considerations used to convert Mineral Resources to Ore Reserves. 
These include, but are not restricted to, mining, processing, 
metallurgical, infrastructure, economic, marketing, legal, environmental, 
social and governmental factors. Ore Reserves are sub-divided in 
order of increasing confidence into Probable Ore Reserves and Proved 
Ore Reserves.

A ‘Proved Ore Reserve’ is the economically mineable part of a 
Measured Mineral Resource. A Proved Ore Reserve implies a high 
degree of confidence in the Modifying Factors.

A ‘Probable Ore Reserve’ is the economically mineable part of an 
Indicated, and in some circumstances, a Measured Mineral Resource. 
The confidence in the Modifying Factors applying to a Probable Ore 
Reserve is lower than that applying to a Proved Ore Reserve. A 
Probable Ore Reserve has a lower level of confidence than a Proved 
Ore Reserve but is of sufficient quality to serve as the basis for a 
decision on the development of the deposit.

Mineral Resources
A ‘Mineral Resource’ is a concentration or occurrence of solid material 
of economic interest in or on the Earth’s crust in such form, grade (or 
quality), and quantity that there are reasonable prospects for eventual 
economic extraction. The location, quantity, grade (or quality), 
continuity and other geological characteristics of a Mineral Resource 
are known, estimated or interpreted from specific geological evidence 
and knowledge, including sampling. Mineral Resources are sub-
divided, in order of increasing geological confidence, into Inferred, 
Indicated and Measured categories.

A ‘Measured Mineral Resource’ is that part of a Mineral Resource for 
which quantity, grade (or quality), densities, shape and physical 
characteristics are estimated with confidence sufficient to allow the 
application of Modifying Factors to support detailed mine planning and 
final evaluation of the economic viability of the deposit. Geological 
evidence is derived from detailed and reliable exploration, sampling 
and testing gathered through appropriate techniques from locations 
such as outcrops, trenches, pits, workings and drill holes, and is 
sufficient to confirm geological and grade (or quality) continuity 
between points of observation where data and samples are gathered.

A Measured Mineral Resource has a higher level of confidence than 
that applying to either an Indicated Mineral Resource or an Inferred 
Mineral Resource. It may be converted to a Proved Ore Reserve or 
under certain circumstances to a Probable Ore Reserve.

An ‘Indicated Mineral Resource’ is that part of a Mineral Resource for 
which quantity, grade (or quality), densities, shape and physical 
characteristics are estimated with sufficient confidence to allow the 
application of Modifying Factors in sufficient detail to support mine 
planning and evaluation of the economic viability of the deposit. 
Geological evidence is derived from adequately detailed and reliable 
exploration, sampling and testing gathered through appropriate 
techniques from locations such as outcrops, trenches, pits, workings 
and drill holes, and is sufficient to assume geological and grade (or 
quality) continuity between points of observation where data and 
samples are gathered.

An Indicated Mineral Resource has a lower level of confidence than 
that applying to a Measured Mineral Resource and may only be 
converted to a Probable Ore Reserve.

An ‘Inferred Mineral Resource’ is that part of a Mineral Resource for 
which quantity and grade (or quality) are estimated on the basis of 
limited geological evidence and sampling. Geological evidence is 
sufficient to imply, but not verify, geological and grade (or quality) 
continuity. It is based on exploration, sampling and testing information 
gathered through appropriate techniques from locations such as 
outcrops, trenches, pits, workings and drill holes.

An Inferred Mineral Resource has a lower level of confidence than that 
applying to an Indicated Mineral Resource and must not be converted 
to an Ore Reserve. It is reasonably expected that the majority of 
Inferred Mineral Resources could be upgraded to Indicated Mineral 
Resources with continued exploration.

Life of Asset Plan (LoAP)
Life of Asset Plan is the most recent annual plan summarising a 
forecast of the development, operation and maintenance of the asset 
based on realistically assumed Modifying Factors. This plan shall cover 
a detailed mine design and schedule for ore tonnes and grade, waste 
movements, treatment schedule, production of saleable product, 
capital, operating and reclamation costs, together with reasonable 
estimates of cash flows and other costs and expenses (including 
corporate costs), in sufficient detail to demonstrate at the time of 
reporting that extraction is reasonably justified.

Reserve Life
The scheduled extraction or processing period in years for the total Ore 
Reserves (in situ and stockpiles) in the approved LoAP.

Inferred (in LoAP)
Inferred Resources within the scheduled LoAP.

Inferred (ex. LoAP)
The portion of Inferred Resources with reasonable prospects for 
eventual economic extraction not considered in the LoAP.

Fatal-injury frequency rate (FIFR)(1)
FIFR is the number of employee or contractor fatal injuries due to all 
causes per 1,000,000 hours worked.

Lost time injury frequency rate (LTIFR)(1)
LTIFR is the number of lost time injuries (LTIs) for both employees and 
contractors per 1,000,000 hours worked. An LTI is a work-related injury 
resulting in the person being unable to attend work or perform the 
routine functions of his/her job, on the next calendar day after the day 
of the injury, whether a scheduled workday or not. Restricted work 
cases are therefore counted as LTIs.

Total recordable injury frequency rate (TRIFR)(1)
TRIFR is the number of fatal injuries, lost time injuries and medical 
treatment cases for both employees and contractors per 1,000,000 
hours worked.

New cases of occupational disease (NCOD)(1)
NCOD is the sum of all recorded, irreversible occupational diseases. 
An occupational disease is a health condition or disorder (e.g., silicosis, 
coal-workers’ pneumoconiosis, chronic obstructive air ways disease, 
occupational cancers, sensitisation to platinum or rhodium salts, work-
related mental disorders, etc.) that is caused by the work environment 
or activities related to work. 

Total energy consumed(1)
Total amount of energy consumed is the sum of total energy from 
electricity purchased, total energy from fossil fuels and total energy 
from renewable fuels and is measured in million gigajoules (GJ).

Anglo American plc 
Integrated Annual Report 2023

Other information
Glossary of terms

317

Commercial initiatives include enterprise development and other 
community initiatives/partnerships that can also directly support the 
success of the Company (such as supplier development). There must, 
however, be a clear and primary element of public benefit.

We prohibit the making of donations for political purposes to any 
politician, political party or related organisation, an official of a political 
party or candidate for political office in any circumstances either 
directly or through third parties.

Jobs supported through livelihoods’ initiatives
Anglo American supports jobs through various community livelihoods’ 
initiatives. This includes – but is not limited to – local procurement, 
training, mentoring and capacity development, loan funding to small 
businesses, agriculture programmes and collaborative regional 
development initiatives. The number of jobs supported includes 
existing jobs through activities to support increased security of those 
jobs, as well as newly created jobs through a range of development 
programmes and projects. Jobs supported are measured as full time 
equivalent jobs.

Inclusive procurement measurement
Our Inclusive Procurement Policy provides a framework for supporting 
development outcomes through targeted procurement interventions. 
This policy is further strengthened by region specific regulations and 
processes where it relates to host community procurement. Inclusive 
procurement strategies take into account the regions and communities 
within which our operations are located.

The measurement of performance against our inclusive procurement 
strategy is informed by a combination of development outcomes and 
legal requirements. Inclusive procurement encompasses a 
combination of multiple factors, including procurement from local (or in 
country/region), host and designated entities.

– Host communities: includes suppliers who have their main place of 
business in the direct vicinity of the operation, as defined per region.

– Designated groups: include First Nation-owned companies 

(Canada region), Aboriginal owned supplier businesses (Australia) 
and BEE entities (South Africa).

– Local companies: businesses that are registered and based in the 
country of the operation – also referred to as in-country suppliers.

Our inclusive procurement initiatives are aimed at ensuring maximum 
impact on host communities. 

(1)  Data relates to subsidiaries and joint operations over which Anglo American has 

management control. See Anglo American plc Sustainability Report 2023 for the full list of 
entities within the reporting scope.

Total water withdrawals(1)
Total water withdrawals by source, reported in line with International 
Council on Metals and Mining (ICMM) guidance, includes: surface 
water; groundwater; seawater, and third-party water, and is measured 
in million m3.

Fresh water withdrawals in water scarce areas(1)
Naturally occurring water that meets the criteria of the Minerals Council 
of Australia’s Water Accounting Framework (WAF) Category 1, 
excluding precipitation and run-off, which reasonably cannot 
effectively be prevented from entry into our operational processes in 
million m3.

Greenhouse gases (GHGs)(1)
The Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change 2006 report (as 
updated in 2011) factors are applied as defaults for all carbon dioxide-
equivalent (CO2e) and energy calculations. Where emission factors 
are available for specific countries or sub-regions from government 
and regulatory authorities, these are applied. Australian operations 
apply conversion factors required by the government for regulatory 
reporting and operations in Brazil apply local factors for biomass and 
biofuel. Factors for CO2e from electricity are based on local 
grid factors.

Based on a self-assessment, Anglo American believes it reports in 
accordance with the WRI/WBCSD GHG Protocol, as issued prior to the 
2015 revision on Scope 2 emissions reporting. In line with the GHG 
Protocol’s ‘management control’ boundary, 100% of the direct and 
indirect emissions for managed operations are accounted for while 
zero emissions for associates, joint ventures and other investments are 
included in the reporting scope.

Level 3, 4 and 5 environmental incidents(1)
Environmental incidents are unplanned or unwanted events resulting 
from our operations that adversely impact the environment or 
contravene local regulations/permit conditions. They are classified 
from minor (Level 1) to significant (Level 5) depending on the duration 
and extent of impact, as well as the sensitivity and/or biodiversity value 
of the receiving environment. Level 3-5 incidents are those which we 
consider to have prolonged impacts on the local environments, lasting 
in excess of one month and affecting areas greater than several 
hundred metres on site, or extending beyond the boundaries of our 
immediate operations.

Total amount spent on community social investment 
Categories for community social investment (CSI) expenditure include 
charitable donations, community investment and community 
commercial initiatives. CSI contributions can take the form of cash 
donations, contributions in kind and employees’ working hours spent 
on charity and volunteering projects during work hours. Not included is 
expenditure that is necessary for the development of an operation (e.g. 
resettlement of families) or receiving a licence. Training expenditure for 
individuals who will be employed by the Company following 
completion of training is not included. CSI is reported in US dollars and 
converted from the currency of the operations at the average foreign 
exchange rate applied by Anglo American for financial reporting 
purposes.

Charitable donations include charitable and philanthropic gifts and 
contributions that tend to be ad hoc and one-offs. 

Community investment includes the funding of community projects/
programmes which address social issues, the costs of providing public 
facilities to community members who are not employees or 
dependents, the marginal value of land or other assets transferred to 
community ownership, and income creation schemes or mentoring/ 
volunteering initiatives that do not have a principally commercial 
justification.

318

Anglo American plc 
Integrated Annual Report 2023

Other information

Alternative performance measures

Introduction
When assessing and discussing the Group’s reported financial 
performance, financial position and cash flows, management makes 
reference to Alternative Performance Measures (APMs) of historical or 
future financial performance, financial position or cash flows that are 
not defined or specified under International Financial Reporting 
Standards (IFRS).

The APMs used by the Group fall into two categories:

– Financial APMs: These financial measures are usually derived from 

the financial statements, prepared in accordance with IFRS. Certain 
financial measures cannot be directly derived from the financial 
statements as they contain additional information, such as financial 
information from earlier periods or profit estimates or projections. 
The accounting policies applied when calculating APMs are, where 
relevant and unless otherwise stated, substantially the same as 
those disclosed in the Group’s Consolidated financial statements for 
the year ended 31 December 2022 with the exception of the new 
accounting pronouncements disclosed in note 39.

– Non-financial APMs: These measures incorporate certain non-
financial information that management believes is useful when 
assessing the performance of the Group.

APMs are not uniformly defined by all companies, including those in the 
Group’s industry. Accordingly, the APMs used by the Group may not be 
comparable with similarly titled measures and disclosures made by 
other companies.

APMs should be considered in addition to, and not as a substitute for or 
as superior to, measures of financial performance, financial position or 
cash flows reported in accordance with IFRS. Measures used by the 
Group exclude the impact of certain items, which impact the financial 
performance and cash flows, in order to aid comparability of financial 
information reported. The adjustments performed to defined IFRS 
measures and rationale for adjustments are detailed on pages 318 
to 320.

Purpose
The Group uses APMs to improve the comparability of information 
between reporting periods and businesses, either by adjusting for 
uncontrollable factors or special items which impact upon IFRS 
measures or, by aggregating measures, to aid the user of the Annual 
Report in understanding the activity taking place across the Group’s 
portfolio.

Their use is driven by characteristics particularly visible in the mining 
sector:

1. Earnings volatility: The Group mines and markets commodities and 

precious metals and minerals. The sector is characterised by 
significant volatility in earnings driven by movements in macro-
economic factors, primarily price and foreign exchange. This 
volatility is outside the control of management and can mask 
underlying changes in performance. As such, when comparing year-
on-year performance, management excludes certain items (such as 
those classed as ‘special items’) to aid comparability and then 
quantifies and isolates uncontrollable factors in order to improve 
understanding of the controllable portion of variances.

2. Nature of investment: Investments in the sector typically occur over 
several years and are large, requiring significant funding before 
generating cash. These investments are often made with partners 
and the nature of the Group’s ownership interest affects how the 
financial results of these operations are reflected in the Group’s 
results e.g. whether full consolidation (subsidiaries), consolidation of 
the Group’s attributable assets and liabilities (joint operations) or 
equity accounted (associates and joint ventures). Attributable 
metrics are therefore presented to help demonstrate the financial 
performance and returns available to the Group, for investment and 
financing activities, excluding the effect of different accounting 
treatments for different ownership interests.

3. Portfolio complexity: The Group operates in a number of different, 

but complementary commodities, precious metals and minerals. The 
cost, value of and return from each saleable unit (e.g. tonne, pound, 
carat, ounce) can differ materially between each business. This 
makes understanding both the overall portfolio performance, and 
the relative performance of its constituent parts on a like-for-like 
basis, more challenging. The Group therefore uses composite APMs 
to provide a consistent metric to assess performance at the portfolio 
level.

Consequently, APMs are used by the Board and management for 
planning and reporting. A subset is also used by management in 
setting director and management remuneration, such as attributable 
free cash flow prior to growth capital expenditure. The measures are 
also used in discussions with the investment analyst community and 
credit rating agencies.

Financial APMs

Group APM

Closest equivalent 
IFRS measure

Income statement

Adjustments to reconcile to primary statements

Rationale for adjustments

Group revenue  Revenue

– Revenue from associates and joint ventures

– Revenue special items and remeasurements

Underlying EBIT Profit/(loss) before 
net finance income/
(costs) and tax

– Revenue, operating and non-operating special items 

and remeasurements

– Underlying EBIT from associates and joint ventures

Underlying 
EBITDA

Profit/(loss) before 
net finance income/
(costs) and tax

– Revenue, operating and non-operating special items 

and remeasurements

– Depreciation and amortisation

– Underlying EBITDA from associates and joint ventures

– Exclude the effect of different basis of 
consolidation to aid comparability

– Exclude the impact of certain items due to 
their size and nature to aid comparability

– Exclude the impact of certain items due to 
their size and nature to aid comparability

– Exclude the effect of different basis of 
consolidation to aid comparability

– Exclude the impact of certain items due to 
their size and nature to aid comparability

– Exclude the effect of different basis of 
consolidation to aid comparability

Anglo American plc 
Integrated Annual Report 2023

Other information
Alternative performance measures

319

Group APM

Underlying 
earnings

Underlying 
effective tax 
rate

Basic underlying 
earnings 
per share

Mining EBITDA 
margin

Operating profit 
margin, defined by 
IFRS

Balance sheet

Net debt 

Borrowings less cash 
and related hedges

Closest equivalent 
IFRS measure

Profit/(loss) for the 
financial year 
attributable to equity 
shareholders of the 
Company 

Adjustments to reconcile to primary statements

Rationale for adjustments

– Special items and remeasurements 

– Exclude the impact of certain items due to 
their size and nature to aid comparability

Income tax expense

– Tax related to special items and remeasurements 

– The Group’s share of associates’ and joint ventures’ profit 

– Exclude the impact of certain items due to 
their size and nature to aid comparability

before tax, before special items and remeasurements, and 
tax expense, before special items and remeasurements

– Exclude the effect of different basis of 
consolidation to aid comparability

Earnings per share

– Special items and remeasurements

– Revenue from associates and joint ventures

– Revenue, operating and non-operating special items 

and remeasurements

– Underlying EBIT from associates and joint ventures

– Adjustment to Debswana to reflect as a 50/50 

joint operation

– Exclusion of third-party sales, purchases and 

trading activity

– Debit valuation adjustment

– Borrowings are adjusted to exclude vessel lease contracts 

that are priced with reference to a freight index

– Borrowings do not include the royalty liability (note 24) on 
the basis that obligations to make cash payments against 
this liability only arise when the Woodsmith project 
generates revenues, and that otherwise the Group is not 
currently contractually liable to make any payments under 
this arrangement (other than in the event of the Anglo 
American Crop Nutrients Limited’s insolvency)

– Exclude the impact of certain items due to 
their size and nature to aid comparability

– Exclude non-mining revenue and EBITDA 
to show a margin for mining operations 
only, which provides a relevant comparison 
to peers

– Exclude the impact of accounting 

adjustments from the net debt obligation of 
the Group

– Exclude the volatility arising from vessel lease 
contracts that are priced with reference to a 
freight index. These liabilities are required to 
be remeasured at each reporting date to the 
latest spot freight rate, which means that the 
carrying value of the lease liability is not 
necessarily consistent with the average lease 
payments which are expected to be made 
over the lease term

– Exclude the effect of different basis of 
consolidation to aid comparability

Attributable 
ROCE

No direct equivalent

– Non-controlling interests’ share of capital employed and 

underlying EBIT

– Average of opening and closing attributable 

capital employed

320

Anglo American plc 
Integrated Annual Report 2023

Other information
Alternative performance measures

Group APM

Cash flow

Capital 
expenditure 
(capex)

Closest equivalent 
IFRS measure

Expenditure on 
property, plant and 
equipment

Adjustments to reconcile to primary statements

Rationale for adjustments

– Cash flows from derivatives related to capital expenditure

– To reflect the net attributable cost of 

– Proceeds from disposal of property, plant and equipment

– Direct funding for capital expenditure from non-

capital expenditure taking into account 
economic hedges

Attributable free 
cash flow

Cash flows from 
operations

controlling interests

– Capital expenditure

– Cash tax paid

Sustaining 
attributable free 
cash flow

Cash flows from 
operations

– Dividends from associates, joint ventures and financial 

asset investments

– Net interest paid

– Dividends to non-controlling interests

– Capital repayment of lease obligations

– Expenditure on non-current intangible assets 

(excluding goodwill)

– Cash tax paid 

– Dividends from associates, joint ventures and financial 

asset investments

– Net interest paid

– Dividends to non-controlling interests

– Capital repayment of lease obligations

– Sustaining capital expenditure

– Capitalised operating cash flows relating to life 

extension projects

– To measure the amount of cash available to 
finance returns to shareholders or growth 
after servicing debt, providing a return to 
minority shareholders and meeting existing 
capex commitments

– To measure the amount of cash available to 
finance returns to shareholders or growth 
after servicing debt, providing a return to 
minority shareholders and meeting the 
capex commitments needed to sustain the 
current production base of existing assets. 
It is calculated as attributable free cash flow 
prior to growth capex and expenditure on 
non-current intangible assets (excluding 
goodwill)

Group revenue
Group revenue includes the Group’s attributable share of associates’ 
and joint ventures’ revenue and excludes revenue special items and 
remeasurements. A reconciliation to ‘Revenue’, the closest equivalent 
IFRS measure to Group revenue, is provided within note 2 to the 
Consolidated financial statements.

Underlying EBIT
Underlying EBIT is ‘Operating profit/(loss)’ presented before special 
items and remeasurements(1) and includes the Group’s attributable 
share of associates’ and joint ventures’ underlying EBIT. Underlying 
EBIT of associates and joint ventures is the Group’s attributable share 
of associates’ and joint ventures’ revenue less operating costs before 
special items and remeasurements(1) of associates and joint ventures.

A reconciliation to ‘Profit/(loss) before net finance income/(costs) and 
tax’, the closest equivalent IFRS measure to underlying EBIT, is provided 
within note 2 to the Consolidated financial statements.

Underlying EBITDA
Underlying EBITDA is underlying EBIT before depreciation and 
amortisation and includes the Group’s attributable share of associates’ 
and joint ventures’ underlying EBIT before depreciation and 
amortisation.

A reconciliation to ‘Profit/(loss) before net finance income/(costs) and 
tax’, the closest equivalent IFRS measure to underlying EBITDA, is 
provided within note 2 to the Consolidated financial statements.

Underlying earnings
Underlying earnings is ‘Profit/(loss) for the financial year attributable to 
equity shareholders of the Company’ before special items and 
remeasurements(1) and is therefore presented after net finance costs, 
income tax expense and non-controlling interests.
A reconciliation to ‘Profit/(loss) for the financial year attributable to 
equity shareholders of the Company’, the closest equivalent IFRS 
measure to underlying earnings, is provided within note 2 to the 
Consolidated financial statements.

Underlying effective tax rate
The underlying effective tax rate equates to the income tax expense, 
before special items and remeasurements(1) and including the Group’s 
share of associates’ and joint ventures’ tax before special items and 
remeasurements(1), divided by profit before tax before special items 
and remeasurements(1) and including the Group’s share of associates’ 
and joint ventures’ profit before tax before special items and 
remeasurements(1).

A reconciliation to ‘Income tax expense’, the closest equivalent IFRS 
measure to underlying effective tax rate, is provided within note 5 to the 
Consolidated financial statements.

(1)  Special items and remeasurements are defined in note 9 to the Consolidated 

financial statements.

Underlying earnings per share
Basic and diluted underlying earnings per share are calculated as 
underlying earnings divided by the basic or diluted shares in issue. The 
calculation of underlying earnings per share is disclosed within note 3 
to the Consolidated financial statements.

Mining EBITDA margin
The mining EBITDA margin is derived from the Group’s underlying 
EBITDA as a percentage of Group revenue, adjusted to exclude certain 
items to better reflect the performance of the Group’s mining business. 
The mining EBITDA margin reflects Debswana accounting treatment 
as a 50/50 joint operation, excludes third-party sales, purchases and 
trading and excludes Platinum Group Metals’ purchase of concentrate.

Anglo American plc 
Integrated Annual Report 2023

Other information
Alternative performance measures

321

US$ million (unless otherwise stated)

Underlying EBITDA

Group revenue

Margin

Adjustments for:

2023

9,958

32,502

 31% 

2022

14,495

37,391

 39% 

Debswana adjustment to reflect as a 50/50 
joint operation

Exclude third-party purchases, trading 
activity and processing(1)

Mining EBITDA margin

 2% 

 3% 

 6% 

 39% 

 5% 

 47% 

(1)  Third-party purchases, trading activity and processing consists of Platinum Group Metals’ 
purchase of concentrate, third-party sales and purchases and the impact of third-party 
trading activity. 

Sustaining capital
Sustaining capital is calculated as capital expenditure excluding 
growth projects. Expenditure on growth projects in 2023 and 2022 
principally related to Quellaveco and the Woodsmith project. The 
Group uses sustaining capital as a measure to provide additional 
information to understand the capital needed to sustain the current 
production base of existing assets.

Attributable return on capital employed (ROCE)
ROCE is a ratio that measures the efficiency and profitability of a 
company’s capital investments. Attributable ROCE displays how 
effectively assets are generating profit on invested capital for the 
equity shareholders of the Company. It is calculated as attributable 
underlying EBIT divided by average attributable capital employed.

Attributable underlying EBIT excludes the underlying EBIT of non-
controlling interests.

Net debt
Net debt is calculated as total borrowings less variable vessel lease 
contracts that are priced with reference to a freight index, and cash 
and cash equivalents (including derivatives that provide an economic 
hedge of net debt, see note 24, but excluding the impact of the debit 
valuation adjustment on these derivatives, explained in note 21). A 
reconciliation to the Consolidated balance sheet is provided within 
note 21 to the Consolidated financial statements.

Capital employed is defined as net assets excluding net debt, vessel 
lease contracts that are priced with reference to a freight index, the 
debit valuation adjustment attributable to derivatives hedging net debt 
and financial asset investments. Attributable capital employed 
excludes capital employed of non-controlling interests. Average 
attributable capital employed is calculated by adding the opening and 
closing attributable capital employed for the relevant period and 
dividing by two.

Capital expenditure (capex)
Capital expenditure is defined as cash expenditure on property, plant 
and equipment, including related derivatives, and is presented net of 
proceeds from disposal of property, plant and equipment and includes 
direct funding for capital expenditure from non-controlling interests in 
order to match more closely the way in which it is managed. 
A reconciliation to ‘Expenditure on property, plant and equipment’, the 
closest equivalent IFRS measure to capital expenditure, is provided 
within note 13 to the Consolidated financial statements.

Following the adoption of the amendment to IAS 16 Proceeds before 
intended use in 2022, operating cash flows generated by operations 
that have not yet reached commercial production are presented in 
Cash flows from operating activities in the Consolidated cash flow 
statement and no longer included in capital expenditure.

Attributable ROCE is also used as an incentive measure in executives’ 
remuneration and is predicated upon the achievement of ROCE 
targets in the final year of a three year performance period.

A reconciliation to ‘Profit/(loss) before net finance income/(costs) 
and tax’, the closest equivalent IFRS measure to underlying EBIT, 
is provided within note 2 to the Consolidated financial statements. 
A reconciliation to ‘Net assets’, the closest equivalent IFRS measure 
to capital employed, is provided within note 10 to the Consolidated 
financial statements. The table below reconciles underlying EBIT and 
capital employed to attributable underlying EBIT and average 
attributable capital employed by segment.

Copper

Nickel

Platinum Group Metals

De Beers

Iron Ore

Steelmaking Coal

Manganese

Crop Nutrients

Corporate and other

Attributable ROCE %

2023 
 20 

 6 

 15 

 (3) 

 34 

 27 

 81 

n/a

n/a

 16 

2022
 16 

 24 

 86 

 11 

 28 

 85 

 138 

n/a

n/a

 30 

 
 
 
 
 
322

Anglo American plc 
Integrated Annual Report 2023

Other information
Alternative performance measures

US$ million
Copper

Nickel

Platinum Group Metals

De Beers

Iron Ore

Steelmaking Coal

Manganese

Crop Nutrients

Corporate and other

US$ million
Copper

Nickel

Platinum Group Metals

De Beers

Iron Ore

Steelmaking Coal

Manganese

Crop Nutrients

Corporate and other

Less: 
Non-
controlling 
interests’ 
share of 
underlying 
EBIT
(608)   

— 

(227)   

29 

Underlying 
EBIT
2,451 

62 

855 

(252)   

Attributable 
underlying 
EBIT
1,843 

Opening 
attributable 
capital 
employed
8,909 

62 

628 

(223)   

3,549 

(1,044)   

2,505 

822 

145 

(61)   

(403)   

— 

(2)   

— 

34 

822 

143 

(61)   

(369)   

1,393 

3,915 

7,089 

7,245 

2,837 

210 

489 

492 

2023

Less: 
Non-
controlling 
interests’ 
share of 
closing 
capital 
employed

(5,016)   

— 

(960)   

(1,181)   

(1,391)   

— 

— 

— 

(16)   

Closing 
attributable 
capital 
employed
9,293 

Average 
attributable 
capital 
employed
9,101 

588 

4,215 

6,076 

7,653 

3,364 

141 

1,309 

1,224 

991 

4,065 

6,583 

7,449 

3,101 

176 

899 

858 

Closing 
capital 
employed
14,309 

588 

5,175 

7,257 

9,044 

3,364 

141 

1,309 

1,240 

7,168 

(1,818)   

5,350 

32,579 

42,427 

(8,564)   

33,863 

33,223 

Less: 
Non-
controlling 
interests’ 
share of 
underlying 
EBIT
(286)   

— 

(896)   

(171)   

(952)   

— 

(3)   

— 

14 

Attributable 
underlying 
EBIT
1,309 

Opening 
attributable 
capital 
employed 
(restated)(1)
7,307 

Closing 
capital 
employed 
(restated)(1)
13,661 

317 

3,156 

823 

2,010 

2,369 

309 

(45)   

(579)   

1,285 

3,411 

7,256 

7,169 

2,712 

238 

1,563 

406 

1,393 

4,753 

8,218 

8,488 

2,837 

210 

489 

492 

Underlying 
EBIT
1,595 

317 

4,052 

994 

2,962 

2,369 

312 

(45)   

(593)   

Less: 
Non-
controlling 
interests’ 
share of 
closing capital 
employed 
(restated)(1)

(4,752)   

— 

(838)   

(1,129)   

(1,243)   

— 

— 

— 

— 

2022

Closing 
attributable 
capital 
employed 
(restated)(1)
8,909 

Average 
attributable 
capital 
employed 
(restated)(1)
8,108 

1,393 

3,915 

7,089 

7,245 

2,837 

210 

489 

492 

1,339 

3,663 

7,173 

7,207 

2,775 

224 

1,026 

448 

11,963 

(2,294)   

9,669 

31,347 

40,541 

(7,962)   

32,579 

31,963 

(1)  Comparative figures are restated for the adoption of the amendment to IAS 12, see note 39A.

Attributable free cash flow
Attributable free cash flow is calculated as ‘Cash flows from 
operations’ plus dividends received from associates, joint ventures and 
financial asset investments, less capital expenditure, less expenditure 
on non-current intangible assets (excluding goodwill), less tax cash 
payments excluding tax payments relating to disposals, less net 
interest paid including interest on derivatives hedging net debt, less 
dividends paid to non-controlling interests.

A reconciliation of ‘Cash flows from operations’, the closest equivalent 
IFRS measure, is provided on page 92 of the Group financial review.

Sustaining attributable free cash flow
Sustaining attributable free cash flow is used to measure the amount 
of cash available to finance returns to shareholders or growth after 
servicing debt, providing a return to minority shareholders and meeting 
the capex commitments needed to sustain the current production 
base of existing assets. Sustaining attributable free cash flow is also 
used as an incentive measure in executives’ remuneration. It is 
calculated as attributable free cash flow prior to growth capex and 
expenditure on non-current intangible assets (excluding goodwill). 
A reconciliation of ‘Cash flows from operations’, the closest equivalent 
IFRS measure, is provided on page 92 of the Group financial review. 
Growth capital expenditure in 2023 and 2022 principally related to 
Quellaveco and Woodsmith.

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Anglo American plc 
Integrated Annual Report 2023

Other information
Alternative performance measures

323

Non-financial APMs
Some of our measures are not reconciled to IFRS either because 
they include non-financial information, there is no meaningful IFRS 
comparison or the purpose of the measure is not typically covered 
by IFRS.

Volume and cash cost improvements
The Group uses an underlying EBITDA waterfall to understand its year-
on-year underlying EBITDA performance. The waterfall isolates the 
impact of uncontrollable factors in order that the real year-on-year 
improvement in performance can be seen by the user.

Three variables are normalised, in the results of subsidiaries and joint 
operations, for:

– Price: The movement in price between comparative periods is 

removed by multiplying current year sales volume by the movement 
in realised price for each product group.

– Foreign exchange: The year-on-year movement in exchange is 

removed from the current year non-US dollar cost base i.e. costs are 
restated at prior year foreign exchange rates. The non-US dollar 
cash cost base excludes costs which are price linked (e.g. purchase 
of concentrate from third-party PGMs providers, third-party diamond 
purchases).

– Inflation: CPI is removed from cash costs, restating these costs at the 

pricing level of the base year.

The remaining variances in the underlying EBITDA waterfall are in real 
US dollar terms for the base year i.e. for a waterfall comparing 2023 
with 2022, the sales volume and cash cost variances exclude the 
impact of price, foreign exchange and CPI and are hence in real 2022 
terms. This allows the user of the waterfall to understand the underlying 
real movement in sales volumes and cash costs on a consistent basis.

Copper equivalent production
Copper equivalent production, expressed as copper equivalent 
tonnes, shows changes in underlying production volume. It is 
calculated by expressing each commodity’s volume as revenue, 
subsequently converting the revenue into copper equivalent units by 
dividing by the copper price (per tonne). Long term forecast prices 
(and foreign exchange rates where appropriate) are used, in order that 
period-on-period comparisons exclude any impact for movements 
in price.

When calculating copper equivalent production, sales from non-
mining activities are excluded. Volume from projects in pre-commercial 
production are included.

Unit cost
Unit cost is the direct cash cost including direct cash support costs 
incurred in producing one unit of saleable production. Unit cost relates 
to equity production only.

For iron ore and coal, unit costs shown are FOB i.e. cost on board at 
port. For copper and nickel, they are shown at C1 i.e. after inclusion of 
by-product credits and logistics costs. For PGMs and diamonds, unit 
costs include all direct expensed cash costs incurred i.e. excluding, 
among other things, market development activity, corporate overhead 
etc. Royalties are excluded from all unit cost calculations.

Copper equivalent unit cost
Copper equivalent unit cost is the cost incurred to produce one tonne 
of copper equivalent. Only the cost incurred in mined output from 
subsidiaries and joint operations is included, representing direct costs 
in the Consolidated income statement controllable by the Group. Costs 
and volumes from associates and joint ventures are excluded, as are 
those from operations that are not yet in commercial production, that 
deliver domestic production, and those associated with third-party 
volume purchases of diamonds and PGMs concentrate.

When calculating copper equivalent unit cost, unit costs for each 
commodity are multiplied by relevant production, combined and then 
divided by the total copper equivalent production, to get a copper 
equivalent unit cost i.e. the cost of mining one tonne of copper 
equivalent. The metric is in US dollars and, where appropriate, long 
term foreign exchange rates are used to convert from local currency to 
US dollars.

324

Anglo American plc 
Integrated Annual Report 2023

Other information

Production statistics

The figures below include the entire output of consolidated entities and the Group’s attributable share of joint operations, associates and joint 
ventures where applicable, except for De Beers’ joint operations which are quoted on a 100% basis.

Copper (tonnes)(1)
Copper production

Copper sales

Copper Chile
Los Bronces mine(2)
Ore mined

Ore processed – Sulphide
Ore grade processed – Sulphide (% TCu)(3)
Production – Copper in concentrate

Production – Copper cathode

Total production

Collahuasi 100% basis (Anglo American share 44%)

Ore mined

Ore processed – Sulphide
Ore grade processed – Sulphide (% TCu)(3)
Production – Copper in concentrate

Anglo American’s 44% share of copper production for Collahuasi
El Soldado mine(2)
Ore mined

Ore processed – Sulphide
Ore grade processed – Sulphide (% TCu)(3)
Production – Copper in concentrate
Chagres Smelter(2)
Ore smelted(4)
Production
Total copper production(5)
Total payable copper production 

Total copper sales volumes

Total payable sales volumes
Third party sales(6)

Copper Peru
Quellaveco mine(7)
Ore mined

Ore processed – Sulphide
Ore grade processed – Sulphide (% TCu)(3)
Total copper production

Total payable copper production
Total copper sales volumes

Total payable copper sales volumes

Nickel (tonnes)(8)
Barro Alto

Ore mined

Ore processed

Ore grade processed – %Ni

Production

Codemin

Ore mined

Ore processed

Ore grade processed – %Ni

Production

Total nickel production

Nickel sales volumes

See page 326 for footnotes.

2023 

2022 

826,200 

843,300 

664,500 

640,500 

  50,430,300 

  46,756,500 

  43,763,800 

  45,943,600 

0.51 

184,800 

30,700 

215,500 

0.62 

231,500 

39,400 

270,900 

  60,577,500 

  82,222,600 

  57,351,800 

  57,316,400 

1.17 

573,200 

252,200 

1.11 

570,700 

251,100 

  7,656,200 

  6,779,300 

  6,799,500 

  7,548,500 

0.72 

39,500 

0.65 

40,200 

113,500 

110,100 

507,200 

487,600 

504,800 

485,000 

443,700 

100,600 

97,500 

562,200 

540,200 

563,000 

540,600 

422,300 

  42,047,000 

  27,431,000 

  39,764,900 

  11,719,400 

0.96 

319,000 

308,400 
338,500 

327,000 

1.12 

102,300 

98,900 
77,500 

74,800 

  4,300,800 

  3,424,800 

  2,476,400 

  2,421,600 

1.45 

31,800 

1.49 

32,700 

27,800 

800 

599,500 

531,100 

1.41 

8,200 

40,000 

39,800 

1.44 

7,100 

39,800 

39,000 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Anglo American plc 
Integrated Annual Report 2023

Other information
Production statistics

325

Platinum Group Metals
Produced PGMs (’000 oz)(9)
Own-mined

Mogalakwena

Amandelbult

Unki

Mototolo
Modikwa – joint operation(10)
Kroondal – joint operation(11)
Purchase of concentrate
Modikwa – joint operation(10)
Kroondal – joint operation(11)
Third parties
Refined production(9)(12)
Platinum (’000 oz)

Palladium (’000 oz)

Rhodium (’000 oz)

Other PGMs and Gold (’000 oz)

Nickel (tonnes)
Tolled material (‘000 oz)(13)
4E Head grade (g/tonne milled)(14)
PGMs sales – own-mined and purchase of concentrate(9)
PGMs sales – third party trading(9)(15)

De Beers(16)
Carats recovered (’000 carats) 100% basis

Jwaneng
Orapa(17)
Botswana 

Debmarine Namibia

Namdeb (land operations)

Namibia

Venetia

South Africa 

Gahcho Kué (51% basis)

Canada

Total carats recovered

Sales volumes
Total sales volume (100%) (Mct)(18)
Consolidated sales volume (Mct)(18)
Number of Sights (sales cycles)(18)

Iron Ore (‘000 tonnes)
Iron Ore production(19)
Iron Ore sales(19)

Kumba production(19)
Lump

Fines

Kumba production by mine

Sishen

Kolomela
Kumba sales volumes(19)(20)
Export iron ore(20)

Minas-Rio production
Pellet feed (19)
Minas-Rio sales
Export – pellet feed (wet basis)(19)

See page 326 for footnotes.

2023 

2022 

3,806.1 

2,460.2 

973.5 

634.2 

243.8 

288.7 

145.4 

174.6 

4,024.0 

2,649.2 

1,026.2 

712.5 

232.1 

289.9 

144.5 

244.0 

1,345.9 

1,374.8 

145.4 

174.6 

1,025.9 

1,749.1 

1,268.6 

225.6 

557.3 

21,800 

620.6 

3.22 

3,925.3 
4,336.4 

13,329 

11,371 

24,700 

1,859 

468 

2,327 

2,004 

2,004 

2,834 

2,834 

144.5 

244.0 

986.3 

1,782.9 

1,198.5 

249.2 

600.5 

21,300 

622.6 

3.27 

3,861.3 
1,849.9 

13,445 

10,697 

24,142 

1,725 

412 

2,137 

5,515 

5,515 

2,815 

2,815 

31,865 

34,609 

27.4 

24.7 

10 

59,926 

61,488 

35,715 

23,290 

12,425 

25,421 

10,294 

33.7 

30.4 

10 

59,281 

57,985 

37,699 

24,671 

13,028 

27,017 

10,682 

37,172 

36,670 

24,211 

21,582 

24,316 

21,315 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
326

Anglo American plc 
Integrated Annual Report 2023

Other information
Production statistics

Steelmaking Coal (‘000 tonnes)
Steelmaking Coal production(21)(22)(23)

Hard coking coal(22)
PCI/SSCC

Export thermal coal
Steelmaking Coal sales by product(22)

Hard coking coal(22)
PCI/SSCC

Export thermal coal
Steelmaking Coal production by operation(21)(22)(23)
Moranbah(22)
Grosvenor
Capcoal (including Aquila)(22)(24)
Dawson(23)
Jellinbah

Manganese (tonnes)

Samancor production
Manganese ore(25)
Sales volumes

Manganese ore

2023 

2022 

16,001 

12,239 

3,762 

1,083 

14,940 

11,566 

3,374 

1,673 

16,001 

3,132 

2,797 

4,138 

2,902 

3,032 

15,007 

12,088 

2,919 

1,645 

14,683 

11,311 

3,372 

1,681 

15,007 

3,395 

3,037 

3,446 

2,087 

3,042 

  3,670,600 

  3,740,700 

  3,725,000 

  3,596,200 

(1) Excludes copper production from the Platinum Group Metals business.
(2) Anglo American ownership interest of Los Bronces, El Soldado and the Chagres Smelter is 
50.1%. Production is stated at 100% as Anglo American consolidates these operations.

(3) TCu = total copper. Includes third-party concentrate.
(4) Copper contained basis.
(5) Total copper production includes Anglo American’s 44% interest in Collahuasi.
(6) Relates to sales of copper not produced by Anglo American operations.
(7) Anglo American ownership interest of Quellaveco is 60%. Production is stated at 100% as 

Anglo American consolidates this operation.

(8) Excludes nickel production from the Platinum Group Metals business.
(9) Ounces refer to troy ounces. PGMs consists of 5E+gold (platinum, palladium, rhodium, 

ruthenium and iridium plus gold).

(10) Modikwa is a 50% joint operation. The 50% equity share of production is presented under 
‘Own mined’ production. Anglo American Platinum purchases the remaining 50% of 
production, which is presented under ‘Purchase of concentrate'.

(11) Kroondal was a 50% joint operation until 1 November 2023. Up until this date, the 50% 
equity share of production was presented under ‘Own mined’ production and the 
remaining 50% of production, that Anglo American Platinum purchased, was presented 
under ‘Purchase of concentrate'. Upon the disposal of our 50% interest, Kroondal 
transitioned to a 100% third-party POC arrangement, whereby 100% of production will be 
presented under ‘Purchase of concentrate: Third parties' until it transitions to a toll 
arrangement, expected at the end of H1 2024.

(12) Refined production excludes toll material.
(13) Tolled volume measured as the combined content of platinum, palladium, rhodium and 

gold, reflecting the tolling agreements in place.

(14) 4E: the grade measured as the combined content of: platinum, palladium, rhodium and 

gold, excludes tolled material. Minor metals are excluded due to variability.

(15) Relates to sales of metal not produced by Anglo American operations, and includes metal 

lending and borrowing activity.

(16) De Beers Group production is on a 100% basis, except for the Gahcho Kué joint operation 

which is on an attributable 51% basis.

(17) Orapa constitutes the Orapa Regime which includes Orapa, Letlhakane and Damtshaa.
(18) Consolidated sales volumes exclude De Beers Group’s JV partners’ 50% proportionate 
share of sales to entities outside De Beers Group from the Diamond Trading Company 
Botswana and the Namibia Diamond Trading Company, which are included in total sales 
volume (100% basis).

(19) Total iron ore is the sum of Kumba and Minas-Rio and reported in wet metric tonnes. 

Kumba product is shipped with ~1.6% moisture and Minas-Rio product is shipped with 
~9% moisture.

(20) Sales volumes could differ to Kumba’s standalone results due to sales to other 

Group companies.

(21) Anglo American’s attributable share of saleable production.
(22) Includes production relating to third-party product purchased and processed at Anglo 

American’s operations.

(23) Steelmaking coal production figures may include some product sold as thermal coal.
(24) Includes production from the Aquila longwall operation from February 2022. Prior to then, 

includes production from the Grasstree longwall operation.
(25) Anglo American’s 40% attributable share of saleable production.

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Anglo American plc 
Integrated Annual Report 2023

Other information

327

Quarterly production statistics

Copper (tonnes)(1)
Copper Chile

Copper Peru

Nickel (tonnes)(2)

PGMs M&C (’000 oz)(3)
PGMs refined (’000 oz)(3)(4)
Platinum (’000 oz) 

Palladium (’000 oz) 

Rhodium (’000 oz) 
Other PGMs and gold (’000 oz)(3)
Nickel (tonnes)

De Beers(5)
Carats recovered (’000 carats)

100% basis

Diamonds

Iron Ore (‘000 tonnes)(6)
Iron ore – Kumba

Iron ore – Minas-Rio

Steelmaking Coal (‘000 tonnes)(7)

Hard Coking Coal

PCI/SSCC

Export thermal Coal

Manganese (tonnes)
Manganese ore(8)

31 December 
2023
  229,900 

30 September 
2023
  209,100 

30 June 
2023
  209,100 

31 March 
2023
  178,100 

31 December 
2022
244,300 

31 December 2023 v 
30 September 2023
 10  %

31 December 2023 v 
31 December 2022
 (6) %

Quarter ended

% Change (Quarter ended)

  136,200 

  121,600 

  130,800 

  118,600 

162,300 

93,700 

87,500 

78,300 

59,500 

82,000 

11,100 

9,300 

9,900 

9,700 

10,200 

932.2 

1,029.6 

1,191.1 

565.2 

400.0 

61.3 

164.6 

7,000 

909.7 

428.5 

285.5 

57.1 

138.6 

5,400 

943.1 

1,073.8 

489.4 

352.6 

68.4 

163.4 

6,100 

901.2 

626.0 

266.0 

230.5 

38.8 

90.7 

3,300 

990.4 

877.2 
391.2 

278.5 

51.7 

155.8 

4,800 

 12  %

 7  %

 19  %

 (9) %

 31  %
 32  %

 40  %

 7  %

 19  %

 30  %

 (16) %

 14  %

 9  %

 (6) %

 36  %
 44  %

 44  %

 19  %

 6  %

 46  %

7,937 

7,408 

7,590 

8,930 

8,155 

 7  %

 (3) %

13,806 

15,397 

15,647 

15,076 

15,682 

7,234 

6,572 

4,756 

3,804 

952 

34 

9,736 

5,661 

4,356 

3,235 

1,121 

284 

9,320 

6,327 

3,356 

2,358 

998 

481 

9,425 

5,651 

3,533 

2,842 

691 

284 

9,961 

5,721 

4,650 

3,647 

1,003 

428 

 (10) %
 (26) %

 16  %

 9  %
 18  %

 (15) %

 (88) %

 (12) %
 (27) %

 15  %

 2  %
 4  %

 (5) %

 (92) %

  847,800 

  1,012,100 

  969,800 

  840,900 

984,300 

 (16) %

 (14) %

(1) Copper production shown on a contained metal basis. Reflects copper production 

from the Copper operations in Chile and Peru only (excludes copper production from 
the Platinum Group Metals business).

(2) Excludes nickel production from the Platinum Group Metals business.
(3) Ounces refer to troy ounces. PGMs consists of 5E+gold (platinum, palladium, rhodium, 

ruthenium and iridium plus gold).

(4) Refined production excludes toll refined material.
(5) De Beers Group production is on a 100% basis, except for the Gahcho Kué joint 

operation which is on an attributable 51% basis.

(6) Total iron ore is the sum of Kumba and Minas-Rio and reported in wet metric tonnes. 

Kumba product is shipped with ~1.6% moisture and Minas-Rio product is shipped with 
~9% moisture.

(7) Anglo American’s attributable share of saleable production. Steelmaking coal 

production may include some product sold as thermal coal and includes production 
relating to third-party product purchased and processed at Anglo American’s 
operations.

(8) Anglo American’s 40% attributable share of saleable production.

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
328

Anglo American plc 
Integrated Annual Report 2023

Other information
Non-financial data

Non-financial data

Anglo American plc data
Safety(1)
Work-related fatalities(2)(3)
Fatal-injury frequency rate (FIFR)(2)(3)
Total recordable injury frequency rate (TRIFR)(2)
Lost-time injury frequency rate (LTIFR)(2)
Occupational health(1)
New cases of occupational disease (NCOD)(2)
Environment(1)
Total greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions – Scopes 1 and 2 (Mt CO2e)(2)
Total energy consumed (million GJ)(2)
Fresh water withdrawals (million m3)
People
Number of employees (’000)(4)
Women in senior management(5)
Historically Disadvantaged South Africans in management(6)
Voluntary turnover (%)(7)
Social
Community Social Investment spend (total in US$ million)(8)
Community Social Investment spend (% of underlying EBIT)(8)
Number of jobs supported off site(9)

Select Business data
Safety(1)
Work-related fatalities – Copper Chile

Work-related fatalities – Copper Peru

Work-related fatalities – Nickel

Work-related fatalities – PGMs

Work-related fatalities – De Beers

Work-related fatalities – Iron Ore – Kumba

Work-related fatalities – Iron Ore – IOB

Work-related fatalities – Coal – Steelmaking Coal

Work-related fatalities – Coal – Thermal Coal South Africa
Work-related fatalities – Crop Nutrients(10)
Work-related fatalities – Corporate and Other

TRIFR – Copper Chile

TRIFR – Copper Peru

TRIFR – Nickel

TRIFR – PGMs

TRIFR – De Beers

TRIFR – Iron Ore – Kumba

TRIFR – Iron Ore – IOB

TRIFR – Coal – Steelmaking Coal

TRIFR – Coal – Thermal Coal South Africa
TRIFR – Crop Nutrients(10)
TRIFR – Corporate and Other

See next page for footnotes.

2023 

2022 

2021 

2020 

2019 

3 

0.010 

1.78 

1.23 

2 

0.008 

2.19 

1.40 

2 

0.008 

2.24 

1.52 

2 

0.010 

2.14 

1.34 

4 

0.017 

2.21 

1.36 

15 

5 

16 

30 

39 

12.5 

89 

38 

60 

 29% 

 85% 

 3.5% 

13.3 

83 

36 

59 

 29% 

 71% 

 3.6% 

14.5 

84 

37 

64 

 29% 

 73% 

 3.5% 

15.4 

78 

37 

65 

 27% 

 68% 

 2.8% 

148 

2 

175 

2 

138 

1 

125 

2 

  139,308 

  114,534 

  104,860 

  92,397 

2 

— 

— 

— 

— 

1 

— 

— 

n/a

— 

— 

1.14 

1.47 

5.65 

1.61 

2.05 

0.98 

1.32 

4.39 

n/a
1.96 

1.58 

— 

— 

— 

— 

1 

— 

— 

1 

n/a

— 

— 

1.42 

2.23 

3.67 

2.34 

2.19 

1.55 

1.60 

5.63 

n/a
1.90 

0.37 

— 

1 

— 

1 

— 

— 

— 

— 

— 

— 

— 

1.55 

2.93 

1.26 

2.60 

2.03 

0.80 

2.24 

4.12 

1.57 
2.59

0.97 

— 

— 

— 

1 

— 

— 

— 

— 

1 

— 

— 

1.58 

2.20 

1.51 

2.40 

2.18 

1.74 

1.87 

4.72 

1.55 
0.81

0.63 

16.9 

83 

43 

63 

 24% 

 65% 

 2.9% 

114 

2 

n/a

1 

1

— 

— 

— 

— 

— 

1 

1 

n/a

— 

1.15 

0.91

2.75 

2.50 

3.07 

2.06 

1.48 

6.20 

1.56 
n/a

0.17 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Anglo American plc 
Integrated Annual Report 2023

Other information
Non-financial data

329

2023

2022

2021

2020

2019

0.4

0.2

1.1

4.3

0.4

1.0

0.2

4.9

n/a

0.0

0.0

12.6

6.3

20.6

20.6

3.8

8.9

5.4

10.2

n/a

0.3
0.2

32.6

20.0

6.9

37.5

7.3

9.9

27.5

32.8

n/a

0.1

0.0

0.4

0.2

1.1

4.1

0.5

1.0

0.2

5.8

n/a

0.0

0.0

13.0

3.4

20.3

18.9

4.2

9.0

5.1

9.2

n/a

0.1
0.1

34.9

8.7

7.0

42.2

7.2

11.4

41.4

31.8

n/a

0.1

1.9

0.4

0.1

1.3

4.5

0.4

1.0

0.3

6.4

0.8

0.0

0.0

12.8

1.6

20.8

20.8

4.2

8.7

5.1

9.3

3.1

0.2
0.1

33.5

0.7

7.0

42.6

11.6

11.2

32.2

20.9

14.9

0.1

1.8

1.1

0.1

1.2

3.9

0.4

0.9

0.2

8.2

0.8

0.0

0.0

11.3

0.6

21.3

18.1

3.8

8.1

5.2

8.5

3.5

0.1
0.1

35.8

1.5

8.0

43.9

10.1

10.6

35.3

21.0

31.0

0.2

0.0

1.2

0.2

1.2

4.4

0.5

1.0

0.2

6.9

0.9

n/a

0.0

12.3

2.0

20.2

20.1

4.5

8.8

5.1

10.1

3.5

n/a
0.1

24.7

n/a

6.3

47.4

9.9

10.6

28.8

17.9

34.2

n/a

n/a

4,000

1,000

1,000

27,000

10,900

6,700

2,600

2,500

n/a
1,000

3,200

4,400

1,000

1,400

26,500

10,500

6,700

2,600

2,000

n/a
500

3,000

4,300

750

1,400

31,400

10,000

6,100

2,600

1,900

n/a
600

4,700

3,800

400

1,400

31,500

10,700

6,200

2,500

2,000

4,600
300

6,900

4,000

300

1,000

31,000

9,000

6,000

3,000

2,000

5,000
n/a

2,000

(7) The number of people who resigned as a percentage of the total work force, excluding 

contractors.

(8) CSI spend is the sum of donations for charitable purposes and community investment 
(which includes cash and in-kind donations and staff time) as well as investments in 
commercial initiatives with public benefit (such as enterprise development). 
(9) The number of jobs supported includes existing jobs (in activities supported by the 
intervention) and newly created jobs through Anglo American’s various community 
Livelihoods’ programmes. Jobs supported are measured as full time equivalent jobs.
(10) Comparative data for Crop Nutrients prior to 2020 is not presented as the acquisition 

of Sirius Minerals Plc was completed in 2020.

Environment(1)
GHG emissions – Mt CO2e – Copper Chile
GHG emissions – Mt CO2e – Copper Peru
GHG emissions – Mt CO2e – Nickel
GHG emissions – Mt CO2e – PGMs
GHG emissions – Mt CO2e – De Beers
GHG emissions – Mt CO2e – Iron Ore – Kumba
GHG emissions – Mt CO2e – Iron Ore – IOB
GHG emissions – Mt CO2e – Coal – Steelmaking Coal
GHG emissions – Mt CO2e – Coal – Thermal Coal South Africa
GHG emissions – Mt CO2e – Crop Nutrients(10)
GHG emissions – Mt CO2e – Corporate and Other
Energy consumption – million GJ – Copper Chile

Energy consumption – million GJ – Copper Peru

Energy consumption – million GJ – Nickel

Energy consumption – million GJ – PGMs

Energy consumption – million GJ – De Beers

Energy consumption – million GJ – Iron Ore – Kumba

Energy consumption – million GJ – Iron Ore – IOB

Energy consumption – million GJ – Coal – Steelmaking Coal

Energy consumption – million GJ – Coal – Thermal Coal South Africa
Energy consumption – million GJ – Crop Nutrients(10)
Energy consumption – million GJ – Corporate and Other
Total water withdrawals – million m3 – Copper Chile
Total water withdrawals – million m3 – Copper Peru
Total water withdrawals – million m3 – Nickel
Total water withdrawals – million m3 – PGMs
Total water withdrawals – million m3 – De Beers
Total water withdrawals – million m3 – Iron Ore – Kumba
Total water withdrawals – million m3 – Iron Ore – IOB
Total water withdrawals – million m3 – Coal – Steelmaking Coal
Total water withdrawals – million m3 – Coal – Thermal Coal South Africa
Total water withdrawals – million m3 – Crop Nutrients(10)
Total water withdrawals – million m3 – Corporate and Other
People(4)
Number of employees – Copper Chile

Number of employees – Copper Peru

Number of employees – Nickel

Number of employees – PGMs

Number of employees – De Beers

Number of employees – Iron Ore – Kumba

Number of employees – Iron Ore – IOB

Number of employees – Coal – Steelmaking Coal

Number of employees – Coal – Thermal Coal South Africa
Number of employees – Crop Nutrients(10)
Number of employees – Corporate and Other

(1) Data relates to subsidiaries and joint operations over which Anglo American has 
management control. Data excludes De Beers’ joint operations in Namibia and 
Botswana. See page 107 of the Anglo American plc Sustainability Report 2023 for 
the full list of entities within the reporting scope. Divested businesses are included up 
until the point of divestment, with the exception of total Group GHG emissions, 
energy consumed and total water withdrawals where current and historical data has 
been adjusted to exclude Thermal Coal South Africa, which was divested in May 
2021.

(2) See pages 316–317 for definitions and basis of calculation.
(3) The work-related fatal injuries and FIFR figures presented for 2021 have been restated 

to reflect the death of an employee in April 2022, following a fall-related injury in 
November 2021.

(4) Average number of employees for 2023–2020 excludes contractors and associates 

and joint ventures employees, and includes a share of employees within joint 
operations, based on shareholding. Data for 2019 is presented on the same basis, 
with the exception of Debswana (De Beers), where employee numbers are included 
at 19.2%, reflecting Anglo American’s economic interest. PGMs employee numbers 
for 2022 have been restated to exclude contractors.

(5) Female representation within the Executive Leadership Team and those reporting 

to them.

(6) Historically Disadvantaged South African employees within bands seven and above 
divided by the total number of South African employees in bands seven and above. 

330

Anglo American plc 
Integrated Annual Report 2023

Other information

Directors’ report

This section includes certain disclosures which are required by law to 
be included in the Directors’ report.

In accordance with the Companies Act 2006 (Companies Act), the 
following items have been reported in other sections of the Integrated 
Annual Report and are included in this Directors’ report by reference:

– Details of the directors of the Company can be found on pages 

142–145

– Directors’ interests in shares at 31 December 2023 and any 

changes thereafter, can be found on page 202–203 of the directors’ 
remuneration report

– Events occurring after the end of the year are set out in note 31 to 

the financial statements on page 274

– The Strategic Report on pages 2–138 gives a fair review of the 

business and an indication of likely future developments and fulfils 
the requirements set out in section 414C of the Companies Act

– Details of the Group’s governance arrangements and its compliance 
with the UK Corporate Governance Code (the Code) can be found 
on pages 139–211

– Comprehensive details of the Group’s approach to financial risk 
management are given in note 25 to the financial statements on 
pages 261–263

– The Group’s disclosure of its greenhouse gas emissions can be 

found on page 55. The Group’s Streamlined Energy and Carbon 
Reporting (SECR) disclosures can be found on page 138

– The Group’s disclosures related to the recommendations of the 

Taskforce on Climate-Related Financial Disclosures (TCFD) can be 
found on pages 132–137

facilities for the period of at least 12 months from the date of approval 
of the financial statements. For this reason the Group continues to 
adopt the going concern basis in preparing its financial statements.

Dividends
An interim dividend of US$0.55 per ordinary share was paid on 
26 September 2023. The directors are recommending that a final 
dividend of US$0.41 per ordinary share be paid on 3 May 2024 to 
ordinary shareholders on the register at the close of business on 
15 March 2024 subject to shareholder approval at the AGM to be held 
on 30 April 2024. This would bring the total dividend in respect of 2023 
to US$0.96 per ordinary share. In accordance with the UK-adopted 
International Accounting Standards, the final dividend will be 
accounted for in the financial statements for the year ended 
31 December 2024.

The Anglo American Employee Benefit Trust (EBT) holds shares to 
facilitate the operation of certain of the Group’s share option and share 
incentive schemes (share plans). The EBT has waived the right 
to receive dividends on all unallocated shares not allocated to 
dividend bearing share awards. 

Share capital
The Company’s issued share capital as at 31 December 2023 is set 
out in note 26 on page 264–265.

Significant shareholdings
Taking into account the information available to the Company as 
at 21 February 2024, the table below shows the Company’s 
understanding of interests in 3% or more of the Total Voting Rights 
attaching to its issued ordinary share capital:

– Details of employee engagement can be found on pages 70–75 

Company

and 161–162

Public Investment Corporation

– Details of stakeholder engagement can be found on pages 16–19 

BlackRock Inc

Number of
shares

Percentage of
voting rights

  93,551,783 

  84,968,927 

6.86 

6.05 

  47,275,613 

3.37 

  42,166,686 

3.01 

Tarl Investment Holdings (RF) Proprietary 
Limited(1)

Epoch Two Investment Holdings (RF) 
Proprietary Limited(1)

(1)  Epoch Two Investment Holdings (RF) Proprietary Limited (Epoch Two) and Tarl Investment 

Holdings (RF) Proprietary Limited (Tarl) are two of the independent companies that 
have purchased shares as part of Anglo American’s 2006 share buyback programme. 
Epoch Two and Tarl have waived their right to vote all the shares they hold, or will hold, 
in Anglo American plc.

Sustainable development
The Sustainability Report 2023 will be published on the Group’s 
website on 4 March 2024.

This report focuses on the safety, health, sustainable development and 
environmental performance of the Group’s managed operations, its 
performance with regard to our Code of Conduct, and the operational 
dimensions of its social programmes.

Audit information
The directors confirm that, so far as they are aware, there is no relevant 
audit information of which the auditor is unaware, that all directors 
have taken all reasonable steps to make themselves aware of any 
relevant audit information and to establish that the auditor is aware of 
that information.

and 161–163.

Going concern
The financial position of the Group, its cash flows, liquidity position and 
borrowing facilities are set out in the Group financial review on pages 
90-93. The Group’s net debt (including related hedges) at 
31 December 2023 was $10.6 billion (2022: $6.9 billion). During the 
first half of 2023, the Group issued $2.0 billion of bond debt. In March 
2023, the Group issued €500 million 4.5% Senior Notes due 2028, 
€500 million 5.0% Senior Notes due 2031 and, in May 2023, 
$900 million 5.5% Senior Notes due 2033. In the second half of 2023, 
the Group refinanced its $4.7 billion revolving credit facility maturing in 
March 2025, to a one year $1 billion facility maturing in November 
2024, and a $3.7 billion five year facility maturing in November 2028. 
The Group’s liquidity position (defined as cash and undrawn 
committed facilities) of $13.2 billion at 31 December 2023 remains 
strong. Further details of borrowings and facilities are set out in note 22 
and note 25 on pages 255 and 261–263 respectively, and net debt is 
set out in note 21 on page 254. 

The directors have considered the Group’s cash flow forecasts for the 
period to the end of December 2025 under base and downside 
scenarios, with reference to the Group’s principal risks as set out within 
the Group viability statement on pages 79–80. In the downside 
scenario modelled (including pricing and production downsides, 
alongside a significant operational incident), the Group maintains 
sufficient liquidity throughout the period of assessment without the use 
of mitigating actions.

The Board is satisfied that the Group’s forecasts and projections, taking 
account of reasonably possible changes in trading performance, show 
that the Group will be able to operate within the level of its current 

 
 
 
 
Anglo American plc 
Integrated Annual Report 2023

Other information
Directors’ report

331

Disclosure table pursuant to Listing Rule 9.8.4C

Listing Rule 

Information to be included 

Disclosure

9.8.4(1)

Interest capitalised by the 
Group

See note 4, page 230

9.8.4(2) Unaudited financial 

None

information (LR 9.2.18)

9.8.4(4)

Long term incentive scheme 
only involving a director 
(LR 9.4.3)

None

9.8.4(5) Directors’ waivers of 

None

emoluments

9.8.4(6) Directors’ waivers of future 

None

emoluments

9.8.4(7) Non pro rata allotments for 

None

cash (issuer)

9.8.4(8) Non pro rata allotments for 

None

cash (major subsidiaries)

9.8.4(9)

Listed company is a 
subsidiary of another 
company

Not applicable

9.8.4(10) Contracts of significance 

None

involving a director

9.8.4(11) Contracts of significance 

Not applicable

involving a controlling 
shareholder

9.8.4(12) Waivers of dividends

9.8.4(13) Waivers of future dividends

9.8.4(14) Agreement with a controlling 
shareholding LR 
9.2.2AR(2)(a)

See ‘Dividends’ paragraph on 
page 330

See ‘Dividends’ paragraph on 
page 330

Not applicable

Employment and other policies
The Group’s key operating businesses are empowered to manage 
within the context of the different legislative and social demands of 
the diverse countries in which those businesses operate, subject to the 
standards embodied in Anglo American’s Code of Conduct. Within all 
the Group’s businesses, the safe and effective performance of 
employees and the maintenance of positive employee relations are 
of fundamental importance. Managers are charged with ensuring that 
the following key principles are upheld:

– Adherence to national legal standards on employment and 

workplace rights at all times

– Adherence to the International Labour Organization’s core labour 

rights, including: prohibition of child labour; prohibition of inhumane 
treatment of employees and any form of forced labour, physical 
punishment or other abuse; recognition of the right of our employees 
to freedom of association and the promotion of workplace equality; 
and the elimination of all forms of unfair discrimination

– Continual promotion of safe and healthy working practices

– Provision of opportunities for employees to enhance their work 

related skills and capabilities

– Adoption of fair and appropriate procedures for determining terms 

and conditions of employment.

It is the Group’s policy that everybody should have full and fair 
consideration for all vacancies. Employment is considered on merit 
and with regard only to the ability of any applicant to carry out the role. 
We endeavour to retain the employment of, and arrange suitable 
retraining, for any employees in the workforce who become disabled 
during their employment. Where possible we will adjust a person’s 
working environment to enable them to stay in our employment.

The Group promotes an inclusive and diverse environment where 
every colleague is valued and respected for who they are, and has 
the opportunity to fulfil their potential. The Group is focused on 
providing a workplace where everyone can thrive and has 
introduced a number of Group-wide policies to encourage this. 
The Group’s inclusion and diversity policy reflects its commitment 
as a signatory to the United Nations Global Compact and is 
aligned both to the labour rights principles set out in the 
International Labour Organization core conventions and with the 
United Nations Sustainable Development Goals. The Group has 
also introduced policies related to bullying, harassment and 
victimisation and recognising and responding to domestic 
violence, which clearly states its zero tolerance to such behaviours, 
along with a Group-wide flexible working policy and family friendly 
and carer policy recognising changing societal needs.

Further, the Group is committed to treating employees at all levels 
with respect and consideration, to investing in their development 
and to ensuring that their careers are not constrained by 
discrimination or arbitrary barriers.

Our Code of Conduct is supported by a number of policies and 
procedures which provide specific guidance to employees on the 
behaviour required to reinforce the Group’s Values and uphold the 
Group’s commitments to prioritise safety, health and the environment; 
treat people with care and respect, conduct business with integrity and 
protect its physical assets and information. The Code of Conduct can 
be accessed via the Group’s website.

In addition to meeting legal requirements, suppliers to Anglo American 
must adhere to the requirements of the Responsible Sourcing 
Standard for Suppliers, which is available on the Group’s website and 
referenced in contracts. The standard includes a dedicated pillar 
providing unambiguous guidance on our expectations of conducting 
business fairly and with integrity; including anti-bribery, anti-
competitive, anti-collusive, information security and transparent 
business behaviours expected by all supplier partners.

The Business Integrity Policy sets out the Group’s anti-bribery and 
corruption commitment by clearly stating that the Group will 
neither give nor accept bribes, nor permit others to do so in its 
name. The Policy sets out the standards of conduct required 
across Anglo American, (including subsidiaries and managed joint 
operations), by those with which the Group does business and by 
those who work on the Group’s behalf, in combating corrupt behaviour 
of all types. The Policy is supported by 11 Prevention of Corruption 
Procedures, which have been translated into the main languages that 
are used across the Group’s operations. 

A dedicated team, operating within a broader risk management and 
business assurance team oversees the implementation of the Business 
Integrity Policy. Working closely with other corporate functions, and 
senior managers in the businesses, the team provides guidance and 
support on the implementation and monitoring of the Policy. The team 
also assists on bribery and corruption risk identification and 
management, and providing online and face-to-face training for 
relevant employees, including those in high-risk roles. The internal audit 
team regularly provide risk based assurance on the implementation of 
the anti-bribery and corruption controls framework.

The Group’s whistleblowing facility, YourVoice, is available to 
employees and external stakeholders to confidentially and, if they 
choose, anonymously report concerns about behaviour which might 
be unethical, unlawful or unsafe, or contrary to the Group’s Values and 
Code of Conduct. 

Political donations
No political donations were made during 2023. Anglo American has 
an established policy of not making donations to, or incurring 
expenses for the benefit of, any political party in any part of the 
world, including any political party or political organisation as 
defined in the Political Parties, Elections and Referendums Act 2000.

332

Anglo American plc 
Integrated Annual Report 2023

Other information
Directors’ report

Additional information for shareholders
Set out below is a summary of certain provisions of the Company’s 
current Articles of Association (Articles) and applicable English law 
concerning companies (the Companies Act) required as a result of the 
implementation of the Takeover Directive in English law. This is a 
summary only and the relevant provisions of the Articles or the 
Companies Act should be consulted if further information is required.

Dividends and distributions
Subject to the provisions of the Companies Act, the Company may, by 
ordinary resolution, from time to time declare final dividends not 
exceeding the amount recommended by the Board. The Board may 
pay interim dividends whenever the financial position of the Company, 
in the opinion of the Board, justifies such payment.

The Board may withhold payment of all, or any part of any dividends or 
other monies payable in respect of the Company’s shares, from a 
person with a 0.25% interest or more (as defined in the Articles) if such 
a person has been served with a notice after failing to provide the 
Company with information concerning interests in those shares 
required to be provided under the Companies Act.

Rights and obligations attaching to shares
The rights and obligations attaching to the shares are set out in the 
Articles.

The Articles may only be changed by a special resolution passed by 
the shareholders.

Voting
Subject to the Articles generally and to any special rights or restrictions 
as to voting attached by or in accordance with the Articles to any class 
of shares, on a show of hands every member who is present in person 
at a general meeting shall have one vote and, on a poll, every member 
who is present in person or by proxy shall have one vote for every share 
of which he/she is the holder. It is, and has been for some years, the 
Company’s practice to hold a poll on every resolution at shareholder 
meetings.

Where shares are held by trustees/nominees in respect of the Group’s 
employee share plans and the voting rights attached to such shares 
are not directly exercisable by the employees, it is the Company’s 
practice that such rights are not exercised by the relevant trustee/
nominee.

Under the Companies Act, members are entitled to appoint a proxy, 
who need not be a member of the Company, to exercise all or any of 
their rights to attend and to speak and vote on their behalf at a general 
meeting or class meeting.

A member may appoint more than one proxy in relation to a general 
meeting or class meeting provided that each proxy is appointed to 
exercise the rights attached to a different share or shares held by that 
member. A member that is a corporation may appoint one or more 
individuals to act on its behalf at a general meeting or class meeting as 
a corporate representative. Where a shareholder appoints more than 
one corporate representative in respect of its shareholding, but in 
respect of different shares, those corporate representatives can act 
independently of each other, and validly vote in different ways.

Restrictions on voting
No member shall, unless the directors otherwise determine, be entitled 
in respect of any share held by him/her to vote either personally or by 
proxy at a shareholders’ meeting, or to exercise any other right 
conferred by membership in relation to shareholders’ meetings, if any 
call or other sum presently payable by him/her to the Company in 
respect of that share remains unpaid. In addition, no member shall be 
entitled to vote if he/she has been served with a notice after failing to 
provide the Company with information concerning interests in those 
shares required to be provided under the Companies Act.

Issue of shares
Subject to the provisions of the Companies Act relating to authority 
and pre-emption rights and of any resolution of the Company in a UK 
general meeting, all unissued shares of the Company shall be at the 

disposal of the directors and they may allot, grant options over, or 
otherwise dispose of them to such persons at such times, and on such 
terms, as they think proper.

Shares in uncertificated form
Any share or class of shares of the Company may be issued or held 
(including any shares or class of shares held on the South African 
Branch Register or any other overseas branch register of the members 
of the Company) on such terms, or in such a way, that: title to it or them 
is not, or must not be, evidenced by a certificate; or it or they may or 
must be transferred wholly or partly without a certificate. The directors 
have power to take such steps as they think fit in relation to: the 
evidencing of and transfer of title to uncertificated shares (including in 
connection with the issue of such shares); any records relating to the 
holding of uncertificated shares; the conversion of certificated shares 
into uncertificated shares; or the conversion of uncertificated shares 
into certificated shares. The Company may by notice to the holder of 
a share require that share: if it is uncertificated, to be converted into 
certificated form; and if it is certificated, to be converted 
into uncertificated form, to enable it to be dealt with in accordance with 
the Articles.

If the Articles give the directors power to take action, or require other 
persons to take action, in order to sell, transfer or otherwise dispose of 
shares; and uncertificated shares are subject to that power, but the 
power is expressed in terms which assume the use of a certificate or 
other written instrument, the directors may take such action as is 
necessary or expedient to achieve the same results when exercising 
that power in relation to uncertificated shares. The directors may take 
such action as they consider appropriate to achieve the sale, transfer, 
disposal, forfeiture, re-allotment or surrender of an uncertificated 
share or otherwise to enforce a lien in respect of it. This may include 
converting such share to certificated form. Unless the directors 
resolve otherwise, shares which a member holds in uncertificated 
form must be treated as separate holdings from any shares which 
that member holds in certificated form. A class of shares must not be 
treated as two classes simply because some shares of that class are 
held in certificated form and others are held in uncertificated form.

Deadlines for exercising voting rights
Votes are exercisable at a general meeting of the Company in respect 
of which the business being voted upon is being heard. Votes may be 
exercised in person, by proxy, or in relation to corporate members, by 
corporate representative. The Articles provide a deadline for 
submission of proxy forms of not less than 48 hours before the time 
appointed for the holding of the meeting or adjourned meeting.

Variation of rights
Subject to statute, the Articles specify that rights attached to any class 
of shares may be varied with the written consent of the holders of not 
less than three-quarters in nominal value of the issued shares of that 
class, or with the sanction of an extraordinary resolution passed at a 
separate general meeting of the holders of those shares. At every 
such separate general meeting the quorum shall be two persons 
holding, or representing by proxy, at least one-third in nominal value 
of the issued shares of the class (calculated excluding any shares held 
as treasury shares). The rights conferred upon the holders of any 
shares shall not, unless otherwise expressly provided in the rights 
attaching to those shares, be deemed to be varied by the creation or 
issue of further shares ranking pari passu with them.

Transfer of shares
All transfers of shares that are in certificated form may be effected by 
transfer in writing in any usual or common form or in any other form 
acceptable to the directors and may be under hand only. The 
instrument of transfer shall be signed by, or on behalf of, the transferor 
and (except in the case of fully paid shares) by or on behalf of the 
transferee. The transferor shall remain the holder of the shares 
concerned until the name of the transferee is entered in the register of 
shareholders. All transfers of shares registered on the main register of 
members that are in uncertificated form may be effected by means of 
the CREST system. All transfers of uncertified shares registered on the 

Anglo American plc 
Integrated Annual Report 2023

Other information
Directors’ report

333

branch register of members in South Africa may be effected via the 
Transfer Secretary.

The directors may decline to recognise any instrument of transfer 
relating to shares in certificated form unless it:

re-election, shall retire from office. In addition, a director may at any 
AGM retire from office and stand for re-election. However, in 
accordance with the Code, all directors will be subject to annual 
re-election.

Stock Exchange Listings
The Company’s ordinary shares are listed on the London Stock 
Exchange (the primary listing), the JSE Limited, the SIX Swiss Exchange, 
the Botswana Stock Exchange and the Namibian Stock Exchange.

Significant agreements: change of control
At 31 December 2023, Anglo American had committed bilateral and 
syndicated borrowing facilities totalling $9.6 billion with a number of 
relationship banks which contain change of control clauses. 
$11.3 billion of the Group’s bond issues also contain change of control 
provisions. In aggregate, this financing is considered significant to the 
Group and in the event of a takeover (change of control) of the 
Company, these contracts may be terminated, become immediately 
payable or be subject to acceleration.

In the ordinary course of its business the Group’s subsidiaries enter into 
a number of other commercial agreements, some of which may alter 
or be terminated upon a change of control of the Company. None of 
these are considered by the Group to be significant to the Group as 
a whole.

Purchases of own shares
At the AGM held on 26 April 2023, authority was given for the 
Company to purchase, in the market, up to 200.5 million ordinary 
shares of 5486/91 US cents each. The Company did not purchase any 
of its own shares under this authority during 2023. This authority will 
expire at the 2024 AGM and, in accordance with usual practice, a 
resolution to renew it for another year will be proposed.

Indemnities
To the extent permitted by law and the Articles, the Company has 
made qualifying third-party indemnity provisions for the benefit of its 
directors during the year, which remain in force at the date of this 
report. Copies of these indemnities are open for inspection at the 
Company’s registered office.

By order of the Board

Richard Price
Legal and Corporate Affairs Director (Company Secretary) 
21 February 2024 

(a) is in respect of only one class of share

(b) is lodged at the transfer office (duly stamped if required) 

accompanied by the relevant share certificate(s) and such other 
evidence as the directors may reasonably require to show the right 
of the transferor to make the transfer (and, if the instrument of 
transfer is executed by some other person on his/her behalf, the 
authority of that person so to do).

The directors may decline to register any transfer of shares in 
certificated form unless: the instrument of transfer is in respect of only 
one class of share; the instrument of transfer is lodged (duly stamped 
if required) at the Transfer Office accompanied by the relevant share 
certificate(s) or such other evidence as the directors may reasonably 
require to show the right of the transferor to make the transfer or, if the 
instrument of transfer is executed by some other person on the 
transferor’s behalf, the authority of that person to do so; and it is fully 
paid. The directors may also refuse to register an allotment or transfer 
of shares (whether fully paid or not) in favour of more than four 
persons jointly.

If the directors refuse to register an allotment or transfer, they shall send 
the refusal to the allottee or the transferee within two months after the 
date on which the letter of allotment or transfer was lodged with the 
Company.

A shareholder does not need to obtain the approval of the Company, 
or of other shareholders of shares in the Company, for a transfer of 
shares to take place.

Directors
Directors shall not be fewer than five nor more than 18 in number. A 
director is not required to hold any shares of the Company by way of 
qualification. The Company may by ordinary resolution increase or 
reduce the maximum or minimum number of directors.

Powers of directors
Subject to the Articles, the Companies Act and any directions given by 
special resolution, the business of the Company will be managed by 
the Board who may exercise all the powers of the Company.

The Board may exercise all the powers of the Company to borrow 
money and to mortgage or charge any of its undertaking, property and 
uncalled capital and to issue debentures and other securities, whether 
outright or as collateral security, for any debt, liability or obligation of 
the Company or of any third party.

The Company may by ordinary resolution declare dividends, but no 
dividend shall be payable in excess of the amount recommended by 
the directors.

Subject to the provisions of the Articles and to the rights attaching to 
any shares, any dividends or other monies payable on or in respect of 
a share may be paid in such currency as the directors may determine. 
The directors may deduct from any dividend payable to any member 
all sums of money (if any) presently payable by him/her to the 
Company on account of calls or otherwise in relation to shares of the 
Company. The directors may retain any dividends payable on shares 
on which the Company has a lien, and may apply the same in or 
towards satisfaction of the debts, liabilities or engagements in respect 
of which the lien exists.

Appointment and replacement of directors
The directors may from time to time appoint one or more directors. 
The Board may appoint any person to be a director (so long as the 
total number of directors does not exceed the limit prescribed in the 
Articles). Any such director shall hold office only until the next AGM 
and shall then be eligible for election.

The Articles provide that at each AGM all those directors who have 
been in office for three years or more since their election, or last 

334

Anglo American plc 
Integrated Annual Report 2023

Other information

Shareholder information

Annual General Meeting (AGM)
Our AGM will be held at 11:00 on Tuesday, 30 April 2024, at 
The Mermaid London, Puddle Dock, London EC4V 3DB and online 
via the Lumi platform.

Further details on how to access the AGM electronically or attend in 
person, ask questions and vote, can be found in the Notice of 2024 
AGM which will be available on our website. 

Investors holding shares through a nominee service should arrange 
with that nominee service for them to be appointed as a proxy in 
respect of their shareholding to attend and vote at the meeting 
electronically.

Shareholding enquiries
Enquiries relating to shareholdings should be made to the Company’s 
UK Registrars, or the South African Transfer Secretaries, at the relevant 
address below:

UK Registrars
Equiniti
Aspect House, Spencer Road, Lancing 
West Sussex BN99 6DA, England

Telephone:
In the UK: 0371 384 2026
From overseas: +44 (0) 371 384 2026

Transfer Secretaries in South Africa 
Computershare Investor Services (Pty) Limited 
Rosebank Towers, 15 Biermann Avenue 
Rosebank, Johannesburg, 2196, South Africa
Private Bag X9000, Saxonwold, 2132, South Africa

Telephone: +27 (0) 11 370 5000

Enquiries on other matters should be addressed to the company 
secretary at the following address:

Registered and Head Office
Anglo American plc
17 Charterhouse Street 
London EC1N 6RA
England

Telephone: +44 (0) 20 7968 8888
Registered number: 03564138

www.angloamerican.com
CoSec.Admin@angloamerican.com 
On the Investors section of the Group website a range of useful 
information for shareholders can be found, including: Investor 
calendar and presentations; share price and tools; dividend 
information; AGM information; FAQs.

Electronic communication
Shareholders may elect to receive, electronically, notification of 
the availability on the Group’s website of future shareholder 
correspondence, e.g. Integrated Annual Reports and Notices 
of AGMs.

By registering for this service, UK shareholders can also vote online 
in respect of future AGMs and access information on their 
shareholding including, for example, dividend payment history, sales 
and purchases and indicative share prices. In order to register for 
these services, UK shareholders should contact the UK Registrars or 
log on to www.shareview.co.uk and follow the on-screen 
instructions. It will be necessary to have a shareholder reference 
number when registering, which is shown on share certificates, 
dividend tax vouchers and proxy cards.

Dividends
Dividends are declared and paid in US dollars to shareholders with 
registered addresses in all countries except the UK, eurozone 
countries, Botswana and South Africa where they are paid in sterling, 
euros, Botswanan pula and South African rand respectively. 
Shareholders outside Botswana and South Africa may elect to 
receive their dividends in US dollars.

Shareholders with bank accounts in the UK or South Africa can have 
their cash dividends credited directly to their own accounts. 
Shareholders should contact the relevant Registrar or Transfer 
Secretary to make use of this facility. South African branch register 
shareholders would need South African exchange control approval to 
mandate their dividends to an account outside South Africa.

The Company operates a dividend reinvestment plan (DRIP) in the UK 
and South Africa, which enables shareholders to reinvest their cash 
dividends into purchasing Anglo American shares. Details of the DRIP 
and how to join are available from Anglo American’s UK Registrars and 
South African Transfer Secretaries and on the Group’s website.

ShareGift
The Company supports ShareGift, the charity share donation scheme 
administered by The Orr Mackintosh Foundation (registered charity 
number 1052686). Through ShareGift, shareholders with very small 
numbers of shares which might be considered uneconomic to sell are 
able to donate them to charity. Donated shares are aggregated and 
sold by ShareGift, the proceeds being passed on to a wide range of 
charities. For those shareholders who wish to use ShareGift, transfer 
forms are available from the Registrars and further details of the 
scheme can be found on the website www.sharegift.org.

Share dealing service
Telephone, internet and postal share dealing services have been 
arranged through Equiniti, providing a simple way for UK residents to 
buy or sell Anglo American shares. For telephone transactions call 
0345 603 7037 (or +44 (0) 345 603 7037 from overseas) during 
normal office hours and for internet dealing log on to 
www.shareview.co.uk/dealing. You will need your shareholder 
reference number, found on share certificates, dividend tax vouchers 
and proxy cards. For further details on the postal dealing service, 
which is available for certain European residents, call 0371 384 2248 
(or +44 (0) 371 384 2248 from overseas).

Unsolicited mail
Under the Companies Act, the Company is obliged to make the share 
register available upon request on payment of the appropriate fee. 
Because of this, some shareholders may receive unsolicited mail. If you 
wish to limit the receipt of addressed marketing mail you can register 
with the Mailing Preference Service (MPS). The quickest way to register 
with the MPS is via the website: www.mpsonline.org.uk. Alternatively 
you can register by telephone on: 020 7291 3310, or by email to: 
mps@dma.org.uk, or by writing to MPS Freepost LON20771, 
London W1E 0ZT.

Anglo American plc 
Integrated Annual Report 2023

Other information

335

Other Anglo American publications

– Sustainability Report
– Ore Reserves and Mineral Resources Report
– Tax and Economic Contribution Report
– Transformation Report
– Climate Change Report
– Our Code of Conduct
– The Safety, Health and Environment (SHE) Way
– The Social Way
– Notice of 2024 AGM 
– www.facebook.com/angloamerican
– www.twitter.com/angloamerican
– www.linkedin.com/company/anglo-american
– www.youtube.com/angloamerican
– www.flickr.com/angloamerican
– www.slideshare.com/angloamerican

Financial and other reports may be found at:
www.angloamerican.com/reporting

A printed copy of the Anglo American Integrated Annual Report can be ordered online at:
www.angloamerican.com/site-services/contact-us
©Anglo American plc 2024. All rights reserved.

Group terminology
In this document, references to “Anglo American”, the “Anglo American Group”, the “Group”, “we”, “us”, and “our” are to refer to either Anglo American plc 
and its subsidiaries and/or those who work for them generally, or where it is not necessary to refer to a particular entity, entities or persons. The use of 
those generic terms herein is for convenience only, and is in no way indicative of how the Anglo American Group or any entity within it is structured, 
managed or controlled. Anglo American subsidiaries, and their management, are responsible for their own day-to-day operations, including but not 
limited to securing and maintaining all relevant licences and permits, operational adaptation and implementation of Group policies, management, 
training and any applicable local grievance mechanisms. Anglo American produces group-wide policies and procedures to ensure best uniform 
practices and standardisation across the Anglo American Group but is not responsible for the day to day implementation of such policies. Such policies 
and procedures constitute prescribed minimum standards only. Group operating subsidiaries are responsible for adapting those policies and 
procedures to reflect local conditions where appropriate, and for implementation, oversight and monitoring within their specific businesses.

Disclaimer
This document is for information purposes only and does not constitute, nor is to be construed as, an offer to sell or the recommendation, solicitation, 
inducement or offer to buy, subscribe for or sell shares in Anglo American or any other securities by Anglo American or any other party. Further, it should 
not be treated as giving investment, legal, accounting, regulatory, taxation or other advice and has no regard to the specific investment or other 
objectives, financial situation or particular needs of any recipient.

Forward-looking statements and third party information
This document includes forward-looking statements. All statements other than statements of historical facts included in this document, including, 
without limitation, those regarding Anglo American’s financial position, business, acquisition and divestment strategy, dividend policy, plans and 
objectives of management for future operations, prospects and projects (including development plans and objectives relating to Anglo American’s 
products, production forecasts and Ore Reserve and Mineral Resource positions) and sustainability performance related (including environmental, 
social and governance) goals, ambitions, targets, visions, milestones and aspirations, are forward-looking statements. By their nature, such forward-
looking statements involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors which may cause the actual results, performance or 
achievements of Anglo American or industry results to be materially different from any future results, performance or achievements expressed or implied 
by such forward-looking statements.

Such forward-looking statements are based on numerous assumptions regarding Anglo American’s present and future business strategies and the 
environment in which Anglo American will operate in the future. Important factors that could cause Anglo American’s actual results, performance or 
achievements to differ materially from those in the forward-looking statements include, among others, levels of actual production during any period, 
levels of global demand and commodity market prices, unanticipated downturns in business relationships with customers or their purchases from 
Anglo American, mineral resource exploration and project development capabilities and delivery, recovery rates and other operational capabilities, 
safety, health or environmental incidents, the effects of global pandemics and outbreaks of infectious diseases, the impact of attacks from third parties 
on our information systems, natural catastrophes or adverse geological conditions, climate change and extreme weather events, the outcome of 
litigation or regulatory proceedings, the availability of mining and processing equipment, the ability to obtain key inputs in a timely manner, the ability to 
produce and transport products profitably, the availability of necessary infrastructure (including transportation) services, the development, efficacy and 
adoption of new or competing technology, challenges in realising resource estimates or discovering new economic mineralisation, the impact of foreign 
currency exchange rates on market prices and operating costs, the availability of sufficient credit, liquidity and counterparty risks, the effects of inflation, 
terrorism, war, conflict, political or civil unrest, uncertainty, tensions and disputes and economic and financial conditions around the world, evolving 
societal and stakeholder requirements and expectations, shortages of skilled employees, unexpected difficulties relating to acquisitions or divestitures, 
competitive pressures and the actions of competitors, activities by courts, regulators and governmental authorities such as in relation to permitting or 
forcing closure of mines and ceasing of operations or maintenance of Anglo American’s assets and changes in taxation or safety, health, environmental 
or other types of regulation in the countries where Anglo American operates, conflicts over land and resource ownership rights and such other risk 
factors identified in Anglo American’s most recent Annual Report. Forward-looking statements should, therefore, be construed in light of such risk factors 
and undue reliance should not be placed on forward-looking statements. These forward-looking statements speak only as of the date of this document. 
Anglo American expressly disclaims any obligation or undertaking (except as required by applicable law, the City Code on Takeovers and Mergers, the 
UK Listing Rules, the Disclosure Guidance and Transparency Rules of the Financial Conduct Authority, the Listings Requirements of the securities 
exchange of the JSE Limited in South Africa, the SIX Swiss Exchange, the Botswana Stock Exchange and the Namibian Stock Exchange and any 
other applicable regulations) to release publicly any updates or revisions to any forward-looking statement contained herein to reflect any change in 
Anglo American’s expectations with regard thereto or any change in events, conditions or circumstances on which any such statement is based.

Nothing in this document should be interpreted to mean that future earnings per share of Anglo American will necessarily match or exceed its historical 
published earnings per share. Certain statistical and other information included in this document is sourced from third party sources (including, but not 
limited to, externally conducted studies and trials). As such it has not been independently verified and presents the views of those third parties, but may 
not necessarily correspond to the views held by Anglo American and Anglo American expressly disclaims any responsibility for, or liability in respect of, 
such information.

Designed and produced by

www.salterbaxter.com

This document is printed 
on Max Ultra Matt 115gsm 
and  Ultra Fine Offset 
100gsm which have been 
independently certified 
according to the rules of the 
Forest Stewardship Council 
(FSC). Printed in the UK by 
Pureprint using its pureprint 
environmental printing 
technology, and vegetable 
inks were used throughout. 
Pureprint is a CarbonNeutral 
company.

Both manufacturing paper 
mill and the printer are 
registered to the 
Environmental Management 
System ISO 14001 and are 
Forest Stewardship Council 
(FSC) chain-of-custody 
certified.

A

n

g

l

o

A

m

e

r

i

c

a

n

p

l

c

G

o

v

e

r

n

a

n

c

e

a

n

d

F

i

n

a

n

c

i

a

l

S

t

a

t

e

m

e

n

t

s

2

0

2

3

Anglo American plc 
17 Charterhouse Street 
London 
EC1N 6RA 
United Kingdom

Tel  +44 (0)20 7968 8888
Registered number 3564138

www.angloamerican.com

Find us on Facebook 
Follow us on X

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
