Metrics and targets
Disclose the metrics and targets used to assess and manage relevant climate-related risks and opportunities where such information is material.

Disclosures related to the recommendations of the TCFD

Recommended disclosures

References

a)  Disclose the 

Summary: We use a range of metrics to assess climate-related risks and opportunities, including Scope 1, 2 and 3 GHG emissions and energy use. 

137

CA 414CB

(h)

Integrated Annual Report 2023: Page 55 and page 57 show the metrics used by the Group when assessing climate-related risks and opportunities.

metrics used by 
the organisation 
to assess 
climate-related risks 
and opportunities 
in line with its 
strategy and risk 
management 
process.

b)  Disclose Scope 

Summary: We use a range of metrics to assess climate-related risks and opportunities, including Scopes 1, 2 and 3 GHG emissions and energy use. 

(g)

Integrated Annual Report 2023: Page 55 and page 57 show our Scope 1, 2 and 3 GHG emissions. Page 329 shows current and historical Scopes 1 
and 2 emissions by business.

Climate Change Report 2023: Page 33 provides more details on our Scope 3 GHG by each of the  categories included in the Greenhouse Gas 
Protocol’s methodology.

Summary: We are targeting a 30% reduction in GHG emissions by 2030 on a 2016 baseline and have a goal to be carbon neutral across our 
operations for Scopes 1 and 2 emissions by 2040. Our ambition is to reduce our Scope 3 footprint by 50% against a 2020 baseline by 2040.

(g)

Integrated Annual Report 2023: Pages 54–57 describe our climate-related goals and ambitions.

1, Scope 2, and, if 
appropriate, Scope 
3 GHG emissions 
and the related risks.

c)  Describe the 

targets used by 
the organisation to 
manage climate-
related risks and 
opportunities 
and performance 
against targets.

Strategic Report Integrated Annual Report 2023Anglo American plc138

Anglo American plc
Integrated Annual Report 2023

Strategic Report 

Streamlined energy and carbon reporting 

Scope 1 emissions – Global

Scope 2 emissions – Global

Total Scope 1 and 2 emissions – Global

Group emission intensity

Scope 3 emissions – Global*

Total Scope 1 and 2 emissions from UK-based entities

Energy use from UK-based entities

Energy use – Global*

2023

7.5

5.0

12.5

5.8

95.82

0.02

2022

8.3

5.0

13.3

6.1

104.5

0.01

131,476,718

90,902,808

Commentary

Measured in Mt CO2e
Measured in Mt CO2e
Measured in Mt CO2e
Measured in tonnes CO2e per tonne CuEq production
Measured in Mt CO2e
Measured in Mt CO2e
Measured in kWh

89

83

Measured in million GJ

*  Global energy use is presented in million GJ as this is the measurement the Group uses internally. The equivalent energy use figure in kWh is 24,723,511,650 (2022: 22,977,777,778 kWh).

Further information:
Disclosure of our energy and Scope 1, 2 and 
3 emission reduction targets can be found on 
page 46.

Disclosure of the principal energy efficiency 
initiatives deployed by the Group to meet 
those targets can be found on pages 54–57.

Methodologies used to calculate energy use 
and emissions data can be found on pages 
316–317.

Assurance of data:
As a member of the International Council on 
Mining and Metals (ICMM), Anglo American 
is committed to obtaining specific assurance 
over specified assertions related to the 
Sustainability Report, including data related 
to GHG emissions and energy use. 

IBIS ESG Consulting Africa (Pty) Ltd (IBIS) 
was commissioned by Anglo American 
to conduct an independent third-party 
assurance engagement in relation to its 
Sustainability Report for the year ended 
31 December 2023. This data has been 
reproduced in the Anglo American plc 
Integrated Annual Report 2023.

See pages 102–103 of the Anglo American plc 
Sustainability Report 2023 for more details on 
the assurance process and conclusions.

 ▶ For more information, see our Sustainability Report 2023
Visit angloamerican.com/sustainability-report-2023

Anglo American plc 
Integrated Annual Report 2023

139

Governance

This section of the Integrated Annual Report provides an overview 
of the means by which the Company is directed and controlled. 
The Board is there to support and challenge management and 
to ensure that we operate in a manner that promotes the long 
term success of Anglo American. In this section we describe the 
ways in which we seek to achieve this.

Contents

140 Chairman’s introduction
142 Directors
146 Executive Leadership Team
148 Board roles and responsibilities
151 Board operations
153 Board activity
156 Board effectiveness in 2023
158 Board visits in 2023

Compliance with the UK Corporate 
Governance Code
The Board supports the principles and provisions of the 
UK Corporate Governance Code 2018 (the Code) issued by the 
Financial Reporting Council (FRC), which is available on the FRC’s 
website (www.frc.org.uk). The principles and provisions of the Code 
have applied throughout the financial year ended 31 December 
2023. It is the Board’s view that the Company has complied 
throughout the year with the Code. The ways in which the Code 
has been applied can be found on the following pages:

Code section and where to find details
Section 1: Board leadership and company purpose 
Further detail on how the Board promotes the long term success 
of the Group is provided in the Strategic Report on pages 2–138. 
Relations with shareholders are described on page 163. For the 
ways in which the Board engages with its key stakeholders, see 
pages 16–19 of our Strategic Report and our Section 172 
statement on page 29, and the Stakeholder engagement section 
on pages 161–163 of this report. Our whistleblowing programme 
is described on page 177.

The Governance report and Financial Statements form part of the Anglo American plc 
Integrated Annual Report for the year ended 31 December 2023 and should be read 
in conjunction with the Strategic Report of the Integrated Annual Report.

161 Stakeholder engagement
164 Sustainability Committee report
166 Nomination Committee report
168 Audit Committee report
178 Directors’ remuneration report
185 Directors’ remuneration policy
191 Annual report on directors’ remuneration
212 Statement of directors’ responsibilities

Section 2: Division of responsibilities 
Pages 142–150 give details of the Board and executive 
leadership and the Board governance structure.

Section 3: Composition, succession and evaluation
The work of the Nomination Committee, and the processes 
used in relation to Board appointments, are illustrated on 
pages 166–167. The findings of the internal effectiveness 
review of the Board and committees are described on 
pages 156–157. 

Section 4: Audit, risk and internal control 
The report of the Audit Committee is found on pages 
168–177, with further detail on the Group’s principal risks 
to the business in the Strategic Report on pages 81–85.

Section 5: Remuneration
The Group’s remuneration policy and the report of the 
Remuneration Committee are found on pages 178–211.

140

Anglo American plc 
Integrated Annual Report 2023

Governance 
Chairman’s introduction

Chairman’s introduction

On behalf of the Board, I am pleased to introduce 
the Anglo American plc Governance report, 
in which we describe our corporate governance 
arrangements, the activities of the Board and 
its committees, and how the Board discharged 
its duties throughout 2023.

Board composition and succession

Board and executive leadership succession in public 
companies has – rightly – been the subject of scrutiny in recent 
years. In our own Company, Board succession planning 
continued to be a focus area in 2023. In carrying out our 
ongoing Board renewal, we strive to maintain the right balance 
of capabilities, experience, diversity and continuity required to 
sustain the Group’s long term success as it continues to evolve 
its portfolio and wider business interests.

In April 2023, I was pleased to welcome Magali Anderson to 
the Board as a non-executive director and member of the 
Sustainability Committee. Magali’s experience in capital 
intensive industries from her international executive career 
in operational, commercial and business transformation 
leadership roles, and a deep understanding of sustainability in 
its broadest sense, adds greater breadth of insight to the Board. 

In December, Stephen Pearce stepped down as finance 
director after serving on the Board since 2017. Stephen was 
succeeded by John Heasley, who joined the Board as finance 
director on 1 December 2023. John brings proven financial, 
strategic and commercial expertise to the role of finance 
director, coupled with hands-on operational experience of 
supporting sustainable mining through technology.

On behalf of the Board, I would like to reiterate my thanks to 
Stephen for his considerable contributions to Anglo American 
and his steady hand as finance director for nearly seven years.

At the date of this report, four of the 10 Board directors are 
female, including our Audit Committee chair; two are historically 
disadvantaged South Africans; and six different nationalities 
are represented, bringing experience from all of our major 
regions, notably southern Africa, South America and Australia. 

In 2024, the Nomination Committee will continue to focus 
on succession planning for the Board and the Executive 
Leadership Team, to ensure the organisation has a strong 
and diverse pipeline to take up senior leadership roles in 
the future.

The operation of the Board in 2023

The Board has continued to operate effectively throughout 
2023. Each year, the Board undertakes a rigorous review of 
its effectiveness and performance, and that of its committees 
and individual directors, while at least every three years this is 
facilitated by an external third party. In 2023, our review was 
carried out internally. I am pleased to report that the overall 
conclusion of the internal review is that the Board and 
committees continue to be effective and function well.

I believe director and Board site visits to be invaluable. They 
provide an opportunity for directors to learn more about the 
operations and understand the opportunities and challenges 
faced by the businesses in their local environments. Site visits 
are a key mechanism for the Board to directly engage with the 
workforce from a range of backgrounds and levels of seniority, 
and also present opportunities to meet with representatives 
from host communities. I was delighted that, in 2023, we were 
able to facilitate several site visits for directors. As a Board, in 
September, we went to see the progress being made at our 
Woodsmith project in north east England, and in July our 
Sustainability Committee spent time at the Venetia mine in 
South Africa. In April, the Audit Committee met with Marketing 
leaders in our Singapore hub, and three non-executive directors 
visited our Steelmaking Coal operations in Australia. 

“Free market systems need a robust 
governance framework if they are to 
retain the trust of shareholders and 
society. I believe that the full breadth 
of sustainability considerations should 
always underpin this framework and 
be at the heart of how responsible 
companies do business.”

Stuart Chambers
Chairman

Anglo American plc 
Integrated Annual Report 2023

Governance 
Chairman’s introduction

141

Board engagement with stakeholders

Stakeholder considerations are integral to our discussions 
at Board meetings and the decisions we make take into 
account potential impacts on them. Following our 2022 internal 
evaluation, the Board agreed one of its effectiveness priorities 
in 2023 was to pursue opportunities to have greater direct 
engagement with representatives of host communities. I am 
pleased that Board members were able to engage directly 
with local communities at the various site visits during the 
year in order to gain a better understanding of their interests 
and perspectives.

Our investor relations team manages the day-to-day 
interactions with investors and our key financial audiences. 
Our chief executive, finance director and other senior executives 
host regular meetings with investors, as well as potential 
shareholders, throughout the year. As chairman, I meet with 
many of our major shareholders in the course of the year. 
The Board also recognises the importance of the AGM as 
an opportunity for shareholders to engage with the Board 
and provide feedback.

The Board continues to enthusiastically embrace the board-
workforce engagement recommendations contained in the 
UK Corporate Governance Code. Anglo American’s Global 
Workforce Advisory Panel currently comprises 12 employees 
drawn from across our business and is chaired by non-
executive director Marcelo Bastos. To help facilitate the Board’s 
oversight role in the evolution of the organisation’s culture, the 
Panel enables the Board to better understand and take into 
account the views of the workforce, and how well the Group’s 
purpose, values and desired culture are embedded. In 2023, 
the Panel met on three occasions, one of which was in person in 
South Africa. I was delighted that Duncan Wanblad, a number of 
non-executive directors and I were able to engage directly with 
Panel members during our Board site visits on a number of 
occasions during the year. On behalf of the Board, I thank Panel 
members for their ongoing commitment and look forward to the 
Panel’s continued insights.

▶ The outcomes of our Board effectiveness review are described on 

pages 156–157 and our Board site visits are illustrated on pages 158–160.

▶ For more information on the Panel and the ways in which we currently 

engage with our key stakeholders
See pages 161–163

Stuart Chambers speaking with Leah Swain, chief executive of the 
Woodsmith Foundation, at the Eastside Community Hub in Whitby 
during the Board visit in September 2023.

Committee governance

Starting on page 164, each Board committee chair presents 
a report on the activities of their committee during 2023. The 
effective and efficient operation of the committees and their 
interaction with the Board are vital to ensure that all matters 
receive the necessary attention in a timely manner. I am 
grateful to the members and the chairs of those committees 
in particular for their commitment and the work that they do 
throughout the year in this regard.

2024 Annual General Meeting

Our 2024 AGM will again be held as a hybrid meeting and 
shareholders will be welcome to attend, vote, raise questions 
and be heard both physically in the room and via the virtual 
platform. I look forward to engaging with as many of you as 
possible at the AGM, in person or virtually, and would 
encourage you to vote your shares even if you cannot attend 
in person, so that we gain a better understanding of the views 
of our shareholders as a whole. 

Stuart Chambers
Chairman

142

Anglo American plc 
Integrated Annual Report 2023

Governance 
Directors

Directors

Committee member key

Audit Committee
Nomination Committee
Remuneration Committee

Sustainability Committee
Chair of Committee
Member of Committee

Stuart Chambers
Chairman

Duncan Wanblad
Chief Executive

Qualifications: BSc (Applied Physics), PhD 
Business Administration, FIChemE
Appointed: 1 September 2017 and as Chairman 
on 1 November 2017

Qualifications: BSc (Eng) Mech, GDE 
(Eng Management)
Appointed: 19 April 2022 as Chief Executive

John Heasley
Finance Director

Qualifications: BA, CA

Appointed: 1 December 2023 as Finance 
Director

Skills and experience

Skills and experience

Skills and experience

Stuart contributes to Anglo American 
significant global executive and boardroom 
experience across the industrial, logistics 
and consumer sectors.

Duncan brings to the Board more than 
30 years of global mining experience and 
a deep understanding of Anglo American, 
its culture and context.

Stuart served as chairman of Travis Perkins 
plc from 2017 to 2021, and previously 
chaired ARM Holdings plc and Rexam plc 
until 2016. In his non-executive career, 
Stuart has served on the boards of Tesco 
PLC, Manchester Airport Group plc, Smiths 
Group plc and Associated British Ports 
Holdings plc. 

Stuart’s executive career included 13 years 
at Pilkington plc and its subsequent parent 
company Nippon Sheet Glass until 2010, 
in a number of executive roles and ultimately 
as chief executive of both companies. 
Prior to that, he gained 10 years of sales 
and marketing experience at Mars 
Corporation, following 10 years at Shell 
as a chemical engineer.

Current external appointments

A Visiting Fellow of Saïd Business School, 
Oxford University. 

Nationality: 

British

Age:

67

Duncan leads the Executive Leadership 
Team (ELT), having served as a member 
since 2009, and is chairman of De Beers. 
From 2016 to 2022, Duncan was 
Group Director – Strategy and Business 
Development, also serving as CEO of 
our Base Metals business from 2013 
to 2019. Until 2022, he chaired the 
Anglo American Foundation.

Between 2009 and 2013, Duncan held the 
position of Group Director – Other Mining 
and Industrial, responsible for a global 
portfolio of mining and industrial businesses 
for disposal or turnaround to maximise 
shareholder value. He was appointed CEO 
of our Copper operations in 2008, prior to 
which he served as joint interim CEO of 
Anglo American Platinum in 2007 (having 
served on the board since 2004). From 2004 
to 2007, Duncan was Executive Director of 
Projects and Engineering at Anglo American 
Platinum. Duncan began his career at 
Johannesburg Consolidated Investment 
Company Limited in 1990. 

Current external appointments

None

Nationality:

South African

Age:

57

John brings to Anglo American proven 
financial, strategic and commercial 
expertise, coupled with hands-on 
operational experience of supporting 
sustainable mining through technology.

John is a member of the ELT and is a director 
of De Beers. Prior to joining Anglo American 
in 2023, he was chief financial officer and an 
executive director at The Weir Group PLC, 
the FTSE 100 listed global engineering 
company providing engineering 
technologies to the global mining industry, 
a role held since 2016.

Prior to joining Weir in 2008, John served as 
group financial controller of Scottish Power 
plc, following his early career in professional 
services firms in audit, mergers & 
acquisitions, and corporate finance roles.

Current external appointments

Non-executive director and honorary 
treasurer of the Royal Scottish National 
Orchestra, a charitable organisation.

Nationality:

British

Age:

49

Anglo American plc 
Integrated Annual Report 2023

Governance 
Directors

143

Ian Tyler 
Senior Independent Director

Magali Anderson
Independent Non-executive Director

Ian Ashby
Independent Non-executive Director

Qualifications: BCom, ACA

Qualifications: Mech Eng

Qualifications: B Eng (Mining)

Appointed: 1 January 2022 and as Senior 
Independent Director on 19 April 2022 

Appointed: 1 April 2023

Appointed: 25 July 2017

Skills and experience

Skills and experience

Skills and experience

Ian contributes to Anglo American a wealth 
of boardroom and financial experience 
spanning a number of industrial sectors, 
including as chair of remuneration and 
audit committees. 

Ian has previously served as chairman of 
Amey, and of Vistry Group plc (formerly 
Bovis Homes Group) and Cairn Energy plc, 
and is a former non-executive director of 
BAE Systems plc, VT Group plc and Cable & 
Wireless Communications plc, amongst 
other non-executive board roles. Ian’s senior 
executive career was at Balfour Beatty plc, a 
global infrastructure business, joining as 
finance director in 1996 and serving as chief 
executive from 2005 to 2013. 

Current external appointments

Chairman of BMT Group Ltd, a maritime-
orientated consultancy, and of Affinity 
Water, a privately-held business (stepping 
down from this role in 2024); and a non-
executive director of Synthomer plc. A non-
executive director and chair designate of 
Grafton Group plc from 1 March 2024.

Nationality:

British

Age:

63

Magali brings to Anglo American highly 
relevant experience in capital intensive 
industries from an international executive 
career in operational, commercial and 
business transformation leadership roles, 
and a deep understanding of sustainability 
in its broadest sense.

Until September 2023, Magali was chief 
sustainability and innovation officer and a 
member of the executive committee of 
Holcim Group, the Switzerland-based global 
building materials company. She joined 
Holcim in 2016, becoming chief 
sustainability officer in 2019 and adding 
innovation to her remit in 2021. During her 
Holcim tenure, Magali was a member of the 
advisory boards of industry organisations: 
Business for Nature, the MIT Climate and 
Sustainability Consortium, the World Green 
Building Council and the 50L Home Coalition 
on water efficiency; and co-chair of the 
2050 net-zero work for the Global Cement 
and Concrete Association. Prior to joining 
Holcim, Magali spent the majority of her 
career with Schlumberger, holding 
operational line management positions 
including CEO, Angola and region head, 
Europe. Magali started her career as a field 
engineer on offshore oil rigs in Nigeria.

Current external appointments

None

Nationality:

French

Age:

56

Ian contributes to Anglo American 
substantial knowledge of the minerals 
industry across a wide range of 
commodities, combined with global 
operating, major projects and capital 
development experience.

Ian served as president of iron ore for BHP 
Billiton between 2006 and 2012, when he 
retired from the company. During his 25-year 
tenure with BHP Billiton, Ian held numerous 
roles in its iron ore, base metals and gold 
businesses in Australia, the US and Chile, as 
well as projects roles in the corporate office. 
He began his nearly 40-year mining career 
as an underground miner at the Mount Isa 
Mines base metals operations in 
Queensland, Australia. 

Ian has previously served as chairman of 
Petropavlovsk plc, and a non-executive 
director of IAMGOLD Corporation, Alderon 
Iron Ore Corp, Nevsun Resources Ltd, New 
World Resources PLC and Genco Shipping 
& Trading, and in an advisory capacity with 
Apollo Global Management and Temasek.

Current external appointments

Independent director of Suncor Energy Inc. 

Nationality:

Australian

Age:

66

144

Anglo American plc 
Integrated Annual Report 2023

Governance 
Directors

Directors continued

Committee member key

Audit Committee
Nomination Committee
Remuneration Committee

Sustainability Committee
Chair of Committee
Member of Committee

Marcelo Bastos
Independent Non-executive Director

Hilary Maxson
Independent Non-executive Director

Hixonia Nyasulu
Independent Non-executive Director

Qualifications: MBA, BSc (Hons) Mech Eng

Appointed: 1 April 2019

Qualifications: MBA, B.S. (Applied Economics 
& Management)
Appointed: 1 June 2021

Qualifications: BA Hons

Appointed: 1 November 2019

Skills and experience

Skills and experience

Skills and experience

Hilary contributes to Anglo American 
experience in business, spanning finance, 
the capital markets, energy transition and 
technology, gained across her executive 
career in the US, Europe, Africa and Asia. 

Hilary is CFO of Schneider Electric and 
a member of its executive committee, based 
in Paris. She previously served as CFO 
of their largest business unit, Energy 
Management, having joined the company 
in 2017 as CFO of the Building and IT 
business, situated in Hong Kong. Prior 
to joining Schneider Electric, Hilary spent 
12 years with the AES Corporation in 
a variety of finance, M&A and business 
development roles, based across the US, 
Cameroon and the Philippines, ultimately 
as CFO for Asia. Hilary began her career at 
Bank of America and Citigroup, in New York.

Current external appointments

None

Nationality:

American

Age:

45

Marcelo contributes to Anglo American more 
than 30 years of operational and project 
experience in the mining industry across 
numerous commodities in South America, 
Australia, Africa and south east Asia. 
He is designated by the Board to chair 
and engage with Anglo American’s Global 
Workforce Advisory Panel. 

Marcelo served as chief operating officer of 
MMG between 2011 and 2017, responsible 
for the group’s copper, zinc, silver, lead and 
gold operations, and sales and marketing. 
In this role, he also led the planning and 
development of the Las Bambas copper 
mine in Peru. Prior to MMG, Marcelo served 
as president and CEO of the BHP Mitsubishi 
Alliance joint venture (metallurgical coal), 
president of BHP’s Cerro Matoso nickel 
operation in Colombia, president of nickel 
Americas, and president of Nickel West in 
Australia. He had a 19-year career at Vale 
until 2004 in a range of senior executive 
positions in Brazil. Marcelo is a former non-
executive director of Golder Associates and 
Oz Minerals Ltd.

Current external appointments

Non-executive director of Aurizon Holdings 
Ltd and Iluka Resources Ltd.

Nationality:

Age:

Brazillian/Australian 60

Hixonia contributes to Anglo American 
significant global board experience drawn 
from the natural resources, financial services 
and consumer industries. 

Until December 2023, Hixonia was a 
member of the board of AGRA and chaired 
the Africa Economic Challenge Fund, both 
not-for-profit organisations. She previously 
served as senior independent director of 
Vivo Energy plc, and as a non-executive 
director on the boards of Sasol, including five 
years as chairman, Nedbank, Unilever NV 
and Unilever plc. She has also served as a 
member of the South Africa advisory board 
of J.P. Morgan and on the board of the 
Development Bank of Southern Africa. In 
2004, Hixonia founded Ayavuna Women’s 
Investments (Pty) Ltd, a female-controlled 
investment holding company. Prior to that, 
she ran T.H. Nyasulu & Associates, a 
strategy, marketing and research company, 
after starting her career at Unilever in South 
Africa. Hixonia was a founder member of the 
Advisory Group formed by the World 
Economic Forum to set up a community 
of global chairs.

Current external appointments

Non-executive director and vice chair of 
Olam Agri Holdings Pte. Ltd. 

Nationality:

South African

Age:

69

Anglo American plc 
Integrated Annual Report 2023

Governance 
Directors

145

Board diversity policy statement: gender and ethnicity targets

The Board is committed to ensuring that it has the right balance of skills, experience and 
diversity, and reflects the global reach of the Group, its employees and major markets. 
The Board strongly supports the targets of the FTSE Women Leaders and Parker 
reviews on gender and ethnic diversity. In support of these aims, in leading search 
processes to appoint new directors, the Nomination Committee retains the services of 
executive search firms that are accredited under the UK Government’s Voluntary Code 
of Conduct for Executive Search Firms.

At the date of this report, four (40%) of the 10 directors are female and two (20%) 
identify as minority ethnic. Six different nationalities are represented, bringing 
experience from all of Anglo American’s major regions. A substantial majority of the 
Board have a nationality or place of origin outside the UK. The Company satisfies the 
targets in the UK Listing Rules on having at least 40% female representation on its Board, 
and at least one Director from a minority ethnic background. 

The Company does not currently meet the UK Listing Rule target that at least one of 
the senior positions on its Board (defined under the Listing Rules as the chair, chief 
executive, senior independent director or chief financial officer) is held by a woman. 
Appointments to the Board are made on merit following rigorous search processes, 
ensuring the overall composition of the Board and its committees continues to reflect 
an appropriate mix of capabilities, experience and diversity (of gender, ethnicity, 
nationality, age and perspectives). In considering succession plans for these four 
positions, due attention will be given to this target. We are confident that future 
appointments will, as a whole, continue to support the Board’s diversity aims.

The additional diversity data required under the UK Listing Rules is set out on 
page 167.

Board experience and diversity

The broad range of skills and experience and the diversity of our Board as at the 
date of this report are illustrated below.

Gender diversity

4

ò	Male (60%)
ò	Female (40%)

Professional experience
Mining

Large project management

Construction in extractive industries

Finance 

6

Marketing (downstream) or commodity trading

Safety, health, environment

Digital technology and innovation

Climate change or clean energies

Board nationality or place of origin

External quoted boardroom experience

1

3

1

1

1

3

ò	British
ò	South African
ò	American

ò	Australian
ò	French
ò	Brazilian

Previous chief executive

Regional experience

North America

Southern Africa

China

South America

Australia 

India

50%

50%

40%

60%

60%

100%

50%

30%

80%

50%

80%

60%

60%

50%

30%

10%

Nonkululeko Nyembezi
Independent Non-executive Director

Qualifications: MBA, MSc, BSc

Appointed: 1 January 2020

Skills and experience

Nonkululeko contributes to Anglo American 
great breadth of technical and strategic 
insights with a background in engineering 
and extensive experience spanning mining, 
steel, financial services and technology in 
South African and global organisations.

Nonkululeko was previously chairman of JSE 
Limited. She was also formerly CEO of Ichor 
Coal N.V., and has previously served as 
chairman of Alexander Forbes Group, as a 
non-executive director on the boards of Old 
Mutual plc, Exxaro Resources, Universal Coal 
plc and Denel, and as CEO of ArcelorMittal 
South Africa. In her earlier career, 
Nonkululeko was chief officer of M&A for the 
Vodacom group and chief executive officer 
of Alliance Capital, the then local subsidiary 
of a New York-based global investment 
management company.

Current external appointments

Chairman of Standard Bank Group, and of 
Macsteel Service Centres SA, a privately 
held business (anticipated to step down 
from this role in March 2024). 

Nationality:

South African

Age:

63

In addition, the following director served 
during the year:
Stephen Pearce stepped down from the 
Board as finance director on 1 December 
2023, having served on the Board since 
April 2017.

146

Anglo American plc 
Integrated Annual Report 2023

Governance 
Executive Leadership Team

Leadership team
Executive Leadership Team members

Duncan Wanblad
Chief Executive

Alison Atkinson
Projects & Development 
Director

Monique Carter
People & Organisation 
Director

Member since: 
October 2009

Qualifications: BEng (Hons) (Civil Engineering) FREng
Member since: May 2023

Qualifications: BA (Hons), MCIPD
Member since: June 2023

John Heasley
Finance Director

Member since; 
December 2023

▶ For full biographical details 
of the executive directors 
See page 142

Skills and experience
As Projects & Development Director, Alison 
leads the Projects, Carbon and Innovation 
disciplines at Anglo American. 

Prior to joining Anglo American in 2023, Alison 
was CEO of AWE plc from 2020-2023. Alison 
joined AWE in 2005 and fulfilled a number of 
senior roles, delivering multi-billion dollar 
infrastructure projects and technology 
programmes and developing capabilities and 
products that support the UK's nuclear defence 
programme. Prior to AWE, Alison spent 14 years 
at Halcrow, the global engineering consultancy, 
managing a wide variety of capital projects in 
the UK and overseas in both the public and 
private sectors. 

Alison is a Chartered Civil Engineer and is a 
Fellow of the Royal Academy of Engineering. 
She is also a non-executive director of 
Kier Group plc and chair of its safety, health and 
environment committee.

Skills and experience
As People & Organisation Director, Monique 
leads all the people-related disciplines across 
the Group, including Culture and Learning, 
Performance and Reward, and Talent 
Development. 

Prior to joining Anglo American in 2023, Monique 
served as executive vice president People & 
Organisation for Novo Nordisk, the life science 
and global healthcare company, for four years 
until 2023. Her global career experience spans 
engineering, chemicals, manufacturing and 
retail. Prior to her most recent role, Monique was 
Group HR Director at GKN, following a number 
of senior HR roles during her career at 
AkzoNobel and ICI. 

Al Cook
CEO of De Beers 

Matt Daley
Technical & Operations 
Director

Ruben Fernandes
Regional Director, 
Americas

Qualifications: M.A. Hons (Natural Sciences)
Member since: February 2023

Qualifications: BEng (Mining) Hons, PgDip (Fin)
Member since: January 2023

Qualifications: MBA, MSc (Metallurgical Engineering)
Member since: March 2019

Skills and experience
As CEO of De Beers, Al is responsible for 
its strategy and operations from mines to 
retail stores.

Prior to joining the Group in 2023, Al was 
executive vice president of exploration and 
production international for Equinor, the 
Norway-based energy company, with 
responsibility for its businesses in 12 
countries around the world.

Al previously held the role of executive vice 
president for global strategy and business 
development at Equinor, where he 
developed a net zero strategy and 
reshaped its portfolio for the energy 
transition. He joined Equinor after a 20-year 
career at BP, which included operational 
roles offshore, leadership of the Southern 
Corridor gas project and chief of staff to the 
CEO. Al is a trustee of The Power of 
Nutrition, an independent charitable 
foundation. He is a Fellow of the Geological 
Society and the Energy Institute.

Skills and experience
As Technical & Operations Director, Matt leads 
the Discovery & Geosciences, Engineering & 
Maintenance, Information Management, Mining, 
Processing, Supply Chain, and Safety, Health & 
Environment disciplines. He is also a non-
executive director of Anglo American Platinum.

Skills and experience
As Regional Director for the Americas, Ruben is 
responsible for ensuring safe and responsible 
operations, optimising performance, future 
options and commercial value across the 
Americas, including the company’s operational 
footprint in Brazil, Chile and Peru.

Prior to joining Anglo American in 2017 as 
Group Head of Mining, Matt was the Executive 
General Manager for Glencore Canada based 
in Toronto and served as a non-executive 
director on the board of PolyMet Mining. 
He has previously worked for Xstrata and 
Minera Alumbrera and started his career with 
Mount Isa Mines in Queensland, Australia.

Prior to starting this role in 2023, he served 
as CEO of Base Metals and CEO of Anglo 
American Brazil. 

Ruben joined Anglo American in 2012, and was 
previously head of mining at Votorantim Metals 
in Brazil, responsible for projects and exploration 
activities around the world, as well as operations 
in Peru and Colombia. Between 2009 and 2011, 
he was COO at Vale Fertilizers, responsible for 
the fertiliser operations, sales and marketing. 
Ruben was also CEO of Kaolin Companies – 
Pará Pigments and Cadam – two subsidiaries of 
Vale, between 2007 and 2009, and held various 
analysis, marketing and project roles in Vale’s 
Base Metals business which he joined in 1999. 

Anglo American plc 
Integrated Annual Report 2023

Governance 
Executive Leadership Team

147

Tom McCulley
CEO of Crop Nutrients

Themba Mkhwanazi
Regional Director, Africa & 
Australia

Helena Nonka
Strategy & Sustainability 
Director

Qualifications: B.S. (Accounting)
Member since: October 2022

Qualifications: B Eng (Chemical) Hons 
Member since: August 2019

Qualifications: M.A. Hons, LL.M
Member since: October 2022

Skills and experience:
As CEO of Crop Nutrients, Tom is responsible 
for the on-plan and safe delivery of the 
Woodsmith project, aligned with the successful 
development of the market for, and premium 
value of, the mine’s polyhalite fertiliser product. 

Prior to starting this role in 2022, Tom served 
as CEO of Anglo American in Peru and Group 
Head of Projects. 

Tom joined Anglo American in 2015 and 
previously held several senior global roles 
at Newmont, including Vice President of 
Investment and Value Management and 
Vice President of Discovery and Development 
Planning and Services. Tom began his career 
at Fluor Corporation in international oil & gas 
and mining projects, developing his full project 
lifecycle expertise.

Skills and experience:
As Regional Director for Africa & Australia, 
Themba is responsible for ensuring safe and 
responsible operations, optimising performance, 
future options and commercial value across 
Africa and Australia. He is also a non-executive 
director of Anglo American Platinum and 
Kumba Iron Ore.

Prior to starting this role in 2023, Themba 
served as CEO of Bulk Commodities. He has 
also served as CEO of Kumba Iron Ore and CEO 
for Anglo American’s Thermal Coal business 
in South Africa.  

Themba joined Anglo American in 2014 and 
was previously managing director for Huntsman 
Tioxide in South Africa until 2007 when he was 
appointed COO of Richards Bay Minerals, a joint 
venture between Rio Tinto and BHP. In 2011, 
he was seconded to Rio Tinto’s Australian coal 
business, before taking up the role of regional 
general manager for the Americas in 2012. 
Themba is a Vice President of the Minerals 
Council of South Africa. 

Richard Price
Legal & Corporate Affairs 
Director

Matt Walker
CEO of Marketing

Qualifications: LL.B, BA (Hons) 
Member since: May 2017

Qualifications: Bsc (Hons), CA
Member since: December 2023

Skills and experience
As Legal & Corporate Affairs Director, Richard 
leads the Legal, Government & International 
Relations, Communications, Company 
Secretarial and Security disciplines. He also 
serves as Company Secretary of Anglo 
American plc. 

Prior to joining Anglo American in 2017, he was 
a partner at Shearman & Sterling, the 
international law firm working across EMEA, Asia 
and North America. In private practice, Richard 
acted for clients across the metals, mining, 
energy and financial services sectors, among 
others, assisting them with complex financing, 
corporate and compliance matters. 

A champion for diversity, equity and inclusion 
in the legal profession, Richard was one of the 
founders and serves as Chair of General 
Counsel for Diversity & Inclusion.

Skills and experience
As CEO of our Marketing business, Matt is 
responsible for optimising the value of the 
company’s products in the market through the 
implementation of effective sales and trading 
strategies. 

Prior to taking up this role in 2023, Matt was 
Group Head of Corporate Finance, leading 
capital allocation and integrated planning, 
as well as the M&A transaction team.

Matt joined Anglo American’s finance team in 
2007 and has held a number of senior finance 
and other roles across Anglo American, 
including as CFO of our Copper business in 
Chile. Between 2019 and 2021, he served as 
Group Treasurer responsible for the Group’s 
bank and debt market funding.

Skills and experience
As Strategy & Sustainability Director, Helena 
leads the Business Development, Portfolio 
Management, Social Impact, Strategy, and 
Sustainability disciplines. 

Prior to joining Anglo American in 2022, Helena 
was executive vice president corporate 
development for Norsk Hydro ASA, with 
responsibility for group strategy, business 
development, sustainability and technology. 

Helena’s global career spans more than 
20 years in the natural resources industry, 
professional services, consulting, and academia 
across Europe, Asia and North America. She 
previously worked as the global head of new 
business for natural resources at Switzerland-
based SGS. From 2007 to 2019, she worked for 
Rio Tinto, where she held several global senior 
commercial leadership roles, including leading 
corporate strategy.

The following members stepped 
down from executive leadership 
in 2023:

Stephen Pearce served as Finance Director 
until 1 December 2023.

Peter Whitcutt served as CEO of Marketing 
until 1 December 2023.

Natascha Viljoen served as CEO of 
Anglo American Platinum until 30 June 2023.

Didier Charreton served as Group Director – 
People and Organisation until 5 June 2023.

Nolitha Fakude served as Group Director – 
South Africa until 31 May 2023.

Anik Michaud served as Group Director – 
Corporate Relations and Sustainable Impact 
until 31 May 2023.

Bruce Cleaver served as CEO of De Beers Group 
until 20 February 2023.

148

Anglo American plc 
Integrated Annual Report 2023

Governance 
Board roles and responsibilities

Board roles and responsibilities

The Board, through its role in setting the tone 
from the top, provides leadership to the Group 
and is collectively responsible for promoting and 
safeguarding the long term success of the business. 
The Board is supported by a number of committees, 
to which it has delegated certain powers.

The role of these committees is summarised overleaf, and their 
membership, responsibilities and activities during the year are 
detailed on pages 164–211.

Some decisions are sufficiently material that they can only 
be made by the Board as a whole. The schedule of ‘Matters 
Reserved for the Anglo American plc Board’, and the 
committees’ terms of reference, explain which matters are 
delegated and which are retained for Board approval; these 
documents can be found on the Group’s website.

Executive structure

The Board delegates executive responsibilities to the chief 
executive, who is advised and supported by the Executive 
Leadership Team (ELT). In 2023, our executive management 
team, formerly known as the Group Management Committee, 
was re-organised to lead Anglo American’s next phase of value 
delivery. The ELT comprises the chief executive, regional 
directors and Group directors of corporate functions, including 
the company secretary. The names of the ELT members, their 
roles and biographical details appear on pages 146–147.

Board composition

At the date of this report, the Board comprises 10 directors: the 
chairman, two executive directors (our chief executive and our 
finance director) and seven independent non-executive 
directors. The roles of our directors are summarised overleaf, 
alongside the divisions of responsibility between the chairman, 
the executive and non-executive members of the Board.

Magali Anderson joined the Board as an independent non-
executive director on 1 April 2023. In May 2023, we announced 
Stephen Pearce’s intention to retire during the year, having 
served as finance director since 2017, and on 1 December 
2023 he stepped down from the Board. As announced in July 
and November, John Heasley joined the Board as finance 
director on 1 December 2023. 

The broad range of skills and experience our Board members 
contribute to the long term sustainable success of the Group 
are set out on pages 142–145. The Board is supported by the 
legal & corporate affairs director who also serves as the Group 
company secretary.

There is a clear separation of responsibilities at the head of 
the Company between the leadership of the Board (the 
responsibility of the chairman) and the executive responsibility 
for leadership of the Company’s business (the responsibility of 
the chief executive).

Independence of the non-executive directors

At the date of this report, more than two-thirds of the Board are 
independent non-executive directors. The Board determines 
all the non-executive directors (other than the chairman) to be 
independent of management and free from any business or 
other relationship which could interfere materially with their 
ability to exercise independent judgement. The UK Corporate 
Governance Code (the Code) does not consider a chairman 
to be independent due to the unique position the role holds in 
corporate governance. Stuart Chambers met the 
independence criteria contained in the Code when he was 
appointed as the Group’s chairman in 2017.

To ensure the continued effectiveness of the Board, the 
chairman and the non-executive directors meet without the 
executive directors present several times a year. The chairman 
also meets regularly with each of the non-executive directors. 
The senior independent director (SID) engages with the other 
non-executive directors without the chairman present, at least 
annually, to appraise the chairman’s performance. In 2023, 
Ian Tyler, as the SID, met with the non-executive directors on 
one such occasion.

Time commitment and external appointments

The Board, through the Nomination Committee, conducts an 
annual review of the time commitment expected from each 
of the non-executive directors and affirms that the directors 
devote the requisite time to meet the expectations of their role. 
In making this assessment, the Nomination Committee 
considers directors’ attendance at Board and committee 
meetings, their external positions, and the chairman is asked 
to comment on their individual performance as part of the 
Board’s effectiveness review. Overall, a minimum expected 
time commitment of 30 days per annum is set out in the non-
executive directors’ letters of appointment; however, the SID 
and committee chairs devote more time as required by their 
roles. The chairman’s anticipated annual time commitment is 
the equivalent of two to three days per week in the normal 
course of business. Directors are expected to prepare for and 
attend Board and committee meetings as relevant, a full day 
Board Strategy meeting, the AGM and at least one operational 
site visit annually.

The Board acknowledges that non-executive directors have 
business interests other than those of the Company. Prior to 
their appointment to the Board, non-executive directors are 
required to declare any directorships, appointments and other 
business interests to the Company in writing. Non-executive 
directors are required to seek the approval of the chairman, 
chief executive and Group company secretary, on behalf of the 
Board, before accepting additional significant commitments 
that might be a potential conflict of interest or affect the time 
they are able to devote to their role. New appointments are then 
reported to the full Board.

Anglo American plc 
Integrated Annual Report 2023

Governance 
Board roles and responsibilities

149

Stuart Chambers at our 2023 AGM with legal & corporate affairs director (and company secretary) Richard Price (left), senior independent director Ian 
Tyler (far left) and chief executive Duncan Wanblad (right).

Currently, only one of the non-executive directors holds more 
than two external board appointments. The Nomination 
Committee has considered these external commitments, 
taking into account the time commitment required for each 
role, and is satisfied they do not impact the individual Board 
members’ ability to discharge their responsibilities fully and 
effectively. As evidenced in the table on page 151, all directors 
attended 100% of the Board meetings that they were eligible 
to do so in 2023.

Executive directors are required to seek approval from the 
Board, following consideration by the Nomination Committee, 
before accepting an external directorship. The Board would 
not normally permit an executive director to hold more than 
one external non-executive directorship in a FTSE 100 
company (or other equivalent publicly quoted company), 
nor the chairmanship of any such company.

Duncan Wanblad, Stuart Chambers and non-executive director 
Hixonia Nyasulu at the Eastside Community Hub in Whitby, a project 
supported by the Woodsmith Foundation, in September 2023.

150

Anglo American plc 
Integrated Annual Report 2023

Governance 
Board roles and responsibilities

Chairman

Stuart Chambers leads the Board, ensuring it works constructively as a team. His main 
responsibilities include: chairing the Board and the Nomination Committee and setting their 
agendas; Board composition and succession planning; providing support and counsel to the 
chief executive and his team; promoting the highest standards of integrity and governance; 
facilitating effective communication between directors; effective dialogue with shareholders 
and other stakeholders; and acting as ambassador for the Group.

Senior Independent Director (SID)

Independent Non-executive Directors (NEDs)

Ian Tyler serves as the Board’s SID. He acts as a sounding 
board for the chairman and as an intermediary between 
the other directors. The SID leads the annual review of the 
performance of the chairman and is available to shareholders 
on matters where the usual channels of communication are 
deemed inappropriate.

The role of the NEDs is to support, constructively challenge, 
and provide advice to executive management; effectively 
contribute to the development of the Group’s strategy; 
scrutinise the performance of management in meeting 
agreed goals; and monitor the delivery of the Group’s strategy.

Chief Executive

Duncan Wanblad manages the Group. His main responsibilities include: 
executive leadership; formulation, implementation and delivery of the 
Group’s strategy as agreed by the Board; approval and monitoring of 
business plans; organisational structure and senior appointments; business 
development; and stakeholder relations.

Finance Director

John Heasley joined the Board as finance director in December 2023. 
John leads the global finance function and supports the chief executive 
in formulating, implementing and delivering the strategy in relation to the 
financial and operational performance of the Group.

Audit Committee

Nomination Committee

Remuneration Committee

Sustainability Committee

Oversight of financial 
reporting, audit, internal 
control and risk 
management.

▶ For more information
See pages 168–177

Responsible for Board 
composition, appointment of 
directors and ensuring 
effective succession planning 
for the Board and senior 
management.

Determines the remuneration 
of executive directors, the 
chairman and senior 
management, and oversees 
remuneration policy for 
all employees.

▶ For more information
See pages 166–167

▶ For more information
See pages 178–211

Oversees management 
of sustainability issues, 
including safety, health, 
environment, climate 
change and 
social performance.

▶ For more information
See pages 164–165

Corporate Committee

Executive Leadership Team (ELT)

Operational Committee

Responsible for effective decision 
making over cross-functional matters 
including Group policies.

Principal executive committee. 
Responsible for formulating strategy, 
monitoring Group performance, setting 
targets/budgets and managing the 
Group’s portfolio.

Responsible for driving operational 
best practices across the Group and 
the setting of technical standards.

Investment Committee

Marketing Risk Committee

Responsible for ensuring effective capital 
investment and material operational 
spend decision-making processes.

Responsible for evaluating, monitoring, 
directing and controlling the management 
of risk associated with the sales and 
marketing activities of the Group.

Anglo American plc 
Integrated Annual Report 2023

Governance 
Board operations

151

Board operations

Board information and support 

Board induction and development

All directors have full and timely access to the information 
required to discharge their responsibilities fully and effectively. 
They have access to the advice and services of the Group 
company secretary and his team, other members of the 
Group’s management and employees, and external advisers. 
Directors may take independent professional advice in the 
furtherance of their duties, at the Company’s expense.

Where a director is unable to attend a Board or committee 
meeting, they are provided with all relevant papers and 
information relating to that meeting and encouraged to discuss 
issues arising with the chairman, the respective committee 
chairs and other Board and committee members. In 2023, 
all directors attended 100% of the Board meetings they were 
eligible to attend, as evidenced in the table below.

The Board recognises the importance of director education and 
ongoing development. Following appointment, and as required, 
all directors receive training and development appropriate to their 
level of experience and knowledge. This includes the provision of 
a comprehensive induction programme tailored to the director’s 
experience and background, individual briefings with ELT 
members and their teams to provide newly appointed directors 
with information about the Group’s business, culture and values, 
meetings with external advisers, site visits and other relevant 
information to assist them in effectively performing their duties 
and contributing to Board discussions and decision making.

In addition to scheduled Board operational site visits, non-executive 
directors are expected to spend time at the Group’s operations 
to meet management and members of the workforce. 

All non-executive directors are provided with access to papers 
for each of the Board’s committees, including those who do 
not serve as members of those committees. Non-executive 
directors are encouraged to regularly attend meetings of the 
Board’s committees they do not serve on, at the invitation of the 
respective committee chair.

Board and committee meetings in 2023 – frequency and attendance of members

The table below shows the attendance of directors at meetings of the Board and committees during the year. Attendance is expressed 
as the number of meetings attended out of the number eligible to attend. 

Independent

Board(1)

Board Strategy

Audit

Nomination(2)

Remuneration(3)

Sustainability(4)

Stuart Chambers

Duncan Wanblad
John Heasley(5)
Stephen Pearce(6)
Magali Anderson(7)
Ian Ashby(8)
Marcelo Bastos

Hilary Maxson

Hixonia Nyasulu

Nonkululeko Nyembezi

Ian Tyler

n/a

No

No

No

Yes

Yes

Yes

Yes

Yes

Yes

Yes

8/8

8/8

1/1

7/7

6/6

8/8

8/8

8/8

8/8

8/8

8/8

1/1

1/1

—

1/1

1/1

1/1

1/1

1/1

1/1

1/1

1/1

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

4/4

—

4/4

4/4

4/4

—

—

—

—

3/4

4/4

4/4

4/4

—

4/4

—

—

—

—

—

6/6

—

—

6/6

—

6/6

4/4

4/4

—

—

3/3

4/4

4/4

—

—

4/4

—

(1) The number of Board meetings included seven scheduled meetings and one special purpose meeting.
(2) All the independent non-executive directors were invited to attend the Nomination Committee meeting in April, at the invitation of the chairman, where the topic of discussion was executive 

succession planning. Attendance of the non-Nomination Committee members is not reflected in the table above.

(3) The number of Remuneration Committee meetings included four scheduled meetings and two special purpose meetings to consider executive remuneration.
(4) All the independent non-executive directors have a standing invitation to attend Sustainability Committee meetings, at the invitation of the committee chair. Attendance of the non-committee 

members is not reflected in the table above.

(5) Appointed to the Board on 1 December 2023. John attended the Board Strategy meeting in November at the invitation of the chairman; his attendance is not reflected in the table above.
(6) Stepped down from the Board on 1 December 2023. 
(7) Appointed to the Board on 1 April 2023.
(8)

Ian Ashby was unable to join the Nomination Committee meeting in July 2023 for personal reasons. Ahead of the meeting, Mr Ashby confirmed his support for the proposals under 
consideration.

152

Anglo American plc 
Integrated Annual Report 2023

Governance 
Board operations

At the Woodsmith project’s Lockwood Beck site, non-executive directors Magali Anderson (centre) and Marcelo Bastos (right) are shown around 
the Mineral Transport System (MTS) tunnel by tunnel area manager Mark Pooleman.

Highlights

– Following her appointment as an independent non-executive 
director in April 2023, Magali Anderson undertook a tailored 
and comprehensive onboarding programme, including 
meetings with senior leaders, site visits and a briefing on the 
role and responsibilities of being a director of a UK listed 
company. Magali has attended over 20 meetings with 
management and external advisers on a variety of topics 
related to her Board and Sustainability Committee 
appointments.

– In April 2023, Audit Committee members visited our 

Marketing office in Singapore, where they met and engaged 
with members of the Marketing leadership team.

– In April 2023, non-executive directors Marcelo Bastos, 

Nonkululeko Nyembezi and Ian Tyler visited the Group’s 
Steelmaking Coal operations in Queensland, Australia.

– In July 2023, the Board’s Sustainability Committee visited 

De Beers’ Venetia mine in South Africa.

– In September 2023, the Board held one of its scheduled 

meetings at our Crop Nutrients office in north east England, 
and visited our Woodsmith project.

– Since joining the Board as finance director in December 
2023, John Heasley has commenced a comprehensive 
onboarding programme, including meetings with the Group’s 
senior leaders, engagements with key investors, site visits, 
and meetings with external advisers.

▶  Further details of these site visits can be found on pages 158–160

Newly appointed finance director John Heasley (second from right) 
greeting employees at our Johannesburg corporate office.

Anglo American plc 
Integrated Annual Report 2023

Governance 
Board activity

153

Board activity

The Board is responsible for the overall conduct of 
the Group’s business, its strategic direction and its 
organisational culture, ensuring these are aligned to 
our Purpose and Values. The chairman is responsible 
for setting the agenda. The agenda of matters 
discussed by the Board in 2023 is described and 
explained below.

Principal activities during the year

Topic and link to pillars of value

Activities | Outcomes/decisions

The Board is scheduled to meet at least six times a year but 
meets more often when circumstances warrant this. In addition, 
the Board dedicates a full meeting, usually held over two days, 
to the discussion of the Group’s strategy, addressing critical 
short, medium and long term issues. This augments the 
discussion of strategic topics at every Board meeting. Annually, 
the leaders and regional directors of the Group’s businesses 
present to the Board in some depth on the key aspects of their 
business. In between meetings, the Board receives regular 
updates from the chief executive on operational and business 
performance; and engages with senior management on 
specific topic briefings.

Safety and health
Fatal incidents, total 
recordable injury 
frequency rate, health 
and medical incidents

▶ Further reading pages 67–70

Safety is the most critical area of focus for the Board and the first topic discussed at Board 
meetings. The causes of fatal incidents and those causing injury were examined in detail by 
the Sustainability Committee and the findings discussed by the Board. 

Management performance in reducing safety incidents was monitored throughout the year. 
The Board continued to monitor the operational and technical innovation initiatives that have 
the potential to positively impact the Group’s safety performance and make mining safer and 
more sustainable. 

The Sustainability Committee considered the Group’s new contractor performance 
management framework and policy, which aims to ensure the safety of our contractor workforce.

Rigorous and unremitting focus on oversight of safety performance.

People
Inclusion and diversity, 
talent and performance 
management, employee 
engagement

▶ Further reading pages 70–75

People are a pillar of the Group’s strategy and the Board is focused on creating an inclusive and 
diverse culture.

The Board was updated on progress made on Group initiatives in the areas of gender and ethnic 
diversity, mental health, LGBTQ+, and Living with Dignity.

Succession plans for the ELT were reviewed by the Nomination Committee, on behalf of 
the Board.

The Board received feedback on discussions and outcomes of three meetings of the 
Global Workforce Advisory Panel, chaired by one of the independent non-executive directors. 
The Board also considered insights from the 2022 global employee engagement surveys, 
including our journey of gathering feedback from employees to help drive a purpose-led, high 
performing culture.

Approved senior leadership changes during the year.

Provided input into the topics of discussion for the Global Workforce Advisory Panel.

154

Anglo American plc 
Integrated Annual Report 2023

Governance 
Board activity

Topic and link to pillars of value

Activities | Outcomes/decisions

Environment
Environmental incidents, 
energy and climate 
change, water availability 
and rehabilitation

▶ Further reading pages 48–60

The Board reviewed the steps taken by management to reduce energy and natural resource 
consumption, and key projects and technologies contributing to energy transition.

Climate-related activities, energy efficiency targets and decarbonisation strategies were 
considered during the year by the Board and the Sustainability Committee. The Board discussed 
the Group’s roadmap to carbon neutrality, focusing on the underlying initiatives, workstreams 
and plans underpinning delivery of our target of carbon neutral operations by 2040. The Board 
considered initiatives towards achieving carbon neutral energy in the Group’s operations. 

External insights from expert speakers on steel industry decarbonisation pathways and drivers 
were shared with the Board.

The Board received updates and in-depth briefings on the Group’s conformance and disclosure 
against the Global Industry Standard on Tailings Management for the Group’s managed tailings 
storage facilities, the ongoing risk measures and dam safety monitoring. 

The Board approved: 

– The acquisition, execution, and funding of three Koruson 2 renewable energy 

projects through Envusa Energy, the renewable energy joint venture partnership with 
EDF Renewables, enabling the acceleration of carbon neutral electricity in the Group’s 
southern African businesses.

Socio-political
Social incidents and 
performance, 
government, media, 
investor and stakeholder 
relations

▶ Further reading pages 60–65

The Board receives updates on key geopolitical developments in the Group’s operating 
jurisdictions, significant social incidents, and a briefing from the Group head of investor relations, 
at each meeting. Feedback from meetings held between executive leaders and institutional 
investors is communicated to the Board. 

Board members engaged directly with local community representatives during their site visits 
in 2023 in South Africa, the UK and Australia. 

The chief executive and business leaders updated the Board on engagement with the 
governments of host countries and on local community dialogue. The Board was briefed by 
management on feedback following the Group’s two Sustainability Performance updates held 
in 2023.

The Board received briefings from internal teams on trends in relevant areas and likely scenarios 
for global economic growth. The Board received regular updates on commodity markets from 
Marketing leadership.

The Board received an update from the Strategy team on the Group’s commodity price outlook.

Economic outlook 
and commodity 
price
Macro-economic 
environment and 
commodity price outlook

▶ Further reading pages 24–39

Operations
Operational performance 
by each business unit and 
progress of key projects

The Board received detailed updates on the operational performance, strategy, safety and 
sustainability performance, people, technological innovation, and key risks of its businesses. 

The Board was updated throughout the year on the progress of the De Beers Venetia 
Underground and Crop Nutrients Woodsmith projects.

▶ Further reading pages 94–128

The Board approved: 

– Agreement in principle between De Beers Group and the Government of the Republic 

of Botswana for a new 10-year sales agreement for Debswana's rough diamond production 
(through to 2034) and the new 25-year Debswana mining licences (through to 2054).

– Initial funding for the Exploration Access Development Phase at De Beers Jwaneng 

underground project. 

– Additional funding to complete pre-feasibility studies and advance critical path activities for 

the Los Bronces underground expansion in Chile.

 
 
   
Anglo American plc 
Integrated Annual Report 2023

Governance 
Board activity

155

Topic and link to pillars of value

Activities | Outcomes/decisions

Financial
Key financial measures, 
liquidity and balance 
sheet strength, cost 
improvements, dividend

The Board monitored financial performance and discussed progress against the annual budget 
and five-year plan. Liquidity strategy and balance sheet strength were reviewed. A revised 
Group treasury policy was considered by the Board and Audit Committee.

The Board and Audit Committee considered the Group’s dividend policy.

▶ Further reading pages 76–78

Recommended the 2022 final dividend (approved at the 2023 AGM) and approved the 2023 
interim dividend. 

The Board approved:

– The Group’s 2024 budget, incorporating capital expenditure for critical projects

– A revised Group treasury policy 

– A mandate to enable the issuance of $2.0 billion of bonds in 2023, and the refinancing of the 

Group’s $4.7 billion revolving credit facility maturing in 2025.

Strategy
Portfolio outlook, progress 
on critical tasks and long 
term strategic pathways

The Board considered strategic issues at every meeting in 2023, and held a two-day dedicated 
strategy meeting. The Board discussed progress towards delivery of the Group’s strategic goals 
in the context of Portfolio, Innovation and People, including: portfolio and growth strategy, key 
competitive trends and value creation, technology development strategy, climate change and 
decarbonisation strategies, delivery of organisational efficiencies, and exploration activities. 

▶ Further reading pages 10–75

The Board considered options for moving its portfolio towards future-enabling products, 
while supporting a Just Transition that seeks to balance the needs and expectations of all 
stakeholders, including environmentally and socially sustainable jobs, consistent with 
addressing the overriding issue of climate change.

Board governance 
Reports from committees, 
legislative and regulatory 
compliance, succession 
planning 

▶ Further reading pages 

156-211

Approved the Group’s critical strategic objectives.

Key decisions made during the year in support of the Group’s pathways to carbon neutrality.

Each of the committee chairs reported on their respective meetings. Reports were received 
on the Group’s compliance with relevant legislation and regulation and any actions needed to 
respond to recent developments. 

The Board received updates on material litigation across the Group. The Audit Committee 
chair provided an update on material whistleblowing reports. 

The Board undertook a rigorous review of its effectiveness and that of its committees and 
individual directors.

The Board and Nomination Committee reviewed the Board’s composition, diversity 
and succession plans for non-executive and executive directors, and members of the ELT.

The Board was updated on the implementation of a more active and co-ordinated Group 
engagement strategy in relation to the influence, management, and governance of its non-
managed joint ventures.

The Board received a briefing on business integrity and the key compliance risks facing the 
Group from anti-corruption laws. Updates were provided on regulatory developments, including 
proposed changes to the UK Corporate Governance Code (since published in January 2024).

Approved Board and ELT appointments:

– Magali Anderson as a non-executive director and member of the Sustainability Committee 

from 1 April 2023.

– John Heasley as Finance Director from 1 December 2023.

– Monique Carter and Matt Walker as members of the ELT, on the recommendation of the 

chief executive.

The Board endorsed the re-organisation of the senior management team to lead the next phase 
of value delivery.

The Chairman and executive directors approved increases to the non-executive directors’ fees 
for 2023 and the introduction of an annual fee for acting as the designated non-executive 
director to chair the Global Workforce Advisory Panel.

Agreed Board effectiveness priorities for 2023.

Approved Anglo American’s 2023 Modern Slavery Act statement.

 
   
 
 
 
156

Anglo American plc 
Integrated Annual Report 2023

Governance 
Board effectiveness in 2023

Board effectiveness in 2023

Each year, the Board undertakes a rigorous review 
of its own effectiveness and performance, and that 
of its committees and individual directors. At least 
every three years, the review is externally facilitated. 
In 2023, an internal evaluation was undertaken. 
The process for how the review was conducted 
and its findings are illustrated below. 

The last externally facilitated effectiveness review of the Board 
was undertaken in 2021, the results of which were reported in 
the 2021 Integrated Annual Report. Taking account of the 
findings of the 2022 review, the Board had identified four 
priority areas for 2023, the details of which were reported in the 
2022 Integrated Annual Report. Actions to address these areas 
were identified and progressed throughout the year. The Board 
made good progress on implementing the actions to address 
the findings, as illustrated in the table below.

Again in 2023, the directors completed online, questionnaire-
based internal effectiveness reviews. To allow the Board and 
its committees to judge progress over a three-year period, the 
reviews explored similar areas to the 2022 review. The 2023 
review reaffirmed that the Board believes that it continues to 
operate effectively, is collegiate and well-functioning.

The review of the chairman’s performance was led by the senior 
independent director. The chairman was not present during the 
discussions with both executive and non-executive directors as 
it related to him. The directors commended the chairman on his 
effective leadership of the Board, noting that he fosters an open 
and supportive culture that facilitates the contribution of each 
member. It is the directors view that the chairman has an 
appropriately strong, constructively challenging, and supportive 
relationship with the chief executive and his leadership team 
and they felt this was an important component in the overall 
effectiveness of the Board. In addition, the chairman received a 
report evaluating the individual directors’ performance. To 
complement the internal review process, the chairman holds 
regular one-to-one meetings with each of the directors.

Actions taken in 2023 to address the areas identified by the Board as 
effectiveness priority areas following the 2022 internal review are 
summarised below:

Topic

People

Areas identified for action

Actions taken in 2023

Maintain Board focus on the Group’s talent 
management, including its processes to 
identify and develop talent. Maximise 
opportunities for the Board to have exposure 
to future leaders in the Group’s talent pipeline.

Opportunities for Board’s exposure to future 
leaders and high potential employees in the 
Group’s talent pipeline were facilitated during 
the year. High potential employees presented 
regularly at Board and committee meetings, 
and gained additional exposure through one-
to-one meetings with non-executive directors, 
and in more informal settings during Board 
and director site visits.

Talent management will continue to be a 
priority focus area for the Board in 2024.

Formal location visits were facilitated for 
Board members in 2023, to South Africa and 
the UK, in addition to ad hoc non-executive 
director site visits. The visits afforded 
opportunities for the Board to engage directly 
with community representatives, as described 
in this report.

Opportunities for Board engagement with the 
Group’s customers will be further developed 
in 2024.

Community 
and customer 
engagement

With the return of Board site visits, pursue 
opportunities for the Board to have direct 
engagement with representatives of host 
communities. Seek opportunities for the 
Board to engage with the Group’s customers.

Anglo American plc 
Integrated Annual Report 2023

Governance 
Board effectiveness in 2023

157

Topic

Areas identified for action

Actions taken in 2023

External insights

Increase the Board’s exposure to external 
insights in pertinent areas, particularly climate 
change and geopolitical trends.

Strategy

Redirect the Board’s strategic focus towards 
the making of strategic choices and 
overseeing the execution of strategy.

There was greater focus on providing external 
insights and industry trends to the Board 
during strategic discussions. For example, 
external expert speakers provided insights 
on steel decarbonisation to the Board as part 
of its strategic discussions. 

Senior leaders presented updates to the Board 
on geopolitical and macro-economic trends. 

The Board considered strategic issues at 
every meeting in 2023, and held a two-day 
dedicated strategy meeting. The Board 
discussed progress towards delivery of the 
Group’s strategic goals and implementation 
of business strategy, including: portfolio 
and growth strategy, technology 
development strategy, climate change 
and decarbonisation strategies, and delivery 
of organisational efficiencies.

Building on the priority areas identified and the actions taken during 
2023, and taking account of the findings of the 2023 review, the 
Board has identified the following effectiveness priorities for 2024:

Topic

People

Areas identified for action

Following the re-organisation of the Executive Leadership Team in 2023, continue the Board’s 
focus on senior leadership succession, and increase visibility of high potential employees and 
future leaders in the Group’s talent pipeline.

Stakeholder 
engagement

Building on the increased Board-community engagement in 2023, focus the Board’s attention 
on further developing its understanding of stakeholder views, particularly the Group’s customers 
and investors.

External insights

Continue to maximise opportunities for the Board to obtain greater external perspectives, 
particularly in the areas of macro-economic, industry and geopolitical trends.

Strategy

Evolve the Board’s focus from the making of strategic choices to strategy implementation and 
supporting executive management in execution of the Group’s strategy.

Committee effectiveness

The committee reviews looked at ways in which they could 
improve their overall effectiveness, their performance and 
effectiveness priority areas they needed to address in 2024. 
All Board committees were believed to be performing well and 
were appropriately constituted.

158

Anglo American plc 
Integrated Annual Report 2023

Governance 
Board visits in 2023

Board and non-executive directors’ visits 
to Group operations in 2023

Undertaking regular site visits allows the directors 
to gain a better understanding of the Group’s 
operations and culture, and affords Board members 
the opportunity to meet and engage with a diverse 
cross-section of employees and local stakeholders 
to appreciate, at first-hand, their interests 
and concerns. 

The directors spent two days visiting the Woodsmith mine sites, 
hosted by members of the Crop Nutrients leadership team 
and site employees, focusing on safety, progress on core 
infrastructure and the study programme, research and 
development (R&D), social performance, and environmental 
management and biodiversity. The Board visited the 
Woodsmith mine, the Wilton site including the Mineral Transport 
System (MTS) tunnel, port and R&D plant, and the Lockwood 
Beck site, where they descended into the MTS tunnel. 

The Board usually meets at least once a year at one of the 
Group’s major operations. During 2023, Board, committee 
and non-executive director site visits were facilitated, as 
described below.

Board visit to Woodsmith

In September 2023, the Board held one of its meetings at our 
Crop Nutrients corporate office in north east England and 
visited our Woodsmith project, accompanied by senior leaders 
from the business. During the visit, the Board received detailed 
presentations from Crop Nutrients management on how they 
aim to set the benchmark in sustainable mining operations, 
while maintaining our social licence to operate and building 
a thriving community in the region surrounding the project.

Board members engaged directly with local community 
representatives at projects supported by the Woodsmith 
Foundation and got an on-the-ground feel for the positive 
impact the projects are making on local communities: The 
Whitby Lobster Hatchery aims to build resilience and 
sustainability in the local fishing community, creating new jobs 
and promoting tourism; while the Eastside Community Hub 
provides a wide range of community-based activities with 
the aim of reducing isolation, providing opportunities for skills 
development, and enabling better health and well-being.

As part of the visit, the chairman hosted an evening event 
for Board members to engage with the Crop Nutrients 
leadership team.

Non-executive director Magali Anderson (right) and projects & development director Alison Atkinson (centre) speaking with newly graduated 
apprentice engineer Ross Dickinson from our Crop Nutrients business during the Board’s visit to Woodsmith.

Anglo American plc 
Integrated Annual Report 2023

Governance 
Board visits in 2023

159

Sustainability Committee members and directors being briefed during 
their visit to De Beers’ Venetia mine in July 2023.

Sustainability Committee visit to Venetia

In July 2023, the Sustainability Committee visited the Venetia 
mine in South Africa, accompanied by De Beers CEO Al Cook 
and senior leaders. Other non-executive directors who are not 
members of the Committee joined the visit.

The visit focused on safety, the transition of Venetia from an 
open-pit mine into an underground mining operation, initiatives 
towards achieving carbon neutrality and net-positive impact on 
biodiversity, and community engagement. 

The Committee witnessed first hand the work being done 
locally to foster equal opportunities for women, and on 
empowering female-owned enterprises to flourish in host 
communities. The Committee also learnt about the 
collaborative work that has brought together Venetia and 
the International Youth Foundation, driving youth skills 
development and creating job opportunities through a 
partnership which supports the Musina TVET College.

During the visit, the Committee chairman, Ian Ashby, hosted an 
evening function for directors to meet with leaders and 
employees from Venetia.

Left: Stuart Chambers speaking with Morakana Molalathoko, the owner 
of a catering enterprise in Musina, the nearest town to Venetia mine, who 
is supported by the AWOME (Accelerating Women Owned Micro 
Enterprise) programme, which aims to empower women in business.

Below surface: the Sustainability Committee and senior leaders met with site management and employees underground to see the progress being 
made as Venetia transitions from being a surface mining operation to an underground mine.

160

Anglo American plc 
Integrated Annual Report 2023

Governance 
Board visits in 2023

Non-executive directors’ visits

In April 2023, Audit Committee members and the Group 
finance director met with leaders from our Marketing business in 
Singapore, where they attended in-depth presentations on the 
control processes which support value creation through the 
end to end deal lifecycle.

Also in April, non-executive directors Marcelo Bastos, 
Nonkululeko Nyembezi and Ian Tyler spent two days at our 
Steelmaking Coal operations in Queensland, Australia, hosted 
by CEO Australia Daniel van der Westhuizen. The directors 
visited operations at Moranbah North, Grosvenor and Aquila, 
where the focus was on safety, underground operations, gas 
management, carbon neutrality, and stakeholder engagement. 
The group visited the Moranbah Youth & Community Centre, 
where they learned more about how the business partners in the 
community to create shared value, and engaged directly with 
community leaders of the Barada Barna Traditional Owners.

“Site visits enable non-executive directors to get a 
better understanding of the issues facing our operations 
and how these are being managed, with real-life 
exposure to colleagues at various levels in the organisation. 
They also allow us to interact directly with representatives 
from host communities.”
Ian Ashby
Independent non-executive director 
and Sustainability Committee chairman

(Left to right) Non-executive director Nonkululeko Nyembezi 
with section engineer Peter Jaure and mechanical technician 
Dean Duboczky at Woodsmith in September 2023.

Sustainability Committee chairman Ian Ashby during the Committee’s 
visit to Venetia in July 2023.

Anglo American plc 
Integrated Annual Report 2023

Governance 
Stakeholder engagement

161

Stakeholder engagement

How the Board has engaged
The Board is committed to ensuring collaboration and 
partnering with a broad range of stakeholders, both 
directly and indirectly through reports from senior 
management. Stakeholder considerations form part of 
discussions at Board meetings and decision making 
takes into account potential impacts on our stakeholders, 
as described in the Section 172 statement on page 29 of 
the Strategic Report. How the Board interacts directly 
with certain of its key stakeholders is illustrated below. 
For further information on reflecting stakeholder views in 
the Board’s decision making, please see page 29.

Creating shared value

Investors

Employees and unions

Communities

Suppliers and contractors

Civil society (NGOs, faith 
groups and academia)

Customers

Governments and 
multilateral institutions

Industry associations

Global Workforce Advisory Panel 

Anglo American’s Global Workforce Advisory Panel (the Panel) 
was established in 2019. Its purpose is to give employees more 
of a ‘voice’ in the boardroom so their views can be better 
understood and considered when decisions are being made 
about the future of the business. The Panel affords valuable 
opportunities for the Board to understand how the Group’s 
culture, purpose and values are embedded into the organisation. 
The Panel operates alongside Anglo American’s existing 
employee engagement mechanisms, such as regular employee 
engagement surveys and director interaction with employees. 

Composition of the Panel

The Panel is currently made up of 12 employees, representing 
the countries where the Group has a significant presence, and 
is chaired by Marcelo Bastos, one of the Board’s independent 
non-executive directors. Panel members are nominated using 
agreed criteria set out in its terms of reference and selected to 
ensure representatives, throughout the organisation, are 
appropriately balanced across the areas of gender, ethnicity, 
age and seniority. New Panel members undertake an induction 
to ensure a clear understanding of their role and to support 
them in being effective employee representatives. The Panel is 
supported by the Group’s company secretarial and employee 
engagement teams. Panel members meet at least twice a year 
with the Panel chair. 

Panel meetings and discussions in 2023 

The Panel met on three occasions in 2023, in March, July and 
October. The first meeting of the year was held virtually over 
two sessions, to accommodate members in different global 
time zones. The second meeting was held in person at the Group’s 
corporate office in Johannesburg. The third was a short informal 
meeting held virtually. 

Topics for discussion in 2023 included: feedback on the Group’s 
diversity data sharing campaign, our change management 
processes, our colleague wellness activity, and performance 
management framework. Panel feedback was also sought on 
how the Group’s organisational changes, announced in May 
2023, were received in their part of the business. 

Members of the Global Workforce Advisory Panel with non-executive 
director Marcelo Bastos, who chairs the Panel.

Panel members are provided with briefings in advance on 
topics for discussion at Panel meetings and asked to engage 
with the workforce populations they represent, in order to 
provide feedback with their collective views at Panel meetings. 

At the Panel’s in-person engagement in 2023, in addition to the 
formal meeting, members engaged in pre- and post-meeting 
activities, including internally facilitated team effectiveness 
training, and local educational site visits. Panel members had 
the opportunity to engage at an informal event with the Panel 
chair, and senior leaders in the Group. Opportunities for 
relevant Panel members to meet informally with the Board 
chairman, chief executive, and other independent non-
executives were facilitated in the year during the Board’s and 
non-executive directors’ site visits. 

The Panel is scheduled to meet three times in 2024, and we 
anticipate one of these meetings taking place in person.

162

Anglo American plc 
Integrated Annual Report 2023

Governance 
Stakeholder engagement

Community engagement

Anglo American is committed to delivering a lasting positive 
contribution to host communities, beyond the life of our mines. 
Our Social Way 3.0 engagement requirements and 
commitment to local accountability that forms part of our 
Sustainable Mining Plan are at the heart of how we engage 
with local communities. We aim to always engage 
proactively, meaningfully and respectfully with all of our 
stakeholders in relation to impacts and risk and to maximise 
development opportunities. 

The Board’s Sustainability Committee receives a report on 
social performance and community issues at each meeting. 
The Board is also updated via presentations from business 
leaders and visits operations, which affords opportunities for 
direct engagement with local community representatives. 

“To me, being a Panel member means really listening to my 
colleagues and, through our meetings chaired by Marcelo, 
gives me the opportunity to represent their voice in the 
boardroom on Panel topics.”
Gugu Kubeka
Gugu is an HR Adviser based in South Africa, and has been a Panel 
member since 2022

Board and Panel feedback 

Following each Panel meeting, Marcelo Bastos discussed the 
key themes with the Board chairman and chief executive. At 
three Board meetings in 2023, Marcelo provided his reflections 
from Panel engagements and discussed the key themes with 
the full Board. The key messages from each meeting were 
shared and discussed with the ELT. Marcelo provided his 
reflections and insights at one ELT meeting, following a year of 
chairing the Panel. Marcelo shares feedback from the Board 
meeting discussions with the Panel at its following meeting. 
Topics for discussion at Panel meetings are proposed equally 
by Panel members, the Panel chair and members of the Board, 
and management.

“Being able to interact directly with a cross-section of 
employees through the Panel, and share my insights in the 
boardroom, gives the Board a unique vantage point through 
which to assess employee sentiment.”
Marcelo Bastos
Independent non-executive director and Panel chair

Non-executive director engagement with employees

In addition to feedback from the Panel, non-executive directors 
interacted with employees of varying levels of seniority during 
the year, during Board and director site visits to operations and 
corporate offices. In April, our Audit Committee chair Hilary 
Maxson and members of the Audit Committee engaged with 
colleagues during a visit to our Marketing hub in Singapore. 
Magali Anderson engaged with female colleagues 
participating in one of the Group’s Leadership Academy 
programmes aimed at developing female talent.

Global employee engagement surveys

The Board was updated during the year on the feedback and 
resulting actions that had been developed by management 
from global employee engagement surveys undertaken 
in 2022.

Duncan Wanblad and Pannett Art Gallery curator Helen Berry at the 
Eastside Community Hub in Whitby during the Board visit in September 
2023. The gallery is an open access community resource for cultural 
activities and is supported by the Woodsmith Foundation.

In September 2023, the Board visited our Woodsmith project 
in north east England, where they engaged directly with local 
community representatives at projects supported by 
the business. The Sustainability Committee visited De Beers’ 
Venetia mine in the Limpopo district in South Africa in July, 
where they visited several local projects supported by the mine. 
In April 2023, three non-executive directors spent time at the 
Moranbah Youth & Community Centre during their visit to the 
Group’s Steelmaking Coal operations, where they engaged 
directly with community leaders of traditional owners of 
the land.

▶ For more information on Board and non-executive directors’ site visits 

See pages 158–160

Anglo American plc 
Integrated Annual Report 2023

Governance 
Stakeholder engagement

163

Investor engagement

Investor engagements in 2023

The Group has an active engagement programme with its key 
financial audiences, including investors and sell-side analysts, 
as well as potential shareholders.

The Group’s investor relations team manages the interactions 
with these audiences through roadshow meetings, presentations 
including at the time of the interim and final results and twice 
yearly sustainability updates, as well as regular attendance 
at industry conferences organised mainly by investment banks 
for their institutional investor base. Key topics covered include 
market outlooks, financial and operating performance, 
sustainability and governance matters. The focus of sustainability 
discussions continues to primarily be on climate change and 
providing an update on the Group’s transition plan; while the 
Group’s approach to biodiversity and water management also 
becoming more priority engagement areas for many investors 
in the latter part of the year. In December, the Company hosted 
its annual investor update to the investment community, which 
outlined resets to production guidance. The chief executive and 
finance director subsequently hosted meetings with the largest 
shareholders through December and into January 2024. 

In addition to roadshows and industry events, the investor 
relations and management teams meet with investors and sell-
side analysts regularly throughout the year for ad hoc 
discussions. Significant concerns raised by shareholders in 
relation to the Company and its affairs are communicated 
to the Board. 

January
Closed period

Climate Action 100+ 
investor meeting

March
Investor roadshows: London 
(virtual), Edinburgh (virtual), 
North America and South Africa

Conferences: Exane Basic 
Materials

UBS Santiago investor tour

May
Investor roadshows: London 
(virtual) and North America 
(virtual)

Conferences: Bank of America 
Metals & Mining

The Board receives a briefing at each meeting from the Group 
head of investor relations and analysts’ reports are circulated to 
the directors. Feedback from meetings held between executive 
management, or the investor relations department, and 
institutional shareholders, is also communicated to the Board. 
The Chairman also engages directly with the Company’s 
largest shareholders.

July
Closed period 

Q2 Production Report 

2023 interim results 

Investor roadshows: London 
(virtual)

Annual General Meeting 

The Board values the AGM as an opportunity for all shareholders, 
but in particular its retail shareholders, to raise questions and 
comments to the Board. Shareholders were invited to submit 
their questions in advance of the AGM and also offered the 
opportunity to ask questions during the meeting both in person 
and electronically. The Company’s 2023 AGM was held in 
a hybrid format. Voting levels at the 2023 AGM were 
approximately 70%, with generally less than 2% being votes 
withheld. All resolutions submitted to the meeting in 2023 were 
passed with at least 87% of votes in favour.

September
Investor Roadshows: London 
(virtual), Edinburgh (virtual) and 
North America

Conferences: Raymond James 
Strategic Metals & Materials 
(virtual)

Danske bank virtual investor 
group

November
ESG investor meetings (virtual) 

Chairman investor meetings 

Climate Action 100+ investor 
meeting

February
Q4 2022 Production Report 

2022 full year results

Investor roadshows: London 
(virtual)

Conferences: BMO Global 
Metals & Mining

April
Q1 Production Report 

Sustainability Performance 
update

AGM

UBS London Mining Tour (virtual)

June
Conferences: BofA Smart Mine 
4.0 (virtual) 

Berenberg Thematic Mining 
event, BofA Virtual Commodity 
conference

Morgan Stanley Materials 
Cannonball Run fireside session 
(virtual)

UN PRI Advance human rights 
engagement

August
Investor Roadshow: South Africa

October
Investor and sell-side 
analyst visit to Woodsmith

Q3 Production Report 

Sustainability Performance 
update

ESG investor meetings (virtual)

Conferences: Deutsche Copper 
CEO conference (virtual)

December
2023 investor update call

CE and FD investor meetings

Chairman investor meetings

164

Anglo American plc 
Integrated Annual Report 2023

Governance 
Sustainability Committee report

Sustainability Committee report

Committee members
Ian Ashby – Chairman
Magali Anderson (appointed 1 April 2023)
Marcelo Bastos
Stuart Chambers
Nonkululeko Nyembezi 
Duncan Wanblad

▶ For further detail on biographies and Board 

experience: pages 142–145

Business regional directors, Group directors of 
strategy & sustainability, technical & operations, 
and legal & corporate affairs, and the Group heads 
of safety and sustainability also participate in 
meetings of the Committee. Other members of 
senior management are invited to attend when 
necessary. Other non-executive directors 
regularly attend Committee meetings at the 
invitation of the chair.

“ We are not only custodians of the land 
we mine; our stewardship extends to 
the impact we have on the environment 
and the way in which we engage with 
host communities. The Sustainability 
Committee ensures that the Board is 
constantly apprised of any sustainability 
issues that may affect our licence to 
operate or stand in the way of our 
achieving a net positive overall impact."
Ian Ashby
Committee chairman

Role and responsibilities

The Committee oversees, on behalf of the Board, material 
management policies, processes, and strategies designed to 
manage safety, health, environment, climate change-related and 
socio-political risks and opportunities, to achieve compliance with 
sustainable development responsibilities and commitments 
and strive to be a global leader in sustainable mining. 

The Committee is responsible for reviewing the causes of any 
fatal or significant sustainability incidents and ensuring 
learnings are shared across the Group. 

The Committee’s terms of reference are available to view online.

▶ For more information

Visit angloamerican.com/about-us/governance

Committee discussions in 2023

The Committee met four times in 2023, with full attendance 
as described on page 151. At each meeting, the Committee 
reviews detailed reports covering the Group’s performance 
across a range of sustainability areas, including: safety; health 
and wellness; socio-political trends; human rights; climate 
change; and environmental and social performance. 
Significant safety, social, health and environmental incidents 
are reviewed at each meeting, as are the results from 
operational risk reviews and operational risk assurance.

The Committee seeks to address the fundamental root causes 
of all fatal incidents occurring across Anglo American.

In 2023, three members of the workforce lost their lives at the 
Group’s managed operations. The preliminary observations 
from each of these fatal incidents were reported to the next 
Committee meeting following their occurrence, noting the 
factors surrounding the incidents, mitigation steps being taken 
and the process for formal investigation. Following completion 
of the independent investigations, findings were presented to 
the Committee and the learnings shared internally. 

Sustainability Committee members visiting Venetia mine in July 2023.

Anglo American plc 
Integrated Annual Report 2023

Governance 
Sustainability Committee report

165

Sustainability Committee chairman Ian Ashby (standing) and members engaging with senior leaders and site management during the Committee’s 
visit to Venetia mine in July 2023.

In addition to the Committee’s standing agenda items, 
the following matters were discussed during 2023:

– The approach to managing physical climate change risk 

and resilience across the Group

– Group risks relating to sustainability

– Updates on the pathways to reduce the Group’s 

Scope 3 emissions, with the Committee updated throughout 
the year on progress against our Scopes 1 and 2 targets

– Water management: progress on implementation of 

standards, and the achievement of sustainability targets

– Progress towards achieving our commitment to deliver net- 

positive impact on biodiversity, and an overview of the 
Group’s biodiversity management programme

– Updates on the delivery of our Sustainable Mining Plan 

commitments

– Social Way 3.0 – assessment results and progress on 

implementation across the Group

– Anglo American’s 2022 Sustainability Report and 2022 

Climate Change Report

– The management of land access, displacement and 

resettlement across the Group

– Permitting: an update on permitting management across 

the Group

– Shaft integrity management and the Group’s shaft 

management assurance programme

– Geotechnical risk management (slopes and underground) – 
an update on the initiatives to sustainably eliminate rockfall 
fatalities and disruptions at the Group’s mining operations

– Fire risk management across Anglo American

– Review of annual bonus and incentive plan measures 
proposed to the Remuneration Committee in relation 
to safety, health and environment.

– Human rights trends and an overview of the most salient 

human rights issues across Anglo American

– Outcome of the 2022 external audit of the Group’s safety 

and sustainability data

– Climate and ESG-related litigation

– Committee effectiveness.

– Cultural heritage management in the Group

– Tailings and water storage facilities stewardship: risk 

management updates

– Updates on the Group’s conformance and disclosure 

against the Global Industry Standard on Tailings 
Management

– Legacy SHE risks and liabilities

– Mine closure and site regeneration activities across 

the Group

– Overview of the new Group Contractor Performance 

Management Policy and framework

In July 2023, the Committee visited De Beers’ Venetia mine in 
South Africa. In April 2023, non-executive members of the 
Committee visited a number of the Group’s Steelmaking Coal 
operations in Queensland, Australia. More information on Board 
and non-executive directors’ visits to Group operations can be 
found on pages 158–160.

166

Anglo American plc 
Integrated Annual Report 2023

Governance 
Nomination Committee report

Nomination Committee report

Committee members
Stuart Chambers – Chairman
Ian Ashby
Marcelo Bastos
Hilary Maxson
Hixonia Nyasulu 
Ian Tyler

▶ For further detail on biographies and Board 

experience: pages 142–145

The chief executive, and the Group directors of people & 
organisation, and legal & corporate affairs also participate 
in meetings of the Committee, when relevant to do so. 
Other non-executive directors may attend committee 
meetings at the invitation of the chairman.

“ The Committee plays a vital role in 
ensuring the composition of the Board, 
and the leadership needs of the 
organisation, reflect an appropriate 
mix of skills, experience, diversity and 
perspectives to suit the evolving nature 
of the business and the expectations 
of society and our stakeholders”.
Stuart Chambers
Chairman

Role and responsibilities

The role of the Nomination Committee is to assist the Board in 
regularly reviewing its composition and those of its committees, 
to lead the process for Board appointments, and ensure effective 
succession planning for the Board and senior management.

The Committee’s terms of reference are available to view online.

▶ For more information 

Visit angloamerican.com/about-us/governance

Committee discussions in 2023

The Committee met four times in 2023, with attendance 
by the members as described on page 151. Discussions 
at the meetings covered the responsibilities outlined above, 
with particular focus on executive and non-executive 
succession planning.

The following matters were considered during 2023:

– The composition, structure and size of the Board and its 

committees, and the leadership needs of the organisation

– Non-executive director succession planning

– Recommending to the Board the appointment of 

Magali Anderson as a non-executive director and member 
of the Sustainability Committee

– The time commitment expected from the non-executive 

directors to meet the expectations of their role

– Recommending that the Board support the election or 

re-election of each of the directors standing at the Annual 
General Meeting in 2023

– Succession planning for the Group finance director and 

recommending to the Board the appointment of 
John Heasley to succeed Stephen Pearce as finance director

– Oversight of succession planning, and the development of 

a diverse talent pipeline, for executive leadership

– Overseeing a tender process for the appointment of an external 
search consultancy to facilitate future non-executive recruitment.

The findings of the internal 2023 Board and committee 
effectiveness review are set out on pages 156–157.

Process used in relation to non-executive Board appointment
As reported in the 2022 Integrated Annual Report, as part of the 
Board’s ongoing cycle of refreshment, in the second half of 2022 the 
Nomination Committee led a search process to recruit a new non-
executive director with a deep understanding of sustainability in its 
broadest sense, to ensure the composition of the Board reflected an 
appropriate mix of skills, experience, diversity and perspectives.

Spencer Stuart had been retained by the Committee in 2022 to 
assist with the search process. Spencer Stuart has previously 
worked for the Group in recruiting for non-executive and senior 
leadership appointments and accordingly has a good 
understanding of the Board’s requirements. They are 
accredited under the UK Government’s Voluntary Code 
of Conduct for Executive Search Firms.

Anglo American plc 
Integrated Annual Report 2023

Governance 
Nomination Committee report

167

Prior to the search commencing, the Nomination Committee 
agreed the skills and experience it considered necessary for the 
role. A longlist of gender and ethnically diverse candidates was 
then identified and discussed with the Committee to agree 
a shortlist to be interviewed. Shortlisted candidates were 
interviewed by members of the Committee and other Board 
members, as relevant.

Following conclusion of the formal process, the Committee 
concluded that Magali Anderson had the requisite skills, 
attributes and capabilities to take on the role as a non-
executive director, and agreed to recommend Ms Anderson’s 
appointment to the Board for approval. As announced in 
February 2023, Ms Anderson’s appointment was approved 
by the Board with effect from 1 April 2023. 

Board and executive management diversity

The Board’s statement on its approach to gender and ethnicity 
targets, including how it meets the diversity targets set out in the 
UK Listing Rules, can be found on page 145. The additional 
numerical data on the diversity of the Board and executive 
management, in the format prescribed by UK Listing Rule 
9.8.6R(10), is set out below as at 31 December 2023. The 
underlying data was collected directly from the Board and ELT. 
The definition of executive management for these purposes is 
the Anglo American ELT (the executive committee and most 
senior executive body below the Board). 

Information on the Group’s policy on inclusion and diversity, 
their aims, details of the gender balance of senior management 
and their direct reports, and performance against our targets 
can be found in the People section on pages 72–74. The 
definition of senior management for these purposes, in 
accordance with the UK Corporate Governance Code, is the 
ELT and those reporting to the ELT.

Group finance director appointment process in 2023
Succession planning for all directors, including the 
executive directors, is an ongoing cycle of work. The 
Nomination Committee has oversight of senior 
leadership succession plans, ensuring they are aligned to 
the long term strategic ambitions and the diverse 
leadership needs of the Group.

The Board, through its Nomination Committee, initiated a 
global process to identify the best person for the role 
of finance director, following Stephen Pearce stating his 
intention to retire from the Group. The Committee approved 
an updated role profile for the Group finance director, 
including the leadership capabilities and characteristics 
required to be successful in the role. The Committee 
discussed the development of candidates on our internal 
succession plan, and an externally facilitated benchmarking 
exercise of the external talent market was completed.

The search process included a number of internal 
candidates on our internal succession plan, and a diverse 
range of external candidates. The Committee considered 
gender and ethnically diverse candidates for the role. 
Shortlisted candidates undertook formal leadership 
capability assessments. 

The shortlisted candidates were interviewed by the 
chief executive, chairman, Audit Committee chair, senior 
independent director, and a panel of ELT members. 

Following conclusion of the rigorous process and 
a recommendation from the Committee, the Board 
concluded that John Heasley would bring proven 
financial, strategic and commercial expertise to the role, 
coupled with hands-on operational experience of 
supporting mining through technology. The remuneration 
arrangements for the appointment of John Heasley and 
the retirement of Stephen Pearce were approved by the 
Remuneration Committee. John Heasley joined the 
Board as Group finance director on 1 December 2023.

Gender identity

Men

Women

Ethnic background

Number of Board 
members

Percentage of the 
Board

Number of senior 
positions on the 
Board(1) 

Number in 
executive 
management(2)

Percentage of 
executive 
management(2)

6

4

 60% 

 40% 

4

0

9

3

 75% 

 25% 

White British or other White (including minority white groups)

Mixed/Multiple Ethnic Groups

Asian/Asian British

Black/African/Caribbean/Black British

Other ethnic group, including Arab

Not specified/prefer not to say

Number of Board 
members

Percentage of the 
Board

Number of senior 
positions on the 
Board(1) 

Number in 
executive 
management(2)

Percentage of 
executive 
management(2)

8

0

0

2

0

0

 80% 

 0% 

 0% 

 20% 

 0% 

 0% 

4

0

0

0

0

0

10

1

0

1

0

0

 83 %

 8 %

 0 %

 8 %

 0 %

 0 %

(1) Senior positions are defined under UK Listing Rule 9.8.6 R(9)(a) as the chair, the chief executive, the senior independent director, or the chief financial officer.
(2) In accordance with UK Listing Rule 9.8.6 R(10), executive management for these purposes is the Anglo American Executive Leadership Team (the executive 

committee or most senior executive body below the Board). The Group company secretary is a member of the ELT.

168

Anglo American plc 
Integrated Annual Report 2023

Governance 
Audit Committee report

Audit Committee report

Role and responsibilities

– Monitoring the integrity of the annual and interim 

financial statements

– Making recommendations to the Board concerning the 
adoption of the annual and interim financial statements

– Overseeing the Group’s relations with the external auditor

– Reviewing the independence, effectiveness and objectivity 

of the external auditor

– Reviewing and monitoring the effectiveness of the Group’s 

risk management and internal control mechanisms

– Approving the terms of reference of the internal audit 

function and assessing its effectiveness

– Approving the internal audit plan and reviewing regular 
reports from the Group head of risk management and 
business assurance on effectiveness of the internal 
control system

– Receiving reports from management on the principal risks 
of the Group. Details of the principal risks are contained 
on pages 81–85

– Overseeing completion of the viability statement

– Reviewing the effectiveness of the Group’s Code of 

Conduct and the arrangements to counter the risk of bribery 
and corruption.

The Committee’s terms of reference are available to view online.

▶ For more information

Visit angloamerican.com/about-us/governance

Committee members
Hilary Maxson* – Chair
Nonkululeko Nyembezi
Ian Tyler*

*Audit Committee members deemed to have recent and 
relevant financial experience in accordance with the UK 
Corporate Governance Code. The Committee as a 
whole has competence relevant to the sector. 

▶ For further detail on biographies and Board 

experience: pages 142–145

The chairman, the chief executive, the finance director, the 
Group head of finance and performance management, 
the head of financial reporting, the Group head of risk 
management and business assurance, and the legal & 
corporate affairs director also participate in meetings of 
the Committee.

“ The Audit Committee remains vigilant 
in ensuring the integrity of the 
Company’s financial statements and 
for strengthening its internal controls, 
risk management framework, and the 
annual reporting on their effectiveness.”
Hilary Maxson
Committee chair

Anglo American plc 
Integrated Annual Report 2023

Governance 
Audit Committee report

169

Fair, balanced and understandable 

Committee discussions in 2023

A key requirement of our financial statements is for the report to 
be fair, balanced, understandable and provide the information 
necessary for shareholders to assess the Group’s and Parent 
Company’s position and performance, business model and 
strategy. The Audit Committee and the Board are satisfied 
that the 2023 Integrated Annual Report meets this requirement, 
as appropriate weight has been given to both positive and 
negative developments in the year.

In justifying this statement, the Audit Committee has considered 
the robust processes which operate in creating the 2023 
Integrated Annual Report, including:

The Committee met four times in 2023, with full attendance as 
described on page 151. Throughout the course of 2023, and 
consistent with prior years, the Committee paid particular 
attention to the valuation of assets, one-off transactions, tax 
matters, financial controls and the Group’s liquidity position. In 
addition, there were in-depth discussions on ad hoc topics as 
requested by the Audit Committee; for example, Woodsmith, 
Our Code of Conduct, cyber risk, artificial intelligence 
technology risk, pensions funding and exposures, and 
sustainability reporting governance and assurance. The 
Committee reviewed the system of internal control and risk 
management.

– Review and approval of management’s assessment of the 

risk of misstatement in financial reporting

– Clear guidance and instruction provided to all contributors

The Committee met with leaders from our Marketing business in 
Singapore in April 2023, where they had in-depth presentations 
and discussions on risks and controls. 

– Revisions to regulatory reporting requirements are provided 

An internal effectiveness review of the Committee was undertaken.

The key topics discussed by the Committee during 2023 are set 
out on the following pages.

to contributors and monitored on an ongoing basis

– Early-warning meetings focused on accounting matters are 
conducted between management of each business, Group 
functions, the Group finance team and the external auditor 
in advance of the year end reporting process

– A thorough process of review, evaluation and verification 
of the inputs from businesses is undertaken to ensure the 
accuracy and consistency of information presented in the 
2023 Integrated Annual Report

– External advisers provide advice to management and the 

Audit Committee on best practice with regard to the creation 
of the 2023 Integrated Annual Report

– A meeting of the Audit Committee was held in February 
2024 to review and approve the draft 2023 Integrated 
Annual Report, in advance of the final approval by the 
Board. This review included the significant accounting 
matters explained in the notes to the consolidated 
financial statements

– The Audit Committee considered the conclusions of the 

external auditor over the key audit matters that contributed 
to their audit opinion, specifically impairment charges and 
impairment reversals and environmental restoration and 
decommissioning obligations. 

170

Anglo American plc 
Integrated Annual Report 2023

Governance 
Audit Committee report

Significant accounting issues considered by the Audit Committee in 
relation to the Group’s financial statements

— Impairment and impairment 

reversals of assets

The value of mining operations 
is sensitive to a range of 
characteristics unique to each 
asset. Management is required 
to apply judgement in the 
estimation of Ore Reserves, 
and price and production 
forecasts which drive cash 
flow projections.

Response of the Audit Committee
The Committee exercises oversight over the impairment review process. The Committee 
assessed the identification of impairment and impairment reversal indicators, the impact of 
climate change on commodity prices and exchange rate assumptions, the review of changes in 
the valuation of cash generating units (CGUs) and associated sensitivity analysis, and the 
appropriateness of disclosures made within the 2023 Integrated Annual Report on key sources 
of estimation uncertainty. 

The Committee paid particular attention to the impact of climate change on the Group’s 
impairment analysis. In addition to the linkage to commodity prices, the impact of carbon 
pricing through carbon cost assumptions was considered for the operations where a valuation 
was prepared together with the consistency of climate-related assumptions to the Group’s 
wider climate strategy. The Committee reviewed and approved the associated climate-related 
impairment disclosure. 

During 2023, the most significant assets considered were the following:

De Beers 
The annual impairment assessment for goodwill relating to De Beers indicated a lower 
valuation than in 2022, primarily driven by lower prices reflecting a reduction in forecast 
consumer demand and resulted in an impairment charge of $1.6 billion to bring the carrying 
value into line with the recoverable amount. 

The valuation continues to be sensitive to changes in foreign exchange rates and consumer 
demand, impacting prices. The Committee concluded that the impairment charge recorded at 
31 December 2023 was appropriate and carefully considered and approved the proposed 
disclosure.

Barro Alto, Nickel
At 30 June 2023, changes in the long term cost profile were identified as an indicator of 
impairment and the carrying value of the CGU was assessed, resulting in an impairment charge 
of $0.4 billion. At 31 December 2023, revisions to the short and medium term nickel price 
forecast were identified as an indicator of further impairment and an additional impairment 
charge of $0.4 billion was recorded. 

The Committee considered the valuation scenarios presented by management and approved 
the conclusions of the assessment and the proposed disclosure. The Committee also 
considered the recoverability of long term inventory stockpiles relating to the Nickel business 
and concluded that no adjustment to the carrying value was required. 

Minas-Rio, Iron Ore 
At 31 December 2023 changes to the medium and long term price outlook and revisions to the 
forecast production and capital expenditure profile were identified as indicators that the 
recoverable amount may have changed. The valuation model indicated that no adjustment to 
the carrying value was required. 

The Committee considered the valuation scenarios presented by management together with 
the impact of the resource acquisition transaction (see note 31 to the Consolidated Financial 
Statements) and approved the conclusions of the assessment and the proposed disclosure.

For each of the CGUs noted above the Committee considered disclosures and was satisfied 
they were appropriate. Particular attention was paid to the significant judgements and 
estimates made in the course of each assessment and the related disclosures. 

Other
In addition to the assets noted above, the Committee was updated on the valuation drivers of 
assets that had either previously been impaired and therefore are considered to have an 
inherent risk of either further impairment or impairment reversal or where other events had 
prompted a more detailed assessment. 

An annual assessment of the valuation of CGUs containing goodwill and indefinite life 
intangible assets was undertaken. The Committee was satisfied with the conclusions reached 
and disclosure given. Impairment reviews were undertaken and considered by the Committee 
for certain other smaller CGUs of the Group with the Committee satisfied with the conclusions 
reached and where applicable the immaterial impairment charges recognised. 

The Committee gave careful consideration to whether there were indicators of impairment or 
impairment reversal for Woodsmith (Crop Nutrients) or Moranbah-Grosvenor (Steelmaking 
Coal) as well as other previously impaired assets. No indicators of impairments or impairment 
reversals were identified for these assets.

Anglo American plc 
Integrated Annual Report 2023

Governance 
Audit Committee report

171

Significant accounting issues considered by the Audit Committee in 
relation to the Group’s financial statements

— Taxation
The Group’s tax affairs are 
governed by complex domestic 
tax legislations, international 
tax treaties between countries 
and the interpretation of both 
by tax authorities and courts. 
Given the many uncertainties 
that could arise from these 
factors, judgement is often 
required in determining the tax 
that is due. Advice is received 
from independent experts 
where required.

— Provision for restoration, 

rehabilitation and 
environmental costs

The estimation of 
environmental restoration and 
decommissioning liabilities is 
inherently uncertain, given the 
long time periods over which 
these expenditures will be 
incurred, and the potential for 
changes in regulatory 
frameworks and industry 
practices over time.

— Special items, remeasurements 

and one-off transactions

The Group’s criteria for 
recognising a special item or 
remeasurement involves the 
application of judgement in 
determining whether an item, 
owing to its size or nature, 
should be separately disclosed 
in the income statement.

— Retirement benefits
The estimation of retirement 
benefits requires judgement 
over the estimation of scheme 
assets and liabilities. Areas of 
judgement include 
assumptions for discount and 
inflation rates and life 
expectancy. Changes in the 
assumptions used would affect 
the amounts recognised in the 
financial statements.

Response of the Audit Committee
The Group head of tax provided the Committee with updates throughout the year on various 
tax matters, including relevant international and domestic tax policy updates, the 
implementation and operational outcomes of the tax risk governance framework, the impact of 
international events and trends on the global tax environment and the future of resource 
taxation, the status of tax audits, tax reporting, and the status of uncertain tax positions. While 
all these matters are inherently judgemental, no significant issues arose during 2023. 

Response of the Audit Committee
The Committee reviewed the update provided by management on estimates of environmental 
and decommissioning liabilities, which are based on the work of external consultants and 
internal experts. The Committee continued to pay particular attention to the impact of the 
Group’s public commitment of conformance with the Global Industry Standard on Tailings 
Management (GISTM) and were satisfied that obligations for conformance with the standard 
had been appropriately provided for. 

The Committee considered the changes in liability assumptions, including discount rates, and 
other drivers of movements in the amounts provided on the balance sheet and concluded that 
the provisions recorded as at 31 December 2023 appropriately reflected these updates.

Response of the Audit Committee
The Committee reviewed each of the items classified as special items or remeasurements in the 
financial statements, and the related disclosures, to ensure that the separate disclosure of 
these items was appropriate. 

Response of the Audit Committee
The Committee reviewed the assumptions behind the calculations of the asset and liability 
positions of the Group’s pension and medical plans and concluded that the amounts recorded 
as at 31 December 2023 appropriately reflected these updates.

In addition, the Committee reviewed the funding levels of the plans, any additional funding 
being provided to the plans and the overall expense recognised for the year. The Committee 
assessed the appropriateness of the Group’s overall risk management approach to retirement 
benefits and was comfortable the recent purchase of an insurance policy to settle pension 
liabilities related to the De Beers UK pension scheme (a ‘buy-in’) was aligned with this approach 
and appropriately disclosed.

172

Anglo American plc 
Integrated Annual Report 2023

Governance 
Audit Committee report

Significant accounting issues considered by the Audit Committee in 
relation to the Group’s financial statements

— Legal matters
A provision is recognised 
where, based on the Group’s 
legal views and, in some cases, 
independent advice, it is 
considered probable that an 
outflow of resources will be 
required to settle a present 
obligation that can be measured 
reliably. This requires the 
exercise of judgement. The 
Committee was updated by 
the legal & corporate affairs 
director on the status of legal 
matters over the course of 
the year.

— Accounting standards and 
best practice guidance

The impact of new accounting 
standards, and any elections 
made in their application, 
involves judgement to ensure 
their adoption is managed 
appropriately.

— Going concern basis of 

accounting in preparing the 
financial statements 
The ability of the Group to 
continue as a going concern 
requires judgement in the 
estimation of future cash flows 
and compliance with debt 
covenants in future years.

Response of the Audit Committee
During the year the Committee considered developments with the Kabwe case including with 
respect to the class certification application which was rejected by the court in December 
2023. The litigation is still subject to significant uncertainty, and it was concluded that it is not 
currently possible to make a reasonable estimate of the outcome, quantum or timing of any 
potential future determination.

Various other legal matters were reviewed and the Committee considered management’s 
assessment that there were no individually material provisions required with respect to ongoing 
legal matters and that the disclosures made in respect of contingent liabilities were 
appropriate. The Committee endorsed management’s proposal.

Response of the Audit Committee
The Committee received updates on new accounting standards (none of which had a material 
impact on the Group or Company) and the latest guidance and best practice examples issued 
by relevant regulators. The Committee ensured that appropriate enhancements had been 
made to disclosures where relevant.

The Committee received updates on developments in environmental, social and governance  
reporting, including the publication of the International Sustainability Standards Board’s first 
standards and considered the appropriateness of management’s plans to conform with these 
standards in due course. 

The Committee received updates on government consultations regarding UK corporate reform 
which are anticipated to bring wide-ranging changes to the corporate regulatory landscape.

Response of the Audit Committee
The Committee assessed the forecast levels of net debt, headroom on existing borrowing 
facilities and compliance with debt covenants. This analysis covered a period of least 
12 months from the date of approval of the financial statements, and considered a range of 
downside sensitivities linked to the Group’s principal risks, including a reduction in commodity 
prices and potential operational incidents. The Committee concluded it was appropriate to 
adopt the going concern basis.

Anglo American plc 
Integrated Annual Report 2023

Governance 
Audit Committee report

173

Liquidity management

— Liquidity and debt
Reviewing the application of 
the debt strategy, funding and 
capital structure and the 
Group’s forecast cash position. 
Judgement is required in the 
estimation of future cash flows 
and their impact on financing 
plans and contingencies.

— Payment of the dividend
Reviewing management’s 
recommendation to the Board 
regarding the level of dividend 
to be paid for 2023, based on 
the payout-ratio-driven 
dividend policy.

— Viability statement
The viability statement, and the 
underlying process to analyse 
various scenarios that support 
the development of the viability 
statement, are found on pages 
79–80.

Response of the Audit Committee
The Committee received regular updates on the profile of the Group’s debt maturities and 
liquidity headroom, continued capital expenditure requirements, free cash flow generation and 
dividend payments.

The Committee reviewed management’s debt capital markets and banking plans for 
2024, in the context of strategy-defined targets, to ensure the continued sufficiency of 
financing facilities.

Response of the Audit Committee
During 2023, the Committee reviewed the proposals for payments of dividends, in accordance 
with the payout-ratio-driven dividend policy based on 40% of underlying earnings. Taking into 
account the Group’s liquidity position, the Committee endorsed the proposal by management, 
and recommended to the Board for approval, the payments of the 2022 final dividend and the 
2023 interim dividend.

Response of the Audit Committee
The Committee reviewed the time period over which the assessment is made, along with the 
scenarios that are analysed, the potential financial consequences and assumptions made in 
the preparation of the statement.

The Committee concluded that the scenarios analysed were sufficiently severe but plausible 
and the time period of the viability statement was appropriate.

174

Anglo American plc 
Integrated Annual Report 2023

Governance 
Audit Committee report

Risk assurance

— Risk management
The Group’s risk profile and the 
process by which risks are 
identified and assessed.

Response of the Audit Committee
The Committee assessed the Group’s risk profile, in particular the principal risks (see pages 
81–85). The Committee discussed the key risks, the mitigation plans in place and the 
appropriate executive management responsibilities. The Committee also considered the 
process by which the risk profile is generated, the changes in risk definitions and how the risks 
aligned with the Group’s risk appetite. Following discussion and challenge, the risk profile 
was approved.

— Various risk matters
The Committee oversees the 
implementation of work to 
mitigate a variety of key risks.

Response of the Audit Committee
During the course of 2023, the Committee reviewed work to mitigate information technology 
risk, risks associated with the Woodsmith project, cyber risk, artificial intelligence risk, and 
marketing and trading risks. The Committee evaluated the work being performed, progress made 
and provided challenge to satisfy itself that these risks were being adequately managed.

— Ethical business conduct
The Committee monitors the 
effectiveness of, and 
compliance with, the Group’s 
Code of Conduct. The 
Committee also reviews the 
Group’s whistleblowing 
arrangements and procedures.

— Mineral Resources and Ore 

Reserves statements 

The year-on-year changes to 
Mineral Resources and Ore 
Reserves for operations and 
projects across the Group.

Response of the Audit Committee
The Committee reviewed the ongoing work to enhance the effectiveness of ethical business 
conduct and compliance across the Group. The Committee received reports on bullying and 
harassment investigations, anti-corruption initiatives and the Action for Integrity campaign. The 
Committee considered the activities undertaken to strengthen Code of Conduct and Group 
policy governance such as undertaking risk management effectiveness reviews of 16 Group 
policies and implementation of a Compliance Management System.

Response of the Audit Committee
The Committee reviewed the significant year-on-year changes, satisfying itself that 
appropriate explanations existed. The Committee also reviewed the ongoing improvements 
in the process to estimate and report Mineral Resources and Ore Reserves.

— Internal audit work
Reviewing the results of internal 
audit work and the 2023 plan.

Response of the Audit Committee
The Committee received reports on the results of internal audit work. The Committee discussed 
areas where control improvement opportunities were identified and reviewed the progress in 
completion of agreed management actions.

The Committee reviewed the proposed 2024 internal audit plan, assessing whether the plan 
addressed the key areas of risk for the business units and Group. The Committee approved the 
plan, having discussed the scope of work and its relationship to the Group’s risks.

— External audit
Reviewing the results of the 
external audit work, evaluating 
the quality of the external audit 
and consideration of 
management letter 
recommendations.

Response of the Audit Committee
The Committee reviewed the planning report from PwC in June 2023 and approved the final 
audit plan and fee, having given due consideration to the audit approach, materiality level and 
audit risks. The Committee received updates during the year on the audit process, including 
how the auditor had challenged the Group’s assumptions on the accounting issues noted in this 
report. In February 2024, the Committee reviewed the output of the external audit work that 
contributed to the auditor’s opinion.

Anglo American plc 
Integrated Annual Report 2023

Governance 
Audit Committee report

175

– The Audit Committee has primary responsibility for making 
recommendations to the Board on the appointment, re-
appointment and removal of the external auditor.

– The Audit Committee has the authority to engage 

independent counsel and other advisers as they determine 
necessary to resolve issues on the auditor’s independence.

– An annual assessment is undertaken of the auditor’s 

effectiveness through a structured questionnaire and input 
from all businesses and Group functions covering all aspects 
of the audit process. The Audit Committee members also 
participate in this assessment, which evaluates audit 
planning, execution, communications and reporting. The 
assessment identifies strengths and areas for improvement, 
which are discussed with the auditor and action plans 
agreed. The Committee reviewed the measures taken by 
PwC to support audit quality, including their significant focus 
on robust challenge and appropriate scepticism in respect of 
management’s assumptions. The evaluation of the external 
audit concluded that the external auditor was independent, 
objective and effective in the delivery of the audit.

Anglo American confirms compliance during the year with the 
provisions of the Competition and Markets Authority Order on 
mandatory tendering and audit committee responsibilities.

Conclusions of the Audit Committee for 2023

The Committee has satisfied itself that the external auditor’s 
independence was not impaired.

The Committee held meetings with the external auditor, in the 
absence of management, on two occasions, and the chair of 
the Audit Committee held regular meetings with the lead audit 
engagement partner during the year.

Consideration given to the appointment of the 
external auditor

Following the conclusion of a formal tender process in 2019, 
Anglo American appointed PwC as its external auditor with 
effect from and including the year ending 31 December 2020. 

The Audit Committee’s assessment of the external auditor’s 
performance and independence underpins its 
recommendation to the Board to propose to shareholders the 
re-appointment of PwC as auditor until the conclusion of the 
AGM in 2025. Resolutions to authorise the Board to re-appoint 
and determine the remuneration of PwC will be proposed at the 
AGM on 30 April 2024.

Ensuring the independence and effectiveness of the 
external auditor

Anglo American’s Group policy on External Auditor 
Independence incorporates the requirements of the FRC’s 
revised Ethical Standard published in 2019. 

A key factor that may impair an auditor’s independence is a 
lack of control over non-audit services provided by the external 
auditor. The external auditor’s independence is deemed to be 
impaired if the auditor provides a service that:

– Results in the auditor acting as a manager or employee 

of the Group

– Puts the auditor in the role of advocate for the Group

– Creates a mutuality of interest between the auditor 

and the Group.

Anglo American addresses this issue through the 
following measures:

– Services performed by PwC are permitted non-audit 
services. The permitted non-audit services mirrors the 
'Whitelist’ included in the FRC’s revised Ethical Standard

– Prior approval by the Audit Committee of non-audit services 

where the cost of the proposed service exceeds or is 
expected to exceed $100,000

– Disclosure of the extent and nature of non-audit services.

Anglo American’s approach to the provision of non-audit 
services is contained within its policy on External Auditor 
Independence.

Non-audit work is only undertaken where there is commercial 
sense in using the auditor without jeopardising auditor 
independence; for example, where the service is related 
to the assurance provided by the auditor or benefits from 
the knowledge the auditor has of the business.

Non-audit fees represented 14% of the 2023 audit fee of 
$16.2 million. A more detailed analysis is provided on page 294.

Other safeguards
– The external auditor is required to adhere to a rotation policy 
based on best practice and professional standards in the UK. 
The standard period for rotation of the audit engagement 
partner and any key audit partners is five years. The audit 
engagement partner, Mark King, was appointed in 2020 and 
will rotate off at the end of the 2024 audit in accordance with 
this requirement.

– Any PwC partner designated as a key audit partner of 

Anglo American will rotate off the audit after no more than 
five years and shall not be employed by Anglo American 
in a key management position unless a period of at least 
two years has elapsed since the conclusion of the last 
relevant audit.

– The external auditor is required to assess periodically 
whether, in their professional judgement, they are 
independent of the Group.

– The Audit Committee ensures that the scope of the auditor’s 
work is sufficient and that the auditor is fairly remunerated. 
The Committee agreed an audit fee of $16.2 million 
(2022: $16.2 million) for statutory audit services in the year.

176

Anglo American plc 
Integrated Annual Report 2023

Governance 
Audit Committee report

Risk management

Risk appetite

Risk management is the responsibility of the Board and is 
integral to the achievement of the Group’s objectives. The 
Board establishes the system of risk management, setting risk 
appetite and maintaining the system of internal control to 
manage risk within the Group. The robust process of identifying 
and evaluating the principal and emerging risks was in place 
during 2023 and up to the date of this report. The Group’s 
system of risk management and internal control is monitored 
by the Audit Committee under delegation from the Board. 
The Board confirms that it has completed a robust assessment 
of the Company’s emerging and principal risks.

We define risk appetite as “the nature and extent of risk that 
Anglo American is willing to accept in relation to the pursuit of 
its objectives”. Each principal risk is assessed as to whether it is 
operating within the limit of appetite for the Group. This is based 
on review of the external factors influencing that risk, the status 
of management actions to mitigate or control the risk and the 
potential impact should the risk materialise. For risks operating 
beyond the limit of appetite, a change in strategy may be 
required. For risks operating within, but approaching the limit of 
appetite, specific management actions may be required to 
ensure the risk remains within the limit of appetite.

The system of risk management is designed to ensure 
awareness of risks that threaten the achievement of objectives. 
The controls that mitigate those risks are identified so that 
assurance can be provided on the effectiveness of those 
controls. A determination can then be made as to whether the 
risk is operating within the Group’s risk appetite. We seek to 
embed a culture of risk awareness into the development of our 
strategic and operational objectives.

The process for identification and assessment of the principal 
risks combines a top-down and bottom-up approach. At the 
operations level, a process to identify risks that prevent the 
achievement of objectives is undertaken. Detailed analysis 
of the material risks at each location is performed to ensure 
management understanding of the risk and controls that 
reduce likelihood of occurrence and impact should the risk 
materialise. These operational risk profiles contribute to the 
assessment of risks at the business level. Executive 
management at each business assesses risks that threaten 
achievement of the business objectives and the status of 
controls, or actions, that mitigate those risks. At the Group 
level, risks are identified through assessment of global factors 
affecting the industry and the Group specifically, as well as 
the risks arising from the business assessments. Consideration 
is given to the views and interests of Anglo American 
stakeholders. Materiality of risk is determined through 
assessment of the various impacts that may arise and 
likelihood of occurrence. An exception relates to those risks 
deemed catastrophic in nature, where the focus of assessment 
is on impact and status of internal controls, given the very low 
likelihood of occurrence. When considering the impact of any 
risk, we assess safety, environmental, financial, legal or 
regulatory, social and reputational consequences.

Regular reports on the status of risks and controls are presented 
to executive management teams throughout the year. The 
Audit Committee reviews reports on the overall Anglo American 
risk profile on two occasions during the year and conducts in-
depth reviews of specific risks during its meetings over the 
course of the year. Each principal risk is assigned to either the 
Board or the relevant Board committees to oversee executive 
management actions in response to that risk. The Audit 
Committee reviews that oversight process on an annual basis.

Details of the principal risks are provided on pages 81–85.

Risk management and the system of internal control

Controls either reduce the likelihood or impact of any risk, while 
the identification of material controls – i.e. those controls that 
have the most influence in mitigating a risk – is an important 
input for audit planning.

The system of internal control operates on a collaborative ‘three 
lines’ approach, with operating management owning and 
managing risks and controls on a day-to-day basis, and 
business or functional management fulfilling a second line role 
through frequent oversight of implementation of controls, and 
providing complementary expertise, support and challenge 
relating to the management of risk. 

A centrally managed internal audit department provides the 
third line role by reviewing the design and operating 
effectiveness of the internal control framework, which includes 
the work performed by the first and second lines management 
teams. External assurance providers sit outside the three lines’ 
roles but provide additional assurance to satisfy legislative and 
regulatory expectations, or requests from management or the 
Board to complement internal sources of assurance.

The above is reflected in the Anglo American Risk and 
Assurance Governance (RAG) Model, introduced in 2020, and 
work has continued in 2023 together with the respective 
functions and operations to embed this further. This work 
included the development of a combined assurance calendar 
to enable monitoring of assurance activities across different 
assurance providers. This was used as a key input in developing 
the 2024 assurance plans for the second and third lines. 

Internal audit operated in all the Group’s managed businesses 
in 2023, reporting its work to executive management and the 
Audit Committee on a regular basis. The internal audit 
department’s mandate and annual audit coverage plans were 
approved by the Audit Committee.

The scope of internal audit work covers the broad spectrum 
of risk to which the Group is exposed. The audit of controls 
associated with major operating/technical risks was 
undertaken by utilising external technical experts as well as 
relevant internal experts from the Technical & Operations 
function, the results of which were shared with the Sustainability 
and Audit committees. 

Anglo American plc 
Integrated Annual Report 2023

Governance 
Audit Committee report

177

In determining its opinion that the internal financial controls 
and internal control and risk management environment was 
effective during 2023, the Audit Committee considered the 
following factors:

– The results of internal audit work, including the response 
of management to completion of actions arising from 
audit work

– The key risk areas of judgement and estimation 

uncertainty within financial reporting and mitigating actions 
taken by management

– The output of risk management work

– The output of external audit work and other 

assurance providers 

– Issues identified by management or reported through 

whistleblowing arrangements, and the results of 
investigations into allegations of breaches of our values 
and business principles.

Reviewing the effectiveness of the system of risk 
management and internal control

The Board, through the Audit Committee, fulfils its responsibility 
in reviewing the effectiveness of the system of risk 
management and internal control through review of reports 
submitted over the course of the year covering the risk 
management process, adequacy of the internal control 
environment, consideration of risk appetite, in-depth reviews 
of specific risks and the results of external audit work. The 
Sustainability Committee also reviews safety and sustainability 
risks in detail and reports its findings to the Board.

Reviewing the effectiveness of internal audit

The Committee assesses the work of internal audit on a regular 
basis through the receipt of reports on the progress of the 
internal audit plan and issues arising and through its annual 
effectiveness review. The resources of internal audit are also 
monitored to ensure appropriate expertise and experience. 
The Committee met with the Group head of risk management 
and business assurance, in the absence of management 
on two occasions during 2023. Furthermore, the chair of the 
Committee held regular one-to-one meetings with the Group 
head of risk management and business assurance. 

Whistleblowing programme

The Group operates a multilingual whistleblowing facility which 
uses a reporting platform provided by a third-party service 
provider. The whistleblowing programme is called YourVoice 
and continues to facilitate confidential and anonymous 
reporting of a wide range of concerns about potentially 
unethical, unlawful or unsafe conduct or practices that conflict 
with our Values and Code of Conduct.

The YourVoice channel is available to our employees in our 
managed operations as well as to all external stakeholders, 
such as suppliers, community members and members of the 
public affected by our operation.

During 2023, we received 1,403 reports through the YourVoice 
channel, a 29% increase from 2022.

1,370 allegations were closed during this reporting period, 
which include intakes from prior years. 25% of the 2023 
allegations closed were substantiated or partially 
substantiated. 

All YourVoice reports are assessed and investigated as 
appropriate by a dedicated investigation team based 
across the Group using a standardised investigation 
framework. Appropriate actions were taken against 
substantiated allegations.

The continued rise in reports is attributed to the increased 
awareness of the channel, and a growing culture of trust 
among our employees and other stakeholders to raise their 
concerns with confidence. The promotion of this channel 
through other relevant Group-wide initiatives, such as the 
Action for Integrity month, policies and programmes, also 
encouraged a healthier ‘speak up’ culture.

The current process facilitates the opportunity to take early 
remedial actions and enables management to address any 
systemic issues identified. For this purpose, protocols have 
been agreed with the Group’s senior management for early 
involvement and support in sensitive investigation cases, such 
as fraud, bullying, harassment, safety and others with the 
potential for significant reputational damage.

The Audit Committee is responsible for monitoring and 
advancing the programme on a continuous basis.

178

Anglo American plc 
Integrated Annual Report 2023

Governance 
Directors’ remuneration report

Directors’ remuneration report

Committee members
Ian Tyler – Chairman
Ian Ashby
Hixonia Nyasulu 

▶ For further detail on biographies and Board 

experience: pages 142–145

The chairman, chief executive, people & organisation 
director, the Group head of performance & reward, and 
external advisers also attend meetings at the invitation of 
the Committee chair.

“ The Remuneration Committee believes 
that the reward framework drives 
outcomes that appropriately balance 
incentivising delivery of the strategy 
throughout the cycle, and reflecting 
shareholder experience.”

Ian Tyler
Chairman

Role and responsibilities
– Establishing and developing the Group’s general policy 
on executive and senior management remuneration

– Determining specific remuneration packages for the 
chairman, executive directors, members of the ELT 
and other senior management

– Input and oversight on the reward policy for the 

broader workforce

– Engaging with shareholders and other stakeholders 

regarding executive remuneration.

The Committee’s terms of reference are available to 
view online.

▶ For more information

Visit angloamerican.com/about-us/governance

Changes to the Committee
There were no changes to the Committee in 2023.

Committee discussions and focus areas in 2023
– Approval of incentive results for the 2022 annual 

bonus and vesting levels of the 2020 LTIP

– Setting of incentive targets for the 2023 annual bonus 

and LTIP

– Approval of the 2023 directors’ remuneration policy at 

the 2023 AGM

– Approval of remuneration arrangements and service 

agreement for incoming finance director

– Approval of remuneration arrangements for outgoing 

finance director on cessation of employment

– Approval of remuneration arrangements for ELT members, 

including new appointments

– Updates on broader employee pay.

Key areas of focus for 2024
– Assessment of 2023 incentive outcomes, including for 

the 2023 annual bonus and 2021 LTIP award

– Setting of incentive targets for 2024, including the 2024 

annual bonus and 2024 LTIP award

– Continued focus on embedding ESG priorities into executive 

pay outcomes, and the related assurance processes

– Review of corporate governance in relation to remuneration 
issues, remuneration market trends and any implications for 
the Group.

Anglo American plc 
Integrated Annual Report 2023

Governance 
Directors’ remuneration report

179

Remuneration Committee chairman’s introduction

Dear Shareholders
As the Remuneration Committee, our primary role is to ensure 
that the remuneration arrangements for executive directors 
and Executive Leadership Team (ELT) members are aligned 
with delivering the Company’s strategy, both in the short 
and longer term, to deliver shareholder value in a fair and 
sustainable manner. Retaining a strong link between pay 
and broader performance is paramount.

2023 continued to be a year of volatility and Anglo American 
experienced a more difficult year, affected by geopolitical 
turbulence and prolonged inflationary pressures. In a 
challenging year, full consideration to the Company’s strategy, 
shareholder interests and the shareholder experience has 
been imperative when making decisions on remuneration, to 
ensure we protect our business and remain resilient for years 
to come. 

It has also been a difficult year for the Group financially, 
with specific challenges as we navigate the down cycles 
of PGMs and De Beers. The focus during 2023 has been 
to reorientate the business to position value and growth 
opportunities in the long term over short term production 
volumes. Safety of our people remains at the forefront and this 
sustainable and measured approach supports this priority.

2023 remuneration policy
As detailed in last year’s directors’ remuneration report, an 
updated remuneration policy was put to a vote at the AGM 
on 26 April 2023. I am pleased to report that the new policy 
passed with extremely strong support; 95.92% of shareholders 
voted for the policy.

The Committee engaged extensively with shareholders and 
stakeholders as part of a comprehensive review of the policy 
and I would like to extend my personal thanks to all of those 
who took part in the consultations for their constructive 
dialogue and feedback.

As a reminder, the key changes in the 2023 policy were:

– The maximum opportunity under the LTIP was increased to 
350% of salary for executive directors (this was applied only 
to the Chief Executive in 2023)

– The annual salary increase cap and annual benefits cap 

were removed to better align with market practice

– The formula driven LTIP grant reduction mechanism was 
replaced with a discretionary, principle-based approach 
to determine any adjustment, to ensure outcomes are 
appropriate in light of all prevailing circumstances and to 
better align with market practice. 

Director changes during the year
A key focus of the Committee’s agenda during 2023 was 
the remuneration arrangements for our finance director 
succession, following the announcement of Stephen Pearce’s 
intention to retire in May 2023.

As announced in July and November, John Heasley joined the 
Board as finance director on 1 December 2023. The terms of 
the remuneration package for John were announced in July 

2023 and comprise a base salary of £810,000, a pension 
contribution of 15% of base salary (aligned with the wider 
UK workforce), a maximum bonus opportunity of 210% and 
an annual LTIP award of 350%. The Committee took the 
opportunity to re-balance John Heasley’s remuneration 
package on appointment, with a lower base salary and a 
higher LTIP award as compared to his predecessor to align 
with the chief executive to focus the remuneration package 
more on the delivery of long-term performance. The package 
complies fully with the approved directors’ remuneration 
policy. Full details are provided in the executive director 
remuneration in 2023 section on page 185.

John was also granted an award of shares in compensation for 
the incentives forfeited from his previous employer, structured 
on a ‘like-for-like’ basis to mirror the opportunity and terms of 
the forfeited incentives. Full details are provided on page 198.

Stephen Pearce stepped down from the Board as finance 
director on 1 December 2023, remaining an Anglo American 
employee until 29 February 2024. Between stepping down as 
finance director and leaving the Group, he continued to 
provide services to the Group in support of a smooth transition 
into the role for the incoming finance director, John Heasley. 
Stephen’s remuneration and incentive arrangements on 
retirement were determined by the Committee and are in line 
with the current directors’ remuneration policy, his service 
agreement and the rules of our incentive arrangements. 
Further information in respect of his remuneration 
arrangements on leaving is provided on page 199.

Decision making
The Committee has taken into consideration: company 
performance, which includes financial performance; health 
and safety; and personal achievements of each executive 
director linked to the Group’s strategic priorities, when 
making decisions on pay. We also continue to consider the 
shareholder experience and shareholder views, pay for 
the wider workforce, and wider societal expectations. As a 
Committee, we continue to strive to make decisions that strike 
a balance between incentivising the management team into 
the future, paying for good performance and being equitable 
in the broader context. To avoid conflicts of interest, no 
executive director is present when their pay is discussed; 
likewise, the chairman is not present in the meeting when his 
remuneration is discussed.

2023 outcomes 
Safety, health and environment 
We continue to make progress on our long term safety journey; 
in 2023, our total recordable injury frequency rate (TRIFR) 
decreased significantly to 1.78, a 19% improvement year on 
year and the lowest in the Company’s history. However, it is 
with deep sadness that we experienced three fatalities at our 
managed operations during 2023. 

Any loss of life on our sites can not be tolerated and we will 
continue to work tirelessly until we hit our goal of zero fatalities 
on a consistent basis. The tragic loss of three colleagues 
during 2023 led the Committee to again consider the way in 
which we incentivise safety performance through our variable 
pay structures. 

180

Anglo American plc 
Integrated Annual Report 2023

Governance 
Directors’ remuneration report

The Committee is convinced that in order to create an 
environment in which we can reach our goal of zero fatalities, 
we must continue to incentivise operational excellence in 
safety, by reducing accident frequency and severity, and 
increasing our leadership visibility. The 2023 annual bonus 
included measures related to TRIFR, delivery of planned work 
and leadership time in the field. These measures will continue 
to be included in the 2024 bonus.

The Committee also continues to feel strongly that all fatalities 
must be reflected in executive pay outcomes. Taking this into 
account, the Committee has determined that it is appropriate 
to apply a 15% deduction to annual bonus payouts for the 
executive directors for 2023. The Committee considers that 
this outcome provides an appropriate balance of rewarding 
performance against the safety measures within the bonus, 
reflecting our broader, strong safety performance during the 
year, and recognising the unacceptable loss of life.

Financial performance
Prevailing macro factors – principally resulting in weaker prices 
for some of our products, with PGMs and diamonds at cyclical 
lows, and input cost inflation – have put pressure on mining 
margins and overall returns across the industry. Operational 
constraints at Kumba, Los Bronces and Steelmaking Coal 
resulted in lower overall production than originally planned, 
albeit the effect mitigated by the full ramp up and strong 
performance at Quellaveco.

Group underlying EBITDA for the year has decreased by 
31% to $10.0 billion, largely reflecting the weaker prices for 
some of our products, and to a lesser extent, cost inflation.

Against this backdrop, we delivered mixed results, with 
a return on capital employed result of 16%, and a mining 
EBITDA margin of 39%. TSR was negative 36% for the year, 
reflecting the significant challenges outlined, particularly in 
relation to PGMs and diamonds that are distinct to our 
portfolio in the industry.

Annual bonus outcomes
With the underlying financial performance described above, 
underpinned by the challenging economic environment, the 
financial measures within the annual bonus paid out at 11%. 
This was due to marginal vesting for the EPS at actual price 
and foreign exchange target, which was supported by 
prices for some of our products and favourable exchange 
rates in-year.

Performance against our safety, health and environment 
targets was strong, with these measures paying out at 90.5% 
for 2023. The measures are largely leading in nature and 
designed to support strengthened safety outcomes in future 
years, which supports our ongoing drive for zero fatalities.

Bonus outcomes for the executive directors after the safety 
deductor were at 38% of maximum for the chief executive 
and 39% of maximum for the former finance director.

2021 LTIP outcomes
The shareholder experience over the three-year 
performance period was mixed, with a positive outcome 
for the majority of the performance period, followed by a 
challenging year in 2023.

TSR measures:
– Shareholders have seen a TSR outcome of 19%(1), 

positioning us above the FTSE 100 median TSR of 14.1% 
and below the S&P Euromoney Global Mining Index TSR 
of 32.3%

– The total TSR weighting within the LTIP is 50%, 17% is 

based on performance against the FTSE 100, with 38.6% 
of this 17% vesting. The remaining 33% is based on TSR 
performance against the S&P Global Mining Index, with 
vesting of zero. In total, 6.6% of the LTIP has therefore vested 
based on TSR performance.

Financial measures:
– 15% of the award was dependent on ROCE. This vested at 
63.5%, based on attributable ROCE of 16% for the year 

– 15% of the award was based on Group Cumulative 

Sustainable Attributable Free Cash Flow. This measure 
vested at 68%, largely due to contribution from strong 
commodity prices and market fundamentals during the first 
two years of the performance period.

ESG measures:
– 8% of the award was based on improvements in GHG 

efficiency. Overall the Group achieved a 25% improvement, 
indexed on 2020, resulting in 100% vesting of this measure

– The 6% of the award based on social responsibility and the 
number of jobs supported off site for each job on site also 
vested at 100%. By the end of 2023, we had supported 
139,308 jobs through socio-economic development 
programmes since the launch of our Sustainable Mining Plan 
in 2018. In 2023, we supported 2.4 jobs off site for every job 
on site job (2022: 1.8)

– The 6% of the LTIP for the tailings facilities measure required 

100% implementation of the updated Anglo American 
tailings standard (2020) that incorporated all Global Industry 
Standard on Tailings Management (GISTM) requirements 
across the Group. We have made tremendous progress in 
this area, as demonstrated in the August 2023 disclosures. 
However, the measure was deliberately ‘binary’ in nature to 
reflect the importance of tailings management, and as such 
despite our market-leading progress the100% was not 
delivered across all areas, resulting in vesting at 0%. While 
the Committee judges it appropriate not to adjust this 
outcome upwards, as we progress our GISTM journey we 
have articulated the measures in a different way for the 
2024 LTIP – further details can be found below.  

As a result of the performance across the different elements 
of the scorecard, the 2021 LTIP award therefore vested at 
40.3% of maximum. 

Overall assessment of 2023 outcomes
The remuneration policy sets out to incentivise in-year 
financial, SHE and operational performance, and delivery 
of the longer term strategy, whilst taking into account the 
shareholder experience. Having considered the 2023 
outcomes through these various lenses, the Committee 
believes that they are fair and reasonable.

(1) Based on three-month average prices as at the end of 2023, in line with 

the TSR calculation methodology for LTIP awards.

Anglo American plc 
Integrated Annual Report 2023

Governance 
Directors’ remuneration report

181

In 2023, the Panel met on three occasions, one of which was in 
person. Board members were also able to engage directly with 
Panel members on several occasions during the Board’s and 
non-executive director site visits.

CEO pay ratio
The CEO pay ratio compares the chief executive’s 
remuneration to the pay for an employee at the median, lower 
quartile and upper quartile of our UK employee population 
(including De Beers and Crop Nutrients employees). 

The median CEO pay ratio for 2023 is 36:1, down from 72:1 
for 2022. A significant proportion of the chief executive’s 
remuneration package is made up of LTIP shares. The sizeable 
reduction compared to the prior year is largely a result of the 
lower vesting outcome, a fall in share price in 2023, and the 
vesting relating to LTIP awards granted to the current chief 
executive prior to joining the Board. Further details on the CEO 
pay ratio can be found on page 208.

Looking ahead
Salaries
The Committee approved a 4% increase to the chief 
executive’s salary for 2024, in line with the 4% awarded to the 
Group’s UK-based employees. The finance director did not 
receive an increase for 2024, having joined towards the end 
of 2023.

Implementation of incentives in 2024
Performance measures attached to the 2024 annual bonus 
and LTIP awards are in line with the terms of the 2023 policy 
and are designed to drive delivery of both financial returns 
and the priorities within our Sustainable Mining Plan. Details 
of these performance conditions can be found in the 
implementation report that begins on page 185. During 2023 
the Euromoney (EMIX) Global Mining Index was discontinued, 
and the Committee determined that the S&P Global Mining 
Index will be used to measure relative TSR against the mining 
industry going forward, for both inflight and future awards. The 
S&P index is materially similar to the EMIX index and was 
therefore the most appropriate comparator group.

Conclusion 
In what has been a very busy first full year as chairman 
of the committee, supporting the implementation of the 
organisational changes, I am pleased with the engagement 
of both the Committee and the management team in 
focusing on the remuneration-related issues that are the most 
important in support of driving the business forward. I am 
committed to ensuring the decisions on remuneration will 
continue to underpin the delivery of the Company’s strategy 
and vision, supported by the implementation of the 2023 
remuneration policy. 

Ian Tyler
Chairman, Remuneration Committee

2024 LTIP grant reduction
An updated LTIP grant reduction mechanism to mitigate 
windfall gains in the event of a material share price fall 
between successive grants was included in the 2023 
remuneration policy, and was intended to provide additional 
flexibility to the Committee to consider the broader 
circumstances around the share price fall when considering 
any reduction.

Each year, the Committee formally reviews any share price 
fall since the last LTIP grant date. In the event that there has 
been a fall in share price prior to grant (compared to the share 
price used to determine the number of shares granted under 
the previous award), the Committee will first consider whether 
that fall is material.

If the reduction is greater than 25%, the Committee will 
carry out a review of the possible reasons for the reduction, 
and its starting point will be that a reduction in grant level is 
likely to be appropriate, unless there is a compelling 
reason otherwise.

At the current share price of c.£17.50 at the time of writing, 
the reduction in grant price from 2023 is c.40%. A Committee 
review has therefore been carried out, examining the broader 
circumstances driving the share price fall. There are many 
factors contributing to the share price movement, including 
cyclical movements, expected future production and short 
term transitory factors. Taking these into account, particularly 
the short term impacts, the Committee has decided that it is 
appropriate to reduce the value of the LTIP grant in 2024 from 
350% to 325% of salary for executive directors. If there is a 
further material change in share price prior to the grant date in 
early March, this will be reviewed.

The quantum of the reduction has been carefully considered, 
and is intended to mitigate the risk of windfall gains. The 
Committee is mindful that many of the factors influencing the 
share price movement are already reflected in annual bonus 
and LTIP vesting outcomes, and wants to ensure that there is 
symmetry in this respect. Looking forward, the Committee is 
also determined to ensure that management is appropriately 
incentivised to deliver the Company's strategic goals in the 
context of the reorientation of the business, supported by 
plans that are deliverable repeatedly and safety-led. The 
Committee’s view is that the reduction strikes an appropriate 
balance between these various considerations. 

Fairness and wider workforce pay
We care deeply about our workforce and continue to prioritise 
their safety and well-being. Throughout the year we remained 
committed in this respect, and the challenges faced by our 
people will continue to be front of mind as we go into 2024. 

Workforce engagement on remuneration 
Anglo American’s Global Workforce Advisory Panel (the Panel) 
currently comprises 12 employees drawn from across our 
business, and is chaired by non-executive director Marcelo 
Bastos. The Panel’s purpose is to give the workforce more 
of a ‘voice’ in the Boardroom so their views can be better 
understood and considered when decisions are being made 
about the future of the business. This includes how the 
committee takes on board the views of the wider workforce 
in making decisions on executive remuneration. The Panel 
operates alongside Anglo American’s existing employee 
engagement mechanisms, such as regular employee 
engagement surveys and director interaction with employees.

182

Anglo American plc 
Integrated Annual Report 2023

Governance 
Directors’ remuneration report

At a glance

This section provides a summary of the key information 
presented across the remuneration report. This includes an 
overview of the 2023 policy, performance and remuneration 
outcomes, as well as how our remuneration is linked to strategy.

Summary of our remuneration structure 

Summary of 2023-26 remuneration policy components

Link to strategy

Key features

Fixed pay 

Salary
Recruitment and retention 
of high calibre executives

– Reviewed annually by Remuneration Committee 
– Increases based on Group performance, individual 

performance, levels of increase for the broader UK population 
and inflation 

Benefits

– Include car-related benefits, medical insurance, personal-

taxation and financial advice, among others 

Pension
Aligned with the wider workforce

– 15% of salary

2
0
2
4

2
0
2
5

2
0
2
6

2
0
2
7

2
0
2
8

Annual bonus 

Cash
Rewards delivery of strategic 
priorities and financial success

Deferred shares
Encourages sustained 
performance in line with 
shareholder interests

LTIP 

Encourages long term 
shareholder return and 
accomplishment of longer term 
strategic objectives

Shareholding guidelines

In-post 
To align with long term 
shareholder interests

Post employment 
To align with long term 
shareholder interests 

– Maximum bonus award of 210% of salary 
– Outcome based on financial, SHE, strategic and personal 

measures subject to a safety deductor

– 50% of bonus is paid in cash following determination 

of performance

– Cash bonus subject to malus and clawback

– 50% of bonus is deferred into shares (Bonus Shares)
– One-third of Bonus Shares will vest after two years, with the 
remaining Bonus Shares vesting after a further one year 

– Bonus Shares are subject to malus and clawback 

O
n
e
-
y
e
a
r
p
e
r
f
o
r
m
a
n
c
e

– Shares granted with a face value of 350% of salary 
– Shares vest after a three-year performance period 

and released after a further two-year holding period 
– Vesting based on measures linked to strategic priorities 
– LTIP award is subject to malus and clawback 

– Chief executive: 400% of salary 
– Finance director: 300% of salary

– Lower of the in-post requirement at the time of cessation 

and the actual shareholding at cessation 
– To be held for two years post-employment

T
w
o
-
y
e
a
r
v
e
s
t
i
n
g

p
e
r
f
o
r
m
a
n
c
e

T
h
r
e
e
-
y
e
a
r

T
h
r
e
e
-
y
e
a
r
v
e
s
t
i
n
g

T
w
o
-
y
e
a
r

l

h
o
d
n
g

i

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Anglo American plc 
Integrated Annual Report 2023

Governance 
Directors’ remuneration report

183

Incentive performance metrics – financial measures

Underlying EPS◊

$2.42/share

Three-year shareholder return

Group attributable ROCE◊

19%

16%

2023

2022

$2.42/share

$4.97/share

2023

2022

19.0%

80.6%

2023

2022

16%

30%

2024 Implementation table

Key remuneration element

Implementation

Salary

Car allowance

Duncan Wanblad 
John Heasley

£1,352,000 (4% increase effective 1 January 2024)
£810,000

Duncan Wanblad
John Heasley

£36,012
£33,719

Pension

15% of base salary (aligned to wider UK workforce)

Annual bonus

Maximum of 210% of salary
50% paid out as cash
17% paid out as shares deferred for 2 years
33% paid out as shares deferred for 3 years

LTIP

325% of salary (due to grant reduction for 2024)
3-year performance period with 2-year post-vesting holding period

Performance metrics

34% EPS
16% SAFCF
20% SHE
10% Strategic
20% Individual

50% TSR
15% ROCE
15% SAFCF
20% ESG

Key performance metrics for 2024

Metrics

Pillars of value

Rationale

Annual Bonus 
weighting

LTIP 
weighting

Safety and zero harm

Safety and health

Underlying EPS◊

Sustaining attributable
free cash flow◊

Financial

Financial

Environmental footprint

Environment

– Workforce safety is the Group’s first and most 

10%

important value

– Links reward to delivery of in-year underlying equity 

34%

returns to shareholders

– Incentivises cash generation for use either as 

16%

incremental capital investment, for capital returns 
to shareholders or debt reduction

– Reduction in the Group’s environmental footprint 

10%

based on four pillars of ecological health (land, air, 
water and nature)

TSR

Financial

Group attributable ROCE◊

Financial

Sustaining attributable 
free cash flow

Financial

Greenhouse gas 
emissions

Tailings – GISTM

Total

Environment

Environment

Environment

– Creates a direct link between executive pay and 

50%

shareholder value

– Measure is split between comparison against sector 
index (S&P Global Mining Index(1)) and comparison 
against local peers (constituents of FTSE 100 index)

– ROCE promotes disciplined capital allocation by 

linking reward to investment return over the 
performance period

– Incentivises cash generation for use either as 

incremental capital investment, for capital returns 
to shareholders or debt reduction

– Commitment to help address climate change by 

reducing absolute GHG emissions

– Ensuring conformance to the Global Industry Standard 

on Tailings Management (GISTM) – Objective 1 
facilities

– Conformance to GISTM based on self-assessment and 
third-party verification initiated – Objective 2 facilities

15%

15%

10%

5%

5%

70%(2)

100%

(1) The Euromoney (EMIX) Global Mining Index ceased on 31 July 2023. In July 2023, the Committee approved the replacement of the EMIX Global Mining Index with 

the S&P Global Mining Index from the date of cessation to the end of the performance period for both in-flight and future LTIP grants. 

(2) 30% of annual bonus dependent on achievement of strategic and individual goals.

 
184

Anglo American plc 
Integrated Annual Report 2023

Governance 
Directors’ remuneration report

Executive directors’ shareholdings

Requirement

Shareholding as at 31 Dec 2023(1)

Duncan Wanblad 

400%

John Heasley

300%

Stephen Pearce

300%

776%

131%

1201%

400%

776%

300%

131%

300%

1,201%

nnn  Shareholding requirement   nnn  Shareholding as 31 December 2023

Executive directors are expected to build up and hold a percentage of their salary in shares (400% for the chief executive, 300% for other executive directors) within 
five years of being appointed. 
As at 31 December 2023, Duncan Wanblad and Stephen Pearce’s executive director shareholdings exceeded the required levels. John Heasley will be expected to 
meet the requirement of 300% of salary by 1 December 2028.
(1) Stephen Pearce’s shareholdings are shown as at the date he stepped down from the Board. Further details on Stephen Pearce’s post-cessation shareholding 

requirements can be found on page 202.

▶ For more information
See pages 202–203

2023 pay outcomes £’000

Duncan Wanblad 

2023

2022

John Heasley

2023

£85

2022

0

Stephen Pearce 

2023

2022

£1,814

£1,046

£1,215

£787

£738

£2,387

£1,465

£681

£934

£1,148

£791

£3,020

nnn   Fixed      nnn   Bonus paid      nnn   LTIP paid

Anglo American plc 
Integrated Annual Report 2023

Governance 
Directors’ remuneration report

185

Directors’ remuneration policy

Summary of policy and statement of implementation of 
policy in 2024
The following pages provide a summary of the key elements of 
our directors’ remuneration policy. The last column of the table 
states how the remuneration policy will be applied for 2024. 
For 2024, there are no significant changes in the structure of 
the remuneration package for directors compared to last year.

Performance measures
Performance measures for 2024 are set out in the table below. 

The annual bonus targets for 2024 are considered by the 
Board to be commercially sensitive; they will be disclosed in 
the 2024 annual report on remuneration. Specific details of the 
individual and strategic performance targets for 2024 will also 
be included in the 2024 report.

In line with the policy, 50% of the annual bonus will be linked to 
financial performance with the remaining 50% based on 
safety, health and environment measures (20%), strategic 
measures (10%) and personal measures (20%). 

In 2024, the structure of the LTIP will continue to include a 50% 
weighting on relative TSR. Financial measures based on ROCE 
and SAFCF remain unchanged and continue to account for 
15% each and the remaining 20% will be focused on ESG 
measures. These ESG measures will continue will continue to 
support the delivery of our Sustainable Mining Plan (SMP) 
goals, with two measures included for 2024. 

The 2022 and 2023 LTIP measures have focused on the 
delivery of renewable energy, the foundation of low carbon 
operations. In 2024, the Climate Change measure proposed 
will focus on an absolute reduction in Greenhouse gas (GHG) 
emissions, linking more directly with the 2030 commitments 
with a focus on absolute reduction in GHG emissions, providing 
a simplified pathway for the business. 

A Tailings measure has been reintroduced and will focus 
on compliance to the Global Industry Standard on Tailings 
Management (GISTM). Tailings management forms part of 
the Group’s principal risks and compliance with GISTM seeks 
to improve safety and performance of the tailings facilities, 
reducing this risk. As a member of the International Council 
on Mining & Metals (ICMM) that expects its members to 
demonstrate their levels of conformance to GISTM, the Tailings 
measure has considered the required pathways towards 
conformance across the various tailings’ storage facilities. 

2023 executive directors’ remuneration policy
The 2023 remuneration policy was set out in the 2022 Annual 
Report and was presented for shareholder approval at the 
AGM held on 26 April 2023. This policy was approved with 
95.92% support. It is intended that this policy will apply until 
the Company’s 2026 AGM.

▶ The full remuneration policy can be found in the 2022 Annual Report 

available on our Group website
www.angloamerican.com/annual-report-2022

How our remuneration policy addresses UK Corporate 
Governance Code provision 40 principles
The 2023 remuneration policy was designed taking into 
consideration the principles of provision 40 of the UK 
Corporate Governance Code.

The table below outlines how the policy addresses each of 
those principles:

Principle

Clarity

Simplicity

Risk

Predictability

How this is addressed in the 2023 remuneration policy

Our remuneration structure is clearly defined, and 
performance-based elements, including metrics 
and vesting schedules are clearly disclosed.

Our remuneration elements are well-understood 
and in line with market standards.

Our policy limits the risk of unfair or excessive 
remuneration and supports long term sustainable 
decision making through the following measures: 
– Clearly defined limits on the maximum 

opportunities of incentive awards

– Operation of deferral on annual bonus awards 
– Operation of a post-vesting holding period for 

LTIP awards

– The Committee has discretionary powers to 

adjust formulaic outcomes of incentive awards 
to ensure payouts are aligned to Group 
performance and the experience of key 
stakeholders

– Robust malus and clawback provisions on 

all incentives

– Discretion to reduce LTIP awards on grant to 
protect against potential ‘windfall gains’.

The policy has defined limits which can be used 
to determine potential values. Scenario charts are 
presented in the policy to illustrate potential 
payout scenarios.

Proportionality Payouts under incentive awards are linked to the 
fulfilment of performance measures that support 
the Group’s long term strategy. Deferral and 
annual grants ensure long term alignment with 
shareholders. 

Alignment to 
culture

The Committee’s powers of discretion ensure 
incentive outcomes are reflective of Company 
performance. 

Focus on share ownership and long term 
sustainable performance is reflected in the policy. 
LTIP performance measures support a long term 
focus for executives, including in relation to our 
sustainability objectives. 

Payouts for a significant portion of both the annual 
bonus and LTIP are dependent on the achievement 
of ESG and SHE measures, which underlines the 
importance of safety and sustainability to the 
Group strategy.

186

Anglo American plc 
Integrated Annual Report 2023

Governance 
Directors’ remuneration report

2023 remuneration policy table

Key aspects of the remuneration policy for executive directors

Basic salary

To recruit and retain 
high calibre executives 

Operation

Opportunity/performance measures

Implementation for 2024

Basic salary levels are reviewed 
annually by the Committee, 
taking account of factors 
including the Group’s 
performance, individual 
performance, market practice 
at other companies of a similar 
size and complexity as well as 
at other companies in the 
mining sector, levels of increase 
for the wider workforce and 
inflation.

Salary increases for executive 
directors will normally at most 
be in line with the increase 
awarded to the Company’s 
wider UK workforce. 

There may be occasions when 
the Committee may award a 
higher annual increase, 
including (but not limited to):

– Where there is a change in 

The chief executive received a 4% increase in 
salary for 2024. This increase is in line with the 
increase for the Company’s UK employees.

After commencing employment on 1 
December 2023, John Heasley’s first salary 
review will take place in 2025. 

The salaries for the executive directors are 
therefore:

– Duncan Wanblad – £1,352,000

role or responsibility

– John Heasley – £810,000

The Committee considers the 
impact of any basic salary 
increase within the context of 
the total remuneration 
package.

– An executive director’s 

development or performance 
in role (e.g. to align a new 
appointment’s salary with 
the market over time)

– Where there is a significant 
change in the size and/or 
complexity of the Group.

Annual bonus

To encourage and 
reward delivery of the 
Group’s strategic 
priorities for the 
relevant year.

To ensure, through the 
deferral of a portion into 
shares, that longer term 
focus is encouraged 
and in line with 
shareholder interests.

The annual bonus is awarded 
based on a combination of 
measures, determined by the 
Committee each year to ensure 
continued alignment with the 
Group’s financial goals, 
strategic priorities and business 
needs.

50% of the annual bonus 
earned will be deferred into 
awards/shares under the Bonus 
Share Plan (BSP), vesting 17% 
after two years and 33% after 
three years.

Vesting of BSP shares is subject 
to continued employment. 

Dividends or dividend 
equivalents are paid on Bonus 
Shares.

Malus and clawback provisions 
apply as described below.

The maximum annual bonus 
opportunity is 210% of salary in 
respect of a financial year.

The maximum annual bonus opportunity for 
each of the executive directors remains at 
210% of salary.

The bonus earned at threshold 
performance is normally up to 
25% of the maximum. 
Performance below threshold 
results in zero payout.

The Committee has discretion 
to adjust the bonus outcome if 
it is not deemed to reflect the 
underlying performance of the 
Group or the experience of key 
stakeholders during the 
performance period.

Performance measures for the 
annual bonus for each year 
must meet the following criteria:
– Minimum 50% financial 

measures

– Minimum 15% SHE measures

– Maximum 20% personal 

measures

– Remainder of the award to 

be linked to strategic 
measures.

The performance measures for the 2024 
award will be as follows:

– EPS (34% weighting) – Half on 

performance at actual prices and FX, and 
half on performance at fixed prices and FX

– SAFCF (16%) – Sustaining attributable free 

cash flow at fixed prices and FX

– SHE measures (20%) – Safety objectives 
focused on TRIFR, planned maintenance, 
visible felt leadership (VFL) and 
environmental footprint improvement

– Strategic measures (10%) and individual 

measures (20%). 

The Committee may reduce the bonus 
outcome in the event of one or more fatalities, 
taking into consideration all relevant facts 
and circumstances including the number of 
fatalities, the cause of such fatalities, any 
repeat failures in safety and the number of 
high potential incidents.

 
   
    
    
    
    
Anglo American plc 
Integrated Annual Report 2023

Governance 
Directors’ remuneration report

187

Operation

Opportunity/performance measures

Implementation for 2024

Long Term Incentive 
Plan (LTIP)

To encourage and 
reward the achievement 
of long term sustainable 
shareholder returns and 
the delivery of financial/
strategic priorities.

To align executive 
director interests to 
shareholder interests.

Conditional awards of shares 
or nil-cost options are granted 
annually, with a performance 
period of normally at least 
three years.

Any awards that vest are 
subject to a holding period 
so that the overall LTIP time 
horizon normally is at least 
five years.

Vested awards may not 
generally be sold during the 
holding period, other than to 
cover tax liabilities arising on 
vesting.

Dividend equivalents accrue 
over the vesting period and are 
payable in respect of awards 
that vest.

Malus and clawback provisions 
apply as described below.

The maximum annual LTIP 
opportunity is 350% of salary in 
respect of a financial year.

The Committee reviews the 
executive directors’ LTIP award 
sizes annually, prior to grant, to 
ensure they are appropriate. 
This includes consideration of 
the share price at the time of 
grant in comparison to prior 
years and the Committee may 
reduce award sizes where it 
judges that there has been a 
material decline in the share 
price and that a downward 
adjustment would be 
appropriate in the 
circumstances.

For each performance element, 
threshold performance would 
normally not exceed 25% 
vesting of the element, rising on 
a broadly straight-line basis to 
100% for achieving stretch 
targets.

Performance below threshold 
results in zero vesting.

Performance measures 
attached to each award should 
be linked to the Group’s 
strategic priorities and may 
include, but are not limited to, 
TSR, ROCE, SAFCF and other 
strategic or ESG objectives.

The Committee has discretion 
to adjust the vesting outcome if 
it is not deemed to reflect the 
underlying performance of the 
Group or the experience of key 
stakeholders during the 
performance period.

In 2024, due to the share price fall of c.40% 
and in line with the updated grant reduction 
mechanism included in the 2023 
remuneration policy to mitigate windfall 
gains, unless there is a material change in 
share price prior to the grant date, the 
Committee has deemed it appropriate to 
reduce the value of the LTIP grant in 2024 
from 350% to 325% of salary. Further details 
can be found on page 181.

The performance measures for the 2024 LTIP 
will be as follows:

– TSR vs S&P Global Mining Index (33% 

weighting) – 25% vesting for TSR equal to 
Index; 100% for Index performance +6% 
per annum

– TSR vs FTSE 100 (17%) – 25% vesting for 
TSR equal to median performance; 100% 
vesting for TSR equal to 80th percentile 
performance

– ROCE (15%) – 25% vesting for 12% return; 

100% vesting for 20% return

– SAFCF (15%) - Sustaining attributable free 

cash flow at actual prices and FX 

– GHG emissions reduction (10%) – 

Commitment to address climate change 
by reducing absolute GHG emissions. 25% 
vesting for a reduction of 27.5% against a 
FY2023 baseline; 100% vesting for a 
reduction of 32.5% against a FY2023 
baseline

– Tailings (5%) – Conformance to the Global 
Industry Standard on Tailings Management 
– Objective 1 facilities. 25% vesting for 
85% vs plan and 100% for >=95% vs plan

– Tailings (5%) – Conformance to the Global 
Industry Standard on Tailings Management 
based on self-assessment and third party 
verification initiated – Objective 2 facilities. 
25% vesting for 80% compliance; 100% 
vesting for >=95% Compliance.

Operation

Opportunity/performance measures

Implementation for 2024

All-employee share 
plans

To encourage eligible 
employees to build up a 
shareholding in the 
Company.

Executive directors are eligible 
to participate in applicable all-
employee share plans on the 
same basis as other eligible 
employees in the relevant 
country they work in. In the UK, 
these currently comprise the 
Company’s Save As You Earn 
(SAYE) scheme and Share 
Incentive Plan (SIP) on identical 
terms to other UK employees.

In line with the award limits 
applicable to the share plan, on 
the same basis that apply to 
other eligible employees.

SIP free, partnership and matching schemes 
continue to be operated for 2024.
The SAYE scheme also continues to be 
operated for 2024.

    
    
    
188

Anglo American plc 
Integrated Annual Report 2023

Governance 
Directors’ remuneration report

Operation

Opportunity/performance measures

Implementation for 2024

Maximum pension contribution 
or cash allowance is aligned 
with the contribution levels 
available for all of the wider UK 
workforce (currently 15% of 
salary).

The pension contribution for executive 
directors for 2024 will be 15% of base salary.

No changes to benefits operated for 2024.

The value of benefits is set at 
a level which the Committee 
considers to be appropriate, 
taking into account the overall 
cost to the Company, individual 
circumstances, benefits 
provided to the wider workforce 
and market practice.

Pension

To provide a market 
competitive level of 
pension provision, taking 
account of the provisions 
for the wider workforce, 
to attract and retain high 
performing executive 
directors.

Other benefits

To provide market 
competitive benefits.

Executive directors participate 
in defined contribution pension 
arrangements.

Executive directors may request 
a pension allowance to be paid 
in place of defined contribution 
arrangements.

Executive directors appointed 
prior to December 2022 had 
the choice for contributions 
which may not be paid to a UK-
registered pension scheme as a 
result of applicable limits (either 
annual allowance or lifetime 
allowance) to be treated as if 
paid to an unregistered 
unfunded retirement benefit 
scheme (UURBS). 

With effect from December 
2022, the UURBS was closed to 
new members. As a result, 
executive directors are no 
longer eligible to join this 
scheme. Instead any pension 
contributions outside of 
applicable limits may be paid as 
a cash equivalent.

Benefits include (but are not 
limited to):

– 28 days’ leave, with 
encashment of any 
accumulated leave in excess 
of 20 days

– Car and/or travel related 

benefits 

– Medical insurance (family)

– Death and disability 

insurance

– Directors’ liability insurance

– Limited personal taxation 

and financial advice

– Club membership

– Other ancillary benefits, 
including attendance at 
relevant public events.

The Committee may introduce 
other benefits if it is considered 
appropriate to do so.

The Company reimburses all 
necessary and reasonable 
business expenses and may 
pay the tax costs on benefit 
provisions.

The Committee reserves the 
discretion to award certain 
situation-specific benefits (such 
as relocation) either on a one-
off or ongoing basis. 

 
 
Anglo American plc 
Integrated Annual Report 2023

Governance 
Directors’ remuneration report

189

Malus and clawback

Awards under the annual bonus (including both cash 
and deferred bonus awards under the BSP) and LTIP are 
subject to malus and clawback provisions over the following 
time periods:

Malus

Clawback

Annual bonus

To such time as 
payment is made

Up to two years 
following payment

Deferred bonus To such time as the 

LTIP

award vests

To such time as the 
award vests

Up to two years 
following vesting

Up to two years 
following vesting

Clawback may be applied in the circumstances below. Malus 
may be applied in the circumstances below, as well as in other 
exceptional circumstances, at the Committee’s discretion.

– Material misstatement in results

– Misconduct

– Material failing in risk management

– Error in calculation.

Shareholding guidelines
Executive directors are expected to build up and retain a 
holding in shares in the Company with a value of four times 
basic salary in respect of the chief executive and three times 
basic salary in respect of other executive directors. The 
Committee takes into consideration achievement against 
these in-post guidelines when making grants under the 
Company’s various incentive plans.

Executive directors who step down from the Board will 
normally be required to continue to hold the lower of the in-
post requirement or their actual shareholding at the point 
of stepping down. 

The Committee retains discretion to allow exceptions to 
these guidelines in exceptional circumstances. Full disclosure 
will be included in the relevant annual report should this 
discretion be utilised.

190

Anglo American plc 
Integrated Annual Report 2023

Governance 
Directors’ remuneration report

Non-executive director fee policy
The full remuneration policy for our non-executive directors 
(NEDs) is outlined in the 2022 directors’ remuneration report. 
The policy does not set limits for individual fees, but provides 
that the maximum annual aggregate basic fees for all NEDs 
(excluding the chairman) should not exceed £1.25 million.

Chairman and non-executive director fees: implementation 
for 2024
For 2024, the chairman’s fee and NED base fees will be 
increased by 4%, in line with the increase for executive 
directors and the increase for the wider UK workforce. 

Following an external market review, for 2024 the senior 
independent director’s fee will also be increased by 15% to 
ensure the fee level remains competitive with the Group’s 
closest industry and FTSE peers. The remaining Board 
committee chair and membership fees are unchanged. 

Determining the fees paid to NEDs is a matter for the Board, 
with the NEDs abstaining; therefore, increases were approved 
by the chairman and the executive directors. The chairman’s 
increase was approved by the Remuneration Committee, in 
consultation with the chief executive. No directors were 
involved in any decision as to their own fees. 

Role

Chairman fee

NED base fee

2024 Fee (£’000)
836(1)
105.5

2023 Fee (£’000)
804(1)
101.4

Senior independent director

37.4 (additional to base fee)

32.5 (additional to base fee)

Chair of audit, remuneration or sustainability committees

40 (additional to base fee)

40 (additional to base fee)

Audit, remuneration or sustainability committee membership

20 (each committee membership)

20 (each committee membership)

Nomination

Designated NED to chair Global Workforce Advisory Panel

(1) Includes service on any Board committees.

12.5

20

12.5

20 (from May 2023)

Anglo American plc 
Integrated Annual Report 2023

Governance 
Directors’ remuneration report

191

Annual report on directors’ remuneration

Audited Information
Under schedule 8 of the Large and Medium-sized Companies and Groups (accounting and reports) Regulations 2008 
(as amended), elements of this section of the report have been audited. The areas of the Accounts and Reports subject 
to audit are indicated in the headings. 

Executive director remuneration in 2023 (audited)
The table below sets out the remuneration paid to the executive directors for 2023 (and 2022).

Single total figure of remuneration for executive directors

Total basic 
salary(1)
£’000

Benefits in 
kind
£’000

Annual bonus
– cash and
Bonus 
Shares(2)
£’000

LTIP(3)(4)(5)
award 
vesting
£’000

Pension(6)
£’000

Other(7)
£’000

Total
£’000

Total
fixed
remuneration
£’000

Total
variable
remuneration
£’000

Executive directors

Duncan Wanblad

Duncan Wanblad (2022)

John Heasley

John Heasley (2022)

Stephen Pearce

Stephen Pearce (2022)

1,300 

880 

68 

— 

828 

868 

210 

126 

8 

— 

478 

92 

1,046 

787 

— 

— 

681 

791 

738 

2,387 

— 

934 

3,020 

304 

209 

9 

— 

159 

188 

5 

5 

2,078 

— 

5 

5 

3,603 

4,393 

2,163 

— 

3,085 

4,964 

1,814 

1,215 

85 

— 

1,465 

1,148 

1,789 

3,179 

2,078 

— 

1,620 

3,816 

(1) 2023 salaries, benefits in kind and pension for Stephen Pearce and John Heasley are pro-rated for the period in year served as a director. For Stephen Pearce, 

this is the period between 1 January 2023 and 1 December 2023. For John Heasley, this is between 1 December 2023 and 31 December 2023. Stephen Pearce 
continued to be paid a salary, benefits in kind and pension for the period he remained an employee of the Company (1 December 2023 to 29 February 2024) 
(see page 199 for details).

(2) 2023 bonus for Stephen Pearce is pro-rated for the period in year served as a director (1 January 2023 to 1 December 2023). He also received a bonus of £61,901 

for the 2023 period he remained an employee of the Company (1 December 2023 to 31 December 2023) assessed on the same basis as his 2023 bonus 
received for serving as a director. His aggregate 2023 bonus was therefore £742,817.

(3) The 2021 LTIP vesting level was confirmed by the Remuneration Committee at its meeting on 19 February 2024. As the awards are due to vest after publication of 
this report, an average share price between 1 October 2023 and 31 December 2023, of £20.98, was used to calculate the value and will be trued up in the 2024 
report. The LTIP values shown include dividend equivalent amounts of £158,339 for Duncan Wanblad and £200,347 for Stephen Pearce. This includes an 
equivalent payment for the special dividend paid in September 2021. The values of LTIP awards that vested in 2023 have been restated using the share price at 
vesting of £30.09, see page 197 for further details. 

(4) The value for Duncan Wanblad represents vesting of shares he received prior to joining the Board.
(5) For the 2021 LTIP vesting in 2024, between grant and valuation of the award for single figure purposes, the share price decreased from £29.28 to £20.98 for 

original grant shares and decreased from £31.37 to £20.98 for additional shares granted on the demerger of Thungela resources. For the 2021 LTIP, 0% of the 
value disclosed in the single figure is therefore attributable to share price. For the 2020 LTIP vesting in 2023, the share price increased from £18.13 to £30.09 at 
vesting, equating to an increase in value of each vesting share of £11.96. The proportion of the value disclosed in the single figure attributable to share price 
growth is 39.7%. No discretion has been exercised by the Committee in relation to the 2021 and 2020 LTIP vestings as a result of share price movements over the 
vesting periods.

(6) Pension figures includes value of notional return on UURBS balances where applicable and do not include employer NIC values where pension is received as a 

cash allowance.

(7) For Duncan Wanblad and Stephen Pearce ‘Other’ comprises the value of free and matching shares awarded under the SIP based on the value of shares at grant. 
Awards are not subject to performance in line with the scheme terms as applicable for all employees. For John Heasley, ‘Other’ comprises the value of the shares 
awarded under the Non-cyclical award plan to compensate the shares forfeited as a result of joining Anglo American, see page 198 for further details.

Basic salaries for 2023
The basic salaries for 2023 were as follows (in £’000s):

Duncan Wanblad

£1,300

Stephen Pearce

£828

Paid in 2023
(2022: £1,250 – full year equivalent salary)

Paid in 2023
(£903 – full year equivalent salary)
(2022: £868)

John Heasley 

£68

Paid in 2023
(£810 – full year equivalent salary)

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
192

Anglo American plc 
Integrated Annual Report 2023

Governance 
Directors’ remuneration report

Benefits in kind (audited)
Benefits for executive directors with a value over £5,000 
are set out below. During the year, executive directors 
may receive benefits including car-related benefits, 
accommodation, tax advice, club membership, death and 
disability insurance, directors’ liability insurance, medical 
insurance and other ancillary benefits. 

2023 Benefits

Car related Benefits (£’000)

Tax advice (£’000)
Accommodation(1) (£’000)

Relocation (£’000)

Duncan 
Wanblad

Stephen 
Pearce

161

13

28

31

8

53

377

(1) Benefit relating to provision of accommodation for attending business events.

As part of Stephen Pearce’s joining arrangements, the cost 
of his relocation from Australia to the UK was covered by 
the Group, and the resulting income tax paid on his behalf. 
Full disclosure is set out in the 2017 Annual Report.

Stephen’s intention had always been to return to Australia 
following retirement. Therefore, as part of Stephen’s retirement 
arrangements, £200,000 of the cost of his relocation back to 
Australia was supported by the Group, and the resulting 
income tax paid.

The provision of such relocation support is consistent with that 
taken for employees who undertake international assignments 
or who are required to relocate on a local contract in order to 
fulfil their role and would be considered for repatriation on a 
case-by-case basis.

The Committee considered and is satisfied that the level of 
aggregate benefit provision, taking into account the situation 
and circumstances, in particular in relation to the provision of 
relocation support, was appropriate.

John Heasley’s benefits for 2023 included accommodation, 
car-related benefits, professional membership and medical 
insurance. The value of the benefits did not exceed £5,000 
individually.

Annual bonus outcomes for 2023 (audited)
50% of the total 2023 annual bonus is payable in cash, with 
50% deferred into shares. One-third of the deferred shares 
will vest after two years; the remaining two-thirds will vest after 
three years. The bonus deferred as shares is not subject to 
further performance but is subject to continued employment.

50% of each executive director’s bonus outcome was 
assessed against financial targets. 20% was assessed against 
strategic measures and a further 20% was assessed on 
Safety, Health and Environment (SHE) measures, with the 
remaining 10% being assessed against the achievement of 
individual objectives. 

Strategic and SHE objectives are shared by the executive 
directors, with individual objectives being tailored for their 
specific roles. The key individual performance measures are 
assessed against the overall operational and financial 
performance of the business. 

In 2023, tragically, three colleagues lost their lives following 
two accidents at our managed operations: one at our Kumba 
Iron Ore business in South Africa, and two in Chile. With these 
deeply saddening events occurring, it is a stark reminder that 
keeping our people safe must be at the forefront of everything 
we do in order to reduce the number of fatalities to zero.

As a result of the three fatalities that have occurred during the 
year, the Committee judged that there will be a 15% reduction 
to 2023 executive director bonus outcomes. This reduction 
was determined following consideration by the Committee, 
taking into account full details of the incidents. 

Discretion
Incentives are designed to ensure they drive appropriate short 
and long term behaviours, and it is the Committee’s general 
preference to avoid making any adjustments. Aside from the 
utilisation of discretion to apply the safety deductor, the 
Committee did not make any discretionary adjustments to the 
2023 bonus outcomes. 

Anglo American plc 
Integrated Annual Report 2023

Governance 
Directors’ remuneration report

193

Summary of 2023 annual bonus outcome

Duncan Wanblad

Stephen Pearce

Financial 
metrics (50%)

SHE metrics
(20%)

Strategic 
metrics (20%)

Personal 
metrics (10%)

 5.5% 

 5.5% 

 18.1% 

 18.1% 

 14.5% 

 14.5% 

 7.0% 

 8.0% 

Total payout 
pre-safety 
deductor (%)

 45.1% 

 46.1% 

Payout after 
15% safety 
deductor
(%)(1)

 38.3% 

 39.2% 

Annual bonus 
value 
(£’)(2)

£1,046,168

£680,916

(1) Safety deductor applied on a multiplicative basis against overall annual bonus outcomes.
(2) Bonus for Stephen Pearce pro-rated bonus for period served as a director from 1 January 2023 up to 1 December 2023. His total bonus for the year includes an 

additional amount of £61,901 for the period between him stepping down as a director and the remainder of 2023. 

Annual bonus performance assessment for 2023 (audited)
The financial element of the 2023 annual bonus is measured 
against underlying EPS and sustaining attributable free cash 
flow (SAFCF) measures. 

The EPS elements of the award accounted for 34% of the total 
annual bonus, split equally between EPS measured at fixed 
prices and FX rates and EPS measured at actual prices and FX 
rates. The fixed price and FX rate EPS portion is designed to 
reflect Group operational performance, excluding the impact 
of variations in price and currency. Both target ranges are 
illustrated in the financial performance table, with 25% vesting 
for performance at threshold. SAFCF, measured at fixed prices 
and FX rates, accounted for 16% of the total annual bonus.

With the underlying financial performance, underpinned by the 
challenging economic environment and ongoing geo-political 
turbulence, the financial measures within the annual bonus 

paid out at 11%. This was due to marginal vesting for the EPS 
at actual target, which was supported by prices for some of our 
commodities and favourable exchange rates in-year.

The shared strategic objectives accounted for 20% of the total 
award. These objectives reflect the Group’s strategic priorities 
for the year, incorporating a combination of quantitative and 
qualitative metrics. Following the end of the year, the 
Committee made a detailed assessment of performance, 
leading to the evaluations shown in the tables below.

For 2023 the executive directors have 10% of the annual 
bonus weighted to individual performance measures, 
focusing on the critical deliverables for each executive 
director. The following tables detail the achievement against 
these objectives.

Financial performance

Metric

EPS at actual prices and FX rates

EPS at fixed prices and FX rates

SAFCF at fixed prices and FX rates

Total

Threshold (25%)

Maximum 
(100%)

Achievement

Weighting

Outcome

$2.31/share

$3.47/share

$2.42/share

$2.60/share

$3.18/share

$1.93/share

$2.7bn

$4.0bn

$281m

 17.0% 

 17.0% 

 16.0% 

 50.0% 

 5.5% 

 —% 

 —% 

5.5%

194

Anglo American plc 
Integrated Annual Report 2023

Governance 
Directors’ remuneration report

SHE performance

Metric

Metric type

Achievement

Total recordable injury frequency rate 
(TRIFR) – improvement of 15% on 
prior three-year Group average

Safety

Planned work – % of maintenance 
work planned and scheduled

Operations

Total Recordable Injuries were significantly down on 2023, 
supporting a full-year TRIFR of 1.78, a 19% improvement year on 
year and the lowest in the Company's history. Strong lead-
indicator performance underpins the result and is testament to 
commitment and drive at operational level.

Threshold has been met, with performance against this measure 
showing continuous improvement throughout 2023, driving 
improved reliability and safety at our operations. 

Weighting Outcome

 5% 

 5% 

Leadership Time in Field – one high 
quality visible felt leadership (VFL) 
per week between 1 March – 30 June 
then three high quality VFLs per week 
between 1 July – 31 December by all 
band 4-6 employees based at 
managerial operations

Ecological Health – improvement in 
footprint intensity – expressed as the 
sum of metrics for Land, Air, Nature 
and Water

Total

Shared strategic performance

Operations With the introduction of this measure for 2023, we have seen a 

sustained focus at all Businesses resulting in an improved safety 
performance, as demonstrated by TRIFR outcome. This measure 
has been delivered in full.

 5% 

 3.1% 

Environment

Targets have been met across the four target areas, delivering full 
vesting for this measure.

 10% 

 10% 

 20% 

 18.1% 

Metric

Metric type

Achievement

Weighting Outcome

Delivery of decarbonisation 

Innovation

– The grid connection and the trading licence have been 

obtained, with financial close expected during Q1 2024. Delays 
in financial close due to Eskom connection process, national 
reform and delays in obtaining the trading licence

– Hydrogen supply workstream is under way with First Mode, 

supporting various alternative deployment models. 

For SA renewables, deliver 2023 
milestones, to enable Phase 1 
production of 425MW in 2025: 

– Power purchase agreements 

agreements, and electricity offtake 
agreements signed

– Bank mandate in place and 

financial close 

– For hydrogen infrastructure, work 

with FirstMode to develop a 
roadmap to secure necessary 
infrastructure for on-site hydrogen 
production, to support truck 
operations.

Key strategic choices 

Portfolio

Significantly progressed subject to further market analysis.

Update assessment of portfolio 
opportunities.

Effectiveness review

People

Define and implement a more 
effective organisational model 
focused on strategy execution.

Inclusion & Diversity; Talent Delivery

Detailed succession and/or retention 
plans for critical senior management 
roles in place as part of restructuring 
process.

Following the restructure, detailed 
roadmap to deliver gender diversity 
targets by 2025.

Total

Organisational changes were implemented by 31 December 
as planned. This resulted in prioritisation of work, clear 
accountabilities, significant corporate headcount reduction, 
and sustainable annual corporate cost savings.

People

Majority of in-scope senior roles had viable succession plans in 
place. Female representation in the CE’s employee-once-
removed (EoR) population was 29% at year end, versus a target 
of 33%, largely due to a decrease in the overall number of CE EoR 
positions as a consequence of organisational design work, with 
2025 roadmap under way. 

 5% 

 2.5% 

 5% 

 3% 

 5% 

 5% 

 5% 

 4% 

 20% 

 14.5% 

Anglo American plc 
Integrated Annual Report 2023

Governance 
Directors’ remuneration report

195

Personal performance

Duncan Wanblad

Financial

SHE

Strategic

Personal 

Total

Safety deductor

Overall result

Percentage weighting

50%

20%

20%

10%

100%

A percentage reduction from overall bonus outcome on a multiplicative basis

—

Details of personal objectives

Achievement

Deliver Operational Excellence (5%)
– Improve operational stability by 

achieving minimum AOM of 80% 
compliance across priority sites. 

– Achieve reduction in variability for priority 

sites over 3-year rolling period.

Deliver Growth – Collahuasi (5%)
– Submit permit applications, to allow for 
debottlenecking and other activities to 
reach the approved 210ktpd capacity.

– Finalise scope, select service provider, 

and commence pre-feasibility study for 
4th line.

Overall individual performance

Stephen Pearce

Financial

SHE

Strategic

Personal

Total

Safety deductor

Overall result

(1) Compliance score for priority assets at 76% versus target of 80%.
(2) The overall variability of saleable production for priority assets reduced by 2.2% 
during 2023, as compared to baseline.

(1) Permit applications prepared and submitted.
(2) Approval of scope and funds for pre-feasibility integrated growth studies (4th 
line and CPF 240) provided by all shareholders in October 2023. Bidding processes 
for most engineering studies are complete, with the project director appointed to 
start in February 2024.

10% total weighting

 7% 

Percentage weighting

50%

20%

20%

10%

100%

A percentage reduction from overall bonus outcome on a multiplicative basis

—

Details of personal objectives

Achievement

Finance Value Delivery (4%)
– Complete Project Aegis (Capital 

Project Aegis completed key elements of the target operating model deployed.
Value delivered exceeded plan.

Structure Review and Optimisation) and 
transition to embed in to BAU.

– Implement key elements of the target 

operation model arising from the review 
of the Group’s Global Cash 
Management footprint.

Functional Excellence (4%)
– Complete Release 3 Beyond Finance 

Deployment by end of 2023.

– Successful Group UKCR attestation dry 

run with rectification plans and 
preparation for Dec 2023.

Beyond Finance Release 3 rolled out in October, successful UK Corporate Reform 
(UKCR), dry run completed on 2022 results in 2023, and again for H1 results 2023, 
with full planning in place for 2024 process.

People (2%)
–  Improve psychological Safety score for 

Group Finance.

– At least 90% of Group Finance 

Improvement in psychological safety; numerous team workshops, feedback 
sessions and team leader training conducted throughout the year. In relation to 
inclusion & diversity, achieved 58% female and 42% male (previously 50% female 
at senior levels) after organisational redesign.

permanent appointments meet the 
inclusion & diversity functional target of 
gender parity at each stage of the 
recruitment process.

Overall individual performance

10% total weighting

 8% 

2023 
outcome

 5.5% 

 18.1% 

 14.5% 

 7.0% 

 45.1% 

 15.0% 

 38.3% 

Outcome

 2% 

 5% 

2023 
outcome

 5.5% 

 18.1% 

 14.5% 

 8.0% 

 46.1% 

 15.0% 

 39.2% 

Outcome

 3% 

 3% 

 2% 

