48

Schroders Annual Report and Accounts 2023

 
Governance

GOVERNANCE

Board of Directors  
and Company Secretary

Corporate governance report

Nominations Committee report

Audit and Risk Committee report

Remuneration report

Directors’ report

Statement of Directors’ responsibilities

50

54

64

66

74

94

99

Schroders Annual Report and Accounts 2023

49

Schroders Annual Report and Accounts 2023Strategic reportShareholder informationFinancial statements 
Board of Directors and Company Secretary

Leading a world  
class business

N   Nominations Committee

AR   Audit and Risk Committee 

R   Remuneration Committee

 Chair

Skills, experience and contribution

Current external appointments

Elizabeth was appointed as an independent non-executive Director 
in September 2021 and became Chair at the conclusion of the 2022 
Annual General Meeting.

Elizabeth is a non-executive Director of BAE Systems plc, Chair of 
the Impact Investing Institute and a Trustee of the British Museum. 
She was previously the CEO of Allianz Global Investors and a 
non-executive Director of Morgan Stanley Inc. and Pearson plc.

Elizabeth is a leading figure in financial services with over 45 years’ 
experience. Elizabeth is active in representing the investment industry 
and developing standards. Elizabeth has significant expertise in asset 
management, impact investing and sustainability and brings a wealth 
of investor, governance and boardroom experience to the Board.

•  Non-executive Director of BAE 

Systems plc

•  Chair of the Impact Investing 

Institute

•  Trustee of the British Museum

Peter was appointed as Group Chief Executive in April 2016. He was 
an executive Director and Head of Investment from May 2014.

•  Chair of Business in the 

Community

Peter began his career at Schroders and subsequently held roles 
at Newton Investment Management, J.P. Morgan Asset Management 
as Head of Global Equities and Multi-Asset, and at Deutsche Asset 
Management as Global Chief Investment Officer. He was Chairman 
and Chief Executive of RWC Partners before re-joining Schroders 
as Global Head of Equities in March 2013.

Having spent his whole career in the asset management industry, 
Peter brings a long and successful track record in asset management 
and extensive industry and leadership experience to the Board.

•  Member of the UK Capital 
Markets Industry Taskforce

•  Director of the Investment 

Association

•  Member of the Advisory Board 

of Antler Global

•  Director of FCLT Global

•  Trustee and Audit Committee 

Chair of The Duke of 
Edinburgh’s International 
Award Foundation

Richard was appointed as an executive Director and Chief Financial 
Officer on 2 October 2023. 

Richard is a chartered accountant and was Network Vice Chairman and 
Global Markets Leader at PricewaterhouseCoopers (PwC) until October 
2023 where he led market-facing activities, initiatives and strategy. 
Prior to this, he was a member of PwC’s UK Executive Board for five 
years, during which time he was Head of Clients and Markets and Head 
of Strategy and Communications. He also led the UK firm’s Banking 
and Capital Markets Assurance practice and was part of the Assurance 
Leadership team. His experience includes time spent working across 
Africa, Europe, Asia and North America.

Richard brings a deep capability in leading an international business, 
combined with technical and strategic capabilities. His global 
perspective and his experience in advising large multinational financial 
services organisations will help us to continue to deliver our strategy.

Dame Elizabeth Corley
Chair

N

Peter Harrison
Group Chief Executive

Richard Oldfield
Chief Financial Officer

50

 Schroders Annual Report and Accounts 2023Skills, experience and contribution

Current external appointments

Ian was appointed to the Board as an independent non-executive 
Director in January 2017, and was appointed as Senior Independent 
Director in April 2018.

Ian was Chief Executive of BAE Systems plc from 2008 to 2017, having 
been originally appointed to the BAE board as Chief Operating Officer, 
UK and Rest of the World. Prior to this, he was Chief Executive of 
Alenia Marconi Systems. Ian also served as a non-executive Director 
and Senior Independent Director of Rotork plc until June 2014.

•  Senior Adviser to the board 
of Gleacher Shacklock LLP

•  Chairman of Senior plc

•  Director of High Speed 

Two (HS2) Limited and lead 
non-executive Director for 
the Department for Transport

Ian King
Senior Independent Director

N

R

Having held a number of leadership positions in major multinational 
companies, and having capital markets experience both as an 
executive and non-executive director, Ian brings strong global 
leadership experience, which is of great value to the Group as we 
continue to grow our business internationally.

Rhian was appointed as an independent non-executive Director in July 
2015, and was appointed as Chair of the Audit and Risk Committee 
in 2016.

•  Director of Alexander 

Square Partners

Rhian is a chartered accountant and was a partner at Electra Partners, 
an independent private equity fund manager, until June 2015, and 
then a Senior Adviser until March 2017. Rhian previously worked in 
PwC’s audit and insolvency practice before joining Electra in 1992.

Rhian’s background as a qualified accountant is a specific strength 
given her role as Chair of the Audit and Risk Committee. With 
extensive experience as a partner of a private equity fund manager, 
Rhian brings financial and industry knowledge to the Board, 
particularly in the area of private markets.

Claire was appointed as a non-executive Director in April 2020.

•  Director and Trustee of the 

Claire is a non-executive Director of Caledonia Investments plc, 
Director and Trustee of the Schroder Charity Trust and a Trustee 
of a number of charitable foundations. She was previously a 
non-executive Director of Gauntlet Insurance Services.

Claire brings experience of family-owned businesses in financial 
services and from her non-executive roles. Claire is a descendant of 
John Henry Schroder, co-founder of the Schroders business in 1804. 
Claire’s appointment reflects the commitment to Schroders of the 
Principal Shareholder Group, which has been an important part of 
Schroders’ success over the long term.

Schroder Charity Trust

•  Trustee of a number of 
charitable foundations

•  Non-executive Director of 
Caledonia Investments plc

Rakhi was appointed as an independent non-executive Director 
in January 2017.

Rakhi is an experienced executive in digital retailing, having spent 
12 years at Amazon where she was Director of UK Media. Prior to 
joining Amazon, she held roles at TomTom and in management 
consultancy in the US. She was previously a non-executive Director 
of Intu plc and Rightmove plc.

•  Non-executive Director 

of Trainline plc

•  Non-executive Director 

of Kingfisher plc

•  Non-executive Director 
of Nisbets plc (unlisted)

Rakhi’s experience in the digital world through her work at Amazon, 
and more recently through her experience as a non-executive 
director on other boards, is highly valuable to the Group as digital has 
an increasingly important impact on the asset management industry.

Rhian Davies
Independent non-executive 
Director

N

AR

R

Claire Fitzalan Howard
Non-executive Director

N

Rakhi Goss-Custard
Independent non-executive 
Director

N

AR

51

Schroders Annual Report and Accounts 2023Strategic reportShareholder informationFinancial statementsGovernance 
 
 
 
 
Board of Directors and Company Secretary continued

Skills, experience and contribution

Current external appointments

Iain was appointed as an independent non-executive Director 
on 1 January 2024.

Iain is a chartered accountant and was Chief Financial Officer at 
GSK plc until 2023. He was a member of the GSK leadership team 
and was responsible for Global Finance and several of GSK’s key 
global functions, including Investor Relations, Digital & Tech and 
Global Procurement. Prior to joining GSK, Iain was Group Finance 
Director at HSBC Holdings plc, a position he held for eight years. Iain 
has lived and worked in Asia, the US and Europe and, before HSBC, 
was at General Electric, Schlumberger Dowell and Price Waterhouse.

In addition to his experience as Chief Financial Officer of FTSE 100 
companies, Iain brings considerable knowledge of global 
organisations operating in many of the international markets 
where we operate.

•  Non-executive Director and 
Chair of the Audit and Risk 
Committee of National Grid plc

•  Member of the Court of the 
University of Aberdeen and 
Chair of its Remuneration 
Committee

•  Non-executive Director of UK 
Government Investments

Leonie was appointed as a non-executive Director in March 2019.

•  Director and Trustee of 

Leonie is currently a Director and Trustee of the Schroder Charity 
Trust and has held a number of roles in the charity sector.

Leonie is a descendant of John Henry Schroder, co-founder of the 
Schroders business in 1804. Leonie’s appointment reflects the 
commitment to Schroders of the Principal Shareholder Group which 
has been an important part of Schroders’ success over the long term.

the Schroder Charity Trust

•  Director of a number of 

private limited companies

Annette was appointed as an independent non-executive Director 
on 1 September 2023.

•  Non-executive Director 

of Pearson plc

Annette has 25 years’ experience in leading global publishing 
and data analytics businesses, across academic, educational and 
consumer media verticals. Most recently, she served as CEO of 
Guardian Media Group, a position she held until June 2021. Prior to 
this, Annette was CEO of the Web of Science Group at Clarivate PLC, a 
data, analytics and software business focused on research and higher 
education. She has also served as CEO of Macmillan Publishers and 
led the digital and global transformation of Nature Publishing Group.

Annette brings her experience in leading global publishing and data 
analytics businesses with her digital, data and analytics expertise, 
which is of great benefit to the Group as we continue to invest 
in these important areas.

•  Non-executive Director 

of EcoVadis 

•  Non-executive Director 
of OpenClassrooms

•  Senior Advisor to 
General Atlantic

Fred was appointed as an independent non-executive Director 
on 1 January 2024.

•  Founder of Blue Endeavor 

Ventures

Fred was Managing Partner and Head of TMT at Advent International, 
a leading global private equity investor. During his 23-year career, Fred 
managed Advent’s London and New York offices and served on both 
their European and North American Investment Advisory Committees.

Fred brings insights into the sustainability and conservation sectors. 
He also brings experience of private equity and private markets more 
generally, which is of great benefit as we continue to build Schroders 
Capital, our private markets business.

•  Co-Founder of Scale-Up Fund

Iain Mackay
Independent non-executive 
Director

N

AR

Leonie Schroder
Non-executive Director

N

Annette Thomas
Independent non-executive 
Director

N

R

Frederic Wakeman
Independent non-executive 
Director

N

AR

52

 Schroders Annual Report and Accounts 2023 
 
 
Deborah Waterhouse
Independent non-executive 
Director

N

AR

R

Matthew Westerman
Independent non-executive 
Director

N

AR

R

Skills, experience and contribution

Current external appointments

Deborah was appointed as an independent non-executive Director 
in March 2019.

Deborah is the CEO of ViiV Healthcare. ViiV Healthcare is a leading 
global company, majority owned by GSK and focused on advancing 
science into HIV treatment, prevention and care. Deborah is also 
a member of the GSK Corporate Executive Team.

Deborah brings her experience as Chief Executive of a major 
international business operating in many of the markets we are 
active in, which is of great benefit as we continue to grow our 
business internationally.

•  CEO of ViiV Healthcare

•  Member of the GSK Corporate 

Executive Team

Matthew was appointed as an independent non-executive Director 
in March 2020 and was appointed as Chair of the Remuneration 
Committee in April 2022.

Matthew started his career in 1986 at Credit Suisse First Boston. 
He subsequently worked at Rothschild & Co where he became 
Managing Director and Joint Chief Executive of ABN AMRO Rothschild. 
He joined Goldman Sachs in 2000 and became a partner in 2002. 
During his tenure, he led substantial businesses within the 
Investment Banking Division. He left Goldman Sachs in 2016 to 
become Co-Head of Global Banking at HSBC.

Matthew brings significant experience of global financial markets 
after a distinguished career in investment banking.

•  Director of MW&L 
Capital Partners

•  Chairman of the Board 

of Trustees of the Imperial 
War Museum

•  Foundation Fellow of 
Balliol College, Oxford

•  Trustee of the UK Holocaust 

Memorial Foundation

Graham was appointed Group Company Secretary in 2004. He 
previously held senior company secretarial, compliance and business 
development roles at NatWest, Barclays, TSB and Computershare.

•  Director and Trustee of 
Sherborne Girls School 
Charitable Foundation

Graham is responsible for the Group’s Governance framework and 
is the principal adviser on all governance matters. He is also Chair of 
Schroder Investment Management (Europe) S.A., the Group’s main 
operating company in the EU.

Graham brings great experience in corporate governance and 
company law.

Graham Staples
Group Company Secretary

Composition of the Board at 28 February 2024

Board composition

Non-executive 
Directors’ tenure

Board gender diversity

Board ethnic diversity

  Executive Directors 

15%

   Non-independent  
non-executive Directors  15%

   Independent  
non-executive Directors  70%

  0–3 years 

   3–6 years 

   6–9 years 

36%

36%

28%

  Male 

  Female 

46%

54%

  White 

85%

  Ethnically diverse  15%

53

Schroders Annual Report and Accounts 2023Strategic reportShareholder informationFinancial statementsGovernance 
 
 
 
 
Corporate governance report

Developing 
strategy for  
the long term

Dame Elizabeth Corley
Chair

I am pleased to present our governance report for 2023, 
my first full year as Chair. The following pages discuss our 
governance arrangements, the operation of the Board and its 
Committees and how we discharged our responsibilities during 
the year.

In my last report I said the Board was focusing on strategy, talent 
and culture. This continued during 2023. As I mentioned in my 
statement earlier, the Company has been implementing a successful 
diversification strategy for our business for several years. This 
positioned us in areas of higher growth, with improved longevity of 
client relationships, whilst continuing to focus on delivering good 
investment performance. This strategy has helped the Group to 
withstand forces of long term change in our sector, which have grown 
steadily more powerful.

Nevertheless, as the Board has a long term orientation, we continued 
to place strategy – both execution and evolution – at the heart of our 
discussions in 2023, reflecting on trends in the asset management 
industry. The Board has dedicated additional time to analysing industry 
developments, in order to remain well informed in a period of 
increased pace of change, alongside our oversight of business 
performance, our people strategy, and maintaining a healthy culture. 
Building on prior strategic diversification, both organic and inorganic, 
we have dedicated time, with management, to a rigorous assessment 
of our performance and delivery, with the aim of making the Company 
the best that it can be. 

In most years the Board will undertake a formal strategic review each 
November at our strategy offsite. This is in addition to regular business 
area-specific reviews through the year. Given the deterioration in the 
external environment in 2023, heightened by increased geopolitical 
tensions and the economic consequences of inflation and higher 
interest rates, we increased our focus on strategy in the second half of 
the year. We also supplemented formal Board meetings with periodic 

Board calls so that the whole Board could be kept up to date on our 
agreed actions. This approach has worked well according to feedback 
from our end-of-year Board performance evaluation, and has enabled 
management to keep the Board informed in a more dynamic and 
volatile environment. Additional time with the Board has demanded 
more from the management team and I am grateful to them for 
consistently delivering what the Board has required, while at the same 
time maintaining an intense focus on running the business in more 
demanding circumstances. Strategy will rightly remain one of our major 
priorities for 2024.

Ensuring we attract, develop and retain high quality talent is central 
to our ability to deliver for our clients and shareholders. In 2023, in 
addition to reviewing our people and diversity and inclusion strategy, 
the Board focused attention on the continuous development of our 
current and next generation senior leaders. Members of the Group 
Strategy Committee (GSC) now regularly attend sections of our Board 
meetings. We have all benefitted from this, with richer discussions as a 
result of their attendance. For example, the Board obtained valuable 
insights from the GSC members on all aspects of our strategy. With the 
establishment of the Client Group in 2023, having the heads of our 
client-facing functions at our meetings has enabled the Board to 
deepen our understanding of client needs and market developments. 

In 2022, the Board re-started visits to overseas offices following the 
Covid pandemic. Unfortunately, we had to defer the planned visit to 
our Paris office due to industrial action just as we were about to depart. 
We are looking forward to being there in May 2024. We see these visits 
as important opportunities to understand better how well the culture 
we see clearly in London has travelled in our global business. 

We have had further change on the Board this year at both executive 
and non-executive level. The details of, and background to, these 
changes are set out in the Nominations Committee report. My 
intention now is for relationships within the Board to have the 
opportunity to develop and settle into a new equilibrium. I am 
confident we have a Board that can continue to evolve our strategy 
to deliver for the long-term benefit of clients, shareholders and all 
our stakeholders.

It is clear to the Board that the industry is facing unusually high levels of 
change. No matter how resilient our strategy, or good our company, 
we know we must remain alert to opportunities and the unexpected. 
Continuing to be relevant and close to clients during volatile times is 
vital, so the performance of our Client Group will be on our agenda 
alongside reviews of growth business areas: Wealth Management, 
Solutions and Private Markets. In addition, our commitment to active 
management and sustainability means that the Board is always keen to 
understand how we are delivering investment performance and service 
to our clients. These will be priorities in 2024, as will the continued 
development of our talent, which we see as the bedrock on which the 
business is built.

I would like to finish with a comment on governance in the UK. There 
has been much comment on whether the UK has become too rigid in 
applying the letter of the governance code, with suggestions that our 
regulatory approach has stifled entrepreneurship and discouraged 
companies from listing in London. We have seen steps of late to allow 
companies more freedom in which to operate. Schroders broadly 
welcomes these initiatives, both as a listed company and as a major 
investor in UK companies. Comply or explain has been a foundation 
of UK corporate governance and, taken seriously, with transparency, 
should provide a framework for strong governance. For this to work, 
companies must have the right culture. I have no doubt that we have 
the right culture and our robust governance framework will enable us 
to continue to focus on doing what is right for all our stakeholders over 
the long term.

Dame Elizabeth Corley
Chair

28 February 2024

54

Schroders Annual Report and Accounts 2023

 
2023 Board and Committee attendance
Directors are expected to attend all meetings of the Board and Committees on which they serve. Details of Board and Committee attendance 
are included in the table below. Iain Mackay and Frederic Wakeman were appointed to the Board on 1 January 2024, and therefore do not 
feature in the table.

Where a Director is unable to attend a meeting, their views are sought in advance and shared with the Board.

 Board1

Nominations 
Committee

Audit and Risk 
Committee

Remuneration
 Committee 

Chair

Dame Elizabeth Corley 

Executive Directors

Peter Harrison

Richard Keers2

Richard Oldfield2

Non-executive Directors

Ian King

Sir Damon Buffini3

Rhian Davies4

Paul Edgecliffe-Johnson5

Claire Fitzalan Howard

Rakhi Goss-Custard

Leonie Schroder6

Annette Thomas7

Deborah Waterhouse

Matthew Westerman

7/7

7/7

5/5

2/2

7/7

2/2

6/7

4/4

7/7

7/7

6/7

3/3

7/7

7/7

6/6

6/6

2/2

5/6

4/4

6/6

6/6

5/6

2/2

6/6

6/6

5/5

2/2

5/5

2/2

5/5

5/5

5/5

3/3

5/5

5/5

5/5

1.  There were six scheduled Board meetings held during the year and one additional meeting to consider strategy.
2.  Richard Keers stepped down from the Board on 2 October 2023 and was succeeded as Chief Financial Officer by Richard Oldfield from that date.
3.  Damon Buffini stepped down from the Board at the conclusion of the 2023 AGM on 27 April 2023.
4.  Rhian Davies was unable to attend one meeting of the Board and one meeting of the Nominations Committee, which occurred on the same day, due to a family commitment.
5.  Paul Edgecliffe-Johnson stepped down from the Board on 31 August 2023.
6.  Leonie Schroder was unable to attend one meeting of the Board and one meeting of the Nominations Committee, which occurred on the same day, due to her honeymoon.
7.  Annette Thomas was appointed to the Board and as a member of the Nominations Committee and Remuneration Committee on 1 September 2023.

The Chair also has regular meetings with the non-executive 
Directors without the executive Directors being present. 
These meetings are for informal discussions and do not have 
fixed agendas. At least once a year the Chair also meets with just 
the independent non-executive Directors.

Board calls are used as an additional avenue for communication 
to supplement the formal Board meeting programme; these are 
held between the scheduled meetings. At each call, the Group 
Chief Executive and Chief Financial Officer provide updates on key 
business issues.

The Board and its Committees
The Board has collective responsibility for the management, 
direction and performance of the Company. It is accountable to 
shareholders for the creation and delivery of strong, sustainable 
financial performance and long-term shareholder value. In 
discharging its responsibilities, the Board takes appropriate account 
of the interests of our wider stakeholders, including clients, 
employees, external service providers, regulators and wider society. 
Certain decisions can only be taken by the Board, including on the 
Group’s overall strategy, significant new business activities, and the 
strategy for management of the Group’s investment capital. These 
are contained in the Schedule of Matters Reserved to the Board, 
which can be found on the Company’s website1 and are summarised 
on page 56.

The Board has delegated specific responsibilities to Board 
Committees, notably the Nominations Committee, the Audit and 
Risk Committee and the Remuneration Committee. The papers for 
and minutes of Committee meetings are made available to all 
Directors. At each Board meeting, the Chair of each Committee 
provides the Board with an update of the work currently being 
carried out by the Committee they chair. Membership of the 
Committees is detailed in each Committee’s report. The Committees’ 
terms of reference can be found on the Company’s website2.

1.  www.schroders.com/board-matters
2.  www.schroders.com/board-committees 

55

Schroders Annual Report and Accounts 2023Strategic reportShareholder informationFinancial statementsGovernance 
Corporate governance report continued

Governance framework

Board
The Board is collectively responsible for the management, direction and performance of the Company.

Matters reserved to the Board
The Group’s overall strategy

The Company’s capital strategy 
and changes to the capital or 
corporate structure 

Annual Report and 
financial and regulatory 
announcements

Significant new 
business activities 

Remuneration strategy

Annual budgets and financial 
commitments and strategic 
or key acquisitions

Risk management framework, 
risk appetite and tolerance limits 

Board and Committee 
composition, succession 
planning and Committee terms 
of reference

Corporate governance 
arrangements, including  
Board conflicts of interest

Maintenance of an effective 
system of internal control and 
risk management

Dividend policy

The full Schedule of Matters Reserved to the Board can be found on the Company’s website, www.schroders.com/board-matters

Nominations 
Committee

Audit and Risk 
Committee

Remuneration 
Committee

Responsible for reviewing 
and recommending changes 
to the composition of the 
Board and its Committees.

Responsible for overseeing 
financial reporting, risk 
management and internal 
controls, internal and 
external audit.

Responsible for the 
remuneration strategy for 
the Group, the remuneration 
policy for Directors and 
overseeing remuneration 
business-wide.

Chair: Dame Elizabeth Corley

Chair: Rhian Davies

Chair: Matthew Westerman

  See page 64 for  
more information.

  See page 66 for  
more information.

  See page 74 for  
more information.

Group Sustainability 
and Impact 
Committee (GSI)

The GSI comprises senior 
management across the 
Group and provides advice 
to the Group Chief Executive 
to assist him in discharging 
his responsibilities regarding 
sustainability and impact.

CONTENT FROM DESIGN (WORD FILE WAS PICTURE)

TO BE ARTWORKED IN A TABLE

Group Strategy 
Committee (GSC)

The GSC comprises the 
senior management 
team, who have primary 
responsibility for the 
development and delivery 
of the Group’s strategy. It is 
an advisory committee to 
the Group Chief Executive.

Group Capital 
Committee

Assists the Chief 
Financial Officer in the 
deployment of operating, 
seed, co-investment and 
investment capital.

Group 
Management  
Committee (GMC)

The GMC comprises the 
wider senior management 
team and is an advisory 
committee to the Group 
Chief Executive on the 
day-to-day running of the 
Group’s business.

Group Risk 
Committee (GRC)

Assists the Chief Financial 
Officer in discharging his 
responsibilities in respect 
of risk and controls. The 
GRC has a number of 
sub-committees, which 
look at specific areas of risk.

Chair
The Chair is responsible for the 
leadership of the Board, ensuring 
its effectiveness and setting its 
agenda. She is responsible for 
creating an environment for open, 
robust and effective debate and 
challenge. The Chair is also 
responsible for ensuring effective 
communication with shareholders 
and other stakeholders.

Group Chief Executive
The Group Chief Executive is 
responsible for the executive 
management of the Company and 
its subsidiaries. He is responsible 
for proposing the strategy for the 
Group and for its execution. He is 
assisted by members of the GSC, 
GMC and GSI.

Chief Financial Officer
The Chief Financial Officer is 
responsible for firm-wide operations 
along with direct responsibility 
for financial management, risk 
management, technology, capital 
and treasury. He is assisted by 
members of the GRC and Group 
Capital Committee.

Senior Independent 
Director (SID)
The SID acts as a sounding board 
for the Chair, oversees the Chair’s 
evaluation, and serves as an 
intermediary for other Directors 
if needed. He is also available as 
an alternative point of contact for 
shareholders and stakeholders 
if needed. He is the designated 
non-executive Director responsible 
for engagement with the workforce.

Non-executive Directors
Non-executive Directors are expected 
to provide independent oversight 
and constructive challenge and help 
develop proposals on strategy, 
performance and resources, 
including key appointments 
and standards of conduct.

56

 Schroders Annual Report and Accounts 2023Independence
The Board remains committed to its stated policy regarding the 
benefits of an absolute majority of independent Directors. All the 
non-executive Directors are independent in terms of character 
and judgement.

Claire Fitzalan Howard and Leonie Schroder are not considered 
independent as they are both members of the Principal Shareholder 
Group. The Nominations Committee believes the judgement 
and experience of Claire Fitzalan Howard and Leonie Schroder 
continues to add value to the Board and the Group. The Board will 
therefore recommend their re-election at the 2024 Annual General 
Meeting (AGM).

Director appointments and time commitment
The rules providing for the appointment, election, re-election 
and removal of Directors are contained in the Company’s Articles 
of Association. The Company may only amend its Articles of 
Association by special resolution of the shareholders.

In accordance with the Articles of Association, Iain Mackay, Richard 
Oldfield, Annette Thomas and Frederic Wakeman will resign and 
offer themselves for election at the AGM on 25 April 2024. All other 
Directors are required to seek re-election on an annual basis unless 
they are retiring from the Board. Rhian Davies will not be seeking 
re-election as a Director and will stand down at the conclusion of 
the 2024 AGM. Details of the Directors’ length of tenure are set out 
on page 53.

Non-executive Directors’ letters of appointment stipulate that they 
are expected to commit sufficient time to discharge their duties. 
The Board has adopted a policy that allows executive Directors 
to take up one external non-executive directorship. Non-executive 
Directors are required to consult the Chair before taking on any 
additional appointments. The Board is satisfied that all Directors 
continue to be effective and demonstrate commitment to their 
respective roles.

For details of executive Directors’ service contracts, termination 
arrangements and non-executive Directors’ letters of appointment, 
please refer to the Remuneration report from page 74.

Board training
The Board believes that the ongoing development and briefing 
of Directors is an important part of the Board’s agenda. The Board 
receives regular briefings throughout the year to provide them 
with a deeper understanding of the Group. The Chair and Group 
Company Secretary discuss briefing topics annually and agree what 
these should cover.

During 2023, a briefing was provided by our Chief Economist on 
the challenging macroeconomic environment and how it affects 
Schroders. Our Global Head of Sustainable Investment and Global 
Head of Corporate Sustainability provided a briefing session which 
covered how sustainability trends are shaping our industry, as well 
as our progress on key issues including climate change, biodiversity, 
human rights and community investment. The Board also received 
briefings on our private markets strategy, on our strategy in Asia 
and on the benefits, risks and use of artificial intelligence (AI) 
at Schroders. 

Members of the Board Committees also receive regular updates on 
technical developments at scheduled committee meetings. Other 
training includes external professional events and industry updates.

Board induction
The Group Company Secretary supports the Chair and Group 
Chief Executive in providing a personalised induction programme 
for all new Directors. This helps to familiarise newly appointed 
Directors with their duties and the Group’s culture and values, 
strategy, business model, businesses, operations, risks and 
governance arrangements.

The induction process is reviewed regularly and is updated and 
tailored to ensure that it remains appropriate. Induction and 
briefing meetings are generally open to any Director to attend if 
they wish to.

Committee-specific inductions are also arranged when committee 
membership changes, and these induction processes are tailored 
to the skills and knowledge of the individual and the forthcoming 
committee agenda items. 

Following the appointments of Annette Thomas in September 2023, 
Richard Oldfield in October 2023 and Iain Mackay and Frederic 
Wakeman in January 2024, comprehensive and tailored induction 
programmes were provided and are ongoing. The induction 
processes involve:

•  meeting all members of the GMC and their teams to gain an 
insight into, and an understanding of, the opportunities and 
challenges facing their area of responsibility; and

•  one-to-one meetings with other senior management across 
the Group, including first, second and third lines of defence, 
to understand the Group’s internal control and risk 
management framework.

Chief Financial Officer induction

During 2023, I had the privilege of being appointed to the 
Schroders Board. A comprehensive and tailored induction 
programme was provided to me, which began even before my 
formal appointment, reflecting the organisation’s commitment 
to ensuring a smooth transition for new Board members. 

The induction process was immersive and included 
meeting all members of the GSC, the GMC and members of 
their teams. This provided me with valuable insight into the 
opportunities and challenges within their respective areas of 
responsibility. Additionally, one-to-one meetings with other 
senior management across the Group, including those in the 
first, second, and third lines of defence, including Risk and 
Compliance, Legal, Governance and Internal Audit, helped me 
understand Schroders’ internal control and risk management 
framework. I also had the opportunity to meet with external 
advisers, auditors and regulators, as appropriate. 

I am grateful to my colleagues on the Board for their 
unwavering support. I have had the pleasure of meeting 
people from various areas of the business, both before and 
after my appointment, and have been impressed by the 
depth of Schroders’ culture that runs throughout the 
organisation. These interactions have accelerated my 
understanding of the business and its operations. 

Overall, the induction has been a comprehensive and 
enriching experience, equipping me for my role at Schroders. 

Richard Oldfield  
Chief Financial Officer

57

Schroders Annual Report and Accounts 2023Strategic reportShareholder informationFinancial statementsGovernance 
Corporate governance report continued

Compliance with the 2018 UK Corporate Governance Code (Code)1
During 2023, the Board complied with the Code and applied all its principles and provisions.

The following table sets out examples of how the Board has applied each principle, assisting our shareholders to evaluate our Code compliance.

Code principle

Board leadership and company purpose

A Role of the Board

The Company is led by an effective Board which is collectively responsible for the long-term sustainable success 
of the Company, ensuring that due regard is paid to the interests of our stakeholders, who include our clients, 
shareholders, employees, external service providers, regulators and wider society.

  See the Key areas of focus during the year on page 60. 

B Our purpose, 
values and 
strategy

The Board has collective responsibility for the management, direction and performance of the Company. Certain 
decisions can only be taken by the Board, including decisions on the Group’s overall strategy, significant new 
business activities and the strategy for management of the Group’s investment capital.

  See Stakeholder interests and engagement on page 61. 

C

Resources 
and controls

The Board reviews the financial performance of the Group at each scheduled meeting and is ultimately 
responsible for the Group’s control framework. The Audit and Risk Committee carries out an annual assessment 
of the effectiveness of the system of internal control on behalf of the Board.

  See the Audit and Risk Committee report on pages 66 to 73. 

D Engagement 

The Board recognises that engaging with and taking account of the views of the Group’s stakeholders is key 
to delivering the strategy and long-term objectives of the Group.

  See page 61. 

E Workforce 

engagement

The Board receives updates on our people and inclusion and diversity strategy during the year. Ian King is our 
designated non-executive Director responsible for gathering workforce feedback and he chairs the Global 
Employee Forum.

  See pages 60 to 61. 

Division of responsibilities

F

The role of 
the Chair

The roles of the Chair and Chief Executive are separate. The Chair has overall responsibility for the leadership of 
the Board and for its effectiveness in all aspects of its operation. Elizabeth Corley became Chair at the conclusion 
of the 2022 AGM and was considered independent on appointment.

  Job descriptions for the Chair and Chief Executive can be found at www.schroders.com/board-matters 

G Board composition

The Board is committed to its stated policy of having an absolute majority of independent Directors. The Board 
believes that it operates most effectively with an appropriate balance of executive Directors, independent 
non-executive Directors and Directors who have a connection with the Company’s Principal Shareholder Group. 
No individual or group of individuals is in a position to dominate the Board’s decision-making.

  See page 53. 

H Role of the 

non-executive 
Directors

Non-executive Directors are expected to provide independent oversight and constructive challenge and 
help develop proposals on strategy, performance and resources, including key appointments and standards 
of conduct.

I

Group Company 
Secretary

All Directors have access to the advice and support of the Group Company Secretary and their team. 
Through them, Directors can arrange to receive additional briefings on the business, external development 
and professional advice, independent of the Company, at the Company’s expense.

1.  The Code is available at www.frc.org.uk

58

 Schroders Annual Report and Accounts 2023Code principle

Composition, succession and evaluation

J

Appointments 
to the Board

The process for Board appointments is led by the Nominations Committee, which makes recommendations 
to the Board.

  See the Nominations Committee report on pages 64 to 65. 

K  Skills, experience 

and knowledge 
of the Board

In 2021, the Nominations Committee carried out a full analysis of the Board to identify the skills and experience 
required by future appointments. This analysis has been updated, and the results formed part of role profiles used 
in the appointments of Annette Thomas and Richard Oldfield in 2023 and Iain Mackay and Frederic Wakeman in 
2024. We will continue to update and use this analysis to help identify future candidates for the Board.

  See the Nominations Committee report on pages 64 to 65. 

L

Board evaluation

The 2023 Board evaluation was undertaken internally by the Chair. Independent Board Evaluation (IBE) facilitated 
an external Board evaluation in 2022 in accordance with the Code requirement. IBE conducted the previous 
externally facilitated Board evaluation in 2019, while the evaluations in 2020 and 2021 were conducted internally 
by the Chair.

  See page 63. 

Audit, risk and internal control

M 

Internal and 
external audit

The Audit and Risk Committee oversees the relationship with the external auditor, Ernst & Young. The Group Head 
of Internal Audit reports directly to the Chair of the Audit and Risk Committee.

  See the Audit and Risk Committee report on pages 66 to 73. 

N Fair, balanced and 
understandable 
assessment

The Audit and Risk Committee reviews the Company’s financial reporting in detail and can recommend to the 
Board that the Annual Report and Accounts, when taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable.

  See the Audit and Risk Committee report on pages 66 to 73. 

O Risk management 
and internal 
control framework

The Audit and Risk Committee carries out an annual assessment of the effectiveness of the system of internal 
control and considers the adequacy of risk management arrangements in the context of the business and 
strategy. The Committee also considers the principal risks, alongside emerging and thematic risks, that may have 
an impact on the Group.

  See the Audit and Risk Committee report on pages 66 to 73. 

Remuneration

P

Policies and 
practices

Executive remuneration is designed to align to our purpose. Our remuneration policy was approved at the 2023 
AGM, following engagement with shareholders, and is expected to apply for three years. 

  See the Remuneration report on pages 74 to 93.

  A summary of our remuneration policy can be found at www.schroders.com/rp 

Q Remuneration 

Policy

The Remuneration Committee provides independent oversight of the Group’s remuneration policy and 
determines the remuneration of the Chair and the executive Directors within the policy approved by shareholders. 
No Director is involved in discussions relating to their own remuneration.

  See the Remuneration report on pages 74 to 93.

  A summary of our remuneration policy can be found at www.schroders.com/rp 

R

Exercising 
independent 
judgement 
and discretion

We pay for performance in a simple and transparent way, clearly aligned to shareholder and client interests, 
to the financial performance of the Group, and the progress made towards our strategic goals.

  See the Remuneration report on pages 74 to 93. 

59

Schroders Annual Report and Accounts 2023Strategic reportShareholder informationFinancial statementsGovernance 
Nominations Committee report

Delivering  
change

Dame Elizabeth Corley
Chair of the Nominations Committee 

Committee membership

Dame Elizabeth Corley (Chair)

Sir Damon Buffini (until 27 April 2023)

Rhian Davies

Paul Edgecliffe-Johnson (until 31 August 2023)

Claire Fitzalan Howard 

Rakhi Goss-Custard

Ian King

Iain Mackay (from 1 January 2024)

Leonie Schroder

Annette Thomas (from 1 September 2023)

Frederic Wakeman (from 1 January 2024)

Deborah Waterhouse 

Matthew Westerman 

See page 55 for meeting attendance

64

In my report last year, I set out the priorities for the 
Committee in 2024, which were to focus on executive 
succession and to continue to evolve the Board to ensure 
it has the right skills to support the delivery of our strategy. 
I also commented that succession planning was something 
we intended to think about constantly to ensure we were 
well placed for both foreseen and unforeseen changes to 
the Board and its Committees. 

This point was well illustrated in 2023 when Paul Edgecliffe-Johnson 
had to step down from the Board to focus on his new executive role. 
We were sorry to see Paul go, but fully understood his reasons and 
he left with our best wishes. 

We had anticipated that Paul would succeed Rhian Davies as 
Chair of the Audit and Risk Committee as she was nearing the end 
of her term on the Board. We were able to overcome this as we had 
been having ongoing discussions with Iain Mackay, someone we 
had identified as having key skills we were looking for, in particular 
knowledge of complex global organisations operating in many 
of the international markets in which we operate. His experience 
as Chief Financial Officer of two major FTSE 100 companies, also 
addressed one of our identified skills needs. In April we announced 
that Iain would join the Board in January 2024, once he had 
retired from GSK. Iain has joined the Audit and Risk Committee 
and will become Chair of the Committee when Rhian steps down 
at the AGM.

We made two other non-executive appointments in the year. Both of 
these were as a result of our analysis of the skills we need to ensure 
the Board can support the delivery of our strategy. As we went into 
2023, we had already identified one gap: that we needed to have 
more private markets experience on the Board. We continued to 
use the services of Russell Reynolds for our non-executive searches. 
We have benefitted from this continuity as they fully understand our 
needs on an holistic basis. Other than for advice on Board positions, 
they do not have any other relationship with the Company. 

The search for someone with the right private markets experience 
who would fit our culture and add wider value to the Board was a 
challenging brief. We considered many highly credible candidates. 
As is usual with us, all Directors meet with all short-listed candidates 
to ensure we have full support from the Board for any appointment. 
Frederic Wakeman emerged as our preferred candidate. His 
experience in private equity spans over 20 years in both the US 
and UK and will be invaluable as we continue to grow our private 
markets business. 

Given the specific nature of this search, we also involved the head of 
our private markets business in the process. We were delighted to 
announce Fred’s appointment to the Board from 1 January this year.

Our other non-executive search followed the same process. Our 
focus was on another key skill, digital disruption. Annette Thomas 
was identified early in the process as an outstanding candidate. Her 
data driven mindset and her experience will contribute significantly 
in a number of areas including sustainability, data, diversity, family 
or foundation owned companies and disrupted industries. She also 
had recent experience of being a Chief Executive. Given all the 
attributes Annette would bring, the Committee was clear we had 
found an ideal candidate and unanimously recommended the 
appointment of Annette to the Board. Annette joined us in 
September 2023.

Extensive references on all three non-executives were excellent.

The Committee’s focus has not just been on non-executive 
succession. Richard Keers let us know in 2022 that he would like 
us to plan for his retirement once a successor had been identified. 
To ensure a comprehensive and unbiased evaluation of potential 
candidates, both internal and external, we collaborated with 
Spencer Stuart, the executive search firm. In addition to this 
assignment, Spencer Stuart provide executive search and 
assessment services to us, including coaching services. 

 Schroders Annual Report and Accounts 2023 
Policy on Board Diversity

The Board recognises the importance of diversity and 
that it is a wider issue than gender and ethnicity.

We look for diversity of skills, thought, experience and 
background, which is important for the effectiveness of 
our Board, its Committees and the management team. 
This will continue to be the primary criterion by which 
we select candidates. Diversity across our whole 
workforce is discussed by the full Board. The specific 
diversity targets for the Group are set by the Board, on 
recommendation from management, as part of our 
annual review of people strategy.

The Board understands the importance of increasing 
gender and ethnic diversity and is committed to have 
a minimum of 40% of Board positions held by women and 
to meet the Parker Review’s recommendations of at least 
one director from an ethnic minority on the Board. 
Currently we meet both these gender and ethnicity 
recommendations as, following the AGM, women will 
comprise 50% of the Board and we have two ethnic 
minority Directors. We intend only to use the services 
of executive search firms which have signed up to the 
Voluntary Code of Conduct on Gender Diversity.

There is a full description of our approach to diversity and 
inclusion on pages 18 to 19 and 96. Our gender diversity 
statistics for both the Board and senior management can 
be found on page 96. 

Priorities for 2024
We have seen considerable change on the Board in the recent past. 
Four of the Board have been appointed in the last year and only 
three Directors have served more than five years. Our focus will be 
on integrating the new members of the Board and establishing an 
effective dynamic across the whole Group. 

We will also continue to focus on executive succession, building on 
the work undertaken in 2022 and 2023. The key members of the 
executive team now attend Board meetings so that the Board can 
benefit from their input but also to help develop the team by involving 
them in the Board’s discussions. 

Dame Elizabeth Corley
Chair of the Nominations Committee 

28 February 2024

Responsibilities of the 
Nominations Committee

The Committee is responsible for keeping under review the 
composition of the Board and its Committees and for ensuring 
appropriate executive and non-executive Director succession 
plans are in place.

The Committee’s terms of reference are available on the 
Company’s website at www.schroders.com/board-committees.

Biographical details and experience of the Committee 
members are set out on pages 50 to 53. 

The detailed candidate specification was centred on our overall 
strategic objectives and the integral role the Chief Financial Officer 
would play in achieving these. This was pivotal in defining the 
required competencies and experiences for the prospective Chief 
Financial Officer.

Spencer Stuart employed their proprietary executive intelligence 
evaluation tool to assess the competencies of both internal and 
external candidates, in order to assess all candidates on an equal 
footing and to ensure that the selection process was objective 
and fair. 

Following a rigorous assessment and selection process in which 
we interviewed five short listed candidates, we were delighted to 
announce the appointment of Richard Oldfield as our new Chief 
Financial Officer. Richard’s extensive experience, including his tenure 
as a partner at PwC, combined with his alignment with Schroders’ 
strategic direction and values, made him the standout candidate for 
this critical role. Richard joined us on 2 October 2023.

Directors standing for election and re-election
Rhian Davies will stand down at the conclusion of the AGM in April 
and is therefore not offering herself for re-election. At our February 
2024 meeting the Committee reviewed all Directors standing for 
election or re-election and concluded that each makes a valuable 
contribution to the Board’s deliberations and recommends their 
election and re-election. This recommendation includes Ian King 
and Rakhi Goss-Custard, both of whom have served on the Board 
for more than six years. In making this recommendation, the 
Committee took into account feedback from the evaluation 
interviews undertaken by me and our Company Secretary. 

As required by the UK Listing Rules, the appointment of independent 
Directors must be approved by a simple majority of all shareholders 
and by a simple majority of the independent shareholders. Further 
details are set out in the 2024 Notice of AGM.

Evaluating the performance of the Committee
The internal evaluation process for 2023 is set out in detail on page 
63. The overall conclusions for the Committee were that we had 
delivered well on our core succession challenges. The process we 
follow is thorough and can be quite lengthy given our policy of having 
all Directors meet shortlisted candidates. Committee members are 
aware that this process can lead to delays in reaching conclusions, 
but felt that we benefit from having everyone involved and not 
delegating to a smaller group to make these important decisions. 
We will therefore continue with this approach for future appointments. 

65

Schroders Annual Report and Accounts 2023Strategic reportShareholder informationFinancial statementsGovernance 
Audit and Risk Committee report

Strengthening 
our controls to 
respond to new 
challenges 

Rhian Davies
Chair of the Audit and Risk Committee

Committee membership

Rhian Davies (Chair)

Paul Edgecliffe-Johnson (until 31 August 2023) 

Rakhi Goss-Custard

Iain Mackay (from 1 January 2024)

Frederic Wakeman (from 1 January 2024)

Deborah Waterhouse 

Matthew Westerman

  See page 55 for meeting attendance

66

I am pleased to present the Committee’s report for the 
year ended 31 December 2023. The Committee plays a key 
role in overseeing the integrity of the Company’s financial 
statements and the robustness of the Group’s system of 
internal control and financial and risk management.

We are grateful for the support of management and the assurance 
and challenge provided by Group Internal Audit and Ernst & Young 
(EY) as external auditor. During the year, the Committee considered 
the proposed legislative and regulatory changes following the 
UK Government’s review of corporate reporting and corporate 
governance and remains actively engaged with assessing the 
implications. The Committee also continued to focus on its 
responsibility for monitoring and oversight of the Group’s control 
environment and system of internal control and the Group’s 
management of risk and compliance-related activities. 

Operational resilience remains a key focus for the Committee, and 
in line with the Financial Conduct Authority’s and the Prudential 
Regulation Authority’s operational resilience regulations, the 
Group’s operational resilience self-assessment was considered by 
the Committee and recommended to the Board for approval. The 
self-assessment identifies our important business services, provides 
information on oversight of critical third parties, sets out impact 
tolerances to avoid intolerable harm to our clients, and identifies 
areas where we should enhance our operational resilience. The 
Committee also considered various operational stress scenarios 
to support the Board’s conclusions on the viability statement and 
going concern set out on page 47. 

The Committee continues to play an important role in reviewing 
conduct and culture risk in the Group and in overseeing the 
evolution of Schroders’ conduct risk framework, which is designed to 
identify emerging trends and heightened areas of risk. Conduct and 
culture risk is informed by a number of elements, including conduct 
risk appetite statements, employee opinion surveys and oversight 
by the second and third line of defence functions. We believe that 
Schroders’ conduct risk framework aligns with regulatory standards.

A large part of our agenda during the year was devoted to 
considering regulatory change. We received a briefing in May and 
a report in November that covered topics such as sustainability 
regulations, Consumer Duty, prudential regulatory change and 
corporate reporting. We also received briefings on business and 
thematic topics during the year, including on the private markets 
business and global standards for client-facing materials.

In the face of escalating cyber attack threats, the Committee 
continues to prioritise cyber security and data privacy whilst 
considering metrics, challenging progress and evaluating the 
necessary technology and operational models to assess the 
Group’s readiness for evolving threats. Additionally, the Committee 
considered the impact of AI, understanding how it can strengthen 
the Group’s defences whilst also recognising its potential risks 
when exploited by adversaries. 

Climate-related risks remain an important topic for the Committee 
and are considered in our quarterly reports. In addition, the 
Board received a briefing which covered how sustainability 
trends are shaping our industry, as well as our progress on key 
issues, including climate change, biodiversity, human rights and 
community investment.

I would like to welcome Richard Oldfield as our new Chief 
Financial Officer, alongside Iain Mackay and Frederic Wakeman, 
who joined the Committee on 1 January 2024. I would like to thank 
Richard Keers for his contribution over ten years and also thank 
Paul Edgecliffe-Johnson for his time on the Committee.

I am grateful to all members of the Committee for their support 
in 2023.

Rhian Davies
Chair of the Audit and Risk Committee 

28 February 2024

 Schroders Annual Report and Accounts 2023 
Role of the Audit and Risk Committee

The principal role of the Committee is to assist the Board in 
fulfilling its oversight responsibilities in relation to financial 
reporting, financial controls and audit, risk and internal controls. 
All members of the Committee are independent non-executive 
Directors. Biographical details and the experience of Committee 
members are set out on pages 50 to 53. 

The Board has determined that, by virtue of their previous 
experience gained in other organisations, members collectively 
have the competence relevant to the sector in which the Group 
operates. In addition, the Board considers that Rhian Davies, 
a chartered accountant, has the recent and relevant financial 
experience required to chair the Committee. Invitations to attend 
all Committee meetings are extended to the Chair, Group Chief 
Executive and Chief Financial Officer and Directors who are not 
members attend on an ad hoc basis. Other regular attendees who 

advised the Committee were the Global Head of Finance, the 
Chief Risk Officer, the Head of Group Internal Audit and the 
Group General Counsel. Other members of senior management 
were also invited to attend as appropriate. The Chair of the Wealth 
Management Audit and Risk Committee (WMARC), who is an 
independent non-executive Director of Schroder & Co. Limited, 
attended one meeting of the Committee and provided an update 
to each meeting on matters related to the wealth management 
business. Representatives from EY, including James Beszant, 
Lead Audit Partner for the 2023 financial year, attended all of 
the Committee’s scheduled meetings. 

Private meetings are held with the external auditor without 
management present. Private meetings were also held with the 
Chief Financial Officer, Chief Risk Officer, and Head of Group 
Internal Audit. These meetings provide an opportunity for any 
matters to be raised confidentially. 

The Committee’s primary responsibilities are the oversight of:

Financial reporting, financial controls and audit

•  The content and integrity of financial and Pillar 3 reporting.

•  The appropriateness of accounting estimates and judgements.

•  The effectiveness of the financial control framework.

•  The effectiveness and independence of the external auditor.

•  The recommendation to the Board of the appointment of the external auditor.

Risk and internal controls

•  The Group’s risk and control framework, whistleblowing procedures and the financial crime framework.

•  The Group’s ICAAP, ILAAP, wind-down plan, risk appetite, recovery plan and resolution process and operational resilience self-assessment. 

•  The Group’s regulatory compliance and conduct processes and procedures, and its relationships with regulators and compliance monitoring.

•  The Group’s Internal Audit function.

•  The Group’s legal risk profile and disputes.

•  Emerging and thematic risks that may have a material impact on the Group’s operations. 

•  Information and cyber security, technology risk and resilience, and the emerging risk of AI.

67

Schroders Annual Report and Accounts 2023Strategic reportShareholder informationFinancial statementsGovernance 
Audit and Risk Committee report continued

Key areas of focus during 2023

The key areas that the Committee considered are set out below. In addition, at each quarterly meeting, the Committee received updates from 
Internal Audit, Compliance, Risk, Legal and external audit, covering ongoing projects and the key issues that had arisen since the last meeting, 
and reviewed a dashboard of metrics to monitor key risks. The dashboard also includes metrics covering Internal Audit and the status of 
relevant change projects and sustainability targets. 

Financial reporting and financial controls
•  As part of the Group’s annual reporting cycle, the Committee 
considered the 2022 Annual Report and Accounts and 2023 
half-year results, including financial estimates and judgements 
and governance considerations. Ahead of preparing the 2023 
Annual Report and Accounts, updates were provided on the 
effectiveness of our internal controls, and on the Group 
accounting policies. The going concern and viability statements, 
Pillar 3 regulatory disclosures and climate-related disclosures 
were also considered.

•  The Group Head of Tax updated the Committee on the Group’s 
tax strategy, our approach to tax risk, the key tax risks facing 
the Group and how the Group’s effective tax rate is expected 
to evolve in the coming years.

External audit
•  When considering the 2022 Annual Report and Accounts, 
the Committee assessed the oversight and independence 
of the external auditor and audit effectiveness.

•  In relation to audit quality and effectiveness, the Committee 

discussed the results of the external auditor feedback 
questionnaire and noted the areas of improvement that had 
been identified. EY presented plans to respond to the feedback, 
and these were discussed by the Committee. The Committee 
reviewed EY’s audit plan for 2023, including key audit matters 
and focus areas. Fees for non-audit services were reviewed 
and approved by the Committee. 

•  Policies for safeguarding the independence of the external 

auditor were considered and re-approved. 

Internal Audit
•  As part of the governance considerations for the 2022 Annual 
Report and Accounts, the Committee considered the annual 
assessment of the Group’s governance and risk and control 
framework, conducted by Group Internal Audit.

•  The Committee approved the appointment of a new Head of 

Group Internal Audit.

•  The Internal Audit Charter was reviewed and re-approved 

with minor amendments. 

•  Looking ahead to 2024, the Committee considered and 

approved the 2024 Internal Audit and Compliance Testing plan, 
which is based on an assessment of the risks the business faces.

Risk and internal controls
•  When reviewing the 2022 Annual Report and Pillar 3 disclosures 

and 2023 half-year results, the Committee considered the Group’s 
key risks and risk management framework. The Chair of the 
WMARC provided an update on the activities of the WMARC and 
its oversight of the financial reporting, risk management and 
internal controls of the entities within Wealth Management.

•  The Committee considered the ICAAP, ILAAP, Group wind-down 

plan, Group recovery plan and operational resilience self-
assessment for recommendation to the Board. The approach 
taken for the Group’s resolution process was also considered. 
The Committee approved the stress scenarios for use in the 
Internal Capital and Risk Assessment required for Schroder 
Investment Management Limited under the Investment Firms 
Prudential Regime.

•  The Group Head of Financial Crime Compliance provided a 

review of financial crime risk, including updates on the regulatory 
landscape and effectiveness of the Group Financial Crime 
framework, and on the Group’s Financial Crime control systems. 

•  Thematic issues were considered throughout the year, including 

operational resilience, whistleblowing, and our conduct and 
culture risk oversight. 

•  The findings of the auditor’s assessment of our cyber security 
capabilities in light of the cyber risks posed to the Group were 
presented to the Committee. 

•  The Committee reviewed climate-related disclosures in line with 
the TCFD framework and recommended the Group’s Climate 
Report 2022 to the Board for approval. Sustainability risks were 
also considered as part of the Committee’s review of key risks. 
The Financial Reporting Council (FRC) performed a limited scope 
review of our TCFD disclosures of metrics and targets in our 
2022 Annual Report and Accounts as part of a thematic review 
and raised no issues.

•  The Global Head of Finance provided an update on the proposed 
legislative and regulatory changes following the UK Government’s 
review of corporate reporting and corporate governance.

68

 Schroders Annual Report and Accounts 2023Significant accounting estimates and judgements

The preparation of the financial statements requires the application of certain estimates and judgements. The material areas of either 
estimation or judgement are set out in the note on the presentation of the financial statements on pages 152 and 153. Each of these areas 
is considered by the Committee based on reports prepared by management. EY presents to the Committee the audit procedures performed, 
challenges raised to management, and conclusions reached on areas of judgement and estimation. Further information on how EY challenged 
management is included within the independent auditor’s report on pages 175 to 181. The significant estimates and judgements considered in 
respect of the 2023 financial statements and the Committee’s agreed actions are summarised below.

Significant estimates and judgements

Action and conclusion 

Pension schemes

The Group’s principal defined benefit pension scheme (Scheme) 
is in respect of certain UK employees and former employees. 
The Scheme was closed to future accrual on 30 April 2011 and, as at 
31 December 2023, had a funding surplus. The pension obligation, 
which was valued as £575.1 million at the year end, is estimated 
based on a number of assumptions, including mortality rates, future 
investment returns, interest rates and inflation. The Scheme’s assets 
are invested in a portfolio designed to generate returns that closely 
align with known cash flow requirements and to hedge the interest 
rate and inflation risks.

Group Finance provided the Committee with a report that included 
the key financial assumptions, which had been applied by the 
independent qualified actuaries, Aon Solutions UK Limited, to 
determine the Scheme surplus. EY’s report to the Committee set 
out its audit procedures and conclusions on the pension assets and 
liabilities, including those procedures completed by EY’s specialists. 
The Committee considered and challenged the proposed 
assumptions and was satisfied that the estimates were appropriate.

  Please refer to note 23 for more information on the estimates and judgements made in respect of the Scheme. 

Carried interest

The Group recognises carried interest from its private markets 
business. This revenue stream is dependent on the future value 
of certain investments that may not crystallise until an uncertain 
date in the future. The Group is contractually committed to make 
payments based on a relevant proportion of carried interest 
received to various parties, including as part of deferred 
consideration arrangements.

For financial reporting purposes, the Group is required to estimate 
the value of carried interest receivable, in accordance with the 
requirements of IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers; 
and the fair value of related amounts payable based on the 
requirements of IFRS 9 Financial Instruments.

The key inputs used in determining carried interest comprised 
the fair value of the relevant assets on which carried interest may 
be earned, future growth rates, the expected realisation dates 
and the discount rates.

The Committee received a report from Group Finance, which 
reviewed the assumptions and inputs for estimating the amounts 
receivable and payable in respect of carried interest. The Committee 
also received a presentation from the Schroders Capital senior 
management team on the framework for the valuation of relevant 
assets, which is an important input into the calculation of carried 
interest. The Committee challenged management and considered 
the judgement applied in determining the principal assumptions, 
and the sensitivity of the relevant balances to those assumptions.

The Committee discussed the accounting for carried 
interest with EY and considered the findings from its audit 
work. Once the Committee was satisfied with the estimates and 
judgements applied, the estimated carrying values were approved.

The Committee considered the disclosures presented in respect 
of 2023 and concluded that they were appropriate.

  Please refer to note 2 for the estimates and judgements made in respect of carried interest receivable and amounts payable in respect of carried interest. 

Restructuring costs 

The consolidated income statement separately presents items that 
are restructuring in nature. This presentation is permitted by 
accounting rules for specific items of income or expense that are 
considered material. The presentation involves judgement by the 
Group to identify the items that warrant specific disclosure in 
accordance with accounting standards.

  Please refer to note 3 for more information.  

The Committee considered, and was satisfied with, the  
presentation of restructuring costs within a separate line item  
on the consolidated income statement. Restructuring costs are 
one-off in nature and have been incurred in reorganising parts 
of the Group to drive cost efficiencies and allow reinvestment in 
building the skills needed to support the future growth of the 
business. They principally comprise compensation-related costs 
and project expenditure. 

This presentation is considered appropriate as it provides a 
transparent view of the restructuring activity undertaken. In forming 
their conclusions, the Committee considered the audit work 
completed by EY and their conclusions.

69

Schroders Annual Report and Accounts 2023Strategic reportShareholder informationFinancial statementsGovernance 
Audit and Risk Committee report continued

Financial reporting and financial controls
The Committee reviews whether suitable accounting policies have 
been adopted and whether management has made appropriate 
estimates and judgements, including those summarised on 
page 69. The Committee is also required to report to shareholders 
on the process it followed in its review of significant estimates 
and judgements that it considered during the year, as set out 
on page 153. 

Financial reporting is reliant on there being an appropriate financial 
control environment. The Committee receives reports on the 
existing control environment as well as plans to enhance controls 
in the future, along with progress made against previous planned 
changes. These reports provide a detailed summary of the controls 
that exist across the Finance function globally and support the 
Group’s risk and control assessments. For more details, see pages 
38 to 43. In 2023, the reports focused on the risks involved in 
integrating acquired businesses with our finance operating 
platforms and key operational changes, including the transfer 
of our transfer agency platform to HSBC and migration of our 
principal banking relationship from Citibank to HSBC.

The Committee considers other controls that might have an impact 
on financial reporting. During 2023, the Committee considered EY’s 
assessment of the cyber risks posed to the Group. The Committee 
also reviews the Group’s tax strategy annually, which is discussed 
with the external auditors.

The financial control environment, including our information 
technology environment, is also subject to audit procedures by 
the Group’s internal and external auditors. After considering 
reports from Group Finance, Internal Audit and EY, the Committee 
considered that an effective system of internal control had been 
in place during the course of 2023.

The Committee conducted an in-depth review of the Group’s 
financial projections and the application of appropriate stress 
scenarios. The Committee took into account the impact of risks, 
including climate change and prevailing macroeconomic factors, 
so that it can recommend that the Board can make the viability 
statement, as set out on page 47, and to support the going concern 
basis of preparation of the financial statements.

Legal
Legal reports provide the Committee with information about 
emerging legal risks and notable developments in new law and 
regulation. The reports also provide detail on any material ongoing 
disputes and litigation in which the Group is interested or may have 
exposure. During the year, notable topics on which the Committee 
was briefed included global developments on sustainable finance 
regulation, UK regulatory reform proposals and data privacy.

Risk and internal controls
The Board has overall responsibility for the Company’s system of 
internal control, the ongoing monitoring of risk and internal control 
systems and for reporting on any significant failings or weaknesses. 
The system of controls is designed to manage rather than eliminate 
the risk of failure to achieve the Group’s strategic objectives and can 
only provide reasonable assurance against material misstatement 
or loss. The Board has delegated to the Committee responsibility for 
monitoring and reviewing the effectiveness of the risk and internal 
control framework.

The Committee carried out the annual assessment of the 
effectiveness of internal controls during 2023, including those 
related to the financial reporting process. The Committee also 
considered the adequacy of the Group’s risk management 
arrangements in the context of the Group’s business and strategy. 
In carrying out this assessment, the Committee reviews the results 
of the annual risk and control assessments, any significant risk 
events, and actions taken to remediate these. The Committee also 
considered reports from the Global Head of Finance, Group General 
Counsel, Chief Risk Officer, Head of Group Internal Audit and EY. 
This enabled an evaluation of the effectiveness of the Group’s 
internal control framework. As part of the internal controls process, 
each member of the GMC has attested to the appropriateness 
and adequacy of risk management arrangements in their area, 
and has confirmed that appropriate controls are in place. The 
Group continually works to enhance systems to support and 
improve the control environment.

Fair, balanced and understandable

A key focus for the Committee is its work in assisting the Board 
in confirming that the Annual Report and Accounts, when taken 
as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable and assessing 
whether it provides the information necessary for shareholders 
to assess the Group’s position and performance, business model 
and strategy. In assessing this, the Committee considered the 

key messages communicated in the 2023 Annual Report and 
Accounts, as well as the information provided to the Committee 
and the Board as a whole during the year.

The Committee, having completed its review, recommended to 
the Board that, when taken as a whole, the 2023 Annual Report 
and Accounts is fair, balanced and understandable and provides 
the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Group’s 
position and performance, business model and strategy.

70

 Schroders Annual Report and Accounts 2023Risk and Compliance
Risk and Compliance reports set out changes in the level or nature 
of the key risks faced by the Group. They also cover developments 
in the approach to managing these risks, and provide information 
on operational risk events.

The reports outlined the Group’s management of key regulatory 
engagements and change programmes throughout the year 
and the planning and execution of the compliance assurance 
programme covering testing, monitoring and automated 
surveillance. Additional specific reports allowed the Committee 
to consider a range of factors when determining the key emerging 
and thematic risks and uncertainties faced by the Group. These 
included assessments of risk tolerance and stress testing of the 
Group’s capital position, as well as the production of the Group’s 
operational resilience self-assessment, recovery plan, resolution 
process and wind-down plan.

The Committee reviewed the Group’s arrangements in relation 
to conflicts of interest, financial crime, operational resilience, 
information and technology risk, and conduct and culture risk. 
The Committee also considered regulatory change and the 
supervisory horizon, engagement with regulators, cyber resilience, 
office physical security, oversight of third-party suppliers, and the 
Group’s whistleblowing arrangements. The programme of work for 
2024 will include assessing the UK’s Economic Crime and Corporate 
Transparency Act 2023.

Further information can be found in the Risk management section 
of the Strategic report set out on pages 38 to 43. 

Internal Audit
The Committee has authority to appoint or remove the Head of 
Group Internal Audit, who reports directly to the Chair of the 
Committee. During 2023, the Committee approved the appointment 
of a new Head of Group Internal Audit, the Internal Audit Charter 
and the Internal Audit strategy.

The Committee also has responsibility for approving the Internal 
Audit budget and being satisfied that the function has appropriate 
resources and skills and continues to be an effective and valued 
assurance function within the Group. The function monitors 
developments in internal audit practices and undertakes quality 
and assurance activities. In satisfying itself as to the quality and 
expertise of the function, the Committee reviews reports on 
progress against a rolling plan of audits approved annually by 
the Committee. These reports include any significant findings 
from audits performed, including any observations on culture 
and recommendations to improve the control environment, and 
their subsequent remediation. In addition, the Committee had 
regular interaction with the Head of Group Internal Audit, both 
at Committee meetings and also through other regular meetings 
outside the formal schedule.

The Committee also reviewed progress against the 2022 
independent external audit quality assessment of the Internal Audit 
function and was pleased to note the introduction of internal audit 
KPIs to enhance transparency. The function also made good 
progress in its development of a data analytics capability to deliver 
additional insights and efficiencies, and these will continue in 2024. 

During 2023, a broad range of audits were conducted across the 
business, both in the UK and overseas. The 2023 Internal Audit plan 
was continually reassessed by the Committee and Internal Audit to 
allow for the appropriate allocation of resources and to remain in 
line with the risk profile of the business. The annual compliance 
testing and Internal Audit plans are developed using a risk-based 
approach to provide proportionate assurance over the Group’s 
controls for the key risks set out on pages 38 to 43. For example, 
as in previous years, in 2024 a range of audits will be undertaken 
by IT auditors to test the adequacy of aspects of the Group’s cyber 
security and other technology risks. Planned audits also include: 
investment teams across business segments; sustainability-related 
processes; Schroders Capital; key back-office activities; a broad 
range of business activities in Asia Pacific; infrastructure functions 
and Wealth Management. As well as undertaking internal audit 
projects, senior Group Internal Audit staff attend relevant oversight 
and management committees and regulated entity board meetings 
to provide input and challenge on the topics discussed.

Oversight of the external auditor
Auditor oversight conclusion
The Committee is satisfied with EY’s work and that it is objective 
and independent. Accordingly, the Committee has recommended 
to the Board that a resolution be put to the 2024 AGM for the 
reappointment of EY as external auditor, and the Board has 
accepted this recommendation.

The Committee places great importance on the quality, 
effectiveness and independence of the external audit process. 
The Committee oversees the relationship with EY, including 
safeguarding independence, approving non-audit fees, 
recommending the auditor’s appointment at the AGM and 
determining the auditor’s remuneration. 

The external audit was last put out to tender in 2016, with 
EY replacing PwC as the Group’s auditor for the financial year 
commencing 1 January 2018. The next external audit tender will 
take place within ten years of EY’s appointment, and by 2027 at 
the latest. We periodically perform an assessment to maintain the 
highest possible audit quality and will conduct a competitive tender 
process in advance of this date if it is considered to be in the best 
interests of the Company. In line with requirements, the lead audit 
partner has been rotated after five years and James Beszant has 
taken over as Lead Audit Partner for the 2023 audit. The Committee 
confirms that the Company has complied with, throughout the year 
under review and as at the date of this report, the provisions of the 
Competition and Markets Authority (Penalties) Order 2014 relating 
to the UK audit market for large companies.

71

Schroders Annual Report and Accounts 2023Strategic reportShareholder informationFinancial statementsGovernance 
Audit and Risk Committee report continued

During the 2023 financial year, the Committee commissioned EY 
to perform “agreed upon procedures” over climate and financial 
metrics included within the executive Directors’ scorecard. There 
were no other changes requested, as the Committee considered 
the scope of the audit and concluded that it was sufficient. 

Assessment of audit quality and effectiveness
The Committee is responsible for evaluating the performance of 
the external auditor. In February 2023, ahead of the consideration 
of the 2022 Annual Report and Accounts, the Committee received 
initial feedback on the conduct of the 2022 audit, which identified no 
significant areas of concern. A full assessment of the external auditor 
was carried out by way of a questionnaire prepared in accordance 
with the FRC’s guidance and completed by key stakeholders. 
Interviews with senior managers and Group Finance were also held. 
The findings of the questionnaire were presented to the Committee 
in May 2023. EY generally scored highly in the auditor effectiveness 
questionnaire and was assessed to have further improved in the 
fifth year of its audit. Areas of improvement were identified and 
discussed with EY to allow for enhancements to be made ahead 
of the 2023 audit.

The Committee reviewed the 2023 external audit plan presented 
to the Committee in May 2023, and the amendments required to that 
plan as a result of the findings of the FRC Audit Quality Review (AQR) 
of the 2022 audit, and additional work undertaken. The plan included 
considering the impact of continued market volatility as a result of 
global macroeconomic and political factors. Updates were received 
from the external auditor throughout the year, demonstrating that 
professional scepticism had been applied through challenge of 
judgements, estimates and disclosures. Matters arising from the 
audit were communicated to the Committee on an ongoing basis. 

The Committee reviewed EY’s transparency report and discussed 
the findings from the EY audit quality inspection report published 
by the FRC. The Committee discussed the impact on the Schroders 
audit plan, how EY maintains and monitors a high-quality 
audit generally through its UK Sustainable Audit Quality Programme. 
EY undertakes a range of processes that are designed to promote, 
embed and monitor audit quality. The structure of the audit team has 
been designed by the Lead Audit Partner to deliver and maintain a 
high-quality audit. EY continues to assess the structure, experience 
and knowledge of the team, with a view to maintaining and enhancing 
audit quality. In making this assessment, the Committee and EY have 
discussed and considered several Audit Quality Indicators (AQIs). 
These include: audit planning milestones; hours spent; internal and 
external reviews and results; training undertaken and experience 
of the team; senior team members’ responsibilities and their time 
commitments; and the extent to which specialists are involved in 
the audit.

The FRC AQR team, responsible for monitoring the quality of UK 
audits, reviewed the EY audit file for the Group’s 31 December 
2022 year end as part of its regular cycle of audit inspections. 
The Committee have reviewed the FRC’s report on the audit and the 
AQR’s areas for improvement with respect to revenue and general 

ledger journal entry testing. In the February meeting, the Committee 
discussed with EY the amendments made to their approach in the 
2023 audit, including additional testing, and were satisfied with the 
changes made.

In February 2024, ahead of the consideration of the 2023 Annual 
Report and Accounts, the Committee received initial feedback on 
the conduct of EY’s 2023 audit, including how the AQR findings 
were addressed. The detailed assessment of EY’s 2023 audit will 
be considered by the Committee at its May 2024 meeting and 
any findings will be implemented for the 2024 audit.

Independence and non-audit services
The Committee has responsibility for monitoring the independence 
and objectivity of the external auditor. Since its appointment, EY has 
continued to confirm its independence and this remained the case 
during 2023 and prior to issuing its opinion on the Annual Report 
and Accounts. In addition to the annual review of effectiveness, 
the Committee considered EY’s independence and objectivity 
throughout the year. No Committee member has a connection 
with the external auditor.

A key factor in ensuring auditor independence is the Committee’s 
consideration of the provision of certain non-audit services by EY. 
The Committee maintains a policy on the engagement of the 
auditor for the provision of non-audit services to safeguard its 
independence and objectivity. This policy is reviewed annually and 
takes account of relevant regulatory restrictions and guidance in 
the jurisdictions in which the Group operates, including those in the 
UK. The policy prohibits the provision of certain non-audit services 
and contains rules regarding the Committee approving permitted 
non-audit services.

Details of the total fees paid to EY are set out in note 3c to the 
accounts. The policy on non-audit services restricts the appointment 
of EY to the provision of services that are closely related to the 
audit. Other services, where they are not prohibited, may also 
be considered, but these will not normally be approved by the 
Committee. Certain services that are provided to the Group are 
closely related to the audit but are not required by regulation. 
The Committee considers that these services are most appropriately 
performed by the Group’s external auditor as they support the 
statutory audit and provide the external auditor with relevant insights 
on aspects of the business, although they are not necessarily directly 
related to the financial statements.

Non-audit fees, excluding audit-related assurance services required 
under regulation, equated to 19% of audit fees (2022:15%).

During 2023, non-audit services mainly comprised assurance services 
in respect of controls reports and regulatory reporting normally 
conducted by the Group’s external auditor. These services are 
assurance in nature and are not considered to present a risk 
to independence.

72

 Schroders Annual Report and Accounts 2023Audit Committees and the External Audit:  
Minimum Standard
In May 2023, the FRC published the Audit Committees and the External 
Audit: Minimum Standard, which took effect immediately for FTSE 350 
companies on a comply or explain basis. This report describes how 
the Committee has complied with each relevant provision of the 
Minimum Standard during the year.

Evaluating the performance of the Committee 
The annual evaluation of the Committee’s effectiveness was 
undertaken as part of the overall Board evaluation process.

The findings relating to the Committee were discussed with 
the Committee Chair, who is considered diligent with an inclusive 
style. The Committee operates efficiently and management are 
well prepared and collaborative. 

Committee’s assessment of internal control 
and risk management arrangements
The Committee was content with the effectiveness of the 
Group’s processes governing financial and regulatory reporting 
and controls, its culture, its ethical standards and its relationships 
with regulators. The Committee was also satisfied with the 
appropriateness and adequacy of the Group’s risk management 
arrangements and supporting risk management systems, including: 
the risk monitoring processes, internal controls framework and 
the three lines of defence model.

Priorities for 2024
As well as considering the standing items of business, the Committee 
will also focus on the following areas in 2024:

•  Cyber and technology risk.

•  Thematic risks, including climate.

•  Operational resilience.

•  Regulatory change.

By order of the Board.

Rhian Davies
Chair of the Audit and Risk Committee 

28 February 2024

73

Schroders Annual Report and Accounts 2023Strategic reportShareholder informationFinancial statementsGovernance 
Remuneration report

Paying for 
performance in  
a sustainable and 
transparent way

Matthew Westerman
Chair of the Remuneration Committee

Structure of the remuneration report

Report from the Committee Chair

Notes to the report on remuneration

74

84

Committee membership

Matthew Westerman (Chair)

Sir Damon Buffini (until 27 April 2023)

Rhian Davies

Ian King

Annette Thomas (from 1 September 2023)

Deborah Waterhouse

  See page 55 for meeting attendance and page 56 
for a summary of the responsibilities of the Committee.

Changes made to the 
implementation of our policy… 
served to reinforce our 
commitments to sustainability.

74

On behalf of the Remuneration Committee, I am pleased 
to provide an overview of both executive Director and 
wider workforce remuneration for the 2023 financial year. 

As a Committee, the year was focused on implementing the 
remuneration policy which was well received by shareholders 
at the 2023 AGM. Last year, we engaged in discussions with 
investors regarding the changes made to the implementation 
of our policy, which served to reinforce our commitments to 
sustainability within our executive reward framework. A summary 
of our shareholder-approved executive Director remuneration 
policy is shown on page 77. 

Appointing a new Chief Financial Officer
In April 2023, we announced that, after a long and distinguished 
career, Richard Keers had decided to retire. He stepped down as 
Chief Financial Officer on 2 October 2023 and continued as an 
employee of Schroders until 31 December 2023. Richard Keers was 
eligible for a bonus for the year worked, based on his performance 
and contribution during this period. After completing ten years with 
Schroders, he will retain the deferred portions of bonuses earned 
in previous years. His outstanding LTIP awards will be pro-rated to 
reflect the time elapsed through his departure date. He will not 
receive an LTIP grant in 2024 and shareholding requirements will 
continue to apply for two years after stepping down.

Richard Oldfield succeeded Richard Keers as Chief Financial Officer 
and executive Director on 2 October 2023. Given Richard Oldfield’s 
extensive experience, qualifications and appointment to the 
same role, the Committee decided to maintain the same salary 
and maximum total compensation levels for the role. Executive 
Director salary levels have remained unchanged since 2014; 
total compensation caps have remained unchanged since their 
introduction in 2020. No buyout or guaranteed bonus awards 
were offered to Richard Oldfield. He was eligible for and received 
a bonus for the portion of 2023 he worked. 

2024 remuneration approach
No changes are proposed to our remuneration policy, which 
received strong support from shareholders at the 2023 AGM. 
The implementation of that policy will also remain unchanged in 
2024. This means executive Director salaries will stay the same 
and the performance measures applying to the 2024 annual 
bonus and LTIP scorecards will be consistent with prior years.

By contrast, the overall increase in salary budget for 2024 for the 
wider workforce was 4.5%. Seeking to balance the cost implications 
with the inflationary pressures faced by our employees in different 
regions, our budget and allocation approach were designed to 
protect lower-paid staff based on their geographic location and 
larger increases were targeted towards individuals with significant 
increases in role or responsibilities.

2023 remuneration outcomes
In 2023, our financial performance remained resilient, showcasing 
the benefits of our client-led strategy in the face of what continue 
to be challenging market conditions. The investments made in our 
strategic growth areas of Wealth Management, Private Markets and 
Solutions in recent years, alongside our know-how in public markets, 
have positioned us with the complete platform to achieve growth.

Performance against predetermined financial targets makes up 
70% of the executive Director annual bonus scorecard. For 2023, 
the financial portion paid out at 55%, reflecting our financial results 
given industry headwinds, favourable investment performance 
for clients and progress against our sustainability objectives. 
A comprehensive review of performance against non-financial 
targets gave rise to an ‘on-target’ outcome for the Group Chief 
Executive and former Chief Financial Officer, and 80% of maximum 
for the new Chief Financial Officer.

 Schroders Annual Report and Accounts 2023Role of the Remuneration Committee

The principal role of the Committee is to 
assist the Board in fulfilling its oversight 
of executive and wider workforce 
remuneration. All members of the 
Committee are independent non-executive 
Directors. Biographical details and the 
experience of members are set out on 
pages 50 to 53. 

The Board has determined that, by virtue 
of their previous experience gained in 
other organisations, members collectively 
have the competence relevant to the 
sector in which the Group operates. 

The Committee’s primary responsibilities 
include: 

•  Reviewing the Group’s remuneration 
strategy and recommending the 
Directors’ remuneration policy to 
the Board

•  Determining the remuneration of 
the Group Chair and the executive 
Directors within the policy approved 
by shareholders

•  Determining the level and structure 
of remuneration for other senior 
executives and the Group Company 
Secretary; reviewing the remuneration 
of the Chief Risk Officer and Head of 
Group Internal Audit; monitoring the 
level and structure of remuneration 
for other Material Risk Takers; and 
overseeing remuneration more 
broadly across the Group

•  Recommending to the Board 

the annual spend on fixed and 
variable remuneration

•  Reviewing the design and operation 
of share-based remuneration, other 
deferred remuneration plans and 
employee carried interest-sharing 
arrangements

•  Overseeing any major change in 
the employee benefits structure 
throughout the Group

•  Reviewing remuneration disclosures 

and compliance with relevant 
requirements

•  Receiving and considering feedback 

from shareholders and representative 
shareholder bodies

The Committee’s terms of reference 
are available on our website at 
www.schroders.com/board-committees

Key areas considered by the Committee in 2023

•  Overall fixed and variable compensation spend for the year
•  Review of compensation outcomes, including control function input, sustainability of earnings, diversity and competitiveness
•  Review of Gender and Ethnicity Pay Gaps
•  Review of remuneration disclosures
•  Executive Director remuneration, including scorecard measure and target setting, review and approval of outcomes
•  Terms of the Chief Financial Officer appointment and departure
•  Regulatory matters, including Material Risk Takers framework, annual internal audit of remuneration and Group Risk Adjustment framework
•  Shareholder and voting agency feedback on remuneration
•  Annual reviews of terms of reference, advisers and GMC shareholding levels

Mindful of the challenging market conditions and wider stakeholder 
experience, the Group Chief Executive requested the Committee 
consider a downwards adjustment to his bonus. In considering 
whether to make an adjustment, the Committee noted the 
year-on-year outcome versus all employees looked favourable. 
However it also recognised that in 2022, the executive Directors 
experienced a decline in bonus of approximately (50)%, a significant 
disconnect versus the median employee experience of (17)%. 
While the Committee ultimately decided against utilising positive 
discretion to improve alignment last year, it makes the year-on-year 
comparison for 2023 misleading. The overall stakeholder experience 
over multiple years was therefore particularly relevant this year. 

The Committee determined that a £250,000 downwards 
discretionary adjustment to the Group Chief Executive’s bonus 
would be appropriate, resulting in a bonus outcome of 72% of 
maximum. This bonus outcome is (26)% on 2021, which is in line 
with the median employee bonus experience over the same period. 

Normally, the 2020 LTIP granted to executive Directors would also 
be vesting this year. However, in 2020, the Group Chief Executive 
and former Chief Financial Officer chose to waive voluntarily their 
LTIP awards in response to the societal challenges of the Covid-19 
pandemic. These LTIP awards with total grant date face value of 
£1 million have therefore already been forfeited in full. This further 
lowers the total compensation received by the executive Directors.

Comparing executive Director outcomes to the change in total 
compensation for employees shows a more favourable experience 
for employees. This reflects the executive Director LTIP waiver 
and the absence of salary increases since 2014. Over this time, 
employees have received regular increases, including significant 
increases where relevant for cost of living considerations. The 
resulting median change in UK employee total compensation since 
2020 is +13% versus the CEO single figure movement over the same 
period of (2)%. 

Change in median UK 
employee total comp. 
since 2020 

Mean annual salary 
increase for employees
in 2023

+13%

+8%

CEO total compensation 
over same period: -2%

Executive Director salaries 
frozen since 2014 

75

Schroders Annual Report and Accounts 2023Strategic reportShareholder informationFinancial statementsGovernance 
Remuneration report continued

Our remuneration philosophy 
Our purpose is to provide excellent investment performance to clients through active management. By serving clients, we serve wider society. 
Channelling capital into sustainable and durable businesses accelerates positive change in the world. Paying our people based on the value 
we create for our stakeholders will secure our ability to deliver our purpose. This is why the remuneration principles underpinning how all our 
people are paid is centred on creating alignment with our key stakeholder groups. 

How our approach to remuneration creates alignment with our key stakeholders

Our key  
stakeholders

Our remuneration  
principles

Our executive Director 
remuneration approach

Aligned with clients
A proportion of variable remuneration for 
higher-earning employees and material risk takers 
is granted as fund awards, which are notional 
investments in funds managed by the Group. This 
aligns the interests of employees and clients.

  Three-year and five-year client  
investment performance included 
in the annual bonus scorecard

  Circa 35% of bonus paid  
in fund awards

Clients

Aligned with shareholders
A proportion of variable remuneration for 
higher-earning employees and material risk takers 
is granted in the form of deferred awards over 
Schroders shares. This aligns the interests of 
employees and shareholders. Executive Directors 
and other members of the GMC are required, over 
time, to acquire and retain a significant holding  
of Schroders shares or rights to shares. Vested 
share-based awards from bonuses are unable to 
be exercised until the requirement has been met.

Shareholders

  Circa 45% of bonus paid in shares

  Stretching shareholding requirements

  Requirement to maintain a level  
of shareholding for two years on 
stepping down

Aligned with financial performance
Our ratio of operating compensation costs to  
net operating income guides the total spend  
on remuneration each year. This is recommended 
by the Committee to the Board.

  Financial metrics comprise  
70% of annual bonus scorecard

  70% of LTIP awards based on 
long-term financial performance

Society and 
environment

Designed to promote the long-term, 
sustainable success of the Group
Sustainable leadership is key to our business and 
flows from our long-term outlook. Performance 
against sustainability goals is considered in the 
annual compensation review for individuals who 
have the ability to influence our investment and 
business operations, ensuring alignment with our 
commitment to responsible practices.

  Annual bonus scorecard includes 
sustainability-aligned metrics in  
both the financial and non-financial 
scorecard elements 

  LTIP includes 30% weighting  
on an investment-focused climate-
related metric, linked to our long-term 
commitment to protecting our planet

Competitive
Employees receive a competitive remuneration 
package, which is reviewed annually and 
benchmarked by reference to the external market. 
This allows us to attract, retain and motivate highly 
talented people, regardless of gender, age, race, 
sexual orientation, disability, religion, socio-
economic background or other diversity facet.

Designed to encourage retention
Deferred variable remuneration does not give  
rise to any immediate entitlement. Awards 
normally require the participant to be employed 
continuously by the Group until at least the third 
anniversary of grant in order to vest in full.

  Competitiveness considered by 
reference to total compensation  
for comparable roles at other large 
international asset management firms

  Benchmarking forms a point of 
reference, not a primary factor in 
remuneration decisions

  Circa 60% of variable pay deferred  
over a three-year to three-and-a-half-
year period

  LTIP subject to four-year deferral  
and one-year holding period

Our people

76

 Schroders Annual Report and Accounts 2023Our key  

stakeholders

Our remuneration  

principles

Our executive Director 

remuneration approach

Aligned with clients

A proportion of variable remuneration for 

higher-earning employees and material risk takers 

is granted as fund awards, which are notional 

investments in funds managed by the Group. This 

aligns the interests of employees and clients.

  Three-year and five-year client  

investment performance included 

in the annual bonus scorecard

  Circa 35% of bonus paid  

in fund awards

Clients

Aligned with shareholders

A proportion of variable remuneration for 

higher-earning employees and material risk takers 

is granted in the form of deferred awards over 

Schroders shares. This aligns the interests of 

employees and shareholders. Executive Directors 

and other members of the GMC are required, over 

time, to acquire and retain a significant holding  

of Schroders shares or rights to shares. Vested 

share-based awards from bonuses are unable to 

be exercised until the requirement has been met.

Shareholders

  Circa 45% of bonus paid in shares

  Stretching shareholding requirements

  Requirement to maintain a level  

of shareholding for two years on 

stepping down

Aligned with financial performance

Our ratio of operating compensation costs to  

net operating income guides the total spend  

on remuneration each year. This is recommended 

by the Committee to the Board.

  Financial metrics comprise  

70% of annual bonus scorecard

  70% of LTIP awards based on 

long-term financial performance

Society and 

environment

Designed to promote the long-term, 

sustainable success of the Group

Sustainable leadership is key to our business and 

flows from our long-term outlook. Performance 

against sustainability goals is considered in the 

annual compensation review for individuals who 

have the ability to influence our investment and 

business operations, ensuring alignment with our 

commitment to responsible practices.

  Annual bonus scorecard includes 

sustainability-aligned metrics in  

both the financial and non-financial 

scorecard elements 

  LTIP includes 30% weighting  

on an investment-focused climate-

related metric, linked to our long-term 

commitment to protecting our planet

Our people

Competitive

Employees receive a competitive remuneration 

package, which is reviewed annually and 

benchmarked by reference to the external market. 

This allows us to attract, retain and motivate highly 

talented people, regardless of gender, age, race, 

sexual orientation, disability, religion, socio-

economic background or other diversity facet.

Designed to encourage retention

Deferred variable remuneration does not give  

rise to any immediate entitlement. Awards 

normally require the participant to be employed 

continuously by the Group until at least the third 

anniversary of grant in order to vest in full.

  Competitiveness considered by 

reference to total compensation  

for comparable roles at other large 

international asset management firms

  Benchmarking forms a point of 

reference, not a primary factor in 

remuneration decisions

  Circa 60% of variable pay deferred  

over a three-year to three-and-a-half-

year period

  LTIP subject to four-year deferral  

and one-year holding period

The remuneration principles underpinning how we pay all our employees also apply to our executive Directors. The graphic below summarises 
the key pay elements that apply to our executive Directors, along with the timescales over which the remuneration is released. Full details of 
our remuneration policy approved by shareholders at the 27 April 2023 Annual General Meeting can be found on our website at  
www.schroders.com/rempolicy

Illustration of our executive Directors remuneration policy

Total annual maximum compensation: £9 million for the Group Chief Executive and £4.5 million for the Chief Financial Officer

Pay  
elements

Award 
mechanics

Fixed  
pay

Upfront annual bonus  
(circa 40% of bonus)

Deferred annual bonus  
 (circa 60% of bonus)

Delivered in cash  
(circa 20% of bonus)
Delivered in fund awards  
(circa 20% of bonus)

Delivered in share awards  
 (circa 45% of bonus)
Delivered in fund awards  
(circa 15% of bonus)

LTIP

Delivered 
in shares  

Alignment over the longer term: Illustration of timescales for 2023 performance year

Cash  
bonus

6-month 
holding period

1-year 
deferral

§

1.5-year 
deferral

2-year 
deferral

2.5-year 
deferral

3-year 
deferral

3.5-year  
deferral

4-year 
deferral

Cash

Funds

Shares

Funds

Shares

Funds

Shares

Funds

Holding 
period

Shares

Feb 
2024

Sep 
2024

Mar 
2025

Sep 
2025

Mar 
2026

Sep 
2026

Mar 
2027

Sep 
2027

Mar 
2028

Sep 
2028

Mar 
2029

Sep 
2029

Mar 
2030

Sep 
2030

Mar 
2031

Sep 
2031

Malus may be applied 
from the date on which 
the award is granted/
established until 
settlement.

Clawback may be 
applied for a period 
of up to seven years 
from the date of grant 
unless the Committee 
decides to extend it 
in the event of an 
investigation that could 
lead to the application 
of clawback were it not 
for the expiry of the 
clawback period.

Upfront annual bonus half paid in 
cash in February after the end of the 
performance year and half granted as 
an upfront fund award, subject to a 
six-month holding period.

Deferred annual bonus granted 75% as a deferred share 
award, available to exercise in equal instalments after  
1, 2 and 3 years from grant, and 25% as a deferred fund 
award, available to exercise in equal instalments after  
1.5, 2.5 and 3.5 years from grant.

Shareholding requirement: CEO: 500% base salary CFO: 300% base salary

77

Schroders Annual Report and Accounts 2023Strategic reportShareholder informationFinancial statementsGovernance  
  
 
Remuneration report continued

2023 outcomes

Performance context
In 2023, we generated growth through positive net inflows of 
£9.7 billion (excluding joint ventures and associates). Our financial 
performance remained resilient, showcasing the benefits of our 
client-led strategy in the face of continued challenging market 
conditions. We reported an operating profit of £661.0 million  
(2022: £723.0 million) and profit before tax of £487.6 million 
(2022: £586.9 million). The Board has recommended a final dividend 
of 15.0 pence per share. This results in a total dividend for the year 
of 21.5 pence per share (2022: 21.5 pence per share). 

The investment we have made in our strategic growth areas of 
Wealth Management, Private Markets and Solutions in recent 
years, alongside our know-how in public markets, have positioned 
us with the complete platform to deliver growth. The value of this 
is highlighted by the positive net new business we generated 
across these strategic growth areas, and the net operating revenue 
generated by them now accounts for 48% of our total net operating 
revenue (2022: 46%). This year we made progress in increasing the 
scalability of our operating platform to enable us to focus more 
resources on adding value to our clients. For more information on 
our strategic and financial performance, please see the Group Chief 
Executive’s and Chief Financial Officer’s statements, beginning on 
page 10 and page 24, respectively.

Group-wide remuneration outcomes
The balance between strong cost management and the need 
to support our talent and continue to invest in strategic growth 
areas was front of mind as the Committee discussed remuneration 
outcomes for the year. Increased headcount from our continued 
investment in strategic priority areas was largely offset by our 
targeted streamlining of our operations. Our people are paramount 
to the successful delivery of our strategy and we are proud that 96% 
of our key talent was retained in 2023. 

The Committee considered both financial and non-financial 
performance when setting the bonus pool, as well as an assessment 
of overall market conditions and wider stakeholder experience. The 
Committee and Board concluded that a bonus pool of £293 million 
struck the right balance across relevant stakeholders, including 
shareholders, clients and employees. When combined with salary 
increases made earlier in 2023, the total compensation experience 
for employees was generally between (-1)% and +8%. 

Individual bonus and salary amounts were determined according 
to our Fair Pay for Performance framework, summarised to the 
right. In reviewing outcomes, the Committee evaluated analytics 
on differentiation, diversity and competitiveness and were satisfied 
that the year-end process was rigorous and that outcomes reflected 
financial and non-financial performance, including conduct.

The salary increase budget for 2024 was set mindful of the 
implications for our cost base as well as the cost pressures faced 
by our people in many parts of the world. Allocation of the resulting 
4.5% salary increase budget was designed to protect lower-paid 
employees and larger increases were targeted towards individuals 
with significant increases in role or responsibilities.

2023 Bonus Pool

Operating compensation ratio

Bonus-eligible employees

Bonus pool

Employee experience:

% change bonus (median)

% change total compensation (median)

2023
46%

2022

45%

6,014

5,999
£293m £351m

-15%

+3%

-17%

+1%

78

Key performance and remuneration metrics

Net operating income

Operating earnings per share

2023

2022

-2%

-2%

2023

2022

-13%

-13%

Net operating proﬁt

Dividend per share

2023

2022

-9%

-14%

2023

2022

0%

0%

Headcount

Annual bonus pool

2023

2022

0%

12%

2023

2022

-16%

-16%

Fixed remuneration costs

Total remuneration costs

2023

2022

3%

16%

2023

2022

-1%

-2%

Fair pay for performance

Remuneration outcomes for our employees are  
governed by our Fair Pay for Performance framework.  
This framework, available to all employees on our intranet, 
describes the variety of factors considered in making pay 
decisions at Schroders, including: 

•  Annual performance – including individual 

performance/contribution, behaviours and conduct, 
business and sub-business line performance as well 
as Group-wide performance and affordability. 

•  Individual achievement – including an individual’s 
skills/experience, progression, succession and future 
potential as well as consideration of multi-year 
performance context.

•  Market context – consideration of market pay levels 
for a given role/geography and review of relevant 
competitor insights, local market conditions and general 
market outlook. 

•  Relativities and diversity – ensuring fairness of 

outcomes versus peers and market. 

Annual 
performance

Individual 
context

Fair pay for 
performance

Market 
context

Relativities 
and diversity

 Schroders Annual Report and Accounts 2023Executive Director remuneration outcomes
2023 annual bonus 
Executive Director bonuses are determined by the Committee 
through a balanced scorecard approach. At the start of 2023, the 
Committee established and disclosed metrics consisting of 70% 
financial factors and 30% non-financial factors. These were selected 
to align to the Group’s long-term strategy. At the end of the year, the 
Committee assessed the level of performance against the financial 
target ranges. Meeting the threshold leads to a 25% payout, 
achieving the target results in a 65% payout, and reaching the 
maximum leads to a 100% payout.

In 2022, executive bonuses were misaligned with the experiences of 
employees and shareholders, as explained in the box to the right. 
Although the Committee ultimately decided not to exercise positive 
discretion to improve alignment, the insights gained around the 
impact of evolving market conditions on bonus outcomes were 
considered in establishing a broader profit range for 2023. Similar 
to 2022, the profit target range was asymmetrical, requiring greater 
upside performance to attain the maximum payout. The table 
below provides details of the target ranges and the corresponding 
payouts. The overall financial scorecard outcome was 55% out of the 
maximum 70%.

The bonus scorecard includes non-financial performance, 
which the Committee evaluates based on the strategic objectives 
established at the beginning of the year. This is combined with 
an assessment of each individual’s personal performance. The 
Committee acknowledged the achievements detailed on the next 
page, which include: successful net new business growth in our 
wealth management business; the launch of an LTAF in Schroders 
Capital, which expanded investor access to private markets; 
improved operational efficiencies and risk management through 
integrating the acquired River and Mercantile solutions business 
into our front office service platform; and external recognition 
for our sustainability integration and inclusion and diversity efforts 
in 2023. 

Based on the non-financial performance achieved in the Group 
scorecard and individual personal performance, the Committee 
confirmed non-financial scorecard outcomes of 20% for Peter 
Harrison, 24% for Richard Oldfield and 20% for Richard Keers, 
out of the maximum 30%.

2020 LTIP
In addition to annual bonuses, executive Directors are also eligible 
to receive long-term incentive plan (LTIP) awards. These awards are 
granted on an annual basis and are based on performance in the 
previous year and subject to stretching performance conditions 
over a four-year performance period. In 2020, in response to the 
societal challenges posed by the Covid-19 pandemic, the executive 
Directors voluntarily waived their LTIP awards, which had a total 
grant date face value of £1 million. Consequently, these awards, 
which would have vested based on performance to 31 December 
2023, have already been forfeited. Therefore, no LTIP payments 
will be released to the executive Directors for the year to 2023. 

Target setting: learning from 2022

Target ranges are set with reference to the Board 
approved budget, market expectations, prior year 
outcomes, strategic priorities and the wider market 
outlook. When setting target ranges, the Committee is 
mindful of the potential significant impact that evolving 
market conditions could have on bonus outcomes. In 
2022, additional stretch was introduced to the upside 
profit and net new business targets to help manage this 
potential impact.

Unfortunately, the story of 2022 was not one of recovery. 
Unfavourable market conditions that emerged after 
setting the scorecard targets led to a misalignment 
between the outcomes of executive Directors and the 
broader employee population, as well as the shareholder 
experience. The executive Directors experienced a decline 
of approximately 50% compared with the previous year, 
while the median employee experience reflected a 
decrease of 17%. While the Committee ultimately decided 
against utilising positive discretion to improve alignment, 
the insights gained were considered in establishing a 
broader profit target range for 2023. 

Assessment of the financial metrics of the executive Directors’ 2023 annual bonus scorecard

2023  
scorecard  
metric

Operating profit (£m)

Investment 
performance

3-year

5-year

Net new business (£bn)  
(excluding JVs and associates)

Proportion of Article 8 and 9 funds1

 Weighting

Threshold
25% 

Target
65%

Maximum
100% 

Outcome

Metric payout
% of max 
for metric

Bonus payout
% of max 
bonus

Targets

30%

20%

10%

10%

494

50%

55%

0.0

63%

581

60%

65%

10.0

68%

723

70%

75%

20.0

661

60%

77%

9.7

73%

69%

85%

65%

100%

64%

72%

25%

17%

6%

7%

55%

1.  Proportion of Article 8 and 9 funds is assessed as the proportion of the Company’s funds which are in scope of the Sustainable Finance Disclosure Regulation (SFDR). Under 

SFDR, asset managers have to disclose how sustainability risks are considered in their investment processes and which of their products meet the disclosure requirements of 
‘Article 6’, ‘Article 8’ and ‘Article 9’. ‘Article 8’ products promote environmental or social characteristics amongst others, but do not necessarily have them as their overarching 
objective. ‘Article 9’ products must have sustainable investment as their objective. ‘Article 6’ products are those products that are in-scope of SFDR, but do not meet the 
requirements for Article 8 or Article 9.

79

Schroders Annual Report and Accounts 2023Strategic reportShareholder informationFinancial statementsGovernance 
