Strategic 
report

Shareholder 
information

Climate and
sustainability report

Governance

Risk 
review

Financial 
review

Financial 
statements

Barclays PLC

Annual Report 2023 47

Non-financial and sustainability information statement (continued)

Climate-related financial disclosures index

CA 2006 requirement

Detail

Section 
414CB(2A)(h)

A description of the key 
performance indicators (KPIs) used 
to assess progress against targets 
used to manage climate-related 
risks and realise climate-related 
opportunities and of the 
calculations on which those KPIs 
are based

TCFD Section
Metrics & 
Targets

Recommendation

Summary

a) Our metrics used to assess climate-
related risks and opportunities in line with 
our strategy and risk management 
processes

In line with our three-part climate strategy, we have set financed emissions 2030 
reduction targets across eight high emitting sectors in our portfolio (with the addition 
this year of targets for the Aviation, Agriculture and UK Commercial Real Estate 
sectors).

Page references within 
Parts 2 and 3 of the 
Annual Report

67 – 71

N/A

N/A

b) Our Scope 1, Scope 2 and Scope 3 
operational greenhouse gas (GHG) 
emissions and the related risks

Section 
414CB(2A)(g)

A description of the targets used by 
the company to manage climate-
related risks and to realise climate-
related opportunities and of 
performance against those targets

c) Our targets used to manage climate-
related risks and opportunities and 
performance against targets

We have also expanded the scope of our UK Housing convergence point this year, as 
detailed on page	98. Each of our 2030 target ranges is developed with reference to a 
1.5°C-aligned scenario, such as the IEA Net Zero by 2050 scenario. We have reported 
our progress against each of these targets as at December 2023, as detailed on page 
86.

We have additionally calculated the financed emissions for the full in-scope balance 
sheet as at December 2022. This has enabled us to calculate the coverage of our 
reduction targets across our portfolio (including integration of 1.5 degree aligned 
scenarios, with ranges for certain sectors) and to assess the extent to which the 
business is aligned to a well-below 2 degrees pathway. Our calculations indicate that we 
have set reduction targets for 55% of our overall Scope1,2 financed emissions.

We also note our progress against our sustainable and transition financing between 
2023 and the end of 2030, our green financing between 2018-2030, and our balance 
sheet investment by the end of 2027.

We measure our Scope 1, Scope 2 and Scope 3 emissions and report these against 
our net zero operations strategy, as set out on pages 73-79. 

75, 88

On our financed emissions, we have:

i. Estimated the full in-scope balance sheet financed emissions as at December 2022 
using a methodology developed based on the PCAF Standard as set out on pages 
80-83; and 

ii. Calculated financed emissions and physical intensities for specific activities as at 
December 2023 where we have set 2030 targets which include the integration of 
1.5°C aligned scenarios, such as the IEA Net Zero 2050 scenario in our financed 
emission targets, and including the upper end of ranges for certain sectors, as set 
out on page 89

Alignment of our client portfolios to the goals and timelines of the Paris Agreement 
underpinned by Barclays' BlueTrack™ Methodology. Progress reported against the 
following sector targets: Energy, Power, Cement, Steel, Automotive Manufacturing and 
UK Housing (where we have set a convergence point). Targets have also been set in 
2023 for the first time against the following sectors: UK Commercial Real Estate, 
Agriculture, and Aviation.

Progress against our target to facilitate $1 trillion of Sustainable and Transition Finance 
between 2023 and the end of 2030. 

75, 88, 103

Strategic 
report

Shareholder 
information

Climate and
sustainability report

Governance

Risk 
review

Financial 
review

Financial 
statements

Task Force on Climate-related financial disclosure statement of compliance

Barclays PLC

Annual Report 2023 48

Task Force on Climate-
related financial disclosure 
statement of compliance

We have considered our obligations under the UK's 
Financial Conduct Authority's Listing Rules and 
confirm that we have made disclosures consistent 
with the relevant Listing Rules and the Taskforce for 
Climate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD) 
Recommendations and Recommended 
Disclosures.

Given the similarities between the TCFD 
Recommended Disclosures and the new climate-
related financial disclosures (required further to 
sections 414CA and 414CB of the Companies Act 
2006), and in order to avoid unnecessary duplication 
and deliver concise reporting, we have chosen to 
present information relating to the TCFD 
recommended disclosures alongside the relevant 
Companies Act 2006 requirements. 

For further information on where these 
disclosures can be found please refer to pages 
44 to 47 of this report.  

Looking ahead: TCFD sector specific 
requirements for asset managers

We continue our work to implement the TCFD 
sector specific guidance for asset managers 
(which represents a small part of our overall 
business) in accordance with the FCA Enhanced 
Climate-Related Disclosure Requirements for 
Asset Managers. We will report on this work 
during 2024, recognising the industry-wide 
challenge with data availability and accuracy to 
meet these requirements. 
+

Further details on the TCFD Recommendations and 
Recommended Disclosures are available at: fsb-tcfd.org 
Full list of metrics and targets can be found in the ESG Data 
Centre at: home.barclays/sustainability/esg-resource-hub/
reporting-and-disclosures/

Strategic 
report

Shareholder 
information

Climate and
sustainability report

Governance

Risk 
review

Financial 
review

Financial 
statements

ESG Ratings and Benchmarks

ESG ratings performance
We remain committed to enhancing our disclosures and 
to engaging with industry-led initiatives intended to 
support an effective and trusted ESG ratings market.

In 2023, Barclays continued engaging with key 
ESG ratings agencies to provide clear and 
consistent disclosures to our stakeholders.

Five of the ratings we track were unchanged, two 
declined, and three improved.

The ESG ratings market is moving towards a 
more regulated environment in the EU. Here in 
the UK, an industry-led working group launched a 
Code of Conduct for ESG ratings and data 
product providers. Barclays supports the Code's 
principles of transparency, good governance, 
management of conflicts of interest, and robust 
controls.
+ Please also refer to page 144 in Part 3 of the Annual Report for 

details of BPLC Board consideration of matters relating to 
the reporting and monitoring of ESG-related data in addition 
to how we manage Climate across our Board structures 
within the Other Governance section from page 230 in Part 3 
of the Annual Report.

Barclays PLC

Annual Report 2023 49

Select ESG ratings and benchmarks
MSCI ESG Rating

ISS QualityScore Environment

Scale (best to worst): 

AAA to CCC

Barclays’ rating was stable

AA2022: AA 

2021: AA

12022: 1 

2021: 1

Scale (best to worst):

1 to 10

Barclays’ rating was stable

Sustainalytics ESG Risk Rating

ISS QualityScore Social

23.82022: 23.8 

2021: 25.1
S&P Global CSA

59(90th 

percentile)

Scale (best to worst):

0-100

Barclays’ rating was stable

Scale (best to worst):

100 to 0

Barclays’ rating and relative 
performance declined 

Scale (best to worst):

1 to 10

Barclays’ rating was stable

12022: 1 

2021: 1
ISS QualityScore Governance

Scale (best to worst):

1 to 10

Barclays' rating improved

42022: 9

2021: 7

 percentile)

th

2022: 75 
(95
2021: 78 
(92

nd

 percentile)

CDP Climate Change

ISS ESG Corporate Score

Scale (best to worst):

A to D-

Barclays' rating declined

B2022: A-

2021: B

Scale (best to worst):

A+ to D

Barclays’ rating improved

C2022: C-

2021: C-

FTSE Russell ESG Rating

Moody’s ESG Solutions

Scale (best to worst):

5 to 0

Barclays’ rating was stable and relative 
performance improved slightly

4.7(99th 

percentile)

622022: 55

2021: 55

Scale (best to worst):

100 to 0 with advanced (>60)

Barclays’ rating improved

percentile)

th 

2022: 4.7 
(98
2021: 4.2
(92

nd

 percentile)

  
Strategic 
report

Shareholder 
information

Climate and
sustainability report

Governance

Risk 
review

Financial 
review

Financial 
statements

ESG-related reporting and disclosures

ESG-related reporting 
and disclosures

Barclays continues to support efforts for 
enhanced ESG reporting and advocates for 
consistency in approaches to disclosures, ratings 
and benchmarks, including the work of the 
International Sustainability Standards Board 
(ISSB). We participate in a range of regional and 
global industry efforts to promote increased 
harmonisation in approaches to data, 
taxonomies and disclosures.

ESG Resource Hub

Barclays' ESG Resource Hub provides more 
detailed technical information, disclosures 
and our position statements on 
environmental, social and governance 
matters. It is intended to be relevant for 
analysts, ESG investors, rating agencies, 
suppliers, clients and all other stakeholders.

Further details can be found on the ESG Resource Hub 
at:  home.barclays/sustainability/esg-resource-hub/

+

Our ESG-related disclosures:

UN Principles for Responsible 
Banking (PRB)

Barclays was one of the founding signatories of 
the UN PRB. We report annually on how we are 
implementing the Principles.
+

home.barclays/sustainability/esg-resource-hub/reporting-
and-disclosures/

The Barclays PLC PRB Report 2023 can be found at: 

TCFD-related reporting and 
disclosures

Our climate-related financial disclosures are 
included within this Annual Report. The majority 
of the content can be found in Part 2 within the 
Climate and Sustainability report in addition to 
Part 3 within the Governance report and Risk 
review sections of the report.
+ For further details on where to access our TCFD-related 
disclosures, please see our Climate-related Financial 
Disclosures Summary and Index on page 44.

Barclays PLC

Annual Report 2023 50

Our approach to ESG reporting is informed by 
recognised external standards and frameworks. As 
these frameworks evolve, we will continue to assess and 
amend our approach to ESG disclosures appropriately.
ESG Additional Reporting Disclosures

KPMG LLP Limited Assurance

Barclays provides additional disclosures within 
the ESG Resource Hub, including reporting with 
reference to the material topics from the 
Sustainability Accounting Standards Board 
(SASB) and the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI).
ESG Data Centre

Within the ESG Resource Hub, our ESG Data 
Centre continues to provide a central repository 
of climate, sustainability, and ESG-related data 
that is published within the Barclays PLC Annual 
Report in addition to additional data points and 
granularity. 
+

The ESG Data Centre can be accessed online within our 
ESG Resource Hub at:  home.barclays/sustainability/esg-
resource-hub/reporting-and-disclosures/

Barclays appointed KPMG LLP to perform limited 
independent assurance over selected ESG 
content, marked with the symbol Δ.
The assurance engagement was planned and 
performed in accordance with the International 
Standard on Assurance Engagements (UK) 3000 
Assurance Engagements Other Than Audits or 
Reviews of Historical Financial Information and 
the International Standard on Assurance 
Engagements 3410 Assurance of Greenhouse 
Gas Statements. A limited assurance opinion was 
issued and is available at the website link below. 
This includes details of the scope, reporting 
criteria, respective responsibilities, work 
performed, limitations and conclusion. No other 
information in this Annual Report has been 
subject to this external limited assurance.
+

home.barclays/sustainability/esg-resource-hub/reporting-
and-disclosures/

Further details on Limited Assurance can be found at:  

Annual Report

• Taskforce for Climate-related 
Financial Disclosures (TCFD) 
Recommendations

• ESG-related disclosures 

ESG-related 
reporting

ESG data 
resources

Other ESG 
resources

Statements 
and policy positions

Indices

• Principles for Responsible Banking 

• ESG Data Centre

• ESG Investor Presentations

• ESG Resource Hub - Statements 

• Global Reporting Index (GRI)

(PRB) Report

• Fair Pay report / UK Pay Gaps report

•

(Tax) Country Snapshot report

• Board Diversity Policy

• Diversity, Equity and Inclusion report

• Limited Independent 
Assurance statement

• Barclays' Sustainable 
Finance Framework 

• Barclays' Transition 
Finance Framework

and policy positions

• Sustainability Accounting Standards 

Board (SASB)

• BlueTrack

 Whitepaper

TM

• Corporate Transition Forecast Model

Strategic 
report

Shareholder 
information

Climate and
sustainability report

Governance

Risk 
review

Financial 
review

Financial 
statements

Managing risk

Barclays PLC

Annual Report 2023 51

Prudently managing risk 
for stakeholders

Barclays is exposed to internal and external risks as part 
of its ongoing activities. These risks are managed as 
part of our business model.

Risk appetite

Three lines of defence

Monitoring the risk profile

Enterprise Risk Management 
Framework (ERMF)

At Barclays, risks are identified and overseen in 
accordance with the ERMF, which supports the 
business in its aim to embed effective risk 
management and a strong risk management 
culture.

The ERMF governs the way in which Barclays 
identifies and manages its risks.

The management of risk is then embedded into 
each level of the business, with all colleagues being 
responsible for identifying and controlling risk.

In 2023, the Conduct Risk Principal Risk was 
renamed "Compliance Risk" and now 
incorporates Conduct Risk as well as risks from a 
failure to comply with laws, rules and regulations 
applicable to the firm.

Risk appetite defines the level of risk we are 
prepared to accept across the different risk 
types, taking into consideration varying levels of 
financial and operational stress. Risk appetite is 
key to our decision-making processes, including 
ongoing business planning and setting of 
strategy, new product approvals and business 
change initiatives.

The Group sets its risk appetite in terms of 
performance metrics as well as a set of mandate 
and scale limits to monitor risks (i.e. to ensure 
business activities are aligned with expectations 
and are of an appropriate scale relative to the risk 
and reward of the underlying activities). During 
2023, the Group’s performance remained within 
its risk appetite limits.

“The ERMF governs the way in which Barclays 
identifies and manages its risks.”

The first line of defence is comprised of the 
revenue-generating and client-facing areas, 
along with all associated support functions, 
including Finance, Treasury, Human Resources 
and Operations and Technology. The first line 
identifies the risks, sets the controls and 
escalates risk events to the second line of 
defence. Employees in the first line have primary 
responsibility for their risks and their activities are 
subject to oversight from the relevant parts of 
the second and third lines.

The second line of defence is made up of Risk 
and Compliance and oversees the first line by 
setting limits, rules and constraints on their 
operations, consistent with the risk appetite. The 
third line of defence is comprised of Internal 
Audit, providing independent assurance to the 
Board and Executive Committee on the 
effectiveness of governance, risk management 
and control over current, systemic and evolving 
risks.

The Legal function provides support to all areas 
of the business and is not formally part of any of 
the three lines of defence, The Legal function is 
responsible for proactively identifying, 
communicating and providing legal advice on 
applicable laws, rules and regulations. Except in 
relation to the legal advice it provides or 
procures, it is subject to second line oversight 
with respect to its own operational and 
compliance risks, as well as with respect to the 
legal risks to which the Group is exposed.

Together with a strong governance process, 
using business and Group-level Risk Committees 
as well as Board-level forums, the Board receives 
regular information in respect of the risk profile of 
the Group, and has ultimate responsibility for 
Group risk appetite and capital plans. Information 
received includes measures of risk profile against 
risk appetite as well as the identification of new 
and emerging risks, which are derived by 
mapping risk drivers, identified through horizon 
scanning, to risk themes, and similar analysis.

During 2023, Barclays ran a stress test to assess 
its capital adequacy and resilience under a severe 
but plausible macroeconomic scenario. This 
stress test targeted risks such as inflation, 
financial stress and a shock on demand; with 
terminal low rates set to test the Group's 
vulnerabilities through Net Interest Income (NII) 
margin compression. The stress test outcome 
for macroeconomic tests assesses our full 
financial performance over the horizon of the 
scenario in terms of profitability, capital, liquidity 
and leverage to ensure the Group remains viable.
+

For further details of the stress test, 
please refer to page 55.

We believe that our structure and governance 
supports us in managing risk in the changing 
economic, political and market environments.
For further detailed analysis of approach to risk
+
management and risk performance, please see our full Risk
review on pages 254 to 372 of Part 3 of the Annual Report

Strategic 
report

Shareholder 
information

Climate and
sustainability report

Governance

Risk 
review

Financial 
review

Financial 
statements

Barclays PLC

Annual Report 2023 52

Managing risk (continued)

The Enterprise Risk Management Framework defines nine Principal Risks

Principal Risks

Risks are classified into Principal Risks, as below

How risks are managed

Credit risk

Market risk

Treasury and 
Capital risk

The risk of loss to the Group from the failure of clients, customers or counterparties 
(including sovereigns), to fully honour their obligations to the Group, including the whole 
and timely payment of principal, interest, collateral and other receivables.

Credit Risk teams identify, evaluate, sanction, limit and monitor various forms of credit exposure, individually and 
in aggregate. The First Line delivers business plans and products within risk appetite and all limits set by the 
Second Line, by maintaining detailed financial forecasts, applying controls and managing risks to which they are 
exposed. 

The risk of loss arising from potential adverse changes in the value of the Group’s assets 
and liabilities from fluctuation in market variables including, but not limited to, interest rates, 
foreign exchange, equity prices, commodity prices, credit spreads, implied volatilities and 
asset correlations.

Liquidity risk

The risk that the Group is unable to meet its contractual or contingent obligations or that it 
does not have the appropriate amount, tenor and composition of funding and liquidity to 
support its assets.
Capital risk

The risk that the Group has an insufficient level or composition of capital to support its 
normal business activities and to meet its regulatory capital requirements under normal 
operating environments and stressed conditions (both actual and as defined for internal 
planning or regulatory testing purposes). This also includes the risk from the Group’s 
pension plans.
Interest rate risk in the banking book

The risk that the Group is exposed to capital or income volatility because of a mismatch 
between the interest rate exposures of its (non-traded) assets and liabilities.

Market Risk teams use a range of complementary approaches to identify and evaluate traded market risk 
exposures. These risks are measured, limited and monitored by market risk specialists. The First Line conduct 
trading activities within the risk appetite and all mandate & scale limits set by the Second Line.

Treasury and Capital risk is identified and managed by specialists in capital, liquidity and asset and liability 
management teams. A range of risk management approaches are used such as limits plan monitoring and stress 
testing.

Climate risk

The impact on Financial and Operational risks arising from climate change through physical 
risks, risks associated with transitioning to a low-carbon economy and connected risks 
1
arising as a result of second order impacts on portfolios of these two drivers.

The Group assesses and manages its climate risk across its businesses and functions in line with its net zero 
ambition by monitoring exposure to elevated risk sectors, conducting scenario analysis and risk assessments for 
key portfolios. The First Line delivers business plans and manages exposures within the climate risk appetite and  
limits set by the Second Line. Climate risk controls are embedded across the financial and operational principal 
risk types through the Barclays Group's frameworks, policies and standards.

Note:

1 Definition of climate risk amended as part of the update climate risk policy in 2023. See page 67 for further detail.

Strategic 
report

Shareholder 
information

Climate and
sustainability report

Governance

Risk 
review

Financial 
review

Financial 
statements

Barclays PLC

Annual Report 2023 53

Managing risk (continued)

The Enterprise Risk Management Framework defines nine Principal Risks

Principal Risks

Risks are classified into Principal Risks, as below

How risks are managed

Operational risk

The risk of loss to the Group from inadequate or failed processes or systems, human 
factors or due to external events (for example, fraud) where the root cause is not due to 
credit or market risks.

Model risk

The potential for adverse consequences from decisions based on incorrect or misused 
model outputs and reports.

Compliance risk

The risk of poor outcomes for, or harm to, customers, clients and markets, arising from the 
delivery of the Group’s products and services (also known as 'Conduct risk') and the risk to 
Barclays, its clients, customers or markets from a failure to comply with the laws, rules and 
regulations applicable to the Group (also known as Laws, Rules and Regulations Risk, 'LRR 
Risk').

Reputation risk

The risk that an action, transaction, investment, event, decision, or business relationship 
will reduce trust in the Group’s integrity and/or competence.

Operational risks are managed in accordance with the Operational Risk Framework, owned and overseen by the 
Second Line, and the standards within the Barclays Control Framework. The primary responsibility for the 
management of operational risk rests within the business and functional units where the risk arises. Management 
complete Risk and Control Self-Assessments to assess operational risks and the effectiveness of the controls 
within processes. Identified risks, events and issues are escalated to senior management and the Board to 
ensure timely notification and to agree the appropriate response. 

The range of controls owned by First Line include: timely model identification, robust model development, 
testing, documentation, annual assessment, and ongoing performance monitoring. The range of controls owned 
by Second Line include: independent model validation, oversight over on-going model performance, and 
execution of overall model risk governance covering oversight and reporting and escalation to appropriate 
forums and committees.

The First Line are accountable for the overall assessment and management of compliance risks in their business 
or function and are responsible for implementing the requirements outlined in the Compliance Risk Management 
Framework (CRMF). 

Compliance must oversee adherence to the CRMF and the management of compliance risk, and provide 
independent Second Line of Defence oversight to all Barclays businesses, providing advice and challenge where 
appropriate.

Reputation risk is managed by embedding our Purpose and Values, and maintaining a controlled culture within the 
Group, with the objective of acting with integrity, enabling strong and trusted relationships to be built with 
customers and clients, colleagues and broader society. Each business assesses reputation risk using 
standardised tools and the governance is fulfilled through management committees and forums, clear escalation 
and reporting lines to the Group Board.

Legal risk

The risk of loss or imposition of penalties, damages or fines from the failure of the Group to 
meet applicable laws, rules and regulations or contractual requirements or to assert or 
defend its intellectual property rights. 

Legal risk is managed by the identification and management of legal risks by the legal function and the escalation 
of legal risk as necessary. The Group’s businesses and functions have responsibility for engagement of the Legal 
function in situations that have the potential for legal risk,

Strategic 
report

Shareholder 
information

Climate and
sustainability report

Governance

Risk 
review

Financial 
review

Financial 
statements

Viability statement

Consideration 
of the long-term viability 
of Barclays

Barclays PLC

Annual Report 2023 54

The financial statements and accounts 
have been prepared on a going concern basis.

Provision 31 of the 2018 UK Corporate 
Governance Code requires the Directors to 
make a statement in the Annual Report regarding 
the viability of the Group, including an explanation 
of how they assessed the prospects of the 
Group, the period of time for which they have 
made the assessment and why they consider 
that period to be appropriate.
Time horizon

In light of the analysis summarised below, the 
Board has assessed the Group’s current viability, 
and confirms that the Directors have a 
reasonable expectation that the Group will be 
able to continue in operation and meet its 
liabilities as they fall due over the next three 
years. This time frame is used in management’s 
Working Capital and Viability Report (WCR), 
prepared at the start of February 2024. The WCR 
is a formal projection of capital and liquidity based 
upon formal profitability forecasts. The 
availability of the WCR gives management and 
the Board sufficient visibility and confidence on 
the future operating environment for this time 
period.

The three-year time frame has also been chosen 
because:
▪

it is within the period covered by the formal 
medium-term plans approved by the Board 
which contain projections of profitability, cash 
flows, capital requirements and capital 
resources

▪

it is also within the period over which internal 
stress testing is carried out

▪

it is an appropriate horizon over which to 
consider the impacts of new regulations in the 
financial services industry. 

The Directors are satisfied that this period is 
sufficient to enable a reasonable assessment of 
viability to be made.
Considerations

In making its assessment the Board has:
▪ carried out a robust and detailed assessment 
of the Group’s risk profile and material existing 
and emerging risks (see below for further 
details), in particular those risks which senior 
management believes could cause the 
Group’s future results of operations or 
financial condition to differ materially from 
current expectations or could adversely 
impact the Group’s ability to meet its material 
regulatory requirements

▪

reviewed how those risks are identified, 
managed and controlled (further detail 
provided on pages 51 to 53)

▪ considered the WCR which provides an 

assessment of forecast CET1, leverage, Tier 1 
and total capital ratios, as well as the build-up 
of minimum requirement for own funds and 
eligible liabilities (MREL) up to the end of 2025

▪ considered the Group’s Medium Term Plan
▪
reviewed the Group’s liquidity and funding 
profile, including forecasts of the Group’s 
Internal Liquidity Stress Test (ILST), regulatory 
Liquidity Coverage Ratios (LCR) and Net 
Stable Funding Ratios (NSFR)

▪ considered the Group’s viability under a 

specific internal stress scenario (see below for 
further detail)

▪ considered the stability of the major markets in 
which it operates, supply chain resilience and 
material known regulatory changes to be 
enacted

▪ considered the sustainability of any future 

capital distributions

▪ considered scenarios which might affect the 

operational resilience of the Group

▪ considered factors that may inform the impact 
of a severe recession in major economies with 
affordability pressures on consumers from 
high inflation and rising interest rates, energy 
supply pressures, and financial markets 
instability

▪ considered the impact of the Group’s ambition 
to be a net zero bank by 2050 and support its 
clients’ transition to a low-carbon economy, 
including the need to continue to incorporate 
climate considerations into its strategy, 
business model, the products and services it 
provides to customers and its financial and 
non-financial risk management processes

▪

▪

reviewed the draft statutory accounts and the 
financial performance of the Group

reviewed the possible impact of legal, 
competition and regulatory matters set out in 
Note 25 to the financial statements on pages 
470 to 474.

The Group's Medium Term Plan is based on 
assumptions for macroeconomic variables such 
as interest rates, inflation, unemployment, which 
have been consistently applied for the purpose 
of forecasting the Group’s capital and liquidity 
position and ratios, as well as any credit 
impairment charges or releases.
Assessment of the Group's risk profile

Risks faced by the Group’s business, including in 
respect of financial, conduct and operational 
risks, are controlled and managed within the 
Group in line with the ERMF. Executive 
management sets a risk appetite for the Group, 
which is then approved by the Board. Limits are 
set to control risk appetite, within which 
businesses are required to operate.

Management and the Board then oversee the 
ongoing risk profile. Internal Audit provides 
independent assurance to the Board and 
Executive Committee over the effectiveness of 
governance, risk management and control over 
current and evolving risks.

A full set of material risks to which the 
organisation is exposed can be found in the 
material existing and emerging risks on pages 
258 to 271 .

Certain risks are additionally identified as key 
themes and monitored closely by the Board and 
Board Committees. These are chosen on the 
basis of their potential to impact viability during 
the time frame of the assessment but in some 
instances the risks may continue beyond this 
time frame.

Barclays PLC

Annual Report 2023 55

The results of the macroeconomic internal 
stress test were approved by the Board Risk 
Committee and allowed the Board to approve 
the Medium Term Plan as being able to sustain a 
severe but plausible scenario and remain within 
risk appetite.

Based on current forecasts, taking account of 
material known regulatory changes to be 
enacted and having considered possible stress 
scenarios, the current liquidity and capital 
position of the Group continues to support the 
Board’s assessment of the Group’s viability.

Strategic 
report

Shareholder 
information

Climate and
sustainability report

Governance

Risk 
review

Financial 
review

Financial 
statements

Viability statement (continued)

These particular risks include:
▪

the potential impact of increased recession 
risk heightened by the turbulent geopolitical 
outlook and volatile market conditions 

▪

▪

failure to successfully adapt the Group’s 
operations and business strategy to address 
the financial risks resulting from both: (i) the 
physical risk of climate change; and (ii) the risk 
from the transition to a low-carbon economy

legal proceedings, competition, regulatory and 
conduct matters giving rise to the potential 
risk of penalties, damages or fines, loss of 
regulatory licences and permissions and other 
sanctions, as well as potential adverse impacts 
on our reputation with clients and customers 
and on investor confidence and/or potentially 
resulting in adverse impacts on capital, liquidity 
and funding 

▪ sudden shocks or geopolitical instability in any 
of the major economies in which the Group 
operates which could alter the behaviour of 
depositors and other counterparties, affect 
the ability of the firm to maintain appropriate 
capital and liquidity ratios or impact the 
Group's credit ratings

▪ evolving operational risks (notably cyber 

security, technology and resilience) and the 
ability to respond to the new and emerging 
technologies in a controlled fashion.

As a universal bank with a diversified and 
connected portfolio of businesses, servicing 
customers and clients globally, the Group is 
impacted in the longer term by a wide range of 
macroeconomic, political, regulatory and 
accounting, technological, social and 
environmental developments. The evolving 
operating environment presents opportunities 
and risks in respect of which the Group continues 
to evaluate and take steps to appropriately adapt 
its strategy and its delivery.

Stress tests

The Board has also considered the Group’s 
viability under a specific internal stress scenario. 

The latest macroeconomic internal stress test, 
conducted in H2 2023, targets risks such as 
inflation, financial stress and a shock on demand; 
with terminal low rates set to test Barclays’ 
vulnerabilities through NII margin compression:

• severe UK recession (GDP low point -4.5%) 

brought by falling household real incomes, job 
losses leading to 8.3% unemployment rate, 
declining economic confidence and tight 
financial conditions. Other major economies 
experience very similar shocks

• high interest rates (peak 8.5% UK, 8.5% US) 
lead to additional stress in banking and non-
banking sectors. As financial conditions 
tighten, central banks rapidly reverse policy 
and low interest rates persist (1% UK, 1.5% 
US) to stimulate the economy and avoid an 
even worse outcome

• inflation, after a short-term spike (UK 10.4%, 

US 8.1%), begins to reduce towards the end of 
2025 gradually falling to 2% in the outer year 
forecast horizon. The short-term affordability 
pressures on customers ease as interest rates 
and inflation falls

• residential house prices in the UK decline 33% 
while in the US commercial real estate prices 
fall 45%, reflecting the contagion effects from 
the financial markets.

The stress test outcome for macroeconomic 
tests assesses our full financial performance 
over the horizon of the scenario in terms of 
profitability, capital, liquidity and leverage to 
ensure we remain viable.

In addition to a macroeconomic internal stress 
test, a climate internal stress test was run this 
year and presented to the Board Risk Committee 
for approval. See page 176. The exercise 
confirmed the Bank is financially resilient to 
climate risks. Refer to the 'scenario analysis' 
section in page 131 for the key learnings from 
the climate internal stress test.

The Group-wide stress testing framework also 
includes internal reverse stress testing 
assessments, conducted once a year, which aim 
to identify the circumstances under which the 
Group’s business model would no longer be 
viable, leading to a significant change in business 
strategy and to the identification of appropriate 
mitigating actions. Examples include extreme 
macroeconomic downturn (‘severely adverse’) 
scenarios, or specific one-off events, covering 
both operational risk and capital/liquidity items. 
Reverse stress testing is used to help support 
ongoing risk management and is an input to the 
Group’s recovery planning process.

Legal proceedings, competition, regulatory and 
remediation/redress conduct matters are also 
assessed as part of the stress testing process. 
Capital and the ILST are set at a level designed to 
enable the Group to withstand various stress 
scenarios. As part of this process, management 
also identified actions, including cost reductions 
and withdrawal from lines of business, available to 
restore the Group to its desired capital flight 
path. These internal stress tests informed the 
conclusions of the WCR.

Strategic 
report

Shareholder 
information

Climate and
sustainability report

Governance

Risk 
review

Financial 
review

Financial 
information

Shareholder information

Annual General Meeting (AGM)

Location

SEC (Scottish Event Campus) Armadillo, 
Exhibition Way, Glasgow G3 8YW

And electronically on an online platform
Date

Thursday, 9 May 2024
Time

11.00am

The arrangements for the Company’s 2024 AGM 
and details of the resolutions to be proposed, 
together with explanatory notes and how to 
attend the meeting, will be set out in the Notice 
of AGM to be published on the Company’s 
website (home.barclays/agm).

Key dates

1 March
2024

Full year dividend record date 

3 April
2024

Full year dividend payment date

25 April
2024

Q1 2024 Results Announcement

9 May
2024

Annual General Meeting at 
11.00am

Barclays PLC

Annual Report 2023 56

Keep your personal 
details up to date

Please remember to tell Equiniti if:

• you move; or

• you need to update your bank or building 

society details.

If you are a Shareview member, you can update 
your bank or building society account or address 
details online. If you are not a Shareview member 
you can update details quickly and easily over the 
telephone using the Equiniti contact details on 
the next page.
Dividends

The Barclays PLC 2023 full year dividend for the 
year ended 31 December 2023 will be 5.30p per 
share, making the 2023 total dividend 8.00p per 
share.
Dividend Reinvestment Plan

Barclays offers a share alternative in the form of 
a dividend reinvestment plan (DRIP) for those 
shareholders who wish to elect to use their 
dividend payments to purchase additional 
ordinary shares, rather than receive a cash 
payment. The DRIP is provided and administered 
by Barclays’ registrar, Equiniti. 
Share price Information on the Barclays share 
price and other share price tools are available at: 
home.barclays/investorrelations
+ Further details regarding the DRIP can be found at 

home.barclays/dividends
and shareview.co.uk/info/drip

Strategic 
report

Shareholder 
information

Climate and
sustainability report

Governance

Risk 
review

Financial 
review

Financial 
information

Shareholder information (continued)

Shareholder security

Shareholders should be wary of any cold calls 
with an offer to buy or sell shares. Fraudsters 
use persuasive and high pressure techniques 
to lure shareholders into high-risk 
investments or scams. You should treat any 
unsolicited calls with caution.

Please keep in mind that firms authorised 
by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) 
are unlikely to contact you out of the blue. 
You should consider getting independent 
financial or professional advice from 
someone unconnected to the respective 
firm before you hand over any money.
Report a scam

If you suspect that you have been 
approached by fraudsters please tell the FCA 
using the share fraud reporting form at 
fca.org.uk/scams. You can also call the FCA 
Helpline on 0800 111 6768 or through Action 
Fraud on 0300 123 2040.

Donations to charity 

We launched a Share Dealing Service in October 
2017 aimed at shareholders with relatively small 
shareholdings for whom it might otherwise be 
uneconomical to deal. One option open to 
shareholders was to donate their sale proceeds 
to ShareGift. As a result of this initiative, 
£75,452.72 was donated in 2023, taking the total 
donated since 2017 to over £336,200.

Managing your shares online

Shareview 

Barclays shareholders can go online to manage 
their shareholding and find out about Barclays 
performance by joining Shareview. Through 
Shareview, you:

• will receive the latest updates from Barclays 

direct to your email

• can update your address and bank details online

• can vote in advance of general meetings.

To join Shareview, please follow these two 
easy steps:
Step 1  Go to portfolio.shareview.co.uk
Step 2
Register for electronic 
communications by following the 
instructions on screen

Returning funds to shareholders

Over 60,000 shareholders did not cash their 
Shares Not Taken Up (SNTU) cheque following 
the Rights Issue in September 2013. In 2023, we 
continued the tracing process to reunite these 
shareholders with their SNTU monies and any 
unclaimed dividends and by the end of the year, 
we had returned approximately £32,000 to our 
shareholders, in addition to the approximately 
£5.0m returned since 2015. 

Useful contact details

Registrar 

Holders of ordinary shares

The Barclays share register is maintained by 
Equiniti. If you have any questions about your 
Barclays shares, please contact Equiniti: 

By phone: 
+ 44 (0)371 384 2055
(UK & International telephone number) 

+44 (0)371 384 2255  
(for the hearing impaired in the UK 
and international)

Note: Lines open 8.30am to 5.30pm (UK time) 
Monday to Friday, excluding public holidays.

Visit online: 
shareview.co.uk

By post:
Aspect House
Spencer Road, Lancing, West Sussex 
BN99 6DA

To find out more, contact Equiniti or visit: 
home.barclays/dividends
Alternative formats

Shareholder documents can be provided in 
large print, audio CD or Braille free of charge 
by calling Equiniti.
+44 (0)371 384 2055
(UK and International telephone number)

Barclays PLC

Annual Report 2023 57

Holders of American Depositary Receipts 
(ADRs)

ADRs represent the ownership of Barclays 
PLC shares which are traded on the New York 
Stock Exchange. ADRs carry prices, and pay 
dividends, in US dollars.

If you have any questions about your Barclays 
ADRs, please contact Shareowner Services:

By email: 
StockTransfer@equiniti.com 

Visit online: 
adr.com

By phone: 
+1 800 990 1135 (toll free in the US and Canada)
+1 651 453 2128 (outside the US and Canada)
By post: 
Shareowner Services, 
PO Box 64504, St Paul, MN 55164-0504, USA

Delivery of ADR certificates and overnight mail:

By post: 
Shareowner Services, 
1110 Centre Point Curve, Suite 101, Mendota 
Heights, MN 55120-4100, USA

Qualifying US and Canadian resident ADR 
holders should contact Shareowner Services 
for further details regarding the DRIP.
Shareholder Relations

If you have any questions for Barclays about 
your shareholding, please contact:

By email: 
privateshareholderrelations@barclays.com

By post: 
Shareholder Relations 
Barclays PLC, 1 Churchill Place, London, 
E14 5HP

Strategic 
report

Shareholder 
information

Climate and
sustainability report

Governance

Risk 
review

Financial 
review

Financial 
information

Barclays PLC

Annual Report 2023 58

Important Information

Forward looking statements

This document contains certain forward-looking 
statements within the meaning of Section 21E of 
the US Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as 
amended, and Section 27A of the US Securities 
Act of 1933, as amended, with respect to the 
Group. Barclays cautions readers that no 
forward-looking statement is a guarantee of 
future performance and that actual results or 
other financial condition or performance 
measures could differ materially from those 
contained in the forward-looking statements. 
Forward-looking statements can be identified by 
the fact that they do not relate only to historical 
or current facts. Forward-looking statements 
sometimes use words such as ‘may’, ‘will’, ‘seek’, 
‘continue’, ‘aim’, ‘anticipate’, ‘target’, ‘projected’, 
‘expect’, ‘estimate’, ‘intend’, ‘plan’, ‘goal’, ‘believe’, 
‘achieve’ or other words of similar meaning. 
Forward-looking statements can be made in 
writing but also may be made verbally by 
directors, officers and employees of the Group 
(including during management presentations) in 
connection with this document. Examples of 
forward-looking statements include, among 
others, statements or guidance regarding or 
relating to the Group’s future financial position, 
business strategy, income levels, costs, assets 
and liabilities, impairment charges, provisions, 
capital leverage and other regulatory ratios, 
capital distributions (including policy on dividends 
and share buybacks), return on tangible equity, 
projected levels of growth in banking and financial 
markets, industry trends, any commitments and 
targets (including environmental, social and 
governance (ESG) commitments and targets), 
plans and objectives for future operations and 
other statements that are not historical or 
current facts. By their nature, forward-looking 
statements involve risk and uncertainty because 
they relate to future events and circumstances. 
Forward-looking statements speak only as at the 
date on which they are made. Forward-looking 

statements may be affected by a number of 
factors, including, without limitation: changes in 
legislation, regulations, governmental and 
regulatory policies, expectations and actions, 
voluntary codes of practices and the 
interpretation thereof, changes in International 
Financial Reporting Standards and other 
accounting standards, including practices with 
regard to the interpretation and application 
thereof and emerging and developing ESG 
reporting standards; the outcome of current and 
future legal proceedings and regulatory 
investigations; the Group’s ability along with 
governments and other stakeholders to 
measure, manage and mitigate the impacts of 
climate change effectively; environmental, social 
and geopolitical risks and incidents, pandemics 
and similar events beyond the Group’s control; 
the impact of competition in the banking and 
financial services industry; capital, liquidity, 
leverage and other regulatory rules and 
requirements applicable to past, current and 
future periods; UK, US, Eurozone and global 
macroeconomic and business conditions, 
including inflation; volatility in credit and capital 
markets; market related risks such as changes in 
interest rates and foreign exchange rates; 
reforms to benchmark interest rates and indices; 
higher or lower asset valuations; changes in 
credit ratings of any entity within the Group or 
any securities issued by it; changes in 
counterparty risk; changes in consumer 
behaviour; the direct and indirect consequences 
of the conflicts in Ukraine and the Middle East on 
European and global macroeconomic conditions, 
political stability and financial markets; political 
elections; developments in the UK’s relationship 
with the European Union (EU); the risk of 
cyberattacks, information or security breaches, 
technology failures or other operational 
disruptions and any subsequent impacts on the 
Group’s reputation, business or operations; the 
Group’s ability to access funding; and the 
success of acquisitions, disposals and other 

strategic transactions. A number of these 
factors are beyond the Group’s control. As a 
result, the Group’s actual financial position, 
results, financial and non-financial metrics or 
performance measures or its ability to meet 
commitments and targets may differ materially 
from the statements or guidance set forth in the 
Group’s forward-looking statements. In setting 
its targets and outlook for the period 2024-2026, 
Barclays has made certain assumptions about 
the macro-economic environment, including, 
without limitation, inflation, interest and 
unemployment rates, the different markets and 
competitive conditions in which Barclays 
operates, and its ability to grow certain 
businesses and achieve costs savings and other 
structural actions. Additional risks and factors 
which may impact the Group’s future financial 
condition and performance are identified in the 
description of material existing and emerging 
risks beginning on page 258 of this Annual 
Report.

Subject to Barclays PLC’s obligations under the 
applicable laws and regulations of any relevant 
jurisdiction (including, without limitation, the UK 
and the US) in relation to disclosure and ongoing 
information, we undertake no obligation to 
update publicly or revise any forward-looking 
statements, whether as a result of new 
information, future events or otherwise.

Climate and Sustainability report

The Climate and Sustainability report forms Part 2 of the Barclays PLC 2023 Annual Report.
Parts 1, 2 and 3 together comprise Barclays PLC's annual accounts and report for the purposes 
of Section 423 of the Companies Act 2006.

TCFD Strategy Recommendation A 

TCFD Strategy Recommendation B

TCFD Strategy Recommendation C 

Describe the climate-related risks and 
opportunities the organisation has identified 
over the short, medium, and long term.

Describe the impact of climate-related risks and 
opportunities on the organisation’s businesses, 
strategy, and financial planning.

Describe the resilience of the organisation’s 
strategy, taking into consideration different climate-
related scenarios, including a 2°C or lower scenario.

Risks and opportunities

Risks

Opportunities

66

67

70

Implementing our Climate Strategy
Achieving net zero operations

Operational footprint dashboard

All other narrative
Reducing our financed emissions

BlueTrack

 dashboard

TM

All other narrative
Financing the transition

Sustainable finance dashboard

All other narrative
Working with our clients

Embedding climate and sustainability into our 
business

Just transition and nature and biodiversity

Engaging with industry

Barclays' approach to public policy

Resilience of our strategy
Scenario analysis

Barclays’ resilience to climate scenarios

Climate stress tests

2023 Enhancements and beyond

Challenges and limitations

Macro-dependencies and objectives

Important information/disclaimers

130

131

132

132

134

135

136

137

72

73

75

76
80

88

89
101

103

104
107

121

124

126

129

Strategic 
report

Shareholder 
information

Climate and
sustainability report

Governance

Risk 
review

Financial 
review

Financial 
statements

Barclays’ climate strategy

A strategy for a better 
financial future

Barclays’ climate strategy

1

Achieving net zero 
operations

2

Reducing our 
financed emissions

3
Financing 
the transition

Barclays is working to 
reduce its Scope 1, Scope 
2 and Scope 3 operational 
emissions consistent with 
a 1.5°C aligned pathway, 
and counterbalance any 
residual emissions.

Barclays is committed to 
aligning its financing with 
the goals and timelines of 
the Paris Agreement, 
consistent with limiting 
the increase in global 
temperatures to 1.5°C.

Barclays is helping to 
provide the green and 
sustainable finance 
required to transform the 
economies, customers 
and clients we serve.

Our strategy is underpinned by the way we assess and 
manage our exposure to climate-related risk

Barclays PLC

Annual Report 2023 60

Our climate strategy is driven by consideration of relevant 
risks and opportunities and in alignment with our Purpose: 
working together for a better financial future for our 
customers, clients and communities. 

We have a clear shareholder endorsed climate 
strategy to achieve our ambition of being a net zero 
bank by 2050, by achieving net zero operations, 
reducing our financed emissions and financing the 
transition.

We are committed to achieving net zero operations 
and have continued to make progress, achieving a 
Δ
51%
 reduction of Scope 1 and 2 location-based 
greenhouse gas emissions milestone ahead of 
Δ
schedule. We continued to source 100%
renewable electricity for our global real estate 
portfolio and met our 90% Scope 1 and 2 market-
based emissions reduction target – reducing these 
Δ
.
emissions by 93%

We are also committed to reducing our financed 
emissions, those deriving from the activities of the 
clients that we finance and those generated in their 
respective value chains, by providing financial advice 
and support as they transition to a low-carbon 
economy.

We have now set 2030 emissions reduction targets 
for eight of the highest-emitting sectors in our 
portfolio: Energy, Power, Cement, Steel, 
Automotive manufacturing, Aviation, Agriculture 
and Commercial Real Estate; and have assessed 
the baseline and convergence point for our UK 
Housing portfolio. This meets our commitment 
under the NZBA to set targets for material high-
emitting sectors in our portfolio.

Our 2030 target-setting includes the integration of 
o
1.5
C aligned scenarios, such as the IEA Net Zero 
2050 scenario, in our financed emission targets, 
and includes ranges for certain sectors to reflect 

dependencies outside our control that will 
determine how quickly our financed emissions can 
be reduced in these sectors.

This year, we have further extended the scope of 
our calculations to cover the full in-scope balance 
sheet financed emissions, largely aligned to the 
PCAF Standard. We used our methodology for 
measuring our financed emissions and tracking 
them at a portfolio level against the goals and 
timelines of the Paris Agreement – this 
methodology is called BlueTrack™.

Capital is critical for a successful energy transition 
and we are focusing our financing to those clients 
actively engaged in the energy transition.

The scale of our business gives us the opportunity 
to help finance the energy transition – to use our 
global reach, products, expertise and position in the 
global economy to work with our clients, including 
those in the Energy sector, as they transition to a 
low-carbon business model.

To reduce reliance on fossil fuels the world needs to 
accelerate and scale the supply and capacity of 
renewables and climate tech solutions that will help 
to decarbonise high-emitting activities. The Climate 
Policy Initiative estimates that this requires at least 
1
$4.3trillion of climate finance a year by 2030
.  
Notes:

Δ   2023 data subject to independent limited assurance under ISAE 
(UK)3000 and ISAE 3410. Current limited assurance scope and 
opinion can be found within the ESG Resource Hub: 
home.barclays/sustainability/esg-resource-hub/reporting-and-
disclosures/

1 Climate Policy Initiative - Global Landscape of Climate Finance: 

A Decade in Data climatepolicyinitiative.org/wp-content/
uploads/2022/10/Global-Landscape-of-Climate-Finance-A-
Decade-of-Data.pdf 

 
Strategic 
report

Shareholder 
information

Climate and
sustainability report

Governance

Risk 
review

Financial 
review

Financial 
statements

Barclays’ climate strategy (continued)

Barclays is committed to help finance the energy 
transition, In 2022 we set a target to facilitate $1trn 
of Sustainable and Transition Financing between 
2023 and the end of 2030.

Δ
 of 
During 2023, we facilitated $67.8bn
sustainable and transition financing. $67.4bn was 
Δ
sustainable financing and $0.4bn
 was transition 
financing that qualified against our new 
Transition Finance Framework.

We are also focused on investing and scaling the 
climate tech – hydrogen, carbon capture, 
batteries, amongst others – needed by society 
and our clients to transition, generate economic 
growth and create a new wave of green jobs. To 
support this, we have a mandate to invest up to 
£500m of Barclays’ own capital by the end of 
2027 and we have invested £138m into 21 
innovative companies to date.

An important lever for reducing our financed 
emissions is our policy. In February 2024, we 
updated our Climate Change Statement with 
new restrictions on financing upstream oil and 
gas, including unconventional oil and gas and 
additional Enhanced Due Diligence (EDD) 
requirements for biomass.

Fossil fuels are still required for many essential 
activities – including electricity generation, 
transport and heating. In the International Energy 
Agency NZE scenario, new long lead time 
upstream oil and gas projects are not required on 
a 1.5°C-aligned pathway. For current and future 
(declining) global demand to be satisfied, 
investment is needed to support existing assets, 
2
while clean energy is scaled
. Barclays 
understands the critical importance of energy 
being secure, reliable and affordable for our 
customers and clients.

Barclays will continue to support an energy 
sector in transition, focusing on the diversified 
energy companies investing in low carbon and 
with greater scrutiny on those engaged in 
developing new oil and gas projects.

The trajectory for our clients’ transition to a low-
carbon economy is influenced by a number of 
external factors, including market developments, 
technological advancement, the public policy 
environment, geopolitical developments and 
regional variations, behavioural change in society 
and the scale of change needed to adapt their 
business models. Client transition pathways will 
vary, even within the same sectors and 
geographies.

Many highly carbon-intensive sectors require 
finance to transition to a low carbon economy. 
Restricting the flow of capital to these sectors 
could be harmful to the pace of the transition, 
limiting the real terms impact on global warming. 
The energy companies unable or unwilling to 
reduce their emissions or play a role in the energy 
transition may find it increasingly difficult to 
access financing from Barclays.

We are committed to continuing the work we 
began in 2020. Our climate strategy will continue 
to evolve and adapt in light of the rapidly 
changing environment and the need to support 
governments and clients, in our efforts to meet 
our ambition of being a net zero bank by 2050. 

Notes:

Δ    2023 data subject to independent limited assurance under ISAE 
(UK) 3000 and ISAE 3410. Current limited assurance scope and 
opinion can be found within the ESG Resource Hub: 
home.barclays/sustainability/esg-resource-hub/reporting-and-
disclosures/

2 International Energy Agency - Net Zero Roadmap, 2023 Update 

iea.blob.core.windows.net/
assets/9a698da4-4002-4e53-8ef3-631d8971bf84/
NetZeroRoadmap_AGlobalPathwaytoKeepthe1.5CGoalinReach
-2023Update.pdf

+ Please see the Barclays Climate and Sustainability report 

from page 60 for further details on Barclays' ambition to be 
a net zero bank.

Barclays' climate, sustainability, and ESG-related data, 
targets and progress can be found within the ESG Data 
Centre within our ESG Resource Hub.
Further details on our BlueTrackTM methodology can be 
found within our Financed Emissions Methodology 
paper (published in 2024) accessible at: home.barclays/
sustainability/esg-resource-hub/reporting-and-
disclosures/

Barclays PLC

Annual Report 2023 61

Collaborating with the Transition Plan Taskforce

The Transition Plan Taskforce (TPT) was launched by HM Treasury in March 2022 with a mandate 
to bring together leaders from industry, academia, and regulators to develop good practice for 
transition plan disclosures for the finance sector and the real economy. Barclays participated in a 
number of working groups for the TPT, including inputting into the Banks Sector Guidance – which 
adds further depth and detail for preparers of transition plans operating in the banking sector. 
Barclays contributed to the development of the additional guidance, sharing its views on particular 
nuances of transition planning for banks – including the incorporation of nature and just transition 
elements. The guidance was published for consultation in October 2023, with Barclays 
participating in the launch event. 
Further details can be found at: 
+

transitiontaskforce.net/wp-content/uploads/2023/11/TPT-Banks-Sector-
Guidance.pdf

Our approach to TPT disclosures

Over 2023, Barclays participated in a number of working groups of the Transition Plan Taskforce 
(TPT), supporting the development of its framework for transition plan disclosures. We are 
developing our approach to the TPT’s recommendations, taking into account relevant guidance 
as it develops, and elements of the TPT’s Disclosure Framework (including the Implementation 
Guidance and draft Banks Sector Guidance) are addressed in our climate related disclosures 
included in this Annual Report. During 2024, we will look to further develop elements of our climate 
disclosures including transition planning. This will be reflected in future disclosures, as we work 
towards publishing our own transition plan.

Strategic 
report

Shareholder 
information

Climate and
sustainability report

Governance

Risk 
review

Financial 
review

Financial 
statements

Barclays’ climate strategy (continued)

Barclays PLC

Annual Report 2023 62

Our strategy, selected targets 
and progress

The table below sets out selected targets and policies we 
have previously announced, progress against them, 
as well as new announcements as of the publication of 
this Annual Report.

Strategic pillar

Previously Announced Target/Policy

Progress

New Announcement

By end 2025

Energy

1Achieving 

net zero 
operations

• 100% renewable electricity sourcing for our global real 

100%

Δ
 sourced

estate portfolio by end of 2025

2023 performance

We are working towards the following milestones

N/A

N/A

Reduction of GHG 
emissions

• 90% reduction in Scope 1 and 2 GHG emissions 

(market-based, against a 2018 baseline)

Δ
 reduction
 -93%

By the end of 2030

Cumulative change

By the end of 2030

2Reducing 

our financed 
emissions

Portfolio reduction 
targets/ 
convergence point

1
Energy

1
Power

1
Cement

1
Steel

Automotive 
1
manufacturing

1
UK Housing

• 40% reduction in absolute CO2e emissions against 
Δ
 MtCO2e (Scopes 1, 2 & 3)
a 2020 baseline of 75.4

• 50-69% reduction in CO2e emissions intensity against 

Δ
 kgCO2e/MWh (Scope 1)
a 2020 baseline of 326

• 20-26% reduction in CO2e emission intensity against 
Δ
 tCO2e/t (Scopes 1 & 2)
a 2021 baseline of 0.626

• 20-40% reduction in CO2e emissions intensity against 
Δ
 tCO2e/t (Scopes 1 & 2)
a 2021 baseline of 1.945

-44%

-26%

-8%

-16%

• 40-64 % reduction in CO2e emissions intensity against 
Δ
 gCO2e/km (Scopes 1, 2 & 3)
a 2022 baseline of 174.8

0%

N/A

N/A

N/A

N/A

N/A

• Convergence point: 40% reduction in CO2e emissions 

Δ
2
intensity against a 2022 baseline of 32.0
 kgCO2e/m
(Scopes 1 & 2) for formerly UK Residential Real Estate

UK Commercial Real 
estate

UK Agriculture - 
Livestock & Dairy

Aviation

N/A

N/A

N/A

+1%

N/A

N/A

N/A

• Convergence point: 40% reduction in CO2e emissions intensity against a 2023 baseline 

Δ
2
of 32.1
 (Scopes 1 & 2) for expanded scope covering social housing and 
 kgCO2e/m
business banking real estate

Δ
2
 kgCO2e/m
• 51% reduction in CO2e emissions intensity against a 2023 baseline of 30.0

(Scopes 1 & 2)

Δ
 MtCO2e 
• 21% reduction in absolute CO2e emissions against a 2023 baseline of 2.4

(Scopes 1, 2 & 3)

Δ
 gCO2e/
• 11-16 % reduction in CO2e emissions intensity against a 2023 baseline of 882

RTK (Scopes 1 & 3)

Notes:

Δ    2023 data subject to independent limited assurance under ISAE (UK) 3000 and ISAE 3410. Current limited assurance scope and opinions can be found within the ESG Resource Hub for further details: home.barclays/sustainability/esg-resource-hub/reporting-and-disclosures/
1 Reported values marked with Δ have been re-baselined in the current year.

 
 
Strategic 
report

Shareholder 
information

Climate and
sustainability report

Governance

Risk 
review

Financial 
review

Financial 
statements

Barclays’ climate strategy (continued)

Barclays PLC

Annual Report 2023 63

Strategic pillar

Previously Announced Policy New Announcements1

Project level restrictions

Entity level restrictions

Upstream Oil & Gas N/A

2Reducing 

our financed 
emissions

2
Restrictive policies

From 9 February 2024:
• We will not provide project finance for expansion projects 
or for infrastructure projects primarily to be used for 
such expansion projects.  

• We will not provide other direct financing to Energy 

Groups for expansion projects or infrastructure projects 
primarily to be used for such expansion projects.

From 9 February 2024:
• We will not provide financing to new clients that are Energy Groups where more than 

10% of their total planned oil & gas capital expenditure is in expansion.

By 1 January 2025:
• We expect all Energy Groups to be producing relevant information in relation to 

their transition plans or decarbonisation strategies.

From 1 January 2025:
• Any new financing or renewal of existing financing for Non-diversified Groups where 
more than 10% of their total planned oil & gas capital expenditure is in long-lead 
expansion would be by exception. 

From 1 January 2026:
• We will only provide financing to Energy Groups if they are able to demonstrate that 

they are committed to reducing their own emissions by having:
– net zero-aligned near-term Scope 1 and 2 emissions reduction targets (absolute 

or intensity-based); and

– targets to reduce methane emissions by 2030, aligned with OGCI, OGMP2.0 or 

similar industry guidance; and 

– a commitment to end all routine / non-essential venting and flaring by 2030.  

Unconventional Oil 
& Gas

• Existing project and entity level 

restrictions on unconventional oil & 
gas (including Arctic Circle oil & gas, 
Hydraulic Fracturing and Oil Sands) 
remain in place. 

From 9 February 2024:
• We will not provide direct financing to Energy Groups for 
any oil & gas projects in the Amazon Biome, or any oil & 
gas projects involving Ultra-Deep Water and/or Extra 
Heavy Oil, or infrastructure projects primarily to be used 
for such oil & gas projects. 

From 30 June 2024:
• We will not provide financing to Energy Groups whose aggregate share of 

production in Oil Sands, Extra Heavy Oil, Hydraulic Fracturing in the UK/EU, and Arctic 
Circle oil & gas exceeds 20% of their total oil & gas production. 

• We will not provide financing to Clients engaged in exploration, appraisal, 

development, and production of oil & gas in the Amazon Biome. 

Thermal Coal 
Mining

• Existing project and entity level 

restrictions on thermal coal mining 
remain in place.

Thermal Coal 
Power

• Existing project and entity level 
restrictions on thermal coal-fired 
power remain in place.

From 9 February 2024: 
• No project finance for greenfield development or 

material expansion of thermal coal mines anywhere in the 
world, including captives. (Note: this was an update to an 
existing restriction to include captives)

• No project finance for development of infrastructure 
projects primarily to be used for thermal coal mines 
anywhere in the world.  

From 9 February 2024:
• No project finance to enable construction or material 

expansion of thermal coal-fired power plants anywhere 
in the world, including captives. (Note: this was an 
update to an existing restriction to include captives)

Notes:

1 For details on the exact scope and application of these restrictions please refer to the Climate Change Statement found at: home.barclays/sustainability/esg-resource-hub/statements-and-policy-positions/
2 Words in italics are defined in the Climate Change Statement found at: home.barclays/sustainability/esg-resource-hub/statements-and-policy-positions/

Strategic 
report

Shareholder 
information

Climate and
sustainability report

Governance

Risk 
review

Financial 
review

Financial 
statements

Barclays’ climate strategy (continued)

Barclays PLC

Annual Report 2023 64

Strategic pillar

Previously Announced Target/Policy

Previously Announced Target

3Financing 

the transition

Sustainable financing

• Facilitate $1trn of Sustainable and Transition Financing 

between 2023 and end of 2030

• Facilitate £100bn of green financing between 2018 and 

2030

Progress

2023 performance

Δ
• $67.8bn

Δ
Δ
)
 (Cumulative performance: £113.7bn
• £25.9bn

Sustainable Impact 
Capital

•

Increase mandate to invest up to £500m of Barclays' 
capital in global climate tech start-ups by the end of 2027

• £49.49m (£138.4m invested by the end of 2023)

Δ  2023 data subject to independent limited assurance under ISAE (UK) 3000 and ISAE 3410. Current limited assurance scope and opinions can be found within the ESG Resource Hub: home.barclays/sustainability/esg-resource-hub/reporting-and-disclosures/

 
 
Strategic 
report

Shareholder 
information

Climate and
sustainability report

Governance

Risk 
review

Financial 
review

Financial 
statements

Barclays’ climate strategy (continued)

 Climate Action Roadmap

Barclays PLC

Annual Report 2023 65

Barclays has been taking action on climate change for a number of years. The below roadmap highlights key targets, actions and policies relating to achieving net zero operations, reducing our financed 
emissions and financing the transition. These are key milestones on the way to achieving our ambition to be a net zero bank by 2050.

•  Announced 2025 £150bn 
social and environmental 
financing target and 2030 
£100bn green financing 
target

•  One of the first UK banks 
to launch a 'Green 
Home Mortgage'

• Announced  targets to reduce 
operational emissions by 
80% and procure 90% 
4
renewable energy by 2025

•  Announced ambition 
to be a net zero bank by 2050

•  Launched BlueTrack™ 
with 2025 Energy and 
6
Power targets

•  Launched £175m 

8
Sustainable Impact Capital
initiative

• Announced 2030 Energy, 
Power, Cement and  
6
Steel targets

• Announced $1tn Sustainable 
and Transition Financing 
8
target and increased SIC
mandate to invest up to 
£500m
• Announced new operational 
emissions and electricity 
4
sourcing targets
• Elevated Climate risk to 
a Principal Risk

• Held a ‘Say on Climate’ 
advisory vote

• Updated Climate Change 
Statement  with new 
financing restrictions for 
3
upstream oil and gas

•  Announced 2030 targets for 
Agriculture, Commercial 
Real Estate, and Aviation, 
and updated scope for 
7
UK Housing
 convergence 
6 
and EPC ambition
point

•  Estimated full in-scope 
balance sheet financed 
emissions using 
methodology developed 
11
10
using PCAF

 Standard

•  Minimum requirements for 
Scope 1 and 2 targets, 
methane abatement and 
venting/flaring for Energy 
3
Groups will come into effect

•  All financing

to thermal coal 

mining or coal-fired power 
generation clients will be 
3
phased out

Pre-
2018

2018

2019

2020

2021

2022

2023

2024

2025

2026

2030

2035

2050

•  Joined Paris Pledge 
for Action in 2015

•  Signed statement of 
1
support of the FSB’s
2
 in 2017
TCFD

5
 pilot
•  Joined PACTA

• Published Climate Change 

3
 setting 
Statement
out restrictions for 
sensitive sectors

Notes:

•  Founding member of 
9
the NZBA
• Exceeded target to 
facilitate £150bn of social, 
environmental and 
sustainability-linked 
financing by 2025
• Exceeded 2025 operational 
emissions and energy 
4
targets

• Announced 2030 Autos target, 
convergence point for UK 
7
 and ambition for 
Housing
50% of mortgages to have 
6
EPC C or better by 2030
• Expanded our net zero 
operations approach and 
announced new operational 
4
milestones

•  Exceeded target to 

facilitate £100bn of green 
financing by 2030

• Financing restrictions came 
into effect for certain 
thermal coal mining, coal 
3
power and oil sands clients

•  NZ ambition

•  Tightened financing 
restrictions for coal-fired 
power generation clients will 
3
come into effect

•  Transition plan expectations 
for Energy Groups will come 
3
into effect

•  Financing
to thermal coal 
mining or coal-fired power 
generation clients in the EU 
and OECD will be phased 
3
out

• Financing to clients with >10% 
revenue from thermal coal 
mining or coal-fired power 
generation in the RoW will be 
3
restricted

1 Financial Stability Board    | 2 Taskforce on Climate-related Financial Disclosures    | 3 See our Climate Change Statement updated in February 2024 for further details including on scope and definition    | 4 See section on Net Zero Operations     | 5 Paris Agreement Capital Transition 
Assessment    | 6 See section Reducing our financed emissions    | 7 Originally called Residential Real Estate, updated in 2024    | 8 Sustainable Impact Capital    | 9 Net-Zero Banking Alliance   | 10 Partnership for Carbon Accounting Financials    |  11 PCAF Standard - PCAF (2022). The 
Global GHG Accounting and Reporting Standard Part A: Financed Emissions. Second Edition.

 
 
 
  
 
 
  
Risk and opportunities

TCFD Strategy Recommendation A:

TCFD Strategy Recommendation B:

TCFD Strategy Recommendation C:

Describe the climate-related risks and 
opportunities the organisation has identified over 
the short, medium, and long term.

Describe the impact of climate-related risks and 
opportunities on the organisation’s businesses, 
strategy, and financial planning.

Risks and opportunities

Risks

Opportunities

66

67

70

Implementing our climate strategy
Achieving net zero operations

Operational footprint dashboard

All other narrative
Reducing our financed emissions

BlueTrack

 dashboard

TM

All other narrative
Financing the transition

Sustainable finance dashboard

All other narrative
Working with our clients

Embedding climate and sustainability into our 
business

Just transition and nature and biodiversity

Engaging with industry

Barclays' approach to public policy

Describe the resilience of the organisation’s 
strategy, taking into consideration different 
climate-related scenarios, including a 2°C or 
lower scenario.

Resilience of our strategy
Scenario analysis

Barclays’ resilience to climate scenarios

Climate stress tests

2023 Enhancements and beyond

Challenges and limitations

Macro-dependencies and objectives

Important information/disclaimers

130

131

132

133

134

135

136

137

72

73

75

76
80

88

89
101

103

104
107

121

124

126

129

Strategic 
report

Shareholder 
information

Climate and
sustainability report

Governance

Risk 
review

Financial 
review

Financial 
statements

Barclays PLC

Annual Report 2023 67

Risk and opportunities

TCFD Strategy Recommendation (a)

Climate-related risks identified over 
the short, medium and long term

Our climate strategy is underpinned by the 
way we assess and manage our exposure to 
climate-related risks. Climate risk is a 
Principal Risk within the Barclays Enterprise 
Risk Management Framework. 

Barclays faces exposure to climate-related risks 
either directly through its operations and 
infrastructure or indirectly through its financing 
and investment activities. The two main 
categories of climate-related risks are physical 
risks and transition risks.
Physical risks

Physical risks result from a changing climate and 
can be event-driven (acute risks), including 
increased frequency and/or severity of extreme 
weather events such as cyclone, hurricanes and 
flooding. Physical risks can also be driven by 
longer-term shifts in climate patterns (chronic 
risks) from sustained higher temperatures, 
leading to rising sea levels, rising mean 
temperatures and more severe weather events.
Transition risks

Transition risks result from the transition to a 
lower-carbon economy. This is likely to involve 
significant, rapid policy, regulatory and legal 
changes, as well as the evolution of technology 
and markets to adapt to a changing climate and 
associated impacts.
Time horizons

The impact of physical and transition risks can be 
significant and widespread, affecting Barclays' 
portfolio and financial performance over short-, 
medium- and long-terms horizons.

In the short term, physical risks arising from 
extreme weather events and climate-related 
disasters pose a direct threat to Barclays' 
physical assets and infrastructure. This can 
potentially result in immediate losses, increased 
costs for repair and higher insurance premiums. 
Similarly, acute events may also potentially 
damage the physical facilities of Barclays' clients 
or cause business disruptions, which may 
adversely impact the value of clients' assets, 
reduce their profitability and subsequently lead 
to potential increase in credit risk for Barclays. 
Additionally, operations in regions prone to high 
physical risks may also experience higher 
insurance premiums or limited insurance 
coverage.

Transition risks are expected to occur in all 
timeframes, but more broadly over the medium 
term. The cost of transitioning to cleaner 
technologies and sustainable business practices 
may strain the financial resources of businesses, 
affecting profitability and long-term viability. 
Financial institutions like Barclays could also face 
significant increases in costs and resources 
allocated to adhere to new policies, laws and 
regulations aimed at transitioning to a lower-
carbon economy. This in turn may lead to higher 
conduct and operational risks to Barclays. At an 
individual level, there may be challenges related 
to employment opportunities as businesses 
transition away from carbon-intensive practices. 
This in turn may impact the creditworthiness of 
Barclays' clients and their ability to repay loans.

Transition risks aimed at mitigating climate 
change can also impact the profitability and value 
of assets in Barclays' portfolio, particularly those 
linked to carbon-intensive industries. Companies 
perceived as slow to adapt or unresponsive to 
environmental concerns may face reputational 
damage or legal actions leading to decreased 
customer trust and investor support. 

With escalating concerns and heightened global 
awareness of climate risks, it is likely that litigation 
linked to these risks will increase. Additionally, 
Barclays may face greater scrutiny of the type of 
business it conducts – including in the form of 
adverse media coverage and an increase in 
climate-related litigation cases. This in turn may 
adversely impact customer demand for Barclays' 
products, returns on business activities, value of 
assets and trading positions, resulting in higher 
impairment charges. 

Looking to the longer term, the cumulative 
effects of global temperature rise are likely to 
become increasingly pronounced – influencing 
ecosystems, sea levels and societal structures. 
Climate change can also trigger tipping points 
through feedback loops that amplify its effects. 
Certain tipping points are already underway, 
manifesting in observable changes across the 
globe. Different tipping elements, such as the 
melting of ice sheets or changes in ocean 
circulation, have varying time horizons. As the 
science develops, we are observing that some 
tipping points may run on a shorter timeline than 
initially expected. Accordingly, the uncertainty of 
exact timeframes in which such tipping points are 
expected to materialise adds a layer of 
complexity – making it challenging to precisely 
predict when impacts will materialise.

When considering the timescales of climate-
related risks, Barclays has categorised short, 
medium and long term as follows:

• Short term (S): 0-1 year

• Medium term (M): 1-5 years

• Long term (L): 5-30 years.

The short-term timescale coincides with the 
short-term plan for annual budgets and granular 
financial plans. The medium term coincides with 
the five-year financial, capital and funding plans.

Climate change as a driver of risk

The feedback effects of climate risk drivers 
through macro and micro transmission channels 
are observed in Barclays' portfolio through 
traditional risk categories such as credit risk, 
market risk, treasury and capital risk, operational 
risk and reputational risk. The approach to 
identifying, measuring and managing climate-
related risks is consistent with other key risks, 
however there remains significant uncertainty 
around when these risks will materialise.

Climate risk is integrated into the broader 
Enterprise Risk Management Framework, 
aligning with other Principal Risks and ensuring a 
holistic approach to risk identification, 
assessment and management. Barclays' Climate 
Risk Framework facilitates a structured 
integration of climate risk considerations into the 
Bank's operations. It undergoes regular reviews 
and updates – including changes to risk 
taxonomy, definitions and methodology – to align 
with changing regulatory expectations and 
external developments. Following the annual 
review of the Climate Risk Framework in 2023, 
Barclays no longer considers that a separate 
category is needed to capture second-order 
impacts of physical and transition risk, as these 
impacts are already being captured and managed 
within the existing assessments and framework. 
Therefore, connected risks no longer features as 
a separate category.

The potential impacts of physical and transition 
risk drivers will vary across Barclays' portfolios 
depending on composition, industry, geographic 
location, business operations and other 
contextual factors. 

The tables below set out the example drivers, 
example potential impacts and expected time 
horizons of various physical and transition risks.
Further details on how Barclays manages climate risk can be 
+
found on pages 272 to 276.

Strategic 
report

Shareholder 
information

Climate and
sustainability report

Governance

Risk 
review

Financial 
review

Financial 
statements

Risk and opportunities (continued)

Barclays PLC

Annual Report 2023 68

TCFD Strategy Recommendation (a)

Transition risks
Example drivers

Example potential impacts

Expected time horizons

Physical risks
Example drivers

Policy and legal

Reputation

Technology

Market

• Carbon tax impacting sectors and clients

•

• Enhanced GHG reporting obligations

• Government and non-governmental 
organisations taking litigation actions

Increased stakeholder concern or 
negative stakeholder feedback

• Shifts in consumer preferences

• Stigmatisation of sectors

• Disruptive substitute technologies being 

• Changes in supply and demand of raw 

favoured because of lower carbon 
footprint

• Development of emissions capture and 

recycling facilities

•

Investments in new technologies

materials

• Uncertainty in market signals

• Changing market sentiment

•

Increased operating costs for compliance 
or due to fines from regulators or 
damages from litigation

• Write-offs and early retirement of assets 

due to policy changes

• Changes in asset valuations

•

Increased costs and reduced demand for 
products and services

• Write-offs and early retirement of assets
• Research and development expenditure 

• Decreased production capacity due to 
poor employee attraction and retention

in new technologies

• Costs for adoption of new practices and 

• Reduction in capital availability

processes

•

•

Increased costs and reduced demand for 
products and services
Increased production costs due to changing 
input prices and output requirements

• Decreased revenue and repricing of assets

S, M, L

Acute

Chronic

• Damage to fixed assets and infrastructure (e.g. property, power supplies) by wildfires

• Change in weather and precipitation patterns resulting in reduced agricultural yields and 

• Adverse impact on agriculture and production of soft commodities due to drought

• Transport difficulties and damage to infrastructure due to severe storm and flooding

land no longer suitable for farming

• Potential population migration due to uninhabitable land

Example potential impacts

•

Increased costs due to damage to facilities

•

Increase in sea levels and consequent coastal erosion requiring building of new seawall 
and flood defences

• Rising temperatures resulting in diminished productivity and health issues

• Reduced revenue from decreased production capacity and early retirement of assets

• Reduced revenue from decreased production capacity

• Decrease in property values

•

Increased operating costs and decrease in sales due to unavailability of raw materials 
and supply chain disruptions 

•

Increased costs and insurance for assets in high-risk locations

• Reduced revenue from lower sales and output 

Expected time horizons

S, M, L

M, L

Barclays PLC

Annual Report 2023 69

Strategic 
report

Shareholder 
information

Climate and
sustainability report

Governance

Risk 
review

Financial 
review

Financial 
statements

Risk and opportunities (continued)

TCFD Strategy Recommendation (a)
i
Building our understanding of nature-related risk

i

Nature-related risks arise from an organisation's 
dependencies and impacts on nature. These risks 
can be physical risks and transition risks, which in 
1
.
turn can present financial risks

As such, this year we have undertaken further work 
to develop our understanding of nature-related 
risks and how these relate to different industry 
sectors. Building on last year's heatmap analysis, we 
have updated our approach using publicly available 
data and explored a wider set of impacts and 
dependencies. This work has been designed to help 
build our understanding of the material nature-
related impacts, dependencies, risks and 
opportunities within priority industry sectors, and 
indicate where we might focus further analysis, as 
we continue to build our nature related assessment 
and decision-making capabilities.

Through this work, we have developed an updated 
heatmap by mapping industry classification codes 
and the associated qualitative nature-related 
2
impact and dependency ratings from ENCORE
3
and SBTN
 to Barclays' internal sector 
classifications. The mapping was undertaken for 
sectors with material impacts and dependencies as 
identified by TNFD in its Guidance for Financial 
4
.
Institutions

We then undertook an exploratory exercise which 
highlighted in which of these industry sectors 
particular nature-related impacts and 
dependencies are most likely to occur. 

This work created a heatmap with ratings 
representing an average global view of the 
potential impacts and dependencies that may 
be associated with the direct operations of 
companies in these sectors.

The preliminary heatmap analysis highlighted 
that, for most of the priority industry sectors, 
there are a number of potential impacts and 
dependencies rated as high or very high, 
including impacts related to land-use change, 
water use and pollution, as well as 
dependencies on ecosystem services such as 
ground and surface water, climate regulation 
and flood-storm protection. These insights will 
be used to help inform our future analysis, 
taking into account that this represents one 
data source, and specific nature related risks 
within the same sector might vary substantially 
from company or project and an aggregated 
heatmap is not necessarily representative of 
the actual impacts and dependencies of 
Barclays’ client base.

Our proposed next steps include building on 
the TNFD LEAP pilot undertaken in 2022/2023 
to conduct further sector-level analysis, taking 
into account the results of the heatmap, 
Barclays’ exposure and client base and 
emerging thinking on impact and risk data and 
methodologies.

Notes: 

1 Source: tnfd.global/wp-content/uploads/2023/08/Recommendations_of_the_Taskforce_on_Nature-

related_Financial_Disclosures_September_2023.pdf?v=1695118661

2 ENCORE stands for Exploring Natural Capital Opportunities, Risks, and Exposure and is a tool developed by Global Economy, UNEP-FI, and UNEP-

WCMC. 

3 SBTN stands for Science Based Targets Network and builds on the momentum of the Science Based Targets initiative helping companies set 

science-based targets for nature. 

4  Source: tnfd.global/wp-content/uploads/2023/08/Guidance_for_Financial_Institutions_v1.pdf  
Nature-related data, models and methodologies are a nascent area and therefore evolving and reliant on externally sourced data mapped to 
internal sector identifiers, with various limitations. We will continue to review the applied data, models, and methodologies, as such the results 
of similar assessments are likely to change in the future.

 
Strategic 
report

Shareholder 
information

Climate and
sustainability report

Governance

Risk 
review

Financial 
review

Financial 
statements

Barclays PLC

Annual Report 2023 70

Risk and opportunities (continued)

TCFD Strategy Recommendation (a)

Climate-related opportunities 
identified over the short, medium 
and long term 

Barclays has enhanced its focus on sustainable 
and transition finance over the last two years. 
At the end of 2022, we announced a new target 
to facilitate $1trn of Sustainable and Transition 
Finance. This followed a review of the financing 
requirements arising from the global transition 
to a low-carbon economy if the world is to 
avoid the worst effects of climate change and 
the potential addressable market for Barclays. 
During 2023 we built on this work to develop a 
Group-wide sustainable finance strategy to 
operationalise our ambition.

The market opportunity

We recognise the opportunities arising from the 
global transition to a low-carbon economy – 
which will involve scaling up zero or near-zero 
emitting technologies and businesses and 
supporting emissions reductions in high-emitting 
and hard-to-abate sectors if the world is to avoid 
the worst effects of climate change. 

In 2022, we completed a review of the market 
and identified three medium-term thematic 
areas of potential opportunity for Barclays, as 
outlined below. Although markets may have 
evolved during 2023 we believe these still 
represent growth opportunities for Barclays.
Energy Transition Finance

The analysis indicated that, based on current 
policy, technology and market developments, 
Energy Transition Finance – including renewables 
and nascent or early-stage climate technologies 
that are needed to scale to support the transition 
to net zero – represents an estimated 10-year 
addressable opportunity of over $16trn across 
North America, Europe and Asia Pacific 
(excluding China). 

This extends to up to $24trn over the same time 
period if policy, technology and market 
developments step up to deliver on net zero by 
2050.

This consists of a number of mature and scaling 
technologies with renewable energy (including 
wind and solar) and low-emissions transport 
(including electric vehicles, fuel cell electric 
vehicles and mass transit) expected to make up 
over half of the addressable market through to 
2030. The analysis also indicated significant 
longer-term opportunities in financing the 
scaling of capabilities in nascent technologies 
such as carbon capture utilisation and storage 
(CCUS) and hydrogen solutions.
Sustainable finance instruments

Sustainable finance instruments represent an 
estimated $3.5trn-6trn annual issuance 
opportunity through to 2030 across North 
America, Europe and Asia Pacific (excluding 
China), with Europe  expected to remain the 
primary market for ESG debt.

The analysis indicated that all ESG instruments 
are expected to grow to 2030 with ESG debt 
excluding green bonds and loans represents an 
estimated 10-year $400-650bn cumulative 
financing opportunity for Barclays based on our 
global market share in sustainable finance 
instruments.
Retail and business banking

Barclays UK recognises the environmental and 
societal benefits – and the commercial 
opportunities – that can be delivered through 
financing the UK economy's transition to net 
zero. Embracing the challenge of capturing 
opportunities from the transition to a low-carbon 
economy aligns with Barclays’ Purpose and 
positions us to capitalise on the growing market 
for sustainable finance.

Our 2022 market review indicated that, within the 
UK, sustainable opportunities in retail and 
business banking represent a $225-286bn 
market opportunity by 2025, increasing to an 
estimated $640bn-1trn by 2030.

According to our 2022 market review, Green 
Home Mortgages represent the largest individual 
market for Barclays UK by 2030. We are actively 
exploring ways to unlock the decarbonisation of 
homes at scale by developing secured and 
unsecured lending for energy-efficiency-related 
technologies. We are also exploring strategic 
partnerships to provide customers and 
businesses with financing and guidance to make 
more sustainable choices. However, there are 
significant dependencies for this opportunity to 
be realised – namely customer demand, supply 
chain maturity and policy intervention.

Assessing the market opportunity

To determine the addressable global market 
for sustainable finance to 2030, Barclays' 
2022 market review  leveraged widely used 
and credible third-party sources including the 
IEA, IRENA, Climate Bonds Initiative and the 
IFC as well as Barclays' own industry, ESG and 
market research. The analysis considered 
the investment needed through to 2030 for 
the world to align to net zero, including the 
accelerated scenarios reflecting possible 
policy and market developments. Having 
determined the global addressable market, 
Barclays developed scenarios for the Bank's 
potential market for various asset classes, 
product sets, technological sectors and 
geographic markets, validated through 
comparison with historic growth rates and 
our projected share of the overall market.

$1trn Sustainable and Transition 
Financing Target

Following analysis of the market opportunity for 
sustainable financing, together with a review of the 
Group's capabilities, in December 2022 we 
announced a new target to facilitate $1trn of 
Sustainable and Transition Financing between 2023 
and the end of 2030, 
+

Further details of Barclays' sustainable finance targets can 
be found on page 101 and further details on how Barclays' 
products  and services are harnessing these opportunities 
from page 107.

We recognise that we must tackle the 
decarbonisation of 'hard-to-abate' sectors that 
are carbon intensive – including through scaling 
and commercialising new technologies such as 
hydrogen and carbon capture.  

During 2023 we developed a Transition Finance 
Framework, which we announced in early 2024.  
The Transition Finance Framework sets out the 
criteria for the inclusion of transition financing in 
our $1trn target. The inclusion of transition 
financing reflects our recognition of the 
importance of lending and facilitating funding and 
investing in technologies and activities that 
support GHG emission reduction (directly or 
indirectly) in high-emitting and hard-to-abate 
sectors.  
+ Further details of Barclays' Transition Finance Framework 

can be found on page 104.

Strategic 
report

Shareholder 
information

Climate and
sustainability report

Governance

Risk 
review

Financial 
review

Financial 
statements

Risk and opportunities (continued)

TCFD Strategy Recommendation (a)

Group sustainable finance strategy 

Following the appointments of the CIB Head of 
Sustainable Finance in November 2022 and the 
Barclays UK Head of Social Purpose and 
Sustainable Finance in January 2023, a significant 
piece of work was undertaken to develop a Group 
sustainable finance strategy, which was presented 
to and discussed with the Board in July 2023. 

This work built on the findings of the 2022 market 
opportunity analysis and considered Barclays ' 
competitive strengths to identify strategic 
opportunities in sustainable and transition finance 
where we believe Barclays can differentiate itself 
and best support our clients and the global 
economy to accelerate the transition to net zero. 
The strategy aligns with the climate and 
environmental themes that were identified when 
we announced our $1trn Sustainable and 
Transition Financing target in December 2022 and 
therefore underpins our plan to deliver 
that ambition.

In the development of the strategy, we identified 
three sustainability themes which are important in 
the journey towards a net zero and sustainable 
future, where we see significant commercial 
opportunity and where we believe we can focus 
and differentiate:

The graphic below provides a summary of the 
themes and pillars. At the intersection of each 
theme and pillar we are developing tailored 
products and services for our clients and 
customers to help them deliver on their 
transition and sustainability objectives. 

For example, with our focus on climate 
technologies, we are supporting the development 
of start-ups in targeted technologies and nature 
from idea to IPO. We are also advising sustainable 
and Agtech companies on areas such as raising 
finance and M&A.

1 Decarbonising industry

2 Contributing to a nature-positive food system

3 Supporting consumers on the path to net zero

We also identified three pillars of competitive 
advantage for Barclays across those 
sustainability themes, through which we believe 
we can deliver for our clients by working 
collectively across our different businesses:

1 Our strength in the UK

2  Our focus on being a leading partner to climate 

technologies

3  The strength of our business across 

sustainable credit markets

Our strategy to deliver on our sustainable finance ambition

Three pillars where we can deliver for clients and stakeholders:

Support UK net zero

Leading climate tech partner

Sustainable credit markets

• Facilitate the flow of capital to consumers 

and businesses

• Facilitate the flow of capital to new and existing 
technologies critical to the net zero transition

• Leverage strength in credit markets to facilitate 

clients’ transition plans

• Deliver on our social purpose agenda by 

• Develop expertise and infrastructure financing 

• Play a leading role in the creation of carbon and 

supporting the just transition

solutions for the deployment of new technologies

biodiversity markets

• Support climate tech companies across the lifecycle, 

• Unlock additional sources of capital, including 

from startup to IPO

through securitisation, savings and investments

Three sustainability themes where we can focus and differentiate:

Decarbonising 
 industry

Support SMEs and corporates across major 
industries to decarbonise, deploy new 
technology and manage their transitions 

Contributing to a nature-
positive food system

Drive the evolution to sustainable 
agriculture and foods, and facilitate 
regenerative land use

Supporting consumers on the path 
to net zero 
Provide financing to facilitate consumer 
products to live and act sustainably, and 
support consumer-oriented climate tech 
and financing models

Barclays PLC

Annual Report 2023 71

Through our sustainable finance strategy and our 
$1trn Sustainable and Transition Financing target, 
we have set out an ambition and approach that will 
support our clients and customers in their 
transition. Delivery of the strategy will require a 
multi-year investment in our people and 
capabilities, which we are now accelerating the 
execution of.

Identifying nature-related 
opportunities

Nature-related financing presents future 
opportunities for the financial sector given 
the capital requirements to address and 
reverse nature loss: the biodiversity 
financing gap is estimated to be $700bn per 
year1. As we execute our sustainable 
finance strategy, we aim to identify 
opportunities to play a role in supporting 
the financing of nature.  

See section Financing nature on page 105 for details of 
our approach.

+

Note:

1 cbd.int/doc/c/e6d3/cd1d/daf663719a03902a9b116c34/

cop-15-l-25-en.pdf

 
Implementing our climate strategy

TCFD Strategy Recommendation A:

TCFD Strategy Recommendation B:

TCFD Strategy Recommendation C:

Describe the climate-related risks and 
opportunities the organisation has identified over 
the short, medium, and long term.

Describe the impact of climate-related risks and 
opportunities on the organisation’s businesses, 
strategy, and financial planning.

Risks and opportunities

Risks

Opportunities

66

67

70

Implementing our climate strategy
Achieving net zero operations

Operational footprint dashboard

All other narrative
Reducing our financed emissions

BlueTrack

 dashboard

TM

All other narrative
Financing the transition

Sustainable finance dashboard

All other narrative
Working with our clients

Embedding climate and sustainability into our 
business

Just transition and nature and biodiversity

Engaging with industry

Barclays' approach to public policy

Describe the resilience of the organisation’s 
strategy, taking into consideration different 
climate-related scenarios, including a 2°C or 
lower scenario.

Resilience of our strategy
Scenario analysis

Barclays’ resilience to climate scenarios

Climate stress tests

2023 Enhancements and beyond

Challenges and limitations

Macro-dependencies and objectives

Important information/disclaimers

130

131

132

132

134

135

136

137

72

73

75

76
80

88

89
101

103

104
107

121

124

126

129

Barclays PLC

Annual Report 2023 73

Strategic 
report

Shareholder 
information

Climate and
sustainability report

Governance

Risk 
review

Financial 
review

Financial 
statements

Implementing our Climate Strategy (continued)

TCFD Strategy Recommendation (b)  |  Strategic Pillar 1

Achieving net zero operations 

Although financed emissions account for 
the greatest proportion of our climate 
impact, we have also continued addressing 
our operational emissions – an important 
factor in meeting our ambition to be a net 
zero bank by 2050. 

Defining net zero operations 

We define net zero operations as the state in 
which we will achieve a GHG reduction of our 
Scope 1, Scope 2 and Scope 3 operational 
o
1
emissions
C-aligned 
 consistent with a 1.5
pathway and counterbalance any residual 
emissions.

We continue to review and develop our approach 
to net zero operations as standards to 
understand and define net zero evolve rapidly.
Net zero operations strategy 
Our net zero operations strategy has two 
components: 

• Reduce our Scope 1 and 2 emissions through 

energy efficiency, electrification of our 
buildings and vehicles, renewable electricity 
sourcing and replacing fossil-fuel-powered 
infrastructure with low-emission alternatives

• Reduce Scope 3 operational emissions by 

engaging with our key stakeholders, including 
2
suppliers
 and colleagues, to track, manage 
and reduce their GHG emissions – while 
embedding net zero principles across our 
policies and contractual requirements.

Progress to date

3
In 2023 we achieved our milestone
 of 50% 
reduction of our Scope 1 and 2 location-based 
GHG emissions ahead of 2030 – reducing these 
Δ
emissions by 51%
. We continued to source 
4
Δ
100%
 for our global real 
 renewable electricity
5
estate portfolio
 and continued to meet our 90% 
Scope 1 and 2 market-based emissions 
6
 – reducing these emissions by 
reduction target
Δ
. 
93%

Key contributors to our progress include global 
7
real estate portfolio right-sizing
 and energy 
efficiency programmes, as well as company 
vehicles electrification, and our continued focus 
on renewable electricity sourcing. 

For our Scope 3 operational emissions, our focus 
remained on engaging with our key stakeholders 
and making data enhancements, particularly by 
acquiring primary supplier data and evolving our 
accounting methodology in line with industry 
standards and best practice. We also continued 
to pursue the integration of ESG considerations 
and expectations into processes throughout the 
procurement lifecycle.

We expect that our progress against our net zero 
operations targets and milestones is likely to be 
variable and non-linear. Our net zero operations 
strategy is dependent on broader industry, 
technological and regulatory changes that are 
outside Barclays’ control and may affect our 
ability to achieve our targets and milestones. 
Further, as the accounting standards and data 
underlying our net zero operations strategy 
continue to evolve and be refined, this could 
impact our metrics, targets and milestones. 
Progress against our targets and milestones may 
also be impacted by management decisions 
based on key drivers unrelated to climate, for 
example prudent risk management practices. 

Our intent is to enhance data collection and 
accuracy to help identify key contributors to our 
impact, determine opportunities for 
improvement, and support the integration of 
sustainability into our business operations.

Notes:

Δ    2023 data subject to independent limited assurance under ISAE 
(UK) 3000 and ISAE 3410. Current limited assurance scope and 
opinion can be found within the ESG Resource Hub: 
home.barclays/sustainability/esg-resource-hub/reporting-and-
disclosures/

1 We define our Scope 3 operational emissions to include supply 

chain, waste, business travel and leased assets.

2 In this Achieving net zero operations section, when referring to 
suppliers and supply chain, we are referring to Third-Party 
Service Suppliers (TPSPs).

3 In this Achieving net zero operations section, a reference to a 
"milestone” denotes an indicator we are working towards and 
report against.

4 We maintained 100% renewable electricity sourcing for our 

global real estate portfolio through instruments including green 
tariffs (55%) and energy attribute certificates (EACs)(45%).

5 Global real estate portfolio includes offices, branches, campuses 

and data centres.

6 In this Achieving net zero operations section, a reference to a 

“target” denotes an indicator linked to our executive 
remuneration.

7 By right-sizing, we are optimising our space and associated 

resources for our operational needs. 

 
Strategic 
report

Shareholder
information

Climate and
sustainability report

Governance

Risk 
review

Financial 
review

Financial 
statements

Barclays PLC

Annual Report 2023 142

Contents

Parts 1, 2 and 3 of Barclays PLC 2023 Annual Report 
together comprise Barclays PLC’s annual accounts and report 
for the purposes of Section 423 of the Companies Act 2006.

Inside Part 3

Governance

Governance contents

Board Governance

Directors’ report

Remuneration report

Other Governance
Risk review

Risk review contents 

Risk management 

Material existing and emerging risks 

Principal risk management 

Risk performance 

Supervision and regulation 
Financial review 

Financial review contents 

Key performance indicators 
Consolidated summary income statement 
Income statement commentary 
Consolidated summary balance sheet 
Balance sheet commentary 

Analysis of results by business 

Non-IFRS performance measures
Financial statements

Financial statements contents 

Consolidated financial statements 

Notes to the financial statements 

143

143

144

145

191

230
254

254

256

258

272

284

363
373

373

374

376

377

378

379

380

387
394

394

413

421

Inside Part 1

Strategic report

Welcome to Barclays
The Group at a glance
Chairman’s introduction
Chief Executive's review
Our business model
Our strategy

The world in which we operate
Our plan and targets
Our new divisional structure
2023 divisional review

About Barclays
Barclays UK
Barclays International: Corporate and Investment Bank
Barclays International: Consumer, Cards and Payments
Our stakeholders

Customers and clients
Colleagues
Society
Investors
Additional disclosure

Section 172(1) statement
Non-financial and sustainability information statement
Climate-related financial disclosures summary
ESG Ratings and Benchmarks
ESG-related reporting and disclosures

Managing risk

Viability statement

Shareholder information

Important information
Inside Part 2

Climate and sustainability report

Introduction
Risks and opportunities
Implementing our climate strategy
Resilience of our strategy

Please note that throughout the document, graphical representation 
of component parts may not cast due to rounding

1

1
2
4
7
10
11

12
13
14
15
16
17
19
21
23

24
27
30
34
37

38
40
44
49
50

51

54

56

58

59

60
66
72
130

Governance

Our governance framework facilitates 
the effective management of the Group 
across its diverse businesses.

Board Governance
Directors’ report

Board of Directors

Group Executive Committee

Our governance framework

Key Board activities 

Board Nominations Committee report

Other Governance 

Climate and sustainability governance

145 Managing impacts in lending and financing

149 Our supply chain

150

153

156

Human rights/Modern slavery

Supporting our customers

The Barclays Way

Board Audit Committee report

166 Whistleblowing

Board Risk Committee report

Board Sustainability Committee report

How we comply

174

180

183

Tax

Financial crime

Health and safety

Other statutory and regulatory information
Remuneration report

185 Managing data privacy, security and resilience
191

231

236

238

239

242

245

246

247

249

250

251

 
Strategic 
report

Shareholder
information

Climate and
sustainability report

Governance

Risk 
review

Financial 
review

Financial 
statements

Barclays PLC

Annual Report 2023 144

Board Governance 
Welcome to our 2023 Board Governance report. The report sets out the 
composition of our Board and explains how our Board governance framework 
operates, alongside the key areas of focus of our Board and Board 
Committees in 2023.

Aim of our governance

The primary aim of our governance is that it: 

• seeks to ensure that our decision-making is aligned to our 

Purpose, Values and Mindset

• creates long-term sustainable value for our shareholders, 

having regard to the interests of all our stakeholders

• is effective in providing constructive challenge, advice and 

support to management 

• provides checks and balances and drives informed, 
collaborative and accountable decision-making. 

Compliance with the Code

• Our Board Governance report reflects the requirements of the 

2018 UK Corporate Governance Code (the Code).

• To view how we comply with the Code, 

please see pages 183 to 184.

Certain additional information, signposted throughout this report,
is available at home.barclays/corporategovernance

Directors’ report

Board of Directors

Group Executive Committee

Our governance framework

Key Board activities

Board Nominations Committee report

Board Audit Committee report

Board Risk Committee report

Board Sustainability Committee report

How we comply

Other statutory and regulatory information
Remuneration report

145

149

150

153

156

166

174

180

183

185
191

Strategic 
report

Shareholder
information

Climate and
sustainability report

Governance

Risk 
review

Financial 
review

Financial 
statements

Barclays PLC

Annual Report 2023 145

Directors’ report: Board of Directors

Leading the Group, driven by 
our Purpose, Values and Mindset

Board Committee membership

Audit Committee 
member

Nominations 
Committee member

Remuneration 
Committee member

Risk Committee 
member

Sustainability 
Committee member

Committee 
Chair

Nigel Higgins

Group Chairman
Appointed: 

March 2019 (Board), May 2019 
(Chairman)

Skills, experience and contribution:

• seasoned business leader with extensive 
experience in, and understanding of, 
banking and the financial services industry
• strong track record in leading and chairing 

organisations

• significant experience in providing 

strategic advice to major international 
organisations and governments 

• keenly focused on culture and corporate 

governance. 

Nigel spent 36 years at Rothschild & Co. 
where he was most recently Deputy 
Chairman. Prior to that he was Chairman of 
the Group Executive Committee and 
Managing Partner of Rothschild & Co. 
Key current appointments:

Chairman, Sadler’s Wells; Non-Executive 
Director, Tetra Laval Group

C.S. Venkatakrishnan

Skills, experience and contribution:

Group Chief Executive
Appointed:

November 2021

Brian Gilvary        

Senior Independent Director (SID)
Appointed: 

February 2020 (Board), January 2021 (SID)

• highly regarded leader with significant 

global banking experience

• extensive background in financial markets 

and risk management 

• deep understanding of the business and 

the areas within which the Group 
operates. 

Prior to his appointment as Group Chief 
Executive, Venkat served as Head of Global 
Markets and Co-President of Barclays Bank 
PLC from October 2020 and Group Chief 
Risk Officer from 2016 to 2020. 

Skills, experience and contribution:

• extensive senior level experience of 
management, finance and strategy 

• deep experience of US and UK 

shareholder engagement

• significant experience with, and 

understanding of, the challenges and 
opportunities inherent in advancing a 
sustainable energy future.

Before joining Barclays in 2016, Venkat 
worked at JPMorgan Chase from 1994, 
holding senior roles in Asset Management, 
Investment Banking, and in Risk. 
Key current appointments:

Board Member, Institute of International 
Finance; Advisory member to the Board, 
Massachusetts Institute of Technology 
Golub Centre for Finance and Policy; 
Member of the UN Environment Programme 
Finance Initiative Leadership Council; Chair, 
Corporate Partnerships Board, The Royal 
Marsden Cancer Charity; Member, CNBC 
ESG Council

His other senior-level experience includes 
serving on the boards of various commercial 
and charitable organisations. Brian was Chair 
of The 100 Group of FTSE 100 Finance 
Directors, a member of the UK Treasury 
Financial Management Review Board and has 
served on various Business in the 
Community Leadership Teams.  
Key current appointments:

Brian spent much of his career with BP p.l.c. 
in senior leadership roles, where he was most 
recently Chief Financial Officer. 

Non-Executive Chair, INEOS Energy, an 
INEOS group company; Non-Executive 
Director, Defence Board, Ministry of Defence

 
	
	
	
Strategic 
report

Shareholder
information

Climate and
sustainability report

Governance

Risk 
review

Financial 
review

Financial 
statements

Barclays PLC

Annual Report 2023 146

Directors’ report: Board of Directors (continued)

Robert Berry

Independent Non-Executive Director
Appointed: 

February 2022

Skills, experience and contribution:

• proven track record of management of 

risk exposure for a global financial 
institution and building a modern group-
wide risk management organisation

• strong record of integrating risk 
management with strategy

• significant experience in finance, model 

development and trading.  

Robert has deep risk management expertise 
having had a 28-year career at Goldman 
Sachs, where, prior to his retirement in 2018, 
he held the role of Co-Deputy Chief Risk 
Officer. 
Key current appointments:

Trustee, High Watch Recovery Center 
(incorporating President, Alina Lodge)

Tim Breedon CBE

Independent Non-Executive Director
Appointed: 

November 2012

Skills, experience and contribution:

• significant experience in strategic planning
• extensive financial services experience
• detailed knowledge of risk management 

and UK and EU regulation. 

Tim is a member of the Board and is also 
Chair of Barclays Bank Ireland PLC (also 
referred to as Barclays Europe). 

He had a distinguished career with Legal & 
General where, among other roles, he was 
the Group Chief Executive Officer until June 
2012. Tim also served as Chair of the 
Association of British Insurers. 
Key current appointments:

Chairman, Apax Global Alpha Limited; Non-
Executive Director, Quilter PLC

Anna Cross

Group Finance Director
Appointed: 

April 2022

Skills, experience and contribution:

• extensive accounting and financial 

services expertise

• deep understanding of banking and retail 

sectors

• significant financial leadership experience 

of financial institutions. 

Anna is a chartered accountant and Group 
Finance Director with responsibility for 
Finance, including Tax, Treasury, Investor 
Relations and Strategy. 

Mohamed A. El-Erian

Skills, experience and contribution:

Independent Non-Executive Director
Appointed:

January 2020

• highly respected economist and investor
• extensive experience in the asset 

management industry and multilateral 
institutions

• deep knowledge and understanding of 
international economics and financial 
services sector. 

Mohamed currently serves as President of 
Queens' College, Cambridge University. He is 
Chief Economic Advisor at Allianz SE, the 
corporate parent of PIMCO (Pacific 
Investment Management Company LLC) 
where he formerly served as Chief Executive 
and Co-Chief Investment Officer. 

Prior to joining Barclays, Anna worked in both 
banking and retail and held various roles at 
Asda, HBOS and Lloyds Banking Group. 
Since joining Barclays in 2013, Anna was 
appointed Chief Financial Officer of Barclays 
Bank UK PLC in 2016, Group Financial 
Controller in 2019 and Deputy Group 
Finance Director in 2020. She joined the 
Group Executive Committee in February 
2022, before taking up the role of Group 
Finance Director in April 2022.
Key current appointments:

Chair, The 100 Group of the FTSE Finance 
Directors

Mohamed is a regular columnist for 
Bloomberg Opinion and a contributing editor 
at the Financial Times. He spent 15 years at 
the IMF where he served as Deputy Director 
before moving to the private sector and 
financial services.  
Key current appointments:

Lead Independent Director, Under Armour 
Inc.; Chief Economic Adviser, Allianz SE; 
Chairman, Gramercy Funds Management; 
Senior Advisor, Investcorp Bank BSC

	
	
  
	
	
Strategic 
report

Shareholder
information

Climate and
sustainability report

Governance

Risk 
review

Financial 
review

Financial 
statements

Barclays PLC

Annual Report 2023 147

Directors’ report: Board of Directors (continued)

Dawn Fitzpatrick 

Independent Non-Executive Director
Appointed: 

September 2019

Mary Francis CBE

Independent Non-Executive Director
Appointed: 

October 2016

Sir John Kingman

Independent Non-Executive Director
Appointed: 

June 2023

Marc Moses

Independent Non-Executive Director

Appointed:

January 2023

Her previous experience includes 25 years 
with UBS, most recently as Head of 
Investments for UBS Asset Management. 
Key current appointments:

Chief Executive Officer and Chief Investment 
Officer, Soros Fund Management LLC; 
Member, Advisory Board and Investment 
Committee of the Open Society 
Foundations’ Economic Justice Programme; 
Advisory Council Member, The Bretton 
Woods Committee; Chair, Financial Sector 
Advisory Council, Federal Reserve Bank of 
Dallas

In her executive career, Mary held senior 
positions with both HM Treasury and the 
Prime Minister's Office and served as 
Director General of the Association of British 
Insurers. 
Key current appointments:

Senior Independent Director, PensionBee 
Group PLC; Member, UK Takeover Appeal 
Board

John was also the first Chief Executive of UK 
Financial Investments Ltd (UKFI); and from 
2010-2012, he was Global Co-Head of the 
Financial Institutions Group at Rothschild. 
From 2016-2021 John was the first Chair of 
UK Research & Innovations, which oversees 
Government science funding of c£8bn a 
year. Between 2020 and January 2023, he 
was Chair of Tesco Personal Finance plc. 
Key current appointments:

Chair, Legal & General Group plc; Trustee & 
Deputy Chair of the Board of Trustees, The 
National Gallery

He joined HSBC in 2005 where he was Group 
Chief Risk Officer for nine years and joined 
the group board as an executive director in 
2014. He retired from HSBC in 2019.  
Key current appointments:

None

Skills, experience and contribution:

• extensive management experience of 
international financial institutions 

• strong financial and strategic leadership 

experience 

• detailed knowledge of the markets in 

which the Group operates. 

Dawn holds the role of Chief Executive 
Officer and Chief Investment Officer at 
Soros Fund Management LLC. 

Skills, experience and contribution:

• extensive board-level experience across a 

range of industries 

• strong focus on reputation management 
and promoting board governance values
• detailed understanding of the interaction 

between public and private sectors. 
Mary's previous appointments include Non-
Executive Directorships at the Bank of 
England, Alliance & Leicester, Aviva, Centrica 
and Swiss Re Group. 

Skills, experience and contribution:

• deep background in financial services
• strong leadership qualities and chair 

experience

• extensive expertise providing strategic 

advice to Government

John is Chair of Barclays Bank UK PLC. He 
had a long Whitehall career, where he was 
Second Permanent Secretary to HM 
Treasury and was also closely involved in the 
UK response to the financial crisis, handling 
the resolution of Northern Rock and leading 
negotiations with RBS, Lloyds and HBOS on 
their £37bn recapitalisation. 

Skills, experience and contribution:

• strong technical finance background in 
accounting and audit-related matters
• significant board and senior executive-
level risk management experience
• extensive knowledge of banking and 

financial services.

Marc is a chartered accountant and his 
financial services experience extends over 43 
years, initially as a trader and then in senior 
executive roles as an audit partner at PwC, 
and Chief Financial Officer of JPMorgan 
Europe. 

	
	
	
	
	
Strategic 
report

Shareholder
information

Climate and
sustainability report

Governance

Risk 
review

Financial 
review

Financial 
statements

Barclays PLC

Annual Report 2023 148

Directors’ report: Board of Directors (continued)

Diane was previously Global Chief 
Infrastructure Officer of Merrill Lynch, where 
she was responsible for all technology and 
operations across retail, corporates and 
banking.   
Key current appointments:

None 

Julia was appointed as a Non-Executive 
Director at Legal & General Group plc in 
2011. She chaired L&G’s Audit Committee 
between 2013 and 2016 and was Senior 
Independent Director from 2016 until she 
stepped down from L&G in March 2021. Julia 
previously served as the Chair of The 100 
Group of FTSE 100 Finance Directors.
Key current appointments:

None

Prior to joining Barclays, Hannah was a Senior 
Associate in the London Corporate practice 
of Clifford Chance LLP.  

Diane Schueneman

Skills, experience and contribution:

Independent Non-Executive Director

Appointed:

June 2015

Julia Wilson

Independent Non-Executive Director

Appointed: 

April 2021

Hannah Ellwood

Group Company Secretary

Appointed:

February 2023

• significant experience of managing global, 
cross-discipline business operations and 
client services in the financial services 
industry

• strong transformational programme 

experience 

• extensive technology and information 

security expertise.

Diane is Chair of Barclays Execution Services 
Limited and a member of the Board of 
Barclays US LLC. 

Skills, experience and contribution:

• significant board and executive-level 
strategic and financial leadership 
experience

• extensive accounting, audit and financial 

services expertise

• strong UK regulatory experience. 
Julia is a chartered accountant and was the 
Group Finance Director of 3i Group plc, having 
served on its board from 2008 until she 
stepped down in June 2022. Prior to joining 3i 
she was Group Director of Corporate Finance 
at Cable & Wireless where she also held a 
number of finance-related roles. 

Relevant skills and experience:

Hannah is an experienced lawyer and company 
secretary with significant experience in 
corporate governance, regulatory, disclosure 
and market conduct matters. 
Career:

Hannah joined Barclays in September 2012 as 
Chief of Staff to the Investment Bank General 
Counsel. Having moved from the Legal 
function to Barclays Corporate Secretariat in 
2016, she was subsequently appointed Deputy 
Company Secretary of Barclays PLC in 2018. In 
February 2023, Hannah was appointed Group 
Company Secretary.

	
	
	
	
	
Strategic 
report

Shareholder
information

Climate and
sustainability report

Governance

Risk 
review

Financial 
review

Financial 
statements

Directors’ report: Group Executive Committee

Barclays PLC

Annual Report 2023 149

Leading the delivery of Barclays' strategy

As the most senior management committee for the Group,
our Group Executive Committee (ExCo) supports the
Group Chief Executive in executing the Group’s strategy. 

C.S. Venkatakrishnan

Anna Cross

Paul Compton

Group Chief Executive

Group Finance Director

Global Head of the Corporate 
and Investment Bank and 
President of BBPLC

Alistair Currie

Kirsty Everett

Matt Hammerstein

Group Chief Operating Officer 
and Chief Executive, BX

Group Chief Compliance 
Officer

Chief Executive Officer, 
Barclays UK

Vim Maru

Tristram Roberts

Taalib Shaah

Global Head of Consumer 
Banking and Payments

Group Human 
Resources Director

Group Chief Risk Officer

Stephen Shapiro 

Sasha Wiggins

Group General Counsel 

Group Head of Public Policy 
and Corporate Responsibility

Changes in ExCo during 2023 
• Alistair Currie was appointed Group Chief 
Operating Officer and Chief Executive of 
Barclays Execution Services Limited (BX), 
having previously served on ExCo as 
Global Head of Consumer Banking and 
Payments

• Kirsty Everett joined as Group Chief 

Compliance Officer

• Vim Maru joined as Global Head of 
Consumer Banking and Payments

We are grateful for the contributions made 
by the ExCo members who stepped down 
in 2023: 

• Mark Ashton-Rigby stepped down as 

Group Chief Operating Officer and Chief 
Executive of BX 

• Matt Fitzwater stepped down as Interim 

Group Chief Compliance Officer

Standing attendees

The Group Chief Executive extends invites 
to a number of standing attendees to ExCo:

• Craig Bright, Chief Information Officer

• Adeel Khan and Stephen Dainton, Co-

Heads of Global Markets

• Cathal Deasy and Taylor Wright, Co-

Heads of Investment Banking

ExCo meetings are also attended on a 
regular basis by the Group Chief Internal 
Auditor, Lindsay O’Reilly. 
Ex-officio posts

ExCo continues to utilise ex-officio 
positions on the Committee to broaden the 
scope of perspectives and contributions 
made, as well as to provide specialist input. 
During 2023, the following attended ExCo 
meetings as an ex-officio member, with 
each appointee serving for a four-month 
rotation:

• Ingrid Hengster, CEO Barclays Germany 

and Global Chair, Investment Bank

• Antoinette O'Neill, Chief Information 

Officer, Corporate and Investment Bank 
(CIB)

• Betty Gee, Americas Head of Equities 

Distribution within the CIB

 
Strategic 
report

Shareholder
information

Climate and
sustainability report

Governance

Risk 
review

Financial 
review

Financial 
statements

Directors’ report: Our governance framework

Barclays PLC

Annual Report 2023 150

A Group-wide governance framework 
facilitating effective decision-making
Driving long-term sustainable value for our shareholders, with regard to 
the interests of our stakeholders.

Group structure 

Barclays PLC (BPLC) is the Group’s 
parent company and has a premium 
listing on the London Stock Exchange. 

Each of the Group’s key operating 
entities - Barclays Bank PLC (BBPLC), 
Barclays Bank UK PLC (BBUKPLC), 
Barclays Europe, Barclays US LLC and 
Barclays Bank Delaware - has its own 
board (with Executive and Non-
Executive Directors) and board 
committees. 

These main operating companies are 
supported by our Group-wide service 
company, BX, which provides 
technology, operations and functional 
services to businesses across the 
Group.

Barclays PLC

BBPLC

Barclays Europe

Barclays US LLC

Barclays Bank Delaware

BBUKPLC

BX

Our governance framework

The Board recognises that effective 
governance is key to the successful 
development and execution of the Group’s 
strategy. We think of governance as how 
the Board makes decisions and provides 
oversight to promote Barclays’ success for 
the long-term sustainable benefit of our 
shareholders, having regard to the 
interests of our stakeholders (including our 
clients, customers, colleagues and the 
society and wider environment in which we 
operate).

Our Group-wide governance framework 
is constructed to:

• facilitate the effective management of 

the Group by our Group Chief Executive 
and his ExCo across our 
diverse businesses 

• support and provide oversight and 

constructive challenge of the Group’s 
major subsidiary boards in the UK, 
Ireland and the US, consistent with the 
legal, regulatory and independence 
requirements applicable to 
those entities.

Generally, there is one set of rules for the 
Group. Group-wide frameworks, policies 
and standards are adopted throughout the 
Group unless local laws or regulations (for 
example, the ring-fencing obligations 
applicable to BBUKPLC) require otherwise, 
or ExCo deems that it would otherwise be 
appropriate in a specific instance.

Corporate Governance 
Operating Manual 
Our Corporate Governance Operating 
Manual outlines how the Group’s significant 
subsidiaries (and their respective boards 
and board committees) should interact 
with each other. It also provides guidance 
and clarity for management and Directors 
as to how these relationships and 
processes should work in practice. This is a 
dynamic document that evolves with the 
changing nature of the Group.
The role of the Board 

The BPLC Board sets the Purpose, 
strategic direction and risk appetite for the 
Group and is the ultimate decision-making 
body for matters of Group-wide strategic, 
financial, regulatory or reputational 
significance. 

We partially consolidated and streamlined 
the membership of the BPLC and BBPLC 
Boards in 2019, to improve efficiency and 
co-ordination while reducing complexity 
and unnecessary duplication. 

As a result, membership of the BBPLC 
Board is a subset of the BPLC Board. All 
members of the BPLC Board (except the 
Senior Independent Director, Chair of 
BBUKPLC and at least one other Non-
Executive Director) also serve on the 
Board of BBPLC.    

We believe that having members of the 
BPLC Board serving as the Chairs of some 
of the Group’s main subsidiaries supports 
improved efficiency, escalation and co-
ordination while ensuring an appropriate 
focus is given to matters relevant to each 
entity.

Strategic 
report

Shareholder
information

Climate and
sustainability report

Governance

Risk 
review

Financial 
review

Financial 
statements

Barclays PLC

Annual Report 2023 151

Directors’ report: Our governance framework (continued)

Board governance framework

Barclays PLC Board

Responsible for the overall leadership of the Group
(with direct oversight of matters relating to strategy, reputation and culture)

Board 
Nominations 
Committee

Reviews the composition 
of the appointments to the 
Board, Board Committees 
and ExCo.

Board 
Audit 
Committee

Board 
Risk 
Committee

Reviews financial reports 
and monitors the internal 
control environment.

Monitors financial, 
operational and legal 
risk appetite.

Board 
Sustainability 
Committee

Oversees climate and 
sustainability matters.

Board 
Remuneration 
Committee

Sets principles and 
parameters of 
remuneration policy.

+

For more information, 

see page 156.

+

For more information, 

see page 166.

+

For more information,

see page 174.

+

For more information,

see page 180.

+

For more information,

see page 191.

Matters reserved to the Board 

Matters reserved solely for the decision-
making power of the Board are set out in 
our bespoke Matters Reserved to the Board. 
Those matters include material decisions 
relating to:

• strategy

• risk appetite

• medium term plans

• capital and liquidity plans

• risk management and controls 

frameworks

• approval of financial statements

• approval of large transactions 

• approval of share allotments, dividends 

and share buybacks. 

Responsibility for the Group’s business on 
a day-to-day basis has been delegated by 
the Board to the Group Chief Executive, 
supported by his ExCo, to make and 
implement operational decisions. 
Information provided to 
the Board 

The Group Chairman is responsible for 
setting the Board’s agenda, primarily 
focused on strategy, performance, value 
creation, culture, stakeholders and 
accountability. The Chairman also ensures 
that Board members receive timely and 
high-quality information to enable them to 
make sound decisions and promote the 
success of BPLC. 

The Group Company Secretary, working in 
collaboration with the Group Chairman, is 
responsible for ensuring good governance 
and information flow, to support the 
Board’s effectiveness. In 2023, we 
continued to strive for balanced papers 
which clearly identify substantive issues 
and key points for the Board’s attention, 
continuing the momentum created in 
previous years.

The Board is kept informed of key business 
developments throughout the year 
through regular updates from the 
Executive Directors and senior 
management, in addition to the 
presentations delivered to the Board and 
the Board Committees as part of formal 
meetings.
+

Details of key Board activities for 2023 are set 
out on pages 153 to 155.

Directors are able to seek independent 
and professional advice at Barclays’ 
expense, where required, to enable them 
to fulfil their obligations to the Board. 
Attendance at Board meetings

Directors are expected to attend every 
Board meeting. Where a Director is not 
able to attend a Board meeting, the 
relevant Director’s views are made known 
to the Group Chairman in advance of the 
meeting. The Chairman also meets 
privately, on a regular basis, with each 
Non-Executive Director.
+

Details of Director attendance at Board 
meetings in 2023 are shown on the next page.

Board Committees 

The Board is supported in its work by its 
Committees - the Board Nominations 
Committee, Board Audit Committee, 
Board Risk Committee, Board 
Remuneration Committee and the Board 
Sustainability Committee - each of which 
has its own terms of reference clearly 
setting out its remit and decision-making 
powers. This structure enables the Board 
to spend a significant proportion of its time 
focusing on the Group’s strategy. 

The Board Committees are comprised 
solely of Non-Executive Directors, with the 
exception of the Board Sustainability 
Committee of which the Group Chief 
Executive is an Executive member.

The Chairs of each Committee report on 
their Committee’s work at every scheduled 
Board meeting. 
Board effectiveness

The effectiveness of the Board, its 
Committees and individual Directors are 
assessed on an annual basis. We carried 
out an internally facilitated effectiveness 
review for 2023, which was led by the SID 
and supported by the Group Company 
Secretary. In line with the requirements of 
the Code, we intend to conduct an 
externally-facilitated review of the Board, 
Board Committees and individual 
Directors in 2024. 
+ You can read more about the 2023 effectiveness 

review, and progress against recommendations 
from the 2022 review, in the Board Nominations 
Committee report on page 164.

  
 
Strategic 
report

Shareholder
information

Climate and
sustainability report

Governance

Risk 
review

Financial 
review

Financial 
statements

Barclays PLC

Annual Report 2023 152

Directors’ report: Our governance framework (continued)

Division of responsibilities

Roles on the Board and attendance at Board meetings

In line with the provisions of the Code, a clear division of responsibilities has been established between Executive and Non-Executive 
Directors. Our Charter of Expectations sets out the individual role profiles and required behaviours and competencies for the Chair, 
Senior Independent Director, Non-Executive Directors, Executive Directors and Committee Chairs. 

The table below shows the role profiles for our Board members, along with details of their attendance at Board meetings in 2023. The 
aggregate attendance for Board and relevant Board Committee meetings in 2023 did not fall below 75% for any Director.

Meetings 
attended/
eligible to 
attend1

Ad hoc 
meetings 
attended/
eligible to 
attend2

Responsibilities

7/7

1/1 The Chair is responsible for: 

•

leading the Board and its overall effectiveness in directing the Company   

• promoting a culture of openness and inclusion, and facilitating and encouraging open constructive 

challenge and debate between all Directors 

• ensuring the Board has a clear understanding of shareholder views.

7/7

1/1 The Group Chief Executive, supported by his ExCo, leads the Executive Directors in:

•

•

running the Group’s business on a day-to-day basis and making and implementing operational decisions

leading Barclays towards the achievement of its strategic objectives and implementing the strategy 
decisions taken by the Board

• promoting and demonstrating the appropriate culture, values and behaviours of the boardroom, 

including Barclays’ Values and Mindset.

7/7

1/1 The Group Finance Director is responsible for:

•

together with the Group Chief Executive, the achievement of financial targets for the Group

• providing strategic and functional leadership of the Finance functions

• managing and responding to feedback on Barclays' business performance from investors, financial 

institutions, regulators and auditors.

7/7

1/1 The SID is responsible for:

• providing a sounding board for the Chair; serving as a trusted intermediary for the other Directors and 

shareholders when necessary

• maintaining contact with major shareholders to understand their issues and concerns, and ensures the 

Board is aware of their views 

•

leading the appraisal of the Chair’s performance, at least annually. 

Non-Executive Directors are responsible for: 

• providing effective oversight, strategic guidance and constructive challenge

• helping to develop proposals on strategy and empowering the Executive Directors to implement the 
Group’s strategy while scrutinising and holding to account the performance of management and 
Executive Directors against agreed performance objectives

• with the support of the Board Nominations Committee, the appointment and removal and succession 

planning for Executive Directors.

Notes: 

1 Each Board meeting is held over the course of two days. In the 2022 Annual Report, these were reported as two separate Board 
meetings. For the 2023 attendance figures, one Board meeting which was held over two days has been reported as one Board 
meeting.

2 The ad hoc meeting was called at short notice.
3 As required by the Code, the Group Chairman was independent on appointment.
4 Sir John Kingman was appointed to the Board with effect from 1 June 2023.
5 Marc Moses was appointed to the Board with effect from 23 January 2023.
6 Julia Wilson was unable to attend due to a prior commitment.
7 Mike Ashley stepped down from the Board with effect from 3 May 2023.
8 Crawford Gillies stepped down from the Board with effect from 31 May 2023.

7/7

7/7

7/7

1/1

1/1

1/1

7/7

Notes

1/1

7/7

5/5

7/7

7/7

7/7

2/2

2/2

1/1

1/1

1/1

1/1

6

0/1

0/0

0/0

Role on Board
Chair

3
Nigel Higgins

Group Chief 
Executive

C.S. 
Venkatakrishnan

Group Finance 
Director

Anna Cross

Senior 
Independent 
Director (SID)

Brian Gilvary

Non-Executive 
Directors

Robert Berry

Tim Breedon

Mohamed A. El-Erian

Dawn Fitzpatrick

Mary Francis

4
Sir John Kingman

5
Marc Moses

Diane Schueneman

Julia Wilson
Former 
Directors

7
Mike Ashley

8
Crawford Gillies

+

You can find a copy of our Charter of Expectations, which sets out the role profiles and required competencies for our Board members, at:  
home.barclays/who-we-are/our-governance/board-responsibilities

Strategic 
report

Shareholder
information

Climate and
sustainability report

Governance

Risk 
review

Financial 
review

Financial 
statements

Barclays PLC

Annual Report 2023 153

Directors’ report: Key Board activities

Key Board activities in 2023

Keenly focused on strategy to drive the long-term success of Barclays.

Throughout 2023, the Board devoted 
significant attention to Barclays’ strategy, 
working closely with the Group Chief 
Executive and his ExCo both to drive 
forward the implementation of the Group’s 
strategy as set by the Board and to 
challenge itself on Barclays' strategic 
ambitions. 

Against a backdrop of geopolitical 
tensions, together with high interest rates 
and inflationary pressures, the Board 
remained focused on driving sustainable 
long-term value for the benefit of all of our 
stakeholders. You can read about how the 
Board has taken into account stakeholder 
interests in our Section 172(1) statement 
in the Strategic report from page 38.

Within the overarching consideration of 
Group strategy matters, the Board 
continued to give significant consideration 
to our climate and sustainability strategy. 
Given the importance of the work to 
address the climate challenge, the Board 
approved the establishment of the Board 
Sustainability Committee in March 2023. 
The Board Sustainability Committee 
supports the Board's oversight of the 
Group's climate strategy and sustainability 
agenda, including our ambition to be a net 
zero bank by 2050. Please see the Board 
Sustainability Committee report on page 
180 for further detail. 

You can read more about the key areas 
of Board focus in 2023 in the rest of 
this section.

Spotlight

Board engagement with 
colleagues

The Board strongly believes in the 
importance of engaging with our 
stakeholders and hearing their views, 
which brings valuable outside 
perspectives to the Board. In particular, 
the Board recognises that our 
colleagues are critical to our success. 
Ensuring that Board members have an 
opportunity to engage directly with 
colleagues is an important part of our 
method of workforce engagement and 
helps the Board take the issues of 
interest to our colleagues into account 
in its decision-making. During 2023, 
Board engagement with colleagues 
included: 

• The Group Chairman and Mary 

Francis visited our contact centre in 
Wavertree, Liverpool, to experience 
the Consumer Duty 'in action', 
meeting with customer-facing 
colleagues and learning about how 
Barclays is addressing vulnerable 
customer needs. 

• The Group Chief Executive and 
Group Finance Director hosted 
quarterly all-colleague town halls on 
Barclays' financial performance.

• Robert Berry and Sir John Kingman 
visited Barclays branches in London 
where they met colleagues.

• The Group Chief Executive hosted 

the Citizenship and Diversity Awards 
to celebrate colleagues who have 
made a positive impact in their 
communities and have helped to 
strengthen the diversity, equity and 
inclusion (DEI) culture within 
Barclays.

• Julia Wilson participated in a 

celebration event to congratulate 
newly promoted Managing Directors 
from across the Group.

• The Group Chairman, along with 

other Board members, visited the 
new trading floors at our head office 
in London, meeting colleagues in the 
Markets business and experiencing 
the trading floors first-hand.  

• Board members spent time with 

Barclays UK colleagues based in the 
UK and India. 

• The Group Finance Director met 

colleagues during visits to our New 
York, Glasgow and Northampton 
Campuses, and hosted other 
colleague events including an event 
to mark International Women's Day.

Strategic 
report

Shareholder
information

Climate and
sustainability report

Governance

Risk 
review

Financial 
review

Financial 
statements

Barclays PLC

Annual Report 2023 154

Directors’ report: Key Board activities (continued)

Key focus areas

Stakeholder groups

The following two pages highlight the key 
areas of focus for the Board during 2023 
and the key stakeholder groups central to 
the matters considered and decisions 
taken.

Strategy, including Climate 

Customers and clients 

Society

Colleagues

Investors

+

You can read more about how Barclays 
engages with stakeholders in the 
Strategic report from page 23.

Topic
Strategy and 
business 
review

Climate and 
sustainability 

Board activity

• Held regular corporate and business strategy discussions 
at meetings throughout the year, including a Strategy day 
in September.

• Reviewed and discussed the 2023 Medium Term Plan 

ahead of its approval by the Board in early 2024.  

• Received business and function reviews throughout the 
year to understand key risks and opportunities, including 
in relation to the Investment Bank, Consumer, Cards and 
Payments and Barclays UK.

• Participated in focus sessions on 'horizontal topics' to 
deepen the Board's understanding on key areas of 
impact/focus across the Group, such as resilience and 
cybersecurity, reputation risk, and financial crime.

• Received and discussed updates on the Group's climate 
and sustainability strategy, including in relation to our 
sustainable finance strategy, energy transition and client 
transition plans.

• Reviewed climate and sustainability metrics and progress 

against targets.

• Received updates on sustainability matters, including 

nature, deforestation and biodiversity. 

Key decisions
ü Endorsed the announcement in October 2023 as part of 
our Q3 Interim results of an Investor Update to be held on 
20 February 2024.  

ü Approved the establishment of the Board Sustainability 

Committee.

ü Approved new restrictions on oil and gas financing.
ü Approved targets for three additional sectors – Aviation, 

Agriculture and Commercial Real Estate.

Culture, colleague and DEI

Topic
Culture and 
colleague 
engagement

DEI

Board activity

• Received updates on Group culture and colleague 

engagement, including by way of the 'Your View' survey 
results.

• Received regular updates from the Group Chief 
Executive on the Group-wide cultural change 
programme aimed at ensuring we deliver to a 
consistently excellent standard.

• Considered Barclays' workforce engagement 

mechanisms to ensure they remain effective in delivering 
meaningful, regular two-way dialogue with colleagues.

Key decisions
ü Confirmed that Barclays' method of workforce engagement 

has been effective in 2023.

ü Confirmed that Barclays’ workforce policies and practices 
are consistent with Barclays’ Values and support Barclays’ 
long-term sustainable success.

+

You can read more about the 'Consistently Excellent' 
programme in our Section 172(1) statement in the Strategic 
report on page 38.

+ For further information on Barclays' workforce engagement 

mechanisms, please see the Colleagues section in the 
Strategic report on page 42.

• Received an update on Barclays’ DEI ambitions and the 

actions required to achieve those ambitions, with a focus 
on progress against our Gender Ambition.

ü Requested future reviews/deep dives with respect to other 

aspects of diversity (in addition to Gender). 

ü Adopted a revised Board Diversity and Inclusion Policy in 

• Received updates on external developments in the DEI 

early 2024. 

space, including the PRA and FCA consultations aimed at 
improving diversity and inclusion in the financial sector. 

Details of the Board Diversity and Inclusion Policy can be found in 
the Board Nominations Committee report on page 158.

+

   
	
	
	
Strategic 
report

Shareholder
information

Climate and
sustainability report

Governance

Risk 
review

Financial 
review

Financial 
statements

Barclays PLC

Annual Report 2023 155

Directors’ report: Key Board activities (continued)

Finance

Topic
Financial  
reporting

Board activity

• Through regular updates from the Group Finance 

Director, assessed the financial performance of the 
Group and business divisions and received investor 
feedback following publication of the Group's financial 
results.

Key decisions
ü Approved the Group’s Annual Report and Accounts for the 

year ended 31 December 2022.

ü Approved Q1 2023, HY 2023 and Q3 2023 financial results 

announcements.

Capital position 
and distributions

• Considered the Group’s capital position and 

distributions policy.

ü Approved a full year dividend for the year ended 

31 December 2022 of 5.0p per ordinary share and a share 
buyback of up to £500m.

ü Approved a half year dividend for the period ended 
30 June 2023 of 2.7p per ordinary share and a share 
buyback of up to £750m.

Risk, including resilience

Topic
Risk framework

Board activity

• Considered the Group's risk profile and emerging risk 
themes, particularly in the context of macroeconomic 
factors such as inflationary pressures and high interest 
rates, as well as geopolitical matters. 

Key decisions
ü Approved an update to the Enterprise Risk Management 
Framework relating to the framework and governance for 
compliance with laws, rules and regulations. 

Resilience and 
cybersecurity

• Considered the Group Resilience Self-Assessment and 

management actions to increase resilience.

Resolution and 
recovery

• Received a briefing from the Group Chief Security 
Officer on cybersecurity risk and controls and the 
outcome of an independent external assessment of 
Barclays' cybersecurity and resilience maturity and 
position compared to industry peers.

• Considered the Group Resolvability Self-Assessment 
ahead of its submission to the Bank of England and the 
Group Recovery Plan, which sets out the actions 
available in a severe financial stress scenario.

• Received a briefing from management on the lessons 

learned from a resolution simulation exercise.

ü Approved the Group Resilience Self-Assessment.
ü Agreed that a Board simulation in relation to a cyber-related 

incident be conducted (to be run in 2024).

ü Approved the Group Resolvability Self-Assessment.
ü Approved the Group Recovery Plan.

Governance and regulatory matters

Topic
Succession

Board activity

• Together with the Board Nominations Committee, 
considered succession planning and proposed 
appointments for the Board and Board Committees, 
having regard to the diversity targets adopted by the 
Board and wider Group.

For further information, please refer to the Board Nominations 
Committee report on the next page.

+

Key decisions
ü Approved the appointments of Marc Moses and Sir John 

Kingman to the Board.

ü Approved changes to Board Committee membership as 

detailed in the report of the Board Nominations 
Committee.

ü Approved the appointment of Hannah Ellwood as the 

Group Company Secretary.

Regulatory 
engagement and 
oversight

•

Invited representatives from key regulators to join 
meetings to hear first-hand their feedback and 
observations, in addition to meetings held between 
individual Directors (including the Group Chairman and 
Group Chief Executive) with regulatory stakeholders 
during the year.

Consumer Duty

• Received updates on the Group's implementation of the 

FCA's Consumer Duty in the lead up to the 
implementation deadline of 31 July 2023, and a 
subsequent update post-July, including in relation to 
embedment of the Consumer Duty.

ü Approved an amendment to the Matters Reserved to the 
Board to provide that responsibility for overseeing the 
application of the Consumer Duty regime across the 
Group rests with the Board.
+

Further details on the Board's oversight of Consumer Duty 
are set out in our Section 172(1) statement in the Strategic 
report from page 38.

	
	
	
Strategic 
report

Shareholder
information

Climate and
sustainability report

Governance

Risk 
review

Financial 
review

Financial 
statements

Barclays PLC

Annual Report 2023 156

Directors’ report: Board Nominations Committee report

Effective composition and robust 
succession plans, with a continued 
focus on diversity
Ensuring that we continue to have the right balance of skills, experience 
and diversity on the Board, Board Committees and ExCo. 
Introduction

In 2023, the Committee continued to 
perform a key role in supporting the 
delivery of the Group’s strategy through 
effective oversight of Board, Board 
Committee and ExCo composition, robust 
succession planning and evaluating Board 
performance. 

Through its work, the Committee ensures 
that the Board has the right balance of 
skills, experience and diversity of 
background and thought to be able to 
provide informed and constructive 
challenge to management while acting 
fairly in the interests of our stakeholders. 
Committee membership 
and activity during 2023  

The Committee is chaired by our Group 
Chairman, with membership composed 
solely of Non-Executive Directors. 

Committee membership and meeting 
attendance during the year is set out 
opposite, and the Committee's activities 
during 2023 are described in this report. 

In discharging its responsibilities, the 
Committee takes into account feedback 
from key stakeholders, and from Board 
discussions more widely. You can read 
more about the Board’s engagement with 
stakeholders within our Section 172(1) 
statement in the Strategic report from 
page 38. 
+

The Committee’s terms of reference are available at 
home.barclays/who-we-are/our-governance/board-
committees/

Board Nominations Committee

Nigel Higgins

Chair, Board Nominations Committee

Committee membership and 
meeting attendance during 20231

Member
Nigel Higgins

Meetings attended/eligible to attend
(including ad hoc meetings)
3/3

Mohamed A. El-Erian
Brian Gilvary
Diane Schueneman
Julia Wilson

3/3
3/3
3/3
3/3

Note:

1    There were two scheduled meetings and one ad 

hoc meeting of the Committee in 2023. 

Changes to Board and Board Committee composition in 2023

Non-Executive Director

Appointments

Resignations

Audit (Chair) - 31 March 2023

Board - 3 May 2023

Audit (Committee) - 3 May 2023

Risk - 3 May 2023

Board - 31 May 2023 

Risk - 1 June 2023

Mike Ashley

Crawford Gillies 

Brian Gilvary

Sir John Kingman

Marc Moses

Julia Wilson

Board - 1 June 2023
Risk - 16 June 2023
Remuneration - 16 June 2023

Board - 23 January 2023

Audit - 23 January 2023

Risk - 23 January 2023

Audit (Chair) - 1 April 2023
Remuneration - 1 July 2023

A new Board Sustainability Committee was established by the Board on 23 March 2023. 
The following Directors were appointed to the Committee: Nigel Higgins (Chair), Robert 
Berry, Dawn Fitzpatrick, Mary Francis, Brian Gilvary, C.S. Venkatakrishnan and 
Julia Wilson. 

Strategic 
report

Shareholder
information

Climate and
sustainability report

Governance

Risk 
review

Financial 
review

Financial 
statements

Barclays PLC

Annual Report 2023 157

Directors’ report: Board Nominations Committee report (continued)

Board size   

As at 31 December 2023, the size of the 
Board was 13.  

Continuing to review the optimal size of 
the Board is an important part of the 
Committee’s medium and longer-term 
succession planning. As part of this, the 
Committee takes into account the need 
for the Board to be small enough to 
operate in an efficient and collaborative 
manner yet large enough to ensure an 
appropriate mix of skills and diversity, to 
support succession planning and to 
accommodate the additional roles and 
responsibilities of some of our Directors 
on Board Committees, and on the Boards 
of BBPLC, BBUKPLC, Barclays Europe, 
Barclays US LLC and BX. 

The Committee considers that the size of 
the Board contributes to its effectiveness. 

Composition

Through considering the skills, 
experience, knowledge and diversity 
required for effective Board, Board 
Committee and ExCo composition, as 
well as overseeing the annual Board, 
Board Committee and individual 
Director effectiveness evaluations 
(outlined later in this report), the 
Committee regularly reviews 
composition and succession planning 
and Non-Executive Director 
recruitment priorities. 

You can find biographies for each 
Director, including details of the skills, 
experience and knowledge they bring 
to the Board, their Board Committee 
memberships and other principal 
appointments on pages 145 to 148.  

Changes to Board composition 
in 2023 

The Committee oversaw a series of 
changes to Board and Board Committee 
composition during the course of 2023, 
building on the progress made in 2022. 
Board and Board Committee changes are 
set out in the table on the previous page of 
this report. 

The Board considers that these changes 
have enhanced the effectiveness of the 
Board and relevant Committees, providing 
valuable input and support to their work as 
well as bringing new and diverse 
perspectives to discussions.

We continued to strengthen the 
composition of the Board with the addition 
of two Non-Executive Directors in 2023. 
Marc Moses, appointed with effect from 23 
January 2023, brings to the Board a strong 
technical finance background and 
extensive knowledge of banking and 
financial services. Sir John Kingman has a 
deep background in financial services, 
gained from his executive and non-
executive career, and joined as a Non-
Executive Director with effect from 
1 June 2023, upon taking up his role as 
Chair of BBUKPLC. 

Mike Ashley retired from the Board at the 
conclusion of our AGM on 3 May 2023 and 
Crawford Gillies retired shortly thereafter 
on 31 May 2023, each having served on the 
Board for around nine years. Both Mike and 
Crawford made a significant contribution 
to the Group during the course of their 
tenure, for which the Committee and the 
Board are very grateful.

Board composition as at 31 December 2023 

Length of tenure (Chairman and Non-Executive Directors)

Industry and leadership experience²

(number of Directors)

(number of Directors)

0-3 years

3-6 years

6-9 years

1
9+ years

International experience3
(number of Directors)

UK

US

Rest of the World

Financial services

Political/Regulatory
experience

Current/recent
Chair/CEO

Accountancy/
Auditing

Operations/
Technology

Retail/
Marketing

Notes

1 Please refer to the section entitled ‘Succession’ later in this report in relation to Tim 

Breedon’s tenure and continued independence. 

2 Individual Directors may fall into one or more categories. 
3 International experience is based on the location of the headquarters/registered office 

of a company.

44211378131010412Strategic 
report

Shareholder
information

Climate and
sustainability report

Governance

Risk 
review

Financial 
review

Financial 
statements

Barclays PLC

Annual Report 2023 158

Directors’ report: Board Nominations Committee report (continued)

Diversity

The Committee and the Board 
recognise the benefits of diversity in all 
its forms, including in relation to 
gender, ethnicity, age, sexual 
orientation, disability and socio-
economic background.

Having due regard for the benefits of 
diversity - at Board, Board Committee 
and ExCo level - is a vital part of the 
Committee’s role in leading 
appointments and succession planning 
for these key roles.   

Gender and ethnic diversity 
reporting

Disclosures in the form prescribed by the 
new UK Listing Rules requirements relating 
to gender and ethnic diversity of the Board 
and executive management can be found 
in this section.

Data relating to the gender and ethnic 
diversity of the Board was collected by way 
of a questionnaire. This questionnaire 
asked all individual Board members to 
disclose their gender identity and ethnic 
background, on a voluntary self-reporting 
basis, by selecting options aligned with 
those in the left-hand columns of the 
tables to the right (and therefore included 
the option not to specify an answer).

Barclays’ employees (including executive 
management, as defined in the table to the 
right) are asked to confirm their gender 
and ethnicity at the onboarding stage, on a 
voluntary self-reporting basis, by selecting 
options (which include the option not to 
specify an answer). Data relating to the 
gender and ethnic diversity of executive 
management (as defined) was sourced 
from this existing data, which is held within 
Barclays’ secure HR system.
Board Diversity and Inclusion 
Policy 

On the recommendation of the 
Committee, the Board adopted a revised 
version of the Board Diversity and Inclusion 
Policy on 8 February 2024.

The policy confirms the Board is 
supportive of the Group’s culture in which 
Barclays is committed to continuing to 
build a diverse, equitable and inclusive 
workplace, and that the Board recognises 
the benefits of a diverse, equitable and 
inclusive Board, reflective of the 
communities in which we operate, in 
driving effective decision-making.

Gender diversity reporting as at 31 December 2023

Board 
members

Senior positions on Board 
(CEO, CFO, SID and Chair)

Executive 
management1

n Women
n Men

Men 

Women 

Other categories

Not specified/prefer not to say 

n Women
n Men

Board members

Number

Percentage

8

5

 62 %

 38 %

n Women
n Men

Number of senior 
positions on the Board 
(CEO, CFO, SID and Chair) 

Executive management1

Number

Percentage

3 (75%)

1 (25%)

8

4

67%

33%

1 In accordance with the requirements of the Listing Rules and for the purposes of this table only, 'executive 

management' comprises the Group Executive Committee and the Group Company Secretary. 

Ethnic diversity reporting as at 31 December 2023 

Board 
members

Senior positions on Board 
(CEO, CFO, SID and Chair)

Executive 
management1

n White British or other White 
(including minority-white 
groups)

n Asian/British Asian
n Other ethnic group, 
including Arab

White British or other White 
(including minority-white groups)

Mixed/Multiple Ethnic Groups

Asian/British Asian

Black/African/Caribbean/
Black British 

Other ethnic group, including 
Arab

Not specified/prefer not to say

n White British or other White 
(including minority-white 
groups)

n Asian/British Asian

n White British or other White 
(including minority-white 
groups)

n Asian/British Asian

Board members

Number

Percentage

Number of senior 
positions on the Board 
(CEO, CFO, SID and Chair) 

Executive management1

Number

Percentage

10

 77% 

3 (75%)

1

2

 8% 

1 (25%)

 15% 

9

3

75%

25%

1 In accordance with the requirements of the Listing Rules and for the purposes of this table only, 'executive 

management' comprises the Group Executive Committee and the Group Company Secretary. 

It confirms Barclays’ commitment to 
ensuring that Board appointments and 
succession plans are based on merit and 
objective criteria, recognising the benefits 
that diversity, in all its forms, brings to the 
Board, and that due regard will be also 
given to diversity and inclusion 
characteristics when considering Board 
Committee appointments.  

The policy sets out the Board’s existing 
gender and ethnic diversity targets 
detailed in the table on the following page, 
which are aligned with the targets 
recommended by the FTSE Women 
Leaders Review on gender diversity and 
the Parker Review Committee Report into 
Ethnic Diversity of UK Boards, which are 
reflected in the Listing Rules.  

58134810123193Strategic 
report

Shareholder
information

Climate and
sustainability report

Governance

Risk 
review

Financial 
review

Financial 
statements

Barclays PLC

Annual Report 2023 159

Directors’ report: Board Nominations Committee report (continued)

In addition, the policy also confirms the 
Board's ongoing commitment to operating 
in a way that supports diversity, equity and 
inclusion, where Directors’ views are both 
encouraged and heard.

As set out in the table within this section, 
at 31 December 2023, the proportion of 
women on the Board was 38%. While this 
fell short of the 40% target set out in the 
Listing Rules, FTSE Women Leaders 
Review and our Board Diversity and 
Inclusion Policy, the Board satisfied the 
target of having at least one woman in a 
senior Board role. 

As we reported in our 2022 Annual Report 
and as set out in our Board Diversity and 
Inclusion Policy (as described above), the 
Committee and the Board remain 
committed to ensuring that all Board 
appointments and succession plans are 
based on merit and objective criteria, with 
due regard given to diversity, and focused 
on meeting our gender diversity targets as 
set out in our Board Diversity and Inclusion 
Policy by 2025 while continuing to bring the 
very best, diverse talent we can attract to 
the Board. You can read more about the 
Board appointment process and 
succession planning in the sections that 
follow.  

We also recognise and embrace the 
benefits of diversity at Board Committee 
level. As at 31 December 2023, Board 
Committee gender diversity was 
as follows: 

• Board Nominations Committee 

– 40% women 

• Board Audit Committee 

– 50% women

• Board Risk Committee 

– 43% women

• Board Sustainability Committee 

– 43% women 

• Board Remuneration Committee 

– 60% women

Gender diversity within ExCo, 
ExCo direct reports and the 
wider workforce 

Group-wide, Barclays remains committed 
to its DEI vision and strategy, which was 
refreshed in 2022, and includes a series of 
principles and strategic priorities designed 
to support Barclays make progress against 
the six DEI agendas including its Gender 
Ambition, which is focused on improving 
gender diversity in senior leadership across 
Barclays.

The Board received an update during the 
year on Barclays' DEI ambitions, including a 
focus on the Gender Ambition, as 
described in the Key Board activities 
section on page 153.  

In 2022, Barclays announced its refreshed 
Gender Ambition of 33% representation of 
women in senior leadership roles - 
Managing Directors and Directors - by the 
end of 2025, having achieved its initial 
target of 28% representation of women in 
these roles by the end of 2021.

To achieve this ambition, Barclays focuses 
on the retention, development, 
progression and hiring of diverse talent at 
all levels. Regular reporting on progress 
against ambitions is shared with senior 
management. As at 31 December 2023, 
representation of women among 
Managing Directors and Directors was at 
30%Δ globally, and Barclays is focused on 
continuing its efforts to identify diverse 
talent in the market and develop existing 
diverse talent within Barclays.

The Committee is also mindful of the 
voluntary target recommended by the 
FTSE Women Leaders Review of 40% 
representation of women for ExCo and 
their direct reports by the end of 2025.

As at 31 December 2023, representation 
of women among ExCo and their direct 
reports stood at 27%Δ, remaining level with 
the 2022 year end position. 

While this fell short of the FTSE Women 
Leaders Review recommendation, 
increasing gender diversity within both 
ExCo and their direct reports, to ensure 
a diverse pipeline for ExCo succession, 
remains a key priority for Barclays and the 
Committee. 

In 2023, Barclays continued to have one 
ex-officio position on ExCo, with each 
appointee serving for a four-month 
rotation. This initiative, first introduced in 
2016, broadens the scope of perspectives 
and contributions made to ExCo, while also 
providing appointees with exposure to 
matters of Group-wide significance and 
further leadership experience. In 2023, 
all three holders of this position 
were women.

There are additional initiatives and actions 
being taken across our businesses to 
further strengthen the senior leadership 
pipeline; these include using the ex officio 
position at business unit executive 
committees, sponsorship programmes to 
support individual development and 
working with senior recruitment partners 
to strengthen our external pipeline.
Note

Δ   2023 data subject to independent Limited Assurance 
under ISAE(UK)3000 and ISAE3410. Current limited 
assurance scope and opinion can be found within the 
ESG Resource Hub: home.barclays/sustainability/esg-
resource-hub/reporting-and-disclosures/

+

You can find details of ExCo membership, 
including ex-officio appointees during the course 
of 2023, on page 149.

+ You can read more about Barclays' DEI vision and 

strategy and gender diversity at Barclays, 
including data on the percentage of women in 
Barclays’ wider workforce, in our Diversity, 
Equity and Inclusion report, which will be made 
available on our website later in 2024. 

Board Diversity and Inclusion Policy - Targets
Gender diversity target  To ensure that by 2025: 

Ethnic diversity target 

•

the proportion of women on the Board is at least 40%; and

• at least one of the following senior Board positions is held 
by a woman: Chair, Chief Executive, Senior Independent 
Director or Chief Financial Officer,

and that this is maintained going forward.

To ensure that at least one Board member is from a minority 
ethnic background excluding white ethnic groups and that 
this is maintained going forward.

Strategic 
report

Shareholder
information

Climate and
sustainability report

Governance

Risk 
review

Financial 
review

Financial 
statements

Barclays PLC

Annual Report 2023 160

Directors’ report: Board Nominations Committee report (continued)

Ethnic diversity reporting as at 
31 December 2023 

As at 31 December 2023, 23% of the 
Board (three members) were from a 
minority ethnic background (excluding 
minority white ethnic groups), meeting the 
targets set out in the Listing Rules, the 
recommendations contained within the 
Parker Review Committee Report into the 
Ethnic Diversity of UK Boards and the 
ethnic diversity target in the Board 
Diversity and Inclusion Policy. 

Alongside the Board, the Committee 
continues to support the Group’s 
Multicultural agenda, including Barclays' 
Underrepresented Race and Ethnicity 
Ambition. Venkat, our Group Chief 
Executive, has made a significant 
contribution to Barclays’ diversity agenda. 
Having achieved our Race at Work 
ambition to double the number of Black 
Managing Directors globally from nine to 
18 by 2022, in January 2023, we set a new 
ambition to increase the population of 
Managing Directors from 
underrepresented ethnicities by at least 
50% by the end of 2025.

You can find more information on Barclays’ 
continued commitment to its Multicultural 
agenda, including information regarding 
our ethnic minority percentage target for 
ExCo and their direct reports and data 
relating to ethnic diversity in Barclays' 
wider workforce, in our Diversity, Equity 
and Inclusion report, which will be available 
on our website later in 2024. 
+

You can read more about Barclays' approach to DEI 
within the Colleagues section in the Strategic 
report from page 27.  

+

You can find a copy of our Board Diversity and 
Inclusion Policy at home.barclays/who-we-are/
our-governance/our-framework-code-and-rules

talent. Open advertising for Board 
positions was not used in 2023.

The Committee will continue to review the 
Board’s recruitment priorities and give 
further consideration to the desired skills 
and experience for potential candidates, to 
ensure that due consideration continues 
to be given to strong potential candidates 
who would enhance the effectiveness of 
the Board.  
Non-Executive Director 
independence 

In line with the requirements of the Code, 
a majority of our Board comprises 
independent Non-Executive Directors. 
The independence of our Non-Executive 
Directors is considered by the Committee 
on an annual basis, having regard to the 
independence criteria set out in the Code. 
As part of this process, the Committee 
reviews the length of tenure of all 
Directors, which can affect independence, 
and makes any recommendations to the 
Board accordingly.

The Committee reviewed the 
independence of all Non-Executive 
Directors serving on the Board as at 31 
December 2023. The independence of 
those who had served on the Board for 
more than six years (Diane Schueneman 
and Mary Francis) and more than nine 
years (Tim Breedon) was subject to a more 
rigorous review. The Committee remains 
satisfied that the length of their tenure has 
no impact on their respective levels of 
independence or the effectiveness of their 
contributions. The Committee and the 
Board consider all of the Non-Executive 
Directors to be independent.

For further details of the Committee’s 
review of the independence of Tim 
Breedon, please refer to the Succession 
section below.

During 2023, Mike Ashley and Crawford 
Gillies stepped down from the Board. Mike 
and Crawford did not raise any concerns 
about the operation of the Board or 
management.

Process for 
appointments

The Committee leads the process for 
Board appointments, ensuring that all 
appointments are based on merit and 
objective criteria - focusing on the 
skills, experience and knowledge 
required for the Board’s effectiveness 
and to support the continued delivery 
of the Group’s strategy - while also 
promoting diversity of background 
and opinion.  

Appointments to the Board are made 
following a formal, rigorous and 
transparent procedure, facilitated by 
the Committee with the aid of 
external search consultancy firms, as 
outlined in further detail below.

Non-Executive 
Director recruitment

The Committee regularly reviews and 
updates a series of skills-based Non-
Executive Director recruitment priorities. 
These priorities underpin the searches 
required for the Board to ensure orderly 
succession as Non-Executive Directors 
approach the end of their tenure and to 
ensure an optimum balance of skills and 
experience on the Board. 

The Committee considered and refreshed 
the priorities in 2023, in light of Non-
Executive Director recruitment activity, 
including the appointments of Marc Moses 
and Sir John Kingman during 2023 and two 
Non-Executive Directors having stepped 
down from the Board in 2023 at the end of 
their tenure. The Committee has agreed 
that all Board members should have the 
opportunity to meet leading candidates, 
and that diversity should remain a priority 
in all searches.     

Based on the agreed priorities, the 
Committee has set rigorous criteria for the 
roles it is seeking to fill, both in terms of 
experience and personal qualities. 
Independent search firms Spencer Stuart 
and Egon Zehnder supported our targeted 
external mapping and search processes 
for additional Non-Executive Directors to 
complement the range of skills on the 
Board in 2023, based on the agreed 
criteria. Diversity of background and 
experience remain at the forefront of 
those searches. 

Spencer Stuart and Egon Zehnder do not 
have any connection to Barclays or any of 
the Directors other than to assist with 
searches for executive and non-executive 

Strategic 
report

Shareholder
information

Climate and
sustainability report

Governance

Risk 
review

Financial 
review

Financial 
statements

Barclays PLC

Annual Report 2023 161

Directors’ report: Board Nominations Committee report (continued)

Director appointments and reappointments

Board and executive 
appointments process

In 2023, the Committee reviewed and endorsed a refresh of the process for Board and Board Committee 
memberships, appointments and removals, and management appointments and removals.   

Searches for potential candidates have due regard to the clear benefits of diversity and are co-ordinated across the 
Group’s significant subsidiaries where appropriate. We aim to ensure that all Board members have the opportunity to 
meet leading candidates where possible. 

Our standard practice is to appoint any new Non-Executive Director or Chair to the Board for an initial three-year 
term, subject to annual re-election at the AGM (as outlined below). This may be extended for a further term of up to 
three years. 

As such, our Non-Executive Directors typically serve up to a minimum of six years, although this period may be 
extended where considered appropriate by the Committee.

All Directors are subject to appointment or reappointment (as appropriate) each year by shareholders at the AGM.

Director term

Director appointment 
and reappointment 
at the AGM

Time commitment 

All new Directors are asked to disclose 
their other significant commitments, which 
are then taken into account by the 
Committee when considering any 
proposed appointment to ensure that 
Directors can discharge their 
responsibilities to Barclays effectively. 
Expected time commitments are agreed 
with each Non-Executive Director on an 
individual basis, and include time to 
understand the business and complete 
training as well as time to attend and 
prepare for formal Board and Board 
Committee meetings. In considering 
whether a Director has sufficient time to 
commit to their role, the Committee has 
regard to regulatory and Code 
requirements, as well as key investor and 
proxy advisor guidelines. Details of the 
external executive and non-executive 
directorships held within listed companies 
for each of the Directors are set out in the 
table on this page. You can find details of 
other principal appointments for each 
Director in the Board of Directors section 
from page 145. 

The Committee reviewed the existing 
commitments disclosed by each of Marc 
Moses and Sir John Kingman ahead of their 
respective appointments to the Board, and 
was comfortable that these would not 
impact their ability to devote such time as 
is necessary to discharge their duties to 
Barclays effectively.  

Before accepting any significant new 
commitment outside of Barclays, all 
Directors must seek approval from the 
Board (providing an indication of expected 
time commitment). Prior to approving any 
significant new external commitment for a 
Director, the Board reviews all relevant 
facts and circumstances (including the 
expected role and time commitment, as 
well as the nature of the external 
organisation).

Barclays PLC Board – Listed company external directorships1

As at 31 December 2023
Director

Nigel Higgins

C.S. Venkatakrishnan

Anna Cross

Robert Berry

Tim Breedon

Mohamed A. El-Erian

Dawn Fitzpatrick

Mary Francis

Brian Gilvary

Sir John Kingman

Marc Moses

Diane Schueneman

Julia Wilson
Notes

Executive

Non-Executive

Non-Executive Chair

Total

2

1

3

1

2

1

4

1

2

1

None

None

None

None

2

1

None

1

None

1

None

None

None

1 For the purposes of this table, 'listed company' means companies whose shares are listed and traded on a regulated 
stock exchange, excluding appointments within the Barclays Group, and directorships held with the same group or 
within undertakings (including non-financial entities) in which the relevant firm holds a qualifying holding.

2 UK public listed company.
3 US public listed company. 
4 UK listed closed-ended investment company.

All Directors are expected to commit 
additional time as necessary to their work 
on the Board, where circumstances 
require. For the year ended 31 December 
2023 and as at the date of publication, the 
Board is satisfied that none of the 
Directors is over-committed and that each 
of the Directors allocates sufficient time to 
their role in order to discharge their 
responsibilities effectively. A record of 
each Director’s time commitments is 
maintained.

Conflicts of interest

The Board has the authority to authorise 
Director conflicts of interest, in 
accordance with the Companies Act 2006 
and BPLC’s articles of association. This 
ensures that the influence of third parties 
does not compromise the independent 
judgement of the Board. Directors are 
required to declare any potential or actual 
conflicts of interest that could interfere 
with their ability to act in the best interests 
of the Group.

Strategic 
report

Shareholder
information

Climate and
sustainability report

Governance

Risk 
review

Financial 
review

Financial 
statements

Barclays PLC

Annual Report 2023 162

Directors’ report: Board Nominations Committee report (continued)

A conflicts register recording actual and 
potential conflicts of interest, together 
with any Board authorisations of conflicts, 
is maintained. Authorisations are for an 
indefinite period but are reviewed on an bi-
annual basis by the Board. The Board also 
considers the effectiveness of the 
conflicts authorisation process.

The Board retains the power to vary or 
terminate conflicts authorisations at any 
time.

The Group Company Secretary consults 
the Group Chairman when designing each 
bespoke induction schedule, taking into 
account the particular needs of the new 
Director.  

When a Director is joining a Board 
Committee, their induction schedule will 
also include an induction to the operation 
of that Committee. 

An overview of training and development 
delivered to the Board during 2023 is 
described in the table below. 

Director training and 
development

The Committee supports the Group 
Chairman in developing and monitoring 
effective induction, training and 
development for the Board in accordance 
with its Terms of Reference (available at 
home.barclays/who-we-are/our-
governance/board-committees ). 
Directors are provided with the 
opportunity to take part in ongoing training 
and development, but can also request 
specific training, as required. 

All Directors receive a comprehensive 
induction tailored to their individual 
requirements on appointment, designed 
to provide them with an understanding of 
the operation of the Group and its strategy 
and key business areas and functions.

Training, development and updates for the Board in 2023 

Topic 

Description 

Areas covered included 

Business and function 
reviews 

'Horizontal topics'

Updates from key business areas and Group 
functions, to deepen and broaden the Board’s 
understanding of the Group’s businesses, including 
key risks and opportunities. 

Compliance, Internal Audit, Barclays UK, Barclays Europe, 
Markets, Legal, Transaction Banking, UK Corporate, Private 
Bank and Wealth Management, Investment Bank, BX 
and HR. 

Focus sessions to deepen the Board's 
understanding on key areas of impact/focus 
across the Group. 

Resilience and Cybersecurity, Consumer Duty, Conduct, 
Corporate Strategy, Barclays UK Complaints, Strategic 
Policy, Regulatory and Financial Crime.

Public Policy and 
Corporate Responsibility

Regular updates on Public Policy and Corporate 
Responsibility matters.

Reputation risk matters (for which the Board has direct 
oversight) and a broad range of topics including regulatory 
engagement and oversight, and climate and 
sustainability matters.

Annual briefing on regulatory responsibilities.

Senior Managers Regime and Barclays’ conduct and 
financial crime policies and standards.

Regulatory 
responsibilities

Corporate governance

Regular updates on developments in corporate 
governance matters.

External speakers 

External input to the Board.

Board engagement 
with stakeholders

Various events enabling the Board to engage 
directly with stakeholders.

New Director inductions

Tailored Non-Executive Director inductions for 
Marc Moses and Sir John Kingman, following their 
respective appointments as Non-Executive 
Directors.  

DEI matters, legal and regulatory developments, 
cybersecurity disclosure obligations, Directors' duties and 
the Economic Crime and Corporate Transparency 
Act 2023. 

External briefing to the Board Sustainability Committee on 
policy and regulatory developments relating to biodiversity 
and nature. 

+ You can read more about the Board’s engagement with 

stakeholders (including colleagues) within our Section 172(1) 
statement in the Strategic report from page 38 and the Key Board 
activities section on page 153.  

Sessions covering the Group’s strategy and culture, 
stakeholder landscape and relationships, Board and Board 
Committee structure and other governance matters. 

Meetings with various senior executives from across the 
business including from Finance, Treasury, BX and 
Operations, BBUKPLC, CIB, Consumer Banking and 
Payments, Risk, Compliance, Public Policy and Corporate 
Responsibility, Regulatory Relations, HR, Internal Audit, 
Legal and the Group’s external auditor.   

 
Strategic 
report

Shareholder
information

Climate and
sustainability report

Governance

Risk 
review

Financial 
review

Financial 
statements

Barclays PLC

Annual Report 2023 163

Directors’ report: Board Nominations Committee report (continued)

Committee-specific 
induction sessions

Committee-specific induction sessions for Marc 
Moses and Sir John Kingman. 

Handover in accordance 
with requirements of the 
Senior Managers Regime 
(SMR) 

Formal SMR handovers from Mike Ashley (as 
outgoing Board Audit Committee Chair) to 
Julia Wilson (as incoming Board Audit Committee 
Chair), and from Crawford Gillies (as outgoing 
BBUKPLC Chair and BBUKPLC Board Nominations 
Committee Chair) to Sir John Kingman (as 
incoming BBUKPLC Chair and BBUKPLC Board 
Nominations Committee Chair) .

Sessions providing an introduction to the relevant Board 
Committee, including meetings with relevant executives 
and briefings on topics relevant to the work of that 
Committee. 

Series of handover meetings between Mike Ashley and 
Julia Wilson, and Crawford Gillies and Sir John Kingman, 
relevant to the responsibilities being handed over 
(including, for Julia, the role of Group Whistleblowers’ 
Champion), as well as various meetings with senior 
executives as part of Julia's and John's inductions and 
transition to their new roles. 

ExCo succession 

The Committee approves all changes to 
ExCo composition prior to announcement, 
taking into account executive succession 
plans.

In 2023, the Committee received updates 
regarding succession planning and 
proposed appointments for ExCo, 
including in relation to the review of the 
balance of skills and diversity on ExCo and 
for key successors. The Committee 
approved the ExCo changes in 2023, as set 
out on page 149, prior to implementation.     
+ You can read more about gender diversity 

within ExCo and their direct reports in the 
Diversity section of this Board 
Nominations Committee report.  

Succession

Through robust succession planning 
throughout the year, the Committee 
ensures that we will continue to strike 
the right balance of skills, experience, 
diversity and effectiveness on the 
Board, Committees and ExCo, as well 
as accounting for current and 
anticipated future business needs.  

The Committee’s vital work in this area 
includes both medium-term planning 
(orderly refreshing of the Board, 
Committees and ExCo) and long-term 
planning (looking ahead to the skills 
that may be required on the Board and 
the ExCo in the future).

Committee consideration of 
succession

As at 1 November 2023, Tim Breedon had 
served on the Board for 11 years. In early 
2024, the Committee undertook a 
rigorous assessment of Tim’s continued 
independence, as it had done in the two 
previous years. Following careful 
consideration, the Committee concluded 
that it remained appropriate for Tim to 
continue to serve on the Board beyond his 
11-year tenure. 

In reaching this conclusion, the Committee 
recognises the significant value that Tim 
continues to bring to Board discussions, 
particularly given his breadth of financial 
services sector experience and deep 
knowledge of risk and regulatory issues. 

Both the Committee and the Board 
continue to believe that it is advantageous 
for Group-wide decision-making to have 
the Chairs of the Group’s significant 
subsidiaries sit on the BPLC Board, 
considering that this provides connectivity 
with the Group's significant subsidiaries, 
bringing with it important insight into Board 
discussions. With these factors in mind, 
and in light of Tim’s ongoing role as Chair 
of Barclays Europe, the Group’s principal 
European subsidiary, the Committee and 
the Board consider it is appropriate for Tim 
to continue as an independent Non-
Executive Director on the BPLC Board in 
the near-term. 

Given the Board's preference for the 
Chairs of the Group's significant 
subsidiaries to also be represented on the 
Board, in light of Tim's tenure, the 
Committee is giving due consideration to 
potential successors for his roles on the 
Board and as Chair of Barclays Europe. 

Diane Schueneman will have been on the 
Board for nine years in June 2024, and the 
Committee is also giving due 
consideration to potential successors for 
her roles on the BPLC Board and as Chair 
of BX.
Tenure

The Committee and the Board consider 
that length of tenure is only one of the 
factors to be considered with respect to 
Director independence, and accordingly, 
that tenure alone should not result in a loss 
of independence. The Committee and the 
Board are confident that Tim remains 
independent and continues to provide 
effective challenge, advice and support to 
management on business performance 
and decision-making. Having undertaken a 
rigorous review of Tim’s performance as a 
Non-Executive Director and taking into 
account other relevant factors that might 
be considered likely to impair, or could 
appear to impair, his independence 
including as set out in Provision 10 of the 
Code, the Committee and the Board 
consider Tim to be independent.

Strategic 
report

Shareholder
information

Climate and
sustainability report

Governance

Risk 
review

Financial 
review

Financial 
statements

Barclays PLC

Annual Report 2023 164

Directors’ report: Board Nominations Committee report (continued)

Evaluation

Board, Committee and individual Director evaluation process

The Committee ensures that a formal 
and rigorous review of the 
performance of the Board, Board 
Committees and individual Directors is 
undertaken each year, in line with the 
requirements of the Code.

The 2023 effectiveness review was 
conducted internally, as permitted by 
the Code, following the process 
illustrated in the diagram on the right. 
The reviews concluded that the Board, 
Board Committees and individual 
Directors continue to be effective.

Progress against the 2022 Board 
effectiveness review

As reported in last year's Annual Report, 
the 2022 Board effectiveness review was 
facilitated internally, in line with the Code. 
The 2024 Board effectiveness review is 
expected to be externally facilitated, in line 
with Code requirements that the Board 
effectiveness review be conducted by 
an external facilitator at least every 
three years.

Board Nominations Committee approval of approach to evaluation for 2023

Board 
evaluation 

Committee 
evaluation 

Individual Director 
evaluation 

Interviews held 
by SID with 
Board members 

Findings discussed with 
Group Chairman and 
Board Nominations 
Committee  

Board discussion 
and agreed 
action plan for 2024 

Questionnaires 
completed by 
Committee members 
and senior management 

Findings discussed 
with Committees 

Agreed action 
plan for 2024 

Group Chairman held 
meeting with each 
Director 

SID held meeting 
with the Group Chairman  

Confirmation of each 
Director’s continuing 
effectiveness 

Recommendations arising out of the 2022 Board effectiveness review, together with actions taken during the course of the year to 
address them, are shown in the table below.
Recommendations
from the 2022 evaluation

Actions taken during the year

Areas

Discussion of key 
areas of focus  

Board agendas

In the context of what is understandably a structured 
meeting agenda, Board members would welcome the 
opportunity for more unstructured discussion of key areas 
of focus for the Board - whether in regard to particular 
matters on the agenda or other macro or external 
developments since the previous meeting.

Introduction of standing Board agenda item for open 
discussion of major current topics with Board members.   

Consideration should continue to be given to the 
structure of Board agendas to ensure that time allocations 
are appropriate.

The format of certain standing Board agenda items 
continued to evolve, with positive Board feedback 
received on changes made. 

Board materials 

Continued focus on ensuring balanced papers which 
clearly identify substantive points and key issues for the 
Board’s attention.

Additional time allocated on the Board agenda for 
discussion of material items. 

The Group Chairman and Group Chief Executive 
continued to work with management to ensure that 
substantive points and key issues for discussion by the 
Board were as clear and concise as possible within papers 
presented to the Board.

Committee reporting 
to Board

Engagement with 
senior executives 

Continued focus on Committee reporting to the Board, to 
ensure the Board has the right level of visibility on key 
areas of focus.

Inclusion of written reports of certain Committee 
meetings within Board papers, in addition to thematic, 
forward-looking reports.  

Continue to identify opportunities for more informal 
engagement between the Non-Executive Directors and 
senior executives outside the boardroom.

More informal engagement included engagement with 
management on Board papers, Board and Committee 
dinners with relevant senior executives, Board support for 
certain client events and Board engagement with 
colleagues as described in the Key Board activities section. 

External perspectives included the external briefing 
provided to the Board Sustainability Committee on policy 
and regulatory developments in relation to biodiversity 
and nature.

Outside perspectives  Continue to identify opportunities to bring external 

perspectives into the Board.

Strategic 
report

Shareholder
information

Climate and
sustainability report

Governance

Risk 
review

Financial 
review

Financial 
statements

Barclays PLC

Annual Report 2023 165

Directors’ report: Board Nominations Committee report (continued)

Individual Director effectiveness

All Directors in office at the end of 2023 
were subject to an individual effectiveness 
review. The Group Chairman considered 
each Director’s individual contribution to 
the Board as well as any feedback received 
as part of the broader Board and Board 
Committee effectiveness reviews.

Based on these reviews, the Board 
accepted the view of the Committee that 
each Director to be proposed for election 
or re-election at the 2024 AGM continues 
to be effective and contributes to Barclays’ 
long-term sustainable success.

All of the current Directors of the 
Company intend to submit themselves for 
election or re-election at the 2024 AGM 
and will be unanimously recommended by 
the Board for election or re-election as 
appropriate.

2023 Board effectiveness review

Feedback provided by interviewees as part 
of the 2023 Board effectiveness review 
provides important insight into the Board’s 
performance, including areas in which the 
Board could be more effective.

Following consideration of the findings of 
the 2023 Board effectiveness review, the 
Committee remains satisfied that the 
Board is operating effectively.
Feedback from 2023 review

Feedback from this review indicated that 
the Board is operating well and effectively, 
with Board members commenting 
favourably on the culture of the Board, 
where members feel able to share their 
different perspectives and views. Board 
members emphasised how this culture is 
supported by the inclusive style of the 
Group Chairman and his values-driven 
approach. The review indicated that Board 
composition is considered to be a 
strength, bringing together a range of 
diverse and complementary backgrounds, 
including deep financial services expertise. 
The interaction between the Board and 
the Board Committees was commented 
upon favourably, with regular reporting 
ensuring the Board has good visibility on 
key areas of focus. The review highlighted 
the positive relationship between the 
Board and management, and an 
appropriate level of support and challenge. 
Recommendations from 2023 review 

The 2023 review outlined the following key 
recommendations: 

• consider how Board agendas might be 

structured to (i) allow for deeper 
discussion of business performance; 
and (ii) create more flexibility for 
discussion of key topics and reflections 
within the agenda

• identify opportunities for more open and 
wide-ranging discussions on big picture 
issues

• continue to focus on ensuring balanced 
papers which clearly identify substantive 
points and key issues for the Board’s 
attention

• continue to identify opportunities to 
bring external perspectives into the 
Board.

2023 Board Committee 
effectiveness review

The Board Committee reviews are an 
important part of the way Barclays 
monitors and improves Committee 
performance and effectiveness, 
maximising strengths and highlighting 
areas for further development. 

The results of the 2023 Board 
Nominations Committee effectiveness 
review are reported below, and the results 
of the reviews of the effectiveness of the 
other Board Committees are reported 
within their individual reports elsewhere in 
this Board Governance report.  

Following consideration of the findings of 
the 2023 Board Committee effectiveness 
reviews, the Committee remains satisfied 
that each of the Board Committees are 
operating effectively. 
Review of Board Nominations 
Committee effectiveness

The results of the 2023 review confirm the 
Committee is operating effectively. It is 
considered well constituted and chaired, 
providing high-quality oversight and 
constructive challenge to management in 
the areas within its remit. The review 
highlights that the Committee is 
considered to have the right level of skills 
and experience. 

Feedback indicates that the allocation of 
time between agenda items in Committee 
meetings is appropriate, with sufficient 
time for discussion and challenge, and 
focus on the right areas. 

The Committee’s interaction with the 
Board, Board Committees and senior 
management is considered effective, 
noting that sufficient time is allocated at 
Board meetings for the Chair to report to 
the Board on the work of the Committee. 
Feedback indicated that concurrent 
meetings of the BPLC and BBPLC Board 
Nominations Committee continue to be 
effective, with coverage of BBPLC matters 
within concurrent meetings considered 
appropriate.  

Interaction with the BBUKPLC Board 
Nominations Committee was also 
considered effective, confirming that the 
Committee continues to exercise 
sufficient oversight of issues relevant to 
the Committee’s remit relating to 
BBUKPLC.

Strategic 
report

Shareholder
information

Climate and
sustainability report

Governance

Risk 
review

Financial 
review

Financial 
statements

Directors’ report: Board Audit Committee report

Barclays PLC

Annual Report 2023 166

Focused on a robust internal control 
environment

Overseeing the integrity of our financial disclosures and the effectiveness 
of the internal control environment.
Dear Fellow Shareholders

I was appointed as Chair of the Committee 
in April 2023 and so this is my first report of 
the Board Audit Committee as Committee 
Chair. 

I would like to extend my thanks to my 
predecessor, Mike Ashley, for his careful 
stewardship of the Committee and 
diligence in handing it over to me. We also 
welcomed Marc Moses to the Committee 
on 23 January 2023, bringing his strong 
technical finance background with a deep 
knowledge of banking and financial 
services.

During the year, the Committee has had a 
significant focus on management’s 
initiatives to drive sustainable 
improvements in the Group’s internal 
control environment. Specifically, the 
Committee received regular updates on 
the internal control environment from the 
business heads, Group Chief Internal 
Auditor, Group Chief Controls Officer and 
KPMG, identifying any thematic trends 
which may be arising across the Group and 
encouraging management to take a pro-
active approach in identifying areas for 
enhancement.

The Committee also maintained close 
oversight of an internal programme 
established by the Group Chief Executive 
at the end of 2022, and led by the Group 
Chief Operating Officer, to improve senior 
oversight of the more material regulatory 
remediation programmes with a view to 
enhancing controls in order to achieve a 
consistently excellent operating 
environment across the Group. This 
programme operates in parallel with the 
broader cultural change programme led by 
our Group Chief Executive, which you can 
read more about in the Section 172(1) 
statement in the Strategic report.

The Committee recognises that 
maintaining a robust system of internal 
control is a continuous journey and there 
will always be programmes in train to 
ensure that ongoing improvements are 
made. As part of this, the Committee has 
been receiving reports on an internal 
programme to enhance the system

Board Audit Committee 

Julia Wilson

Chair, Board Audit Committee

Committee membership                           
and meeting attendance in 20231

Member

Meetings attended/eligible to attend 

Julia Wilson

Robert Berry
2
Marc Moses
Diane Schueneman
3
Mike Ashley

12/12
12/12
12/12
8/12
6/6

Notes 

1 There were 12 scheduled meetings of the 

Committee in 2023. Owing to prior commitments, 
Diane Schueneman was unable to attend four 
meetings (with both sets of meetings in February and 
October being held in short succession).

Committee membership in 2023 

2 Appointed with effect from 23 January 2023.
3 Retired with effect from 3 May 2023.

of risk management and internal control 
for compliance with laws, rules and 
regulations. Financial crime controls also 
continue to be an area of significant focus 
for the Group and the Committee is 
closely following management’s progress 
in this area to ensure that the control 
framework is robust. Previous reports of 
the Committee also highlighted significant 
work by management on control 
remediation and enhancement 
programmes in relation to trading controls. 
While that work remains ongoing, the 
Committee was pleased to see significant 
progress made during 2023, with key 
remediation programmes in those areas 
scheduled to achieve significant 
milestones or complete during 2024.

To decide whether any control issues 
required specific disclosure in this Annual 
Report, the Committee continued to apply 
similar concepts to those used for 
assessing internal control over financial 
reporting for the purposes of the US 
Sarbanes-Oxley Act (SOx). The 
Committee is satisfied that there are no 
control issues which are considered to be a 
material weakness and which merit specific 
disclosure. 

In overseeing the integrity of our financial 
disclosures, the Committee was mindful 
that the macroeconomic environment 
during the year remained challenging with 
continuing high interest rates, inflationary 
pressures and geopolitical uncertainty. 
The Committee received regular updates 
from the Group Finance Director and 
Group Chief Accounting Officer, focusing 
on key areas including credit impairment 
and coverage, provisions, valuations and 
tax. The Committee will continue to closely 
monitor management’s judgements in 
these areas and their disclosure. 

The Committee works closely with the 
Board Risk Committee and Board 
Sustainability Committee, ensuring a 
streamlined view of matters of relevance 
across the Committees. The Committee 
welcomed enhanced reporting by 
management with the incorporation of 
operational risk dashboards to provide a 
more holistic view across the controls and 
risk space. This is expected to support the 
effective and efficient consideration by the 
Board Audit Committee and Board Risk 
Committee of matters relevant to both 
committees. 

Strategic 
report

Shareholder
information

Climate and
sustainability report

Governance

Risk 
review

Financial 
review

Financial 
statements

Barclays PLC

Annual Report 2023 167

Directors’ report: Board Audit Committee report (continued)

Committee effectiveness

Looking ahead

Management has made some significant 
progress on remediation during the course 
of 2023; maintaining that momentum in 
2024 will be a key focus of the Committee.

Finally, after some five years in the role, 
and having made significant progress in 
the operation and methodologies used by 
BIA, Lindsay O’Reilly will be stepping down 
as Group Chief Internal Auditor during 
2024. The Committee will be looking to 
approve the appointment of a new Group 
Chief Internal Auditor in the coming 
months and would like to extend its thanks 
to Lindsay for her invaluable support, which 
is continuing through this transition period.

Julia Wilson

Chair, Board Audit Committee

19 February 2024

The results of the Committee 
effectiveness review for 2023 confirm the 
Committee is operating effectively. It is 
considered well constituted and chaired, 
providing an effective and appropriate level 
of challenge and oversight of the areas 
within its remit. Feedback recognised the 
effective transition of the Chair in April 
2023. The review highlights that the 
Committee is considered to have the right 
level of skills and experience, including 
recent and relevant financial experience, 
and is of an appropriate size. Feedback 
indicates that the Committee is 
considered to operate at the right level of 
debate, and confirms that the allocation of 
time between agenda items in Committee 
meetings is appropriate, with sufficient 
time for discussion and challenge. 

The Committee’s interaction with the 
Board, Board Committees and senior 
management is considered effective, 
noting that sufficient time is allocated at 
Board meetings for the Chair to report to 
the Board on the work of the Committee. 
Feedback indicated that concurrent 
meetings of the BPLC and BBPLC Board 
Audit Committee continue to be effective, 
with coverage of BBPLC matters within 
concurrent meetings considered 
appropriate. 

Interaction with the BBUKPLC Board Audit 
Committee was also considered effective, 
confirming that the Committee continues 
to exercise sufficient oversight of issues 
relevant to the Committee’s remit relating 
to BBUKPLC.

Please see the report of the Board 
Nominations Committee for details on the 
process for conducting the 2023 
Committee effectiveness review. 

With respect to climate matters, the 
Committee received input from the Board 
Sustainability Committee on our external 
climate and sustainability narrative 
disclosures. Best practice and regulation 
regarding climate and sustainability 
reporting and related assurance are still 
evolving, while investor and other 
stakeholder appetite for information 
continues to grow, and this is an area to 
which the Committee will continue to have 
close regard. Barclays’ climate strategy 
remains a key focus of the Group and the 
Committee continues to monitor that the 
impact of climate change has been 
addressed in preparing the Group’s 
financial statements. 

The independent assurance and challenge 
provided by both Barclays Internal Audit 
(BIA) and KPMG as statutory auditor are 
critical to the Committee’s oversight role 
in relation to internal controls and financial 
reporting. For this reason, the Committee 
continues to hold regular separate private 
sessions with each of the Group Chief 
Internal Auditor and the lead KPMG audit 
engagement partner without 
management present.

The Committee has oversight of Barclays’ 
whistleblowing programme and I took over 
the role of Group Whistleblowers' 
Champion upon my appointment as 
Committee Chair. During 2023, I met with 
the FCA and also held regular meetings 
with the Whistleblowing team to 
understand their key areas of focus and 
the Committee continues to receive 
detailed semi-annual whistleblowing 
updates. 

Throughout the year I also held regular 
meetings with a number of other 
colleagues and stakeholders to discuss 
any material and emerging key issues 
impacting the Group (including its key 
subsidiaries) and of relevance to the 
Committee. This included regular 
meetings with the Chair of the BBUKPLC 
Board Audit Committee, the Group 
Finance Director, Group Chief Internal 
Auditor and lead KPMG audit partner. As 
Committee Chair, throughout the year I 
also engaged regularly with the Group’s 
key regulators, including meeting with 
representatives of the PRA, FCA and 
FRBNY. 

Strategic 
report

Shareholder
information

Climate and
sustainability report

Governance

Risk 
review

Financial 
review

Financial 
statements

Barclays PLC

Annual Report 2023 168

Directors’ report: Board Audit Committee report (continued)

Committee composition and 
meetings

The Committee is composed solely of 
independent Non-Executive Directors. 
Membership of the Committee is designed 
to provide the breadth of financial expertise 
and commercial acumen that the 
Committee needs to fulfil its responsibilities. 
Its members as a whole have recent and 
relevant experience of the banking and 
financial services sector, in addition to 
general management and commercial 
experience; and are financially literate. Julia 
Wilson, the Committee Chair, and who is the 
designated financial expert on the 
Committee for the purposes of SOx, has 
significant corporate finance, tax and 
accounting experience including serving as 
the Group Finance Director of 3i plc from 
2008 to 2022 and as Chair of the board audit 
committee at Legal & General Group plc. 

In 2023, the Committee met 12 times, with 
no ad hoc meetings held during the year 
(2022: 14 times, including four ad hoc 
meetings). Attendance by members at 
Committee meetings is shown on page 166. 

Primary activities  

Committee meetings were attended by 
representatives from management, 
including the Group Chief Executive, 
Group Finance Director, Group Chief 
Internal Auditor, Group Chief Controls 
Officer, Group Chief Risk Officer, Group 
Chief Operating Officer, Group General 
Counsel and Group Chief Compliance 
Officer, as well as representatives from the 
businesses and other functions, and from 
BBPLC senior management reflecting the 
partially consolidated operation of the 
BPLC and BBPLC Committee meetings. 
The lead audit engagement partner of 
KPMG also attended Committee 
meetings. 

The Board, together with the Committee, 
is responsible for ensuring the 
independence and effectiveness of the 
internal audit function and external 
auditors. The appointment and removal of 
the Group Chief Internal Auditor is a 
matter reserved to the Committee, and 
the appointment and removal of the 
external auditor is a matter reserved to the 
Board based on the recommendation of 
the Committee. Neither task is delegated 
to management.

Role of the Committee

The role of the Committee is to 
review and monitor, among other 
things:

• the integrity of the Group’s financial 

statements and related 
announcements

• the effectiveness of the Group’s 

internal controls

• the independence and 

effectiveness of the internal and 
external audit processes

• the Group’s relationship with the 

external auditor

• the effectiveness of the Group’s 

whistleblowing procedures.

The Committee’s terms of reference 
are available at home.barclays/who-
we-are/our-governance/board-
committees/ 

The Committee discharged its responsibilities in 2023 through monitoring the effectiveness of the internal control environment and 
internal and external audit processes, as well as the integrity of financial statements and related announcements having regard to the 
current macroeconomic environment.
Areas of focus

Role of Committee / Key issues considered

Conclusion/action taken

Financial reporting
Fair, balanced and 
understandable 
reporting

(including Country- by-
Country Reporting and 
Modern Slavery 
Statement)

In light of the Board’s obligation under the 
Code, the Committee assesses external 
reporting to ensure it is fair, balanced and 
understandable.

In addition to this Annual Report and associated year-end reports, the 
Committee also reviewed the Group’s half-year and quarterly results 
announcements and the presentations to analysts. The Committee informed 
these reviews through: 

• consideration of reports of the Group Disclosure Committee

• direct questioning of management on the transparency and accuracy of 

disclosures

• consideration of the results of management’s processes relating to financial 

reporting matters, including the output of the Group’s internal control 
assessments and the SOx s404 internal control processes.

The Committee closely considered the Group's financial disclosures and 
provided feedback, including on areas where disclosures could be enhanced. 

Recognising the increasing focus on, and prominence of, ESG reporting, the 
Committee considered the governance and assurance framework for such 
disclosures. The Committee emphasised the importance of management 
continuing to review and enhance the processes and controls around the 
disclosures (particularly in relation to the underlying data) as the disclosure 
framework and expected use of the information evolves. 

Having evaluated all of the available information, the assurances by 
management and underlying processes used to prepare the published financial 
information, the Committee concluded and recommended to the Board that 
the 2023 Annual Report and Accounts are fair, balanced and understandable.

Strategic 
report

Shareholder
information

Climate and
sustainability report

Governance

Risk 
review

Financial 
review

Financial 
statements

Barclays PLC

Annual Report 2023 169

Directors’ report: Board Audit Committee report (continued)

Areas of focus

Role of Committee / Key issues considered

Conclusion/action taken

Significant accounting judgements
Conduct 
provisions

(refer to Note 23 to the 
financial statements)

Impairment of 
financial 
instruments

(refer to Note 8 to the 
financial statements)

Impairment of 
goodwill and 
intangibles 

(refer to Note 21 to the 
financial statements)

Legal, 
competition and 
regulatory 
provisions

(refer to Note 25 to the 
financial statements)

Valuations

(refer to Notes 13 to 
17 to the financial 
statements)

Tax

(refer to Note 9 to the 
financial statements)

Barclays makes certain assumptions and 
estimates, analysis of which underpins 
provisions made for the costs of customer 
redress. The Committee analyses the 
judgements and estimates made by 
management to evaluate the adequacy of 
the provisions, including with regards to 
Barclays' provisioning for legacy conduct 
issues.

The Committee monitors management's 
judgements in relation to expected credit 
losses (ECLs), which are modelled using a 
range of forecast economic scenarios. They 
use forward-looking models which require 
judgements to be made over modelling 
assumptions, including: 

•

•

•

•

the determination of macroeconomic 
scenarios to be used

the methodology for weighting of 
scenarios 

the criteria used to determine significant 
deterioration in credit quality 

the application of management 
adjustments to the ECL modelled output.

The Committee considers management's 
judgement in relation to goodwill and 
intangibles. The carrying value of goodwill 
and intangible assets is assessed on the 
basis of discounted forecast future earnings. 
Given the significant component of earnings 
attributable to net interest income, such 
forecasts are particularly sensitive to the 
level of long-term interest rates and 
assumed levels of future lending. The period 
over which intangible assets are amortised 
appropriately reflects the useful economic 
life.

Barclays is engaged in various legal, 
competition and regulatory matters which 
may give rise to provisioning based on the 
facts.

The level of provisioning is subject to 
management judgement on the basis of 
legal advice and is, therefore, an area of 
focus for the Committee.

Barclays exercises judgement in the 
valuation and disclosure of financial 
instruments, derivative assets and certain 
portfolios, particularly where quoted market 
prices are not available.

The Committee is responsible for 
considering the Group's tax strategy and 
overseeing compliance with the Group's Tax 
Principles. Barclays is subject to taxation in a 
number of jurisdictions globally and makes 
judgements with regard to provisioning for 
tax at risk and to the recognition and 
measurement of deferred tax assets.

The Committee reviewed and challenged management’s approach to conduct 
provisions throughout the year and was satisfied that management's 
judgement and approach resulted in an adequate and appropriate level of 
provision in relation to the various conduct matters.

As part of its monitoring, the Committee considered regular reports from 
management on:

•

the impact of the macroeconomic environment, including high interest 
rates, inflationary pressures and unemployment levels

• model changes and model validation, and the impact of this on the use of 

post-model adjustments

•

the refresh of macroeconomic variables and associated weighting.

The Committee closely considered management’s judgement on impairment 
coverage levels, including the impact of increasing delinquency levels in certain 
areas of the portfolio.

Having considered and scrutinised the reports, the Committee agreed with 
management’s conclusion that the impairment provision was appropriate.

The Committee considered management's reports on its assessment of the 
Group's goodwill balances and intangibles to identify any indicators of 
impairment, including the methodology and controls applied to the process. 

The Committee was satisfied with management's determination on the 
indicators of impairment and quantum of the impairment amount identified.

The Committee received regular reports on the status of current legal, 
competition and regulatory matters and considered the impact of those 
matters on the Group’s provision levels. It also oversaw enhancements in the 
reporting to the Committee on these matters. It considered management’s 
judgements on the level of provision to be taken and accompanying 
disclosures and agreed that the level of provision at the year end was 
appropriate. 

The Committee also reviewed the disclosures made in respect of legal, 
competition and regulatory matters, and concluded that they provided 
appropriate information for investors.

The Committee scrutinised management's approach to valuations, including in 
respect of pensions and the leveraged finance portfolio.

The Committee was satisfied with the accounting treatment in respect of the 
various matters.

The Committee:

•

•

received reports from the Global Head of Tax, including updates on the work 
of the Tax Management Oversight Committee

reviewed the appropriateness of provisions made for uncertain tax 
positions and management’s approach to the tax treatment of index-linked 
gilts and its impact on the Group’s effective tax rate

• considered the impact of the UK Government’s implementation of the 

OECD’s global minimum tax rules

• monitored the Group’s interactions with tax authorities and the material tax 

risks for the Group.

The Committee approved the UK Tax Strategy statement published in the 
Country Snapshot report and recommended the Country Snapshot to the 
Board for approval.

Strategic 
report

Shareholder
information

Climate and
sustainability report

Governance

Risk 
review

Financial 
review

Financial 
statements

Barclays PLC

Annual Report 2023 170

Directors’ report: Board Audit Committee report (continued)

Areas of focus

Role of Committee / Key issues considered

Conclusion/action taken

Going concern and viability 
Going concern 
and long-term 
viability

Barclays is required to assess whether it is 
appropriate to prepare the financial 
statements on a going concern basis. In 
accordance with the Code, Barclays must 
provide a statement of its viability. To 
support this, the Committee considers both 
the going concern assumption and the form 
and content of the Viability Statement.

The Committee considered both the going concern assumption and the form 
and content of the Viability Statement taking into account: 

•

•

•

the MTP and Working Capital Report

the forecast capital, liquidity and funding profiles

the results of stress tests based on internal and regulatory assumptions.

The Committee recommended to the Board that the financial statements 
should be prepared on a going concern basis and that there were no material 
uncertainties that would impact the going concern statement which required 
disclosure. 

The Committee recommended the Viability Statement to the Board for 
approval.

The Committee assesses the distributable 
reserves position in considering 
management’s proposals for distributions 
(dividends and share buy-backs) for the full 
year ended 31 December 2022 and for the 
half year ended 30 June 2023.

Having regard to the distributable reserves available to the Company, the 
Committee reviewed and reported to the Board on proposals for (i) a dividend 
for the financial year ended 31 December 2022 of 5.0p per share along with a 
share buy-back of up to £500m; and (ii) a dividend for the half year ended 
30 June 2023 of 2.7p per share along with a share buy-back of up to £750m.

In early 2024, the Committee reviewed and reported to the Board on the 
distributable reserves position for the full year dividend for the year ended 
31 December 2023 along with a proposed share buy-back.

The Committee considers the effectiveness 
of the overall control environment, including 
the status of any significant control issues 
and the progress of specific remediation 
plans.

The Committee:

• considered feedback received from regulatory stakeholders on the Group’s 

internal control environment and management’s response

• evaluated and tracked the status of the more significant control matters 

through regular reports from the Group Chief Controls Officer

• discussed reports from heads of key businesses (including Barclays UK and 
BBPLC) on their control environment, together with views from the second 
and third lines of defence.

The Committee received regular deep dive reports on the more material 
remediation programmes across the Group, keeping a close eye on 
management’s progress and delivery against key milestones, including 
through to closure of a programme and validation by BIA. The Committee 
challenged management’s approach to measuring progress and emphasised 
the importance of qualitative factors such as the embedment and 
sustainability of programmes. 

The Committee considers the adequacy of 
the Group’s arrangements to allow 
colleagues to raise concerns in confidence 
and anonymously without fear of retaliation, 
and the outcomes of any substantiated 
case.

The Committee received detailed semi-annual reports on whistleblowing from 
management. It monitored key whistleblowing metrics, the 'speak up' culture 
across the Group (and key metrics underpinning this) and any potential 
whistleblowing trends which might emerge.

The Committee also monitored the implementation of enhancements to the 
whistleblowing process following the external benchmarking review conducted 
in 2022. 

(refer to the Viability 
Statement on page 54)

Distributions
Distributions and 
return of capital 
to shareholders

Internal controls
Internal controls 
and business 
control 
environment

(read more about 
Barclays' internal 
control and risk 
management 
processes on page 
184)

Whistleblowing
Raising concerns

Strategic 
report

Shareholder
information

Climate and
sustainability report

Governance

Risk 
review

Financial 
review

Financial 
statements

Barclays PLC

Annual Report 2023 171

Directors’ report: Board Audit Committee report (continued)

Areas of focus

Role of Committee / Key issues considered

Conclusion/action taken

Internal audit
Internal audit

The Committee monitors and assesses the 
performance of BIA and delivery of the 
internal audit plan, including scope of work 
performed, the level of resources, and the 
methodology and coverage of the internal 
audit plan.

External audit
External audit

The Committee monitors the work and 
performance of KPMG.

Through regular reports from BIA, the Committee:

•

•

•

•

reviewed and agreed internal audit plans, methodology and deliverables for 
2023, including consideration of how regulatory priorities and required 
regulatory coverage has been reflected in the plan

reviewed BIA's audit reports in relation to specific audits, key areas of focus 
and themes 

tracked the levels of adverse audits and issues raised by BIA and monitored 
related remediation plans

received regular updates on BIA colleague matters, including colleague 
engagement and resourcing 

• discussed BIA's assessment of the control environment and management 

control approach in Group companies and functions. 

The Committee noted the independence of the BIA function, and through 
reviewing BIA's quality assurance updates was pleased to see the reports 
demonstrating the independence of BIA’s quality assurance function. 

The Committee considered and was comfortable with the approach by BIA to 
embed the UK Consumer Duty into the BIA framework.

The Committee conducted a performance assessment of BIA for 2023 and 
concluded it was satisfied with BIA's performance against its objectives agreed 
with the Committee Chair at the beginning of the year.

At the end of the year, the Committee approved the 2024 audit plan, detailing 
the number of audits to be undertaken and the focus areas. It also approved 
BIA's Audit Charter following the annual review.

The Committee:

• met with key members of the KPMG audit team to discuss the 2023 audit 

plan and KPMG’s areas of focus

• approved the 2023 audit plan and the main areas of focus for the year

• assessed regular reports from KPMG on the progress of the 2023 audit and 

any material accounting and control issues identified

• discussed KPMG’s draft reports on control areas of focus and the control 

environment ahead of the 2023 year end

• approved the terms of the audit engagement letter and associated fees for 

2023, on behalf of the Board.

The Committee sought KPMG's views on a number of specific matters, 
including management's approach to critical accounting judgements and 
estimates, and sought to understand where KPMG had challenged 
management's assessment prior to reaching a conclusion. This included 
considering KPMG challenge in relation to key controls matters and the 
approach to disclosures in the Group's full year, half-year and interim financial 
results. 

The Committee considered KPMG’s response to the PRA Written Auditor 
Reporting for 2022, and discussed with KPMG the questions in scope for the 
2023 Written Auditor Reporting.

Strategic 
report

Shareholder
information

Climate and
sustainability report

Governance

Risk 
review

Financial 
review

Financial 
statements

Barclays PLC

Annual Report 2023 172

Directors’ report: Board Audit Committee report (continued)

External auditor

Following an external audit tender in 2015, KPMG was appointed as Barclays’ statutory auditor with effect from the 2017 financial year. 
Stuart Crisp, Barclays’ lead audit engagement partner, has been in the role since 2022 and attends all meetings of the Committee.
Assessing external auditor effectiveness, objectivity and independence and non-audit services

The Committee is responsible for assessing the effectiveness, objectivity and independence of the Group’s statutory auditor. This 
responsibility was discharged by the Committee throughout the year at formal meetings, during private meetings with KPMG and 
through discussions with key Group executives. In particular, the Committee assessed KPMG’s effectiveness, objectivity and 
independence in the following ways:

Throughout the year

• Met with senior members of the KPMG audit team from 

the UK, Ireland and US to discuss the approach to the 2023 
audit.

• Reviewed regular reports from management on the non-

audit services provided by KPMG to Barclays.

• Reviewed regular reports from management detailing any 

employees or workers hired from KPMG.

• Discussed with KPMG their consideration of internal 

controls over financial reporting.

• Considered areas in which KPMG had challenged 

management’s assumptions in areas of key judgement.

• Assessed any potential threats to independence that were 
self-identified and reported by KPMG, all of which were 
regarded by the Committee as being adequately 
addressed.

Annual assessment, audit quality 
and external findings

• The Group undertakes an annual formal assessment of 

KPMG’s performance, independence and objectivity. The 
assessment for 2023 was conducted in early 2024, by way 
of a questionnaire completed by key stakeholders across 
the Group who have regular interaction with KPMG. The 
questionnaire was designed to evaluate KPMG’s audit 
process, its effectiveness and overall output.

• Consistent with previous years, in 2023 KPMG nominated 

a senior partner of the audit team to have specific 
responsibility for ensuring audit quality. The Committee 
received reports from him during the year on his 
assessment of audit quality.

• The findings of the FRC’s Audit Quality Report on KPMG 
published in July 2023, including its inspection of the 
Barclays audit for the year ended 31 December 2021, 
provided further comfort to the Committee on the quality 
and effectiveness of KPMG’s audit, acknowledging that 
there remains areas for improvement.

Outcome

Taking into account the result of all of the above, the Committee considered that KPMG maintained its independence and 
objectivity, exercised robust challenge and demonstrated professional scepticism in the audit process. The Committee was 
therefore satisfied that the audit process was effective.

Non-audit services

In order to safeguard the auditor’s 
independence and objectivity, Barclays has 
in place the Group Policy on the Provision 
of Services by the Group Statutory Auditor 
(the Policy) setting out the circumstances 
in which the auditor may be engaged to 
provide non-audit services. The Policy 
applies to all Barclays subsidiaries and 
other material entities over which Barclays 
has significant influence. The core principle 
of the Policy is that non-audit services 
(other than those legally required to be 
carried out by the Group’s auditor) should 
be performed by the auditor only in certain 
controlled circumstances. A summary of 
the Policy can be found at home.barclays/
who-we-are/our-governance/auditor-
independence/

The Policy sets out the type of services 
that the auditor is permitted to carry out 
and pre-approves certain of these services 
provided the fee is below a certain 
threshold, except for specific categories of 
permitted services that require explicit 

Committee approval. All other permitted 
services must be approved in advance by 
the Committee. The Policy requires that all 
proposed work must be sponsored by a 
senior executive who is not involved in any 
work to which the proposed engagement 
relates. The audit assignment partner 
must also confirm that the engagement 
has been approved in accordance with the 
auditor’s own internal ethical standards 
and does not pose any threat to the 
auditor’s independence or objectivity. 

The Policy is reviewed by the Committee 
on an annual basis to ensure that it is fit for 
purpose and that it reflects applicable rules 
and guidelines. The Policy is aligned with 
both the FRC’s requirements and KPMG’s 
own internal policy on non-audit services 
for FTSE 350 companies, which broadly 
restricts non-audit work to services that 
are ‘closely related’ to the audit. 

In early 2023, KPMG advised the 
Committee that, following on from an 
event notified to the Committee in late 
2022, a further instance had been 

identified of a KPMG member firm having 
provided services in connection with the 
preparation of local statutory accounts of 
a small overseas subsidiary not in scope for 
the Group audit. KPMG assured the 
Committee, having made appropriate 
enquiries of their member firms providing 
services to the Group, that these were 
isolated instances. In these circumstances, 
the Committee agreed with KPMG’s 
assessment that this had not impaired 
their integrity or objectivity. 

In view of the events notified by KPMG, the 
Committee reviewed the Policy in early 
2023 to determine whether any revisions 
were required to ensure such events did 
not arise again. While it was determined 
that the Policy provided sufficiently clear 
guidance in terms of prohibited non-audit 
service work, certain enhancements were 
made to the Policy to further support the 
operation of the Policy including by 
specifying examples of the type of work 
prohibited under each headline service.

Strategic 
report

Shareholder
information

Climate and
sustainability report

Governance

Risk 
review

Financial 
review

Financial 
statements

Barclays PLC

Annual Report 2023 173

Directors’ report: Board Audit Committee report (continued)

The Statutory Audit Services for Large Companies Market 
Investigation (Mandatory Use of Competitive Tender Processes 
and Audit Committee Responsibilities) Order 2014

An external audit tender was conducted in 2015 and the decision was made to 
appoint KPMG as Barclays’ external auditor with effect from the 2017 financial year. 

Barclays is in compliance with the requirements of The Statutory Audit Services for 
Large Companies Market Investigation (Mandatory Use of Competitive Tender 
Processes and Audit Committee Responsibilities) Order 2014, which relates to the 
frequency and governance of tenders for the appointment of the external auditor 
and the setting of a policy on the provision of non-audit services. 

As explained in previous Committee reports, provided that KPMG continues to 
maintain its independence and objectivity, and the Committee remains satisfied 
with its performance, the Board does not intend to tender for an alternative external 
auditor to be appointed before the end of the current required period of 10 years. 
Accordingly, any tender is expected to be in respect of the 2027 financial year 
onwards and is likely to take place in 2025. The Committee has reconfirmed that it 
would not be appropriate to tender before this date. The Committee observed that 
there has been significant rotation of the senior members of the audit team since 
2017 and more recent changes in certain members of the Barclays senior finance 
team, both of which have reduced any potential familiarisation threat.

The fees payable to KPMG for the year 
ended 31 December 2023 amounted to 
£78m (2022: £71m), of which £14m (2022: 
£13m) was payable in respect of non-audit 
services. A breakdown of the fees payable 
to the auditor for statutory audit and non-
audit work can be found in Note 39 of the 
financial statements. Of the £14m of non-
audit services provided by KPMG during 
2023, the significant categories of 
engagement, i.e. services where the fees 
amounted to more than £500,000, 
included: 

• audit-related services: services in 

connection with CASS (Client Assets 
Sourcebook) audits

• other services in connection with 

regulatory, compliance and internal 
control reports and specific audit 
procedures, required by law or 
regulation to be provided by the 
statutory auditor

• other attestation and assurance 

services, such as ongoing attestation 
and assurance services for treasury 
and capital markets transactions to 
meet regulatory requirements, including 
regular reporting obligations and 
verification reports.

Strategic 
report

Shareholder
information

Climate and
sustainability report

Governance

Risk 
review

Financial 
review

Financial 
statements

Directors’ report: Board Risk Committee report

Barclays PLC

Annual Report 2023 174

Providing considered risk oversight 
through challenging times

Proactive risk management in a dynamic risk environment.

Dear Fellow Shareholders 

During 2023, the Committee focused on 
the financial and operational challenges 
arising from ongoing macroeconomic 
uncertainty and geopolitical tensions, 
overseeing management’s proactive 
approach to positioning the Group 
appropriately for the uncertain 
environment.

The macroeconomic outlook was defined 
by central bank efforts to contain inflation 
through higher interest rates, balanced 
against the desire to protect economic 
growth and employment. As the year 
came to a close, market participants 
remained focused on the expected turn of 
the rates cycle and the implications for 
asset prices and the credit cycle. The 
Committee remained watchful of these 
events and other risks, such as the 
potential for disorderly market corrections 
and economic slowdowns across the 
globe; alongside wider geopolitical 
tensions and their impact on Barclays’ 
portfolios and businesses. Throughout the 
year the Committee heard from and 
challenged senior business leaders, in 
addition to second line risk and compliance 
colleagues, about how they consider and 
manage risks as they execute their 
business strategies, including any 
mitigating actions being taken. 

2023 was undoubtedly a challenging year 
for the banking sector with significant 
market volatility, particularly in the first half 
of the year, coupled with the collapse of a 
number of US regional banks and the 
takeover of a distressed global bank. In 
addition to overseeing Barclays’ 
management of its liquidity and capital 
positions, the Committee reviewed 
management’s learnings from these 
events to help ensure that Barclays 
remains resilient through periods of stress. 

Board Risk Committee

Robert Berry

Chair, Board Risk Committee

Committee membership                           
and meeting attendance in 20231

Notes

1 There were nine scheduled meetings and two ad hoc 
meetings of the Committee in 2023. Owing to prior 
commitments and ad hoc meetings being called at 
short notice, Mohamed A. El-Erian was unable to 
Notes
attend two scheduled meetings, Diane Schueneman 
was unable to attend one scheduled meeting and 
one ad hoc meeting and Brian Gilvary was unable to 
attend one ad hoc meeting. 

Alongside financial risks, the Committee 
oversaw management’s work to drive 
robust operational risk management 
across Barclays; in this regard, the 
Committee considered the risks of cyber-
related attacks and their potential impact 
on customers and clients, and heard from 
management about ongoing work to 
strengthen the bank’s cybersecurity 
defences. In addition, the Committee 
monitored work in Barclays UK designed to 
reduce risk by improving the control 
environment and drive efficiencies. 

The Committee tracked Barclays' progress 
towards ensuring it can recover its most 
important business services in the event of 
material service disruption within tolerance 
by the regulatory deadline of March 2025. 

Meetings attended/eligible to attend 
(including ad hoc meetings)

Member

Robert Berry

11/11
9/11
11/11
5/5
11/11
9/11
11/11

4/4

4/5

Mohamed A. El-Erian 
Dawn Fitzpatrick 
2
Sir John Kingman
3
Marc Moses
Diane Schueneman 
Julia Wilson

4
Mike Ashley

5
Brian Gilvary
Committee membership in 2023 

2 Appointed with effect from 16 June 2023.
3 Appointed with effect from 23 January 2023.
4 Retired  with effect from 3 May 2023.
5 Retired  with effect from 1 June 2023.

Financial crime risk across the financial 
services sector has grown as a result of the 
increasing sophistication of bad-actors. In 
recognition of the growing risks, the 
Committee closely monitored 
management’s work to identify and 
mitigate financial crime risk across the 
Group, in line with increased regulatory 
expectations. 

Conduct risk remains a key area of 
oversight. The Committee oversaw 
management’s preparations for the 
implementation of the Financial Conduct 
Authority’s (FCA) ‘Consumer Duty' in July 
2023, and continues to monitor 
management's efforts to ensure good 
outcomes for retail customers. 

During the year, the Committee reviewed 
changes to the Group’s Enterprise Risk 
Management Framework (ERMF), to 
underpin work to strengthen how the 
Group manages the risks of non-
compliance with laws, rules and regulations 
(LRR). As part of this a new LRR risk was 
established alongside conduct risk under a 
new Principal Risk called Compliance risk.

 
Strategic 
report

Shareholder
information

Climate and
sustainability report

Governance

Risk 
review

Financial 
review

Financial 
statements

Barclays PLC

Annual Report 2023 175

Directors’ report: Board Risk Committee report (continued)

Looking ahead 

The Committee actively encourages 
management to be alert to areas of 
emerging risk, particularly in light of the 
rapidly evolving macroeconomic, 
geopolitical and technological 
environments. As we move into 2024, 
geopolitical tensions, macroeconomic 
uncertainty and inflationary pressures are 
expected to continue, with further 
uncertainty on the horizon in light of the 
upcoming election cycles in many of our 
key markets, including the US and UK. The 
Committee will continue to work with 
management to anticipate, stress test and 
prepare for periods of volatility to prevent 
outsized or unexpected losses 
materialising and to manage emerging 
risks as they arise. 

Robert Berry

Chair, Board Risk Committee

19 February 2024

The Committee continued to oversee how 
climate change is driving financial and 
operational risks, the materiality of their 
impact and how Barclays is managing them 
through the Climate Principal Risk 
Framework. The Committee received 
updates on the Bank’s ongoing 
advancements to its climate risk 
management approach, including the 
development of a risk appetite, monitored 
through a range of quantitative metrics. 
The Committee also heard from senior 
business leaders about how climate risks 
are being integrated into their business 
strategies and plans.

The Committee approved the results of 
the 2023 internal climate stress test (CST) 
and considered lessons learned that will 
enable Barclays to better assess specific 
climate vulnerabilities as well as the impact 
that climate factors can have on the 
financial stresses used to calibrate overall 
risk appetite. The Committee will continue 
to maintain close oversight of the annual 
CST as it is further integrated into the 
Group’s planning and stress testing 
framework. 

As part of its work overseeing climate risk, 
the Committee worked closely with the 
Board Audit Committee and Board 
Sustainability Committee, ensuring a 
streamlined view of matters of relevance 
across the Committees. 

The Group uses models and data to 
support a broad range of business 
decisions and risk management activities 
across the Group. This is an area impacted 
by rapid technological change and 
increasing regulatory scrutiny and the 
Committee continued to focus on the 
Bank’s approach to managing the 
associated risks, including its approach to 
developing and validating models, and 
monitoring of their performance through a 
volatile macro environment.

The volume of regulatory change across 
the global financial services industry is 
significant. The Committee heard from 
management about the impact of these 
changes for Barclays and the work 
necessary to ensure compliance. This is an 
area to which the Committee expects to 
devote attention in 2024 and beyond. 

By way of a final word, in 2023, the 
Committee oversaw a change to the 
senior management of the Compliance 
function, with the appointment of a new 
Group Chief Compliance Officer, Kirsty 
Everett, who took up the role in July 2023. 
In 2023 we also welcomed both Marc 
Moses and Sir John Kingman (Chair of 
Barclays UK) to the Committee, both of 
whom bring with them a deep knowledge 
of financial services.
Committee effectiveness 

The results of the Committee 
effectiveness review for 2023 confirm the 
Committee is operating effectively; it is 
considered well constituted and chaired, 
providing an effective and appropriate level 
of challenge and oversight of the areas 
within its remit. Feedback noted members’ 
wide and diverse skills and experience, 
recognising that recent additions to 
Committee composition had been positive 
in providing the Committee with a deeper 
retail perspective. Feedback indicates that 
the Committee is considered to operate at 
the right level of debate. It also confirms 
that the allocation of time between agenda 
items in meetings is appropriate, with 
sufficient time for discussion and 
challenge. 

The Committee’s interaction with the 
Board, Board Committees and senior 
management is also considered effective, 
noting that sufficient time is allocated at 
Board meetings for the Chair to report to 
the Board on the work of the Committee. 
Feedback indicated that concurrent 
meetings of the BPLC and BBPLC Board 
Risk Committee continue to be effective, 
with coverage of BBPLC matters within 
concurrent meetings considered 
appropriate. 

Interaction with the BBUKPLC Board Risk 
Committee was also considered effective, 
confirming that the Committee continues 
to exercise appropriate oversight of issues 
relevant to the Committee’s remit relating 
to BBUKPLC.

Please see the report of the Board 
Nominations Committee for further details 
on the process for conducting the 2023 
Committee effectiveness review.

Strategic 
report

Shareholder
information

Climate and
sustainability report

Governance

Risk 
review

Financial 
review

Financial 
statements

Barclays PLC

Annual Report 2023 176

Directors’ report: Board Risk Committee report (continued)

Committee roles and responsibilities 

The Committee is responsible for reviewing, on behalf of the Board, management’s 
recommendations on the Principal Risks as set out in the ERMF (with the exception of 
reputation risk, which is a matter reserved to the Board), and in particular:

• reviewing, on behalf of the Board, the management of those Principal Risks in the ERMF

• considering and recommending to the Board the Group’s risk appetite and 

tolerances for those Principal Risks

• reviewing, on behalf of the Board, the Group’s risk profile for those Principal Risks

• commissioning, receiving and considering reports on key risk issues

• safeguarding the independence, and overseeing the performance, of Barclays’ Risk 

and Compliance functions. 

The Committee’s terms of reference are available at home.barclays/who-we-are/our-
governance/board-committees/ 

Committee meetings 

In 2023, the Committee met 11 times 
(including two ad hoc meetings) and the 
attendance by members at these 
meetings is shown on page 174. In addition 
to its members, Committee meetings 
were attended by representatives from 
senior management, including the Group 
Chief Executive, Group Chief Risk Officer, 
Group Finance Director, Group Chief 
Internal Auditor, Group Treasurer, Group 
Chief Compliance Officer and Group 
General Counsel, as well as 
representatives from the businesses and 
additional colleagues from the Risk 
function. The Committee held regular 
private sessions with the Group Chief Risk 
Officer and the Group Chief Compliance 
Officer; these were not attended by other 
members of management. The lead audit 
engagement partner of KPMG also 
attended Committee meetings.  

Primary activities 

The Committee discharged its responsibilities in 2023 through reviewing and monitoring Group exposures in the context of the current 
and emerging risks facing the Group. The Committee seeks to promote a strong culture of disciplined risk management.
Areas of focus

Conclusion/action taken

Key role of Committee

Risk framework and 
governance 

Risk appetite and stress 
testing

i.e. the level of risk the Group 
chooses to take in pursuit of 
its business objectives, 
including testing whether the 
Group’s financial position and 
risk profile provide sufficient 
resilience to withstand the 
impact of severe but plausible 
economic scenarios.

• To review the design of the ERMF and 

recommend to the Board for approval any 
relevant changes.

• To track the progress of significant risk 

management projects. 

• To consider risk management matters raised by 
Barclays’ regulators and monitor the actions 
being taken by management to respond. 

• To review the effectiveness of the Company's 

risk management systems.

• The Committee reviewed an update to the ERMF to 
clarify roles and responsibilities of Legal, Compliance 
and Risk, particularly relating to the framework and 
governance for compliance with LRRs. The 
Committee recommended the updated ERMF to the 
Board for approval. 

• The Committee reviewed reports from management 

on guidance, letters and reviews received from 
regulators. The Committee examined management’s 
responses to the matters raised by regulators and 
received updates on key remediation programmes. 

• To propose to the Board an appropriate risk 

appetite and tolerance for the Principal Risks, 
including an overall Group risk appetite and 
limits. 

• The Committee discussed and approved the mandate 
and scale limits as well as the stress loss limits for the 
Group. Subsequent changes were reviewed and 
approved during the course of the year. 

• To review and approve the methodology used 

to establish the Group’s risk appetite and 
associated stress testing. 

• To discuss and agree stress loss and mandate 
and scale limits for credit risk, market risk, 
operational risk and treasury and capital risk. 

• To consider and approve internal stress test 
(IST) themes, and consider the financial 
constraints and scenarios, for stress testing risk 
appetite for the Medium Term Plan (MTP). 

• To consider and approve the results of stress 

tests required by regulatory bodies. 

• The Committee considered and approved stress test 
results, including those of the 2023 IST and reverse 
IST, as well as the associated risk appetite for the 
MTP.

• The Committee reviewed and approved the results of 
the internal CST, and received a report on the lessons 
learned from the exercise. 

• The Committee considered feedback from the FRB 

on Barclays US LLC’s Comprehensive Capital Analysis 
and Review (CCAR) following the submission of the 
CCAR stress test results.

Strategic 
report

Shareholder
information

Climate and
sustainability report

Governance

Risk 
review

Financial 
review

Financial 
statements

Barclays PLC

Annual Report 2023 177

Directors’ report: Board Risk Committee report (continued)

Areas of focus

Risk profile

i.e. the impact on the Group’s 
risk profile of geopolitical and 
macroeconomic 
developments and conditions.

Key role of Committee

Conclusion/action taken

• To evaluate and report to the Board on the 
Group’s risk profile and monitoring of the 
Principal Risks in the ERMF.

• To consider proposed material changes to the 

Group’s risk profile.

• The Committee received regular updates on the 

Group's risk profile from the Group Chief Risk Officer. 

• The Committee examined key risk themes in order to 

monitor the evolving risk environment in which 
Barclays operates, the response of management, and 
the changing risk profile of the Group.

• The Committee considered macroeconomic 

developments, including economic slowdown across 
several major economies, inflationary pressures, 
market volatility, higher energy costs and supply chain 
constraints, the path of interest rates, and the 
associated consumer affordability stresses. 

• The Committee monitored the Group's exposures to 
geopolitical risks and considered longer-term and 
emerging risk themes.

Credit risk and Market risk

i.e. the risk of financial loss if 
customers, clients or 
counterparties fail to fully 
honour their obligations; or 
due to market movements.

• To review and consider vulnerabilities to credit 

• The Committee considered a report from 

losses in the bank’s lending and banking 
transactions which expose the firm to credit risk.

• To review and consider the risk of loss arising 

from potential adverse changes in the value of 
the firm’s assets and liabilities from fluctuation in 
market variables.

•

management following market events in relation to 
the distress of a number of financial institutions and 
takeover of a global bank and lessons learned for 
process and operational improvements. 

In light of the challenging inflationary and rates 
environment throughout 2023, the Committee 
considered updates on the impact on consumer 
indebtedness and Barclays consumer portfolios. 

Treasury and Capital risk

i.e. having sufficient capital and 
financial resources to meet 
the Group’s regulatory 
requirements and its 
obligations as they fall due, to 
maintain its credit rating, to 
support growth and strategic 
option.

• The Committee received regular updates on credit 
risk and market risk within the CIB, with a particular 
focus on the structured lending and finance and 
leveraged finance portfolios. 

• The Committee received reports on enhancements 

to regulatory reporting.

• To review capital performance against plan, 

• The Committee reviewed capital and liquidity 

tracking the capital trajectory, any challenges 
and opportunities and regulatory policy 
developments. 

• To assess liquidity performance against both 

internal and regulatory requirements, and review 
any challenges and opportunities.

• To monitor capital and funding requirements. 

• To consider the ICAAP and ILAAP scenario 

review.

performance and the forecast capital and funding 
trajectory, including the actions identified by 
management to manage the Group's capital position, 
taking into account relevant macroeconomic factors.

• The Committee received a preliminary assessment of 

the ICAAP and the ILAAP in May 2023. The 
Committee subsequently discussed and approved the 
Group's 2023 ICAAP and the Group's 2023 ILAAP 
prior to their submission to the PRA. 

• The Committee recommended to the Board for 

approval the Group Recovery Plan, which forms part of 
the Group’s capital and liquidity risk management 
framework. 

• The Committee reviewed the Resolvability 

Assessment Framework (RAF), along with lessons 
learned from a Recovery and Resolution Simulation 
Exercise and recommended the RAF to the Board for 
approval. 

• The Committee monitored preparations for 

compliance with Trading Wind Down capabilities in the 
context of recovery planning and post resolution 
restructuring.

Strategic 
report

Shareholder
information

Climate and
sustainability report

Governance

Risk 
review

Financial 
review

Financial 
statements

Barclays PLC

Annual Report 2023 178

Directors’ report: Board Risk Committee report (continued)

Areas of focus

Climate risk

i.e. the impact on financial and 
operational risks arising from 
climate change through 
physical risks, risks associated 
with transitioning to a lower-
carbon economy and 
connected risks. 

Key role of Committee

Conclusion/action taken

• To consider and assess the impact of climate 

• The Committee received regular updates on climate 

risk on the Group’s activities.

risk including areas of elevated climate risk and 
progress against sector targets. 

• The Committee considered progress and plans 

around integration of climate into business actions 
and the development of quantitative climate risk 
appetite and an additional climate stress as a 
secondary test for the MTP.

• The Committee reviewed how climate change is 

driving financial and operational risks and how Barclays 
is managing them.

Operational risk 

i.e. the risk of loss arising from 
inadequate or failed processes 
and systems, human factors or 
due to external events.

• To review the Group’s operational risk profile 

and consider specific areas of operational risks, 
including fraud, conduct risk, operational 
recovery planning, cybersecurity risk, execution 
risk, technology and data, including the controls 
that are in place for managing and mitigating 
such risks. 

• The Committee received regular reporting on key 
operational risk indicators and was briefed by 
management on a number of operational risks topics, 
including those relating to technology risk, fraud, third 
party risk management, cyber and information 
security and the risks associated with new business 
activities. 

• To track operational risk key indicators. 

Model risk

i.e. the potential for adverse 
consequences from decisions 
based on incorrect or misused 
model outputs and reports.

▪ To evaluate the appropriateness of the Model 

Risk Management Framework, including 
receiving updates on findings in relation to 
specific modelling processes.

• The Committee oversaw and provided feedback on 
work to redesign the new and amended products 
process, including a new governance framework. 

• The Committee considered operational resilience, 

including reviewing and recommending to the Board 
for approval the 2023 Resilience Self-Assessment 
report, detailing the resilience risks which may impact 
Barclays’ ability to recover within impact tolerance, 
and to ensure plans align to enhanced expectations 
intended to reduce the risk of customer/client harm. 

• The Committee received updates on cyber resilience 
and reviewed the results of an external benchmarking 
exercise to test cybersecurity and resilience.

• The Committee considered operational risks in the 

context of work in Barclays UK to upgrade its 
technology platform to improve the control 
environment and drive efficiencies.

• The Committee reviewed and discussed regular 
updates on model risk, including progress in 
developing the Model Risk Management Framework, 
and in relation to the continued focus and momentum 
required to address increasing regulatory 
expectations and the development of an uncertainty 
framework for large models frameworks. 

• The Committee continued its oversight of the new 
independent Model Strategy and Oversight team, 
particularly with respect to review of and 
enhancements made to key models and 
developments and remediations.

Strategic 
report

Shareholder
information

Climate and
sustainability report

Governance

Risk 
review

Financial 
review

Financial 
statements

Barclays PLC

Annual Report 2023 179

Directors’ report: Board Risk Committee report (continued)

Areas of focus

Compliance risk

i.e. Compliance risk is 
comprised of (i) LRR risk and (ii) 
conduct risk, which is the risk 
of poor outcomes to 
customers, clients and 
markets, arising from the 
delivery of the Group's 
products and services.

Legal risk

i.e. the risk of loss or 
imposition of penalties, 
damages or fines from the 
failure of the firm to meet its 
legal obligations, including 
regulatory or contractual 
requirements.

Remuneration

Oversight of the Risk and 
Compliance functions 

Key role of Committee

Conclusion/action taken

• To receive updates from management on 

conduct risk and consider performance against 
key conduct risk indicators and the status of 
initiatives in place to address those risks to 
further strengthen the culture of the business.

• To review the effectiveness of the Conduct Risk 

Framework. 

• The Committee received regular updates on conduct 
risk and assessments of potential risks to the Group 
following market events. 

• The Committee received updates on lessons learned 

reviews undertaken in response to industry 
developments and events, and continued to monitor 
ongoing remediation activities. 

• To oversee how Barclays mitigates the risk of 

non-compliance with LRR risk.

• The Committee received regular updates on the 
management of the Group’s financial crime risk.

• The Committee received briefings on the Group’s 

preparations for commencement of the FCA’s new 
Consumer Duty. 

• To monitor the Group’s legal risk profile, including 

considering potential material emerging legal risks. 

• The Committee received regular updates on the legal 
risks faced by the Group, including horizon scanning 
for key areas of emerging legal risk and Barclays’ ability 
to manage these and other risk trends.

• To make a recommendation to the Board 

Remuneration Committee on the financial and 
operational risk factors to be taken into account 
in annual remuneration decisions.

• The Committee considered the 2023 ex-ante risk 
adjustment methodology including input from the 
Group Chief Risk Officer and the Group Chief 
Compliance Officer.

• To safeguard the independence of, and oversee 

• The Committee considered assessments of the 

the performance of, Barclays' Risk and 
Compliance functions.

• To satisfy itself that the Barclays Compliance 
and Risk functions are adequately resourced, 
and have appropriate access to information so 
as to be able to perform their functions 
effectively.

• To review the Compliance function’s Annual 

Compliance Plan. 

• To oversee the Group’s compliance and 

risk culture.

performance of the Risk and Compliance functions. 

• The Committee met privately with the Chief Risk 
Officer and Chief Compliance Officer on a regular 
basis. 

• The Committee approved the Annual Compliance 

Plan.

• The Committee received updates on the compliance 

and risk culture within the Group.

Strategic 
report

Shareholder
information

Climate and
sustainability report

Governance

Risk 
review

Financial 
review

Financial 
statements

Barclays PLC

Annual Report 2023 180

Directors’ report: Board Sustainability Committee report

Driving forward our net zero ambition

Overseeing our climate and sustainability strategy.

Dear Fellow Shareholders

I am delighted to present to you the first 
report of the Board Sustainability 
Committee. 

In March 2020, Barclays announced its 
ambition to be a net zero bank by 2050, 
becoming one of the first banks to do so. In 
2023, we continued to pursue 
opportunities and support our clients as 
they transition their businesses to a low-
carbon economy. 

When I wrote to you ahead of our 2023 
AGM, I highlighted that a key commitment 
for Barclays over the subsequent 12 
months was to help finance this transition 
and in December 2022 we announced a 
new target to facilitate $1trn of Sustainable 
and Transition Financing between 2023 
and 2030, and increased our investment 
mandate to £500m of capital to invest in 
early-stage climate-tech companies by the 
end of 2027. Today we are reporting 
$67.8bn financing facilitated towards the 
$1trn Sustainable and Transition Financing 
target and £138m invested since March 
2020 in 21 climate-tech companies. 

A second key priority was to assess 
baseline emissions for the four remaining 
high-emitting sectors in our portfolio, as 
well as developing a high-level modelled 
assessment of our overall balance sheet, 
consistent with the approach outlined by 
the Partnership for Carbon Accounting 
Financials (PCAF). We have announced 
new targets for Aviation, Commercial Real 
Estate and Agriculture, and published our 
first high-level modelled assessment under 
PCAF. We have also published our updated 
Climate Change Statement which includes 
new restrictions on oil and gas financing. In 
particular, we will stop directly financing 
new oil and gas projects, and have set clear 
expectations for our energy clients to 
produce transition or decarbonisation 
plans and set near-term targets to reduce 
emissions.

The final key priority was to refine our 
Client Transition Framework so as to 
improve our ability to work with clients in 
high-emitting sectors on their individual 
transition plans. This will allow us to 
measure and monitor our clients’ 
decarbonisation progress and assess the 
implications for our targets, and to offer 
more tailored support to clients’ transition 
requirements. 

Board Sustainability Committee

Nigel Higgins

Chair, Board Sustainability Committee

Committee membership                           
and meeting attendance in 20231

Member

Meetings attended/eligible to attend 

Nigel Higgins

Robert Berry
Dawn Fitzpatrick
Mary Francis
Brian Gilvary
C.S. Venkatakrishnan
Julia Wilson

4/4
4/4
3/4
4/4
2/4
4/4
4/4

Having cross-membership on the 
Committee with the Chairs of our Board 
Audit, Remuneration and Risk Committees, 
as well as connectivity with the BBUKPLC 
Board, helps to ensure a streamlined 
approach to Board-level oversight of all 
climate and sustainability related matters.
Committee effectiveness

The results of the Committee 
effectiveness review for 2023 confirm the 
Committee is operating effectively. It is 
considered well constituted and chaired, 
providing high-quality oversight and 
constructive challenge to management in 
the areas within its remit. The review 
highlights that the Committee is 
considered to have the right level of skills 
and experience, including climate/
sustainability expertise, and is of an 
appropriate size. The review noted the 
benefits of having cross-membership 
between the Committee and the Board Risk 
Committee and the Board Audit 
Committee, and having the Group Chief 
Executive as a member of the Committee 
in the context of the development of 
Barclays’ climate strategy as well as the 
skills and experience he brings to the 
Committee.

Note

1 There were four scheduled Committee meetings 
held in 2023. Owing to prior commitments, Brian 
Gilvary was unable to attend two meetings and Dawn 
Fitzpatrick was unable to attend one meeting.

The Board has direct oversight of and 
responsibility for the Group’s climate and 
sustainability strategy. However, given the 
importance of this work and the growing 
importance of other sustainability areas, 
including nature and biodiversity, in March 
2023 the Board approved the 
establishment of a new Board 
Sustainability Committee to support and 
advise the Board in its oversight of climate 
and sustainability matters.

The Committee receives presentations 
into the challenges and opportunities in 
this area (including external input on 
specific areas of focus), undertakes 
detailed reviews and discussions and 
makes recommendations to the Board on 
key topics. The table on page 182 provides 
an overview of the Committee’s work in 
2023 supporting the Board in overseeing 
the activities to meet our climate priorities. 

In addition to myself, the members of the 
Committee are Robert Berry, Dawn 
Fitzpatrick, Mary Francis, Brian Gilvary, C.S. 
Venkatakrishnan and Julia Wilson. Tracy 
Corrigan also attends Committee 
meetings as a non-executive 
representative of the BBUKPLC Board.

As an Executive member of the Committee, our Group Chief Executive brings 
invaluable climate and sustainability insight to the Committee’s discussions, 
including the views of key external stakeholders. He is also a member of the UNEP 
FI Leadership Council and a member of the CNBC ESG Council, and through those 
roles he is able to bring external perspectives of key climate/sustainability matters 
to the Committee’s discussions.

Strategic 
report

Shareholder
information

Climate and
sustainability report

Governance

Risk 
review

Financial 
review

Financial 
statements

Barclays PLC

Annual Report 2023 181

Directors’ report: Board Sustainability Committee report (continued)

Feedback indicates that the Committee is 
considered to operate at the right level of 
debate, and that the allocation of time 
between agenda items in Committee 
meetings is appropriate, with sufficient time 
for discussion and challenge, and focus on 
the right matters. 

The review concluded that the 
Committee’s interaction with the Board, 
Board Committees and senior 
management is considered effective, 
noting that sufficient time is allocated at 
Board meetings for the Chair to report to 
the Board on the work of the Committee 
and to provide feedback on key 
sustainability policy matters in support of 
the Board’s continued oversight. Feedback 
indicated that concurrent meetings of the 
BPLC and BBPLC Board Sustainability 
Committee are effective, with coverage of 
BBPLC matters within concurrent 
meetings considered appropriate. The 
addition of a representative to the 
Committee from the BBUKPLC Board at 

the beginning of 2024 was considered to 
support ongoing BBUKPLC Board 
engagement in respect of sustainability 
matters impacting the Group.

Please see the report of the Board 
Nominations Committee for further details 
on the process for conducting the 2023 
Committee effectiveness review.
Looking ahead

Looking ahead to 2024, a key focus for the 
Committee will be oversight of 
management’s development of Barclays' 
transition plan, informed by the work of the 
UK's Transition Plan Taskforce, in 
conjunction with ongoing work to 
implement the Group’s climate strategy by 
supporting clients with their transition 
plans. 

A critical component of the work 
undertaken to addressing the climate 
challenge is the approach by governments 
with respect to climate and sustainability 
policy and financing. The importance of 

having clear requirements for the 
transition, and clarity and consistency in 
respect of government policy and 
financing, are key in supporting all those 
committed to transitioning to a low carbon 
economy. This is an area to which the 
Committee will have close regard this year. 

Finally, as indicated above, nature and 
biodiversity are areas of growing 
importance on the sustainability agenda. 
The Committee is looking forward to 
building on the work done in 2023 and the 
external briefing it received on this subject 
by having a greater focus on the impact of 
these areas, including how they can be 
reflected in Barclays’ own ambition to be a 
net zero bank.

Nigel Higgins 

Chair, Board Sustainability Committee 

19 February 2024

The role of the Board and its Committees in overseeing climate-related matters

Board

Sets and oversees the Group's climate and sustainability strategy

Board Audit 
Committee  

Board Risk 
Committee 

Board Sustainability 
Committee

Board Remuneration 
Committee

“Best practice and 
regulation regarding 
climate and sustainability 
reporting and related 
assurance are still evolving 
… and this is an area to 
which the Committee will 
continue to have close 
regard.”

“The Committee...heard 
from senior business 
leaders about how climate 
risks are being integrated 
into their business 
strategies and plans.”

“In 2023, we continued to 
pursue opportunities and 
support our clients as they 
transition their businesses 
to a low-carbon 
economy.”

"When we set the 
incentive pool and 
Executive Directors’ 
incentive outcomes for 
2023, we incorporated 
consideration of progress 
against our climate 
strategy, as we will for 
2024."

Julia Wilson

Chair

Robert Berry

Chair

Nigel Higgins

Chair

Brian Gilvary 

Chair

Considers the impact of 
climate on the Group’s 
financial statements and 
reviews key climate-
related narrative 
reporting.

+

See the Board Audit 
Committee report on 
page 166.

Oversees Barclays’ 
progress in its climate 
risk management 
approach, including 
a focus on developing 
quantitative 
risk appetites. 

+

See the Board Risk 
Committee report on 
page 174.

Supports the Board in 
its oversight of climate 
matters and the 
sustainability agenda.

Reflects progress 
against climate-related 
measures in 
remuneration. 

+

See the Board 
Sustainability Committee 
report on page 180.

+ See the Remuneration 
report on page 191.

Strategic 
report

Shareholder
information

Climate and
sustainability report

Governance

Risk 
review

Financial 
review

Financial 
statements

Barclays PLC

Annual Report 2023 182

Directors’ report: Board Sustainability Committee report (continued)

Committee composition and 
meetings

During 2023, the Committee met four 
times and the attendance by members at 
these meetings is shown on page 180. 
Committee meetings were also attended 
by representatives from management, 
including the Group Head of Public Policy 
and Corporate Responsibility, the Group 
Head of Sustainability, the Global Head of 
Sustainable Finance and the Head of Legal, 
Public Policy and Corporate Responsibility. 

Role of the Committee

The role of the Committee is to provide oversight of climate matters and the 
sustainability agenda, and in particular to:

• support and advise the Board on its oversight of climate and sustainability matters 

relating to (i) the services and products provided to Barclays’ clients and 
customers, (ii) particular sectors, and (iii) its own corporate activities

• support the Board in monitoring the implementation of the Group’s climate and 

sustainability strategy

• review and make recommendations to the Board on the suitability of the Group’s 
climate and sustainability strategy, position statements, frameworks, ambitions, 
metrics, and targets

• report to the Board on the climate and sustainability matters for which it is 

responsible, escalating issues and making recommendations to the Board where 
appropriate.

The Committee’s terms of reference are available at home.barclays/who-we-are/
our-governance/board-committees/ 

Primary activities

During 2023, the Committee received updates from management in relation to the Group’s climate and sustainability strategy, as well 
as internal and external briefings and reports on climate and sustainability matters. Set out below are the key areas of focus for the 
Committee's work in 2023.
Areas of focus

Conclusion/action taken

Climate and sustainability 
strategy

Target setting and progress 
against targets

The Committee:

• Considered management's sustainable finance strategy proposals, which focused on the actions required to 
accelerate support for our clients as they transition and for the Group to achieve its sustainable financing 
target and ambition to be a net zero bank. 

• Considered areas where the Group could focus, providing the greatest opportunity to support global 
endeavours to transition to a low carbon economy and help the Group achieve its strategic ambitions.

• Reviewed proposals for the Group’s updated oil and gas policy and endorsed new restrictions on oil and gas 

financing. 

The Committee:

• Considered management’s proposals for new targets and endorsed new targets for three additional sectors 

– Aviation, Agriculture and Commercial Real Estate. 

• Monitored the Group’s progress against its climate and sustainability targets. As part of this, the Committee 
received updates on progress towards the target to facilitate $1trn of Sustainable and Transition Financing 
by the end of 2030, and considered initiatives that were underway to provide further capability to achieve the 
target. 
+

You can read more about Barclays’ sector targets and 
progress against them in the Strategic report on page 89.

Investor feedback

Client Transition Framework 
(CTF)

The Committee considered investor feedback and the perspectives of both our institutional investors as well 
as our retail shareholder base. During the year, members of the Committee engaged with institutional investors 
on climate-related matters, helping inform the development of our climate strategy. 

The Committee received updates on the Group’s work on the CTF, including management’s approach to 
working with clients going through CTF assessments, expected outcomes following the assessments and 
proposed expansion of the application of the framework following further targets set by the Group.

You can read more about the CTF in the Strategic report 

on page 90.

+

External briefing: Nature

The Committee received an external briefing on policy and regulatory developments in relation to biodiversity 
and nature and the work done by Barclays as part of the UNEP-FI pilot on nature-related risks and opportunities 
assessment.

 
Strategic 
report

Shareholder
information

Climate and
sustainability report

Governance

Risk 
review

Financial 
review

Financial 
statements

Barclays PLC

Annual Report 2023 183

Directors’ report: How we comply

Reporting against the Code's principles 
and provisions

As Barclays PLC is listed on the London Stock Exchange, the principles and provisions of the Code apply, a copy of which can be found 
at frc.org.uk 

For the year ended 31 December 2023, and as at the date of this report, we are pleased to confirm that Barclays PLC has complied in 
full with the requirements of the Code. This section and our Board Governance report sets out how we complied with the Code in 2023. 

By virtue of the information included in the Annual Report, we comply with the corporate governance statement requirements of the 
FCA’s Disclosure and Transparency Rules (DTRs). The information required to be disclosed pursuant to DTR 7.2.6 is located on pages 
185 to 190. Information in relation to the Board Diversity and Inclusion Policy, as required to be disclosed pursuant to DTR 7.2.8A, can 
be found on pages 158 to 160.

Barclays is permitted by NYSE rules to follow UK corporate governance practices instead of those applied in the US. Any significant 
variations must be explained in Barclays' Form 20-F filing, found at the Securities and Exchange Commission’s EDGAR database or on 
our website, home.barclays 

The way in which Barclays has applied the principles and provisions of the Code during 2023 is summarised below and on the next page.

Board Leadership 
and Company Purpose

Division of 
Responsibility

Composition, Succession 
and Evaluation

Our Board governance is designed to 
deliver an effective and entrepreneurial 
Board, which discharges its role effectively 
and efficiently. Details can be found on 
pages 150 to 152, including our Group-wide 
governance framework and the Board's 
responsibilities. Key Board activities for 
2023 are set out on pages 153 to 155. 
The Board is fully supportive of The Barclays 
Way, which sets out our Purpose, Values 
and Mindset, and is our Code of Conduct, 
providing a path for achieving a dynamic and 
positive culture in the Group. Refer to page 
245 for further detail. 

Our Group Whistleblowing Standard 
enables colleagues to raise any matters of 
concern anonymously and is embedded 
into our business. Further information can 
be found on page 246. 

Throughout 2023, we engaged with our 
stakeholders through a variety of means. 
Refer to page 23 of the Strategic report for 
further detail about how Barclays engages 
with our stakeholders. You can read about 
how the Board engages with stakeholders in 
our Section 172(1) statement in the 
Strategic report from page 38 and 
examples of the Board's engagement with 
colleagues during 2023 can be found on 
page 153.

The majority of the Board comprises 
independent Non-Executive Directors. 
The Group Chairman and Group Company 
Secretary work in collaboration to ensure an 
effective and efficient Board, as further 
described in Our governance framework 
from page 150. All Directors have access to 
the advice of the Group Company 
Secretary.

The roles of Chair, Group Chief Executive, 
SID and Non-Executive Directors are 
defined within the Barclays Charter of 
Expectations, along with the behaviours and 
competencies for each role, as outlined on 
page 152. Directors are expected to 
commit sufficient time to ensure they can 
discharge their obligations to Barclays 
effectively, as detailed in our Board 
Nominations Committee report on 
page 161. 

The Board is responsible for setting the 
strategy for the Group. The day-to-day 
management of the Group is delegated by 
the Board to the Group Chief Executive who 
is supported by his ExCo, the composition 
of which is outlined on page 149. 

Details of the number of meetings of the 
Board and its Committees, and the 
individual attendance by Directors, can be 
found in Our governance framework on 
page 152 and in each respective Board 
Committee report.

All Board and senior management 
appointments are viewed through a diversity 
lens and are based on merit and objective 
criteria, which focus on the skills and 
experience required for the Board's 
effectiveness and the delivery of the Group's 
strategy. 

A revised Board Diversity and Inclusion Policy 
was adopted on 8 February 2024. For further 
detail, refer to the Board Nominations 
Committee report on page 158.

Board appointments are made following a 
rigorous and transparent process facilitated 
by the Board Nominations Committee, with 
the aid of external search consultancy firms. 

All Directors are subject to annual re-election 
at the AGM. See page 185 for further detail. 

Each year, we carry out an effectiveness 
review to evaluate the performance of the 
Board, Board Committees and individual 
Directors. In line with the Code, the review 
was conducted internally for 2023, and is 
expected to be conducted externally in 2024. 
Refer to the Board Nominations Committee 
report on page 164 for details of the 2023 
effectiveness review as well as progress 
against the findings from the 2022 review. 

Strategic 
report

Shareholder
information

Climate and
sustainability report

Governance

Risk 
review

Financial 
review

Financial 
statements

Barclays PLC

Annual Report 2023 184

Directors’ report: How we comply (continued)

Audit, Risk and 
Internal Control

The Board, together with the Board Audit 
Committee, is responsible for ensuring the 
integrity of this Annual Report and that the 
financial statements as a whole present a fair, 
balanced and understandable assessment of 
Barclays' performance, position and 
prospects.

The Board, together with the Board Audit 
Committee, is responsible for ensuring the 
independence and effectiveness of the 
internal audit function and external auditors.  

The Directors are responsible for ensuring 
that management maintains an effective 
system of risk management and internal 
control and for assessing its effectiveness. 
Such a system is designed to identify, 
evaluate and manage, rather than eliminate, 
the risk of failure to achieve business 
objectives and can only provide reasonable, 
and not absolute, assurance against material 
misstatement or loss. 

Processes are in place for identifying, 
evaluating and managing the Principal Risks 
facing the Group. A key component of The 
Barclays Guide is the ERMF. The purpose of 
the ERMF is to identify and set minimum 
requirements of the main risks to the 
strategic objectives of the Group.

The Group is committed to operating within 
a strong system of internal control. The 
Barclays Guide contains the overarching 
framework setting out the approach of the 
Group to internal governance. 

Key controls are assessed on a regular basis 
for both design and operating effectiveness. 
Issues arising out of these assessments, 
where appropriate, are reported to the 
Board Audit Committee. 

The Board Audit Committee oversees the 
control environment (and remediation of 
related issues). It also reviews annually the 
risk management and internal control 
system. 

The Board Audit Committee has concluded 
that throughout the year ended 31 
December 2023 and to date, the Group has 
operated an effective system of internal 
control that provides reasonable assurance 
of financial and operational controls and 
compliance with laws and regulations. 

You can read more about the Board Audit 
Committee and its work, including its 
oversight of the internal control framework 
and areas of ongoing enhancement, from 
page 191.

Remuneration

The Remuneration report from page 191 
sets out the purpose and activities of the 
Board Remuneration Committee, a 
summary of the remuneration policy for the 
Executive Directors and how it is aligned 
with the policy for the wider workforce, as 
well as the Directors’ remuneration 
outcomes for 2023.

The remuneration policies and procedures 
support the Group's strategy and enable us 
to reward sustainable performance, which is 
a key element of our Remuneration 
Philosophy, in line with our Values, Mindset 
and risk expectations.

All Executive Director and senior 
management remuneration policies are 
developed in accordance with the Group's 
formal and transparent procedures 
(ensuring that no Director is involved in 
deciding their own remuneration outcome) 
and are, where possible, aligned to wider 
workforce policies.

Board Remuneration Committee members 
exercise independent judgement and 
discretion when determining remuneration 
outcomes, considering the company and 
individual performance, wider workforce 
and other relevant stakeholder 
considerations.

Strategic 
report

Shareholder
information

Climate and
sustainability report

Governance

Risk 
review

Financial 
review

Financial 
statements

Barclays PLC

Annual Report 2023 185

Directors’ report: Other statutory and regulatory information

The Directors present their report together with the audited 
accounts for the year ended 31 December 2023.
Other statutory and 
regulatory information

Other information that is relevant to the Directors’ report, and which is incorporated by 
reference into this report, can be located as follows:

Remuneration policy, including details of the remuneration of each Director and 
Directors’ interests in shares

Corporate Governance Statement

Risk review

Page

201, 207, 
225 to 227

183 to 184

254

Disclosures required pursuant to Large and Medium-sized Companies and Groups (Accounts and 
Reports) Regulations 2008 as updated by Companies (Miscellaneous Reporting) Regulations 2018 
can be found on the following pages:

Engagement with employees (Sch. 7, Para 11 and 11A 2008/2018 Regs)

Engagement with suppliers, customers and others in a business relationship (Sch. 
7, Para 11 B 2008/2018 Regs)

Financial instruments (Sch. 7, para 6 2008 Regs)

Hedge accounting policy (Sch. 7, para 6 2008 Regs)

Disclosures required pursuant to Listing Rule 9.8.4R can be found on the following pages:

Page

 27 to 29 

 24 to 26, 
30 to 33 and 
238 to 244

441

441

Page

477

185

Allotment for cash of equity securities

Waiver of dividends

Section 414A of the Companies Act 2006 
requires the Directors to present a 
Strategic report in the Annual Report and 
Financial Statements. This report can be 
found on pages 3 to 55.

The Company has chosen, in accordance 
with section 414C(11) of the Companies 
Act 2006, and as noted in this Directors’ 
report, to include certain matters in its 
Strategic report that would otherwise be 
disclosed in this Directors’ report:

• an indication of likely future 

developments may be found in the 
Strategic report

• the particulars of important events 
affecting the Company since the 
financial year end can be found in the 
Strategic report and Note 25 (Legal, 
competition and regulatory matters) to 
the financial statements. 

Profit and dividends 

Statutory profit after tax for 2023 was 
£5,323m (2022: £5,973m). The 2023 full 
year dividend of 5.3p per ordinary share will 
be paid on 3 April 2024 to shareholders 
whose names are on the Register of 
Members at the close of business on 1 
March 2024. With the 2023 half year 
dividend totalling 2.7p per ordinary share, 
paid in September 2023, the total dividend 
for 2023 is 8.0p (2022: 7.25p) per ordinary 
share. The half year and full year dividends 
for 2023 amounted to £1,210m (2022: 
£1,028m). BPLC also completed share 
buy-back programmes during 2023, 
further details of which can be found later 
in this section.

Shareholders may have their dividends 
reinvested in Barclays by joining the 
Barclays Dividend Reinvestment Plan 
(DRIP). Further details regarding the DRIP 
can be found at home.barclays/dividends 
and shareview.co.uk/info/drip

The nominee company of certain 
Employee Benefit Trusts (EBTs) holding 
shares in Barclays in connection with the 
operation of our employee share plans has 
lodged evergreen dividend waivers on 
shares held by it that have not been 
allocated to employees. The total amount 
of dividends waived during the year ended 
31 December 2023 was £1.70m (2022: 
£6.28m). 
Board of Directors

The names of the current Directors of 
BPLC, along with their biographical details, 
are set out on pages 145 to 148 and are 
incorporated into this Directors’ report by 
reference. Changes to Directors during 
the year and up to the date of this report 
are set out below.

Name

Role

Marc Moses Non-

Executive 
Director

Mike Ashley Non-

Crawford 
Gillies

Sir John 
Kingman 

Executive 
Director

Non-
Executive 
Director

Non-
Executive 
Director

Effective 
date

Appointed 
23 January 
2023  

Resigned 3 
May 2023

Resigned 31 
May 2023

Appointed 1 
June 2023

Appointment and retirement of 
Directors

The appointment and retirement of 
Directors is governed by our Articles, the 
Code, the Companies Act 2006 and 
related legislation. 

The Articles may be amended only by a 
special resolution of the shareholders. The 
Board has the power to appoint additional 
Directors or to fill a casual vacancy among 
the Directors and any Director so 
appointed holds office only until the next 
AGM and may offer themselves for re-
election. The Code recommends that all 
directors of FTSE 350 companies should 
be subject to annual re-election. All 
Directors intend to offer themselves for 
election or re-election at the 2024 AGM.

Strategic 
report

Shareholder
information

Climate and
sustainability report

Governance

Risk 
review

Financial 
review

Financial 
statements

Barclays PLC

Annual Report 2023 186

Directors’ report: Other statutory and regulatory information (continued)

Directors’ indemnities

Qualifying third party indemnity provisions 
(as defined by Section 234 of the 
Companies Act 2006) were in force during 
the course of the financial year ended 
31 December 2023 for the benefit of the 
then Directors of the Company and the 
then Directors of certain of the Company's 
subsidiaries and, at the date of this report, 
are in force for the benefit of the Directors 
of the Company and the directors of 
certain of the Company's subsidiaries in 
relation to certain losses and liabilities 
which they may incur (or have incurred) in 
connection with their duties, powers or 
office. The Group also maintains Directors’ 
and Officers’ Liability Insurance which gives 
appropriate cover for legal action brought 
against its Directors. 

Qualifying pension scheme indemnity 
provisions (as defined by Section 235 of 
the Companies Act 2006) were in force 
during the course of the financial year 
ended 31 December 2023 for the benefit 
of the then Directors, and at the date of 
this report are in force for the benefit of 
directors of Barclays Pension Funds 
Trustees Limited as trustee of the Barclays 
Bank UK Retirement Fund, and Barclays 
Executive Schemes Trustees Limited as 
Trustee of Barclays Capital International 
Pension Scheme (No.1) and Barclays PLC 
Funded Unapproved Retirement Benefits 
Scheme. The directors of the trustees are 
indemnified against liability incurred in 
connection with the trustees’ activities in 
relation to the Barclays Bank UK 
Retirement Fund, Barclays Capital 
International Pension Scheme (No.1) and 
Barclays PLC Funded Unapproved 
Retirement Benefits Scheme.
Political donations

The Group did not give any money for 
political purposes in the UK or outside the 
UK, nor did it make any political donations 
to political parties or other political 
organisations or to any independent 
election candidates, nor did it incur any 
political expenditure during the year. In 
accordance with the US Federal Election 
Campaign Act, Barclays provides 
administrative support to a federal Political 
Action Committee (PAC) in the US, funded 
by the voluntary political contributions of 
eligible employees.

The PAC is not controlled or funded by 
Barclays and all decisions regarding the 
amounts and recipients of contributions 
are directed by a steering committee 
comprising employees eligible to 
contribute to the PAC.

Contributions to political organisations 
reported by the PAC during the calendar 
year 2023 totalled $60,159 (2022: 
$105,000).
Country-by-Country reporting

The Capital Requirements (Country-by-
Country reporting) Regulations 2013 
require the Company to publish additional 
information in respect of the year ended 
31 December 2023. This information is 
included in the Barclays Country Snapshot 
available on the Barclays website: 
home.barclays/annualreport
Support for candidates and colleagues 
with disabilities and long-term 
conditions 

Barclays is committed to attracting and 
retaining a diverse workforce, and our 
commitment to inclusion means we want 
to ensure that candidates with disabilities 
and long-term health conditions receive 
support and adjustments in the application 
process and beyond. Barclays welcomes 
applications from all candidates and is 
committed to ensuring reasonable 
adjustments (accommodations) are put in 
place to ensure a fair and inclusive 
recruitment process. Barclays is 
committed to providing all colleagues with 
the support and tools they need to have a 
productive and fulfilling career. We can 
consider making adjustments to remove 
or reduce barriers colleagues might face if 
they have a disability, health concern or 
mental health condition We also ensure 
opportunities for training, career 
development and promotion are available 
to all.
Research and development

In the ordinary course of business, the 
Group develops new products and services 
in each of its business divisions.

Greenhouse gas emissions, 
energy consumption and energy 
efficiency action

Although financed emissions account for 
the greatest proportion of our climate 
impact, we have also continued addressing 
our operational emissions – an important 
factor in meeting our ambition to be a net 
zero bank by 2050.
Progress to date

1
In 2023 we achieved our milestone
 of 
50% reduction of our Scope 1 and 2 
location-based GHG emissions ahead of 
2030 – reducing these emissions by 51%Δ. 
We continued to source 100% renewableΔ 
2
electricity
 for our global real estate 
3
portfolio
 and continued to meet our 90% 
Scope 1 and 2 market-based emissions 
4
 – reducing these 
reduction target
emissions by 93%Δ.
Key contributors to our progress include 
5
global real estate portfolio right-sizing
and energy efficiency programmes, as well 
as company vehicles electrification, and 
our continued focus on renewable 
electricity sourcing.

For our Scope 3 operational emissions our 
focus remained on engaging with our key 
stakeholders and making data 
enhancements, particularly by acquiring 
primary supplier data and evolving our 
accounting methodology in line with 
industry standards and best practice. We 
also continued to pursue the integration of 
ESG considerations and expectations into 
processes throughout the procurement 
lifecycle.

We expect that our progress against our 
net zero operations targets and 
milestones is likely to be variable and non-
linear. Our net zero operations strategy is 
dependent on broader industry, 
technological and regulatory changes that 
are outside Barclays’ control and may 
affect our ability to achieve our targets and 
milestones. Further, as the accounting 
standards and data underlying our net zero 
operations strategy continue to evolve 
and be refined, this could impact our 
metrics, targets and milestones. 
Note

Δ    2023 data subject to independent limited assurance 
under ISAE (UK) 3000 and ISAE 3410. Current limited 
assurance scope and opinion can be found within the 
ESG Resource Hub: home.barclays/sustainability/esg-
resource-hub/reporting-and-disclosures/

 
Strategic 
report

Shareholder
information

Climate and
sustainability report

Governance

Risk 
review

Financial 
review

Financial 
statements

Barclays PLC

Annual Report 2023 187

Directors’ report: Other statutory and regulatory information (continued)

Notes

1 In this section, a reference to a 'milestone' denotes an 
indicator we are working towards and report against.
2 We maintained 100% renewable electricity sourcing for 
our global real estate portfolio through instruments 
including green tariffs (55%) and energy attribute 
certificates (EACs)(45%).

3 Global real estate portfolio includes offices, branches, 

campuses and data centres.

4 In this section, a reference to a 'target' denotes an 
indicator linked to our executive remuneration.
5 By right-sizing we are optimising our space and 
associated resources for our operational needs.

Progress against our targets and 
milestones may also be impacted by 
management decisions based on key 
drivers unrelated to climate, for example 
prudent risk management practices. Our 
intent is to enhance data collection and 
accuracy to help identify key contributors 
to our impact, determine opportunities for 
improvement, and support the integration 
of sustainability into our business 
operations.

These measures build on those taken 
during 2022 to implement our net zero 
operations strategy. Further information is 
available on page 191 of the Barclays PLC 
Annual Report 2022. 

GHG Emissions Table and Notes

We have disclosed global GHG emissions 
and energy use data as required by the 
Large and Medium-sized Companies and 
Groups (Accounts and Reports) Regulations 
2008. See the ESG Data Centre for further 
details on our annual operational GHG 
emissions since 2018, including our Scope 1, 
Scope 2 (location and market based) and 
Scope 3 operational emissions. We further 
provide insights on our annual waste 
production, energy, water consumption and 
renewable electricity consumption by 
region. For further information about 
Barclays’ net zero operations strategy, see 
page 73 of the Barclays PLC Annual 
Report 2023.
+ The ESG Data Centre within the ESG Resource Hub 
can be found at home.barclays/sustainability/esg-
resource-hub/reporting-and-disclosures  

Group Operational GHG Emissions2  (tCO2e)

Total Scope 1, Scope 2 location-based, Scope 3 operational GHG emissions (000' 
tonnes)

3
Scope 1 CO2e emissions (000' tonnes)

4
Scope 2 location-based CO2e emissions (000' tonnes)

5
Scope 3 CO2e emissions (000' tonnes)

Category 3 Fuel and Energy Related Activities CO2e emissions (000' tonnes)

Category 5 Business Waste in Operations CO2e emissions (000' tonnes)

Category 6 Business Travel CO2e emissions (000' tonnes)

Category 8 Upstream Leased Assets CO2e emissions (000' tonnes)

Category 13 Downstream Leased Assets CO2e emissions (000' tonnes)

Energy consumption used to calculate operational GHG emissions (MWh)
Intensity Ratio

Total Full-Time Employees (FTE)

6
Total CO2e per FTE (tonnes)
Market-based emissions

7
Scope 2 market-based CO2e emissions (000' tonnes)

Total Scope 1 and 2 market-based CO2e emissions (000' tonnes)
Notes 

Current Reporting Year
20231

Previous Reporting Year
2022

UK &
Offshore Area

Global
GHG Emissions

UK &
Offshore Area

Global
GHG Emissions

91.6 

9.4 

35.7 

46.5

12.9 

0.19 

15.3 

18.1 

0 

183.5 

15.3Δ  
87.2Δ  
81.0  
13.4Δ  
0.36Δ  
39.5Δ  
27.0Δ  
0.72Δ

94.8 

12.8 

47.3 

34.7 

14.7 

0.21 

9.0 

10.8 

0  

177.2 

20.2 

99.8 

57.2 

15.7 

0.35 

19.9 

20.7 

0.57 

208,564 

375,087Δ  

285,874 

463,973 

45,300 

2.02 

0

9.4 

92,900 
1.97Δ  

1.6Δ
16.9  

44,000 

2.15 

0

12.8 

87,400 

2.03 

2.0

22.1 

1 The carbon reporting year for our GHG emissions is 1 October to 30 September. The carbon reporting year is not fully aligned to the financial reporting year covered by this Directors’ 

report. Details of our approach to assurance over the data is set out in the 2023 Barclays Strategic report.

2 The methodology used to calculate our GHG emissions follows the 'Greenhouse Gas Protocol (GHG): A Corporate Accounting and Reporting Standard (Revised Edition)', defined by the 
World Resources Institute/World Business Council for Sustainable Development. We have adopted the operational control approach to define our reporting boundary. For 2023, we 
have applied the latest emission factors as of 31 December 2023. Reported emissions for Scope 2 location and market-based have been recalculated back to the 2018 baseline, due to 
updated internal and external data. The associated emissions have also been re-classified from Scope 2 electricity to Scope 3 Category 8 (Upstream Leased Assets) as these emissions 
are currently outside of our operational control. In 2022 we reported Scope 2 location-based emissions of 103,422 tCo2e; the recalculated figure is 99,782 tCO2e. In 2022 we reported 
Scope 2 market-based emissions of 1,883 tCo2e; the recalculated figure is 1,963 tCO2e. In 2022 we reported energy use of 467,939 MWh; the recalculated figure is 463,973 MWh.
3 Scope 1 emissions include our direct GHG emissions from natural gas, fuel oil, company cars and HFC refrigerants. In the case of company-owned vehicles, emissions are limited to UK 

vehicles only as this is the only country in which expense data is available. 

4 Scope 2 GHG emissions include our indirect GHG emissions from purchased electricity, purchased heat, cooling and steam . Market-based emissions have been reported for 2023 and 

2022. We have used a zero emission factor where we have green tariffs or energy attribute certificates in place globally.  

5 Scope 3 category 1, 2 and 4 emissions are excluded as these emissions cannot be broken down by country. Scope 3 category 1, 2 and 4 emissions can be found in the Operational 

Footprint tab of the ESG Data Centre. 

6  Intensity ratio calculations have been calculated using location-based emission factors only.
7 Energy consumption data is captured through utility billing; meter reads or estimates. Principal measures we have undertaken in 2023 to improve energy efficiency include the following: 

• Right-sized our global real estate portfolio, therefore optimising our space and associated resources for our operational needs. 
• Deployed our global energy optimisation programme by adjusting corporate offices' settings and systems during periods of low or no occupancy to reduce our demand for energy 

while keeping our buildings running. In 2023 the programme contributed to approximately 9.1 GWh in energy savings at our UK sites – equivalent to the annual electricity 
consumption of approximately 2,600 UK households. 

Δ    2023 data subject to independent limited assurance under ISAE (UK) 3000 and ISAE 3410. Current and previous limited assurance scope and opinions can be found within the ESG 

Resource Hub for further details: home.barclays/sustainability/esg-resource-hub/reporting-and-disclosures/ 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Strategic 
report

Shareholder
information

Climate and
sustainability report

Governance

Risk 
review

Financial 
review

Financial 
statements

Barclays PLC

Annual Report 2023 188

Directors’ report: Other statutory and regulatory information (continued)

Share capital
Share capital structure

The Company has ordinary shares in issue. 
The Company’s Articles also allow for the 
issuance of sterling, US dollar, euro and 
yen preference shares (preference 
shares). No preference shares have been 
issued as at 16 February 2024 (the latest 
practicable date for inclusion in this report). 
Ordinary shares therefore represent 100% 
of the total issued share capital as at 
31 December 2023 and as at 16 February 
2024 (the latest practicable date for 
inclusion in this report).
Details of the movement in ordinary share 
capital during the year can be found in 
Note 27 to the financial statements. 
The rights and obligations attaching to the 
Company's ordinary shares and 
preference shares are set out in the 
Company's Articles, copies of which are 
available on the Company's website at 
home.barclays/corporategovernance 
Voting

Every member who is present in person or 
represented at any general meeting of the 
Company, and who is entitled to vote, has 
one vote on a show of hands. Every proxy 
present has one vote. The proxy will have 
one vote for, and one vote against, a 
resolution if he/she has been instructed to 
vote for, or against, the resolution by 
different members or in one direction by a 
member while another member has 
permitted the proxy discretion as to how 
to vote.
On a poll, every member who is present in 
person or by proxy and who is entitled to 
vote has one vote for every share held. In 
the case of joint holders, only the vote of 
the senior holder (as determined by the 
order in the share register) or his/her proxy 
may be counted. If any sum payable 
remains unpaid in relation to a member’s 
shareholding, that member is not entitled 
to vote that share or exercise any other 
right in relation to a meeting of the 
Company unless the Board otherwise 
determines.
If any member, or any other person 
appearing to be interested in any of the 
Company’s ordinary shares, is served with 
a notice under Section 793 of the 
Companies Act 2006 and does not supply 
the Company with the information 
required in the notice, then the Board, in its 
absolute discretion, may direct that that 
member shall not be entitled to attend or 
vote at any meeting of the Company. 

Person interested

2
BlackRock, Inc.

Notes 

The Board may further direct that, if the 
shares of the defaulting member 
represent 0.25% or more of the issued 
shares of the relevant class, dividends or 
other monies payable on those shares 
shall be retained by the Company until the 
direction ceases to have effect and no 
transfer of those shares shall be registered 
(other than certain specified ‘excepted 
transfers’). A direction ceases to have 
effect seven days after the Company has 
received the information requested, or 
when the Company is notified that an 
excepted transfer of all of the relevant 
shares to a third party has occurred, or as 
the Board otherwise determines.
Transfers

Ordinary shares may be held in either 
certificated or uncertificated form. 
Certificated ordinary shares may be 
transferred in writing in any usual or other 
form approved by the Group Company 
Secretary and executed by or on behalf of 
the transferor. Transfers of uncertificated 
ordinary shares must be made in 
accordance with the Companies Act 2006 
and the CREST Regulations.
The Board is not bound to register a 
transfer of partly paid ordinary shares or 
fully paid shares in exceptional 
circumstances approved by the FCA. 
The Board may also decline to register an 
instrument of transfer of certificated 
ordinary shares unless (i) it is duly stamped, 
deposited at the prescribed place and 
accompanied by the share certificate(s) 
and such other evidence as reasonably 
required by the Board to evidence right to 
transfer, (ii) it is in respect of one class of 
shares only, and (iii) it is in favour of a single 
transferee or not more than four joint 
transferees (except in the case of 
executors or trustees of a member).
The Company is not aware of any 
agreements between holders of securities 
that may result in restrictions on the 
transfer of securities or voting rights.
Variation of rights

The rights attached to any class of shares 
may be varied either with the consent in 
writing of the holders of at least 75% in 
nominal value of the issued shares of that 
class, or with the sanction of a special 
resolution passed at a separate meeting of 
the holders of the shares of that class. The 
rights of shares shall not (unless expressly 
provided by the rights attached to such 
shares) be deemed varied by the creation 
of further shares ranking equally with them 
or subsequent to them.

Limitations on foreign shareholders

There are no restrictions imposed by the 
Articles or (subject to the effect of any 
economic sanctions that may be in force 
from time to time) by current UK laws 
which relate only to non-residents of the 
UK and which limit the rights of such non-
residents to hold or (when entitled to do 
so) vote the ordinary shares.
Exercisability of rights under an 
employee share scheme

EBTs operate in connection with certain of 
the Group’s Employee Share Plans (Plans). 
The trustees of the EBTs may exercise all 
rights attached to the shares in 
accordance with their fiduciary duties, 
other than as specifically restricted in the 
documents governing the Plans. The 
trustees of the EBTs have informed the 
Company that their normal policy is to 
abstain from voting in respect of the 
Barclays shares held in trust. The trustees 
of the Global Sharepurchase EBT and UK 
Sharepurchase EBT may vote in respect of 
Barclays shares held in the EBTs, but only 
as instructed by participants in those Plans 
in respect of their partnership shares and 
(when vested) matching and dividend 
shares. The trustees will not otherwise 
vote in respect of shares held in the 
Sharepurchase EBTs.
Special rights

There are no persons holding securities 
that carry special rights with regard to the 
control of the Company.
Major shareholders

Major shareholders do not have different 
voting rights from those of other 
shareholders. Information provided to the 
Company by substantial shareholders 
(holding voting rights of 3% or more in the 
financial instruments of the Company) 
pursuant to the DTRs are published via a 
Regulatory Information Service and is 
available on the Company’s website. As at 
31 December 2023, the Company had 
been notified under Rule 5 of the DTRs of 
the following holdings of voting rights in 
its shares.
 Between 31 December 2023 and 
16 February 2024 (the latest practicable 
date for inclusion in this report), the 
Company has not received any additional 
notifications pursuant to Rule 5 of 
the DTRs.

Number of 
Barclays Shares

% of total voting rights attaching to 
issued share capital1

Nature of holding (direct or 
indirect)

944,022,209

5.78

indirect

1 The percentage of voting rights detailed above was calculated at the time of the relevant disclosures made in accordance with Rule 5 of the DTRs.
2 Total shown includes 6,687,206 contracts for difference to which voting rights are attached. Part of the holding is held as American Depositary Receipts. On 25 January 2024, BlackRock, Inc. 

disclosed by way of a Schedule 13G filed with the SEC beneficial ownership of 1,303,920,163 ordinary shares of the Company as at 31 December 2023, representing 8.6% of that class of shares.

 
Strategic 
report

Shareholder
information

Climate and
sustainability report

Governance

Risk 
review

Financial 
review

Financial 
statements

Barclays PLC

Annual Report 2023 189

Directors’ report: Other statutory and regulatory information (continued)

Powers of Directors to issue and allot or 
buy back the Company’s shares

The powers of the Directors are 
determined by the Companies Act 2006 
and the Company’s Articles. The Directors 
are authorised to issue and allot shares 
and to buy back shares subject to, and on 
the terms of, the annual shareholder 
approval at the AGM. Such authorities 
were granted by shareholders at the 2023 
AGM. It will be proposed at the 2024 AGM 
that the Directors be granted new 
authorities to issue and allot and buy back 
shares.
Repurchase of shares

On 13 March 2023 and 28 July 2023 the 
Company commenced share buy-back 
programmes to purchase its ordinary 
shares of £0.25p each up a maximum 
consideration of £500m and £750m, 
respectively. The first share buy-back 
programme concluded on 14 April 2023 
and the second share buy-back 
programme concluded on 23 October 
2023. The Company repurchased for 
cancellation 343,041,720 ordinary shares 
at a volume weighted average price of 
145.7549 pence per ordinary share during 
the first buy-back programme and 
493,603,770 ordinary shares at a volume 
weighted average price of 151.9437 pence 
per ordinary share during the second buy-
back programme. The purpose of the buy-
back programmes was to reduce the 
Company’s number of outstanding 
ordinary shares. 

In aggregate, the Company purchased 
836,645,490 ordinary shares during 2023 
with an aggregate nominal value of 
approximately £209m (this represented 
approximately 5.5% of the Company's 
issued share capital as at 31 December 
2023) for an aggregate consideration of 
£1,250m excluding taxes and expenses.
All of the repurchased ordinary shares 
have been cancelled. 

No further shares have been repurchased 
since the completion of the second share 
buy-back programme on 23 October 
2023. The maximum number of ordinary 
shares which could be repurchased by the 
Company as part of any share buy-back 
under the authority for on-market share 
buy-backs granted at the 2023 AGM is 
1,093,533,143 ordinary shares (being 
1,587,136,913 less the 493,603,770 
shares repurchased as part of the second 
share buy-back programme).
Distributable reserves

As at 31 December 2023, the distributable 
reserves of the Company were £21,162m 
(2022: £21,701m).

Change of control

There are no significant agreements to 
which the Company is a party that take 
effect, alter or terminate on a change of 
control of the Company following a 
takeover bid. There are no agreements 
between the Company and its Directors or 
employees providing for compensation for 
loss of office or employment that occurs 
because of a takeover bid.
Controls over financial reporting

A framework of disclosure controls and 
procedures is in place to support the 
approval of the financial statements of the 
Group. 

Specific governance committees are 
responsible for examining the financial 
reports and disclosures to help ensure that 
they have been subject to adequate 
verification and comply with applicable 
standards and legislation. 

Where appropriate, these committees 
report their conclusions to the Board Audit 
Committee, which debates such 
conclusions and provides further 
challenge. Finally, the Board scrutinises and 
approves results announcements and the 
Annual Report to ensure that appropriate 
disclosures have been made. This 
governance process is designed to ensure 
that both management and the Board are 
given sufficient opportunity to debate and 
challenge the financial statements of the 
Group and other significant disclosures 
before they are made public. 
Management’s report on internal control 
over financial reporting 

Management is responsible for 
establishing and maintaining adequate 
internal control over financial reporting 
under the supervision of the principal 
executive and financial officers, to provide 
reasonable assurance regarding the 
reliability of financial reporting and the 
preparation of financial statements, in 
accordance with (a) UK-adopted 
international accounting standards; and (b) 
International Financial Reporting 
Standards (IFRS) as issued by the 
International Accounting Standards Board 
(IASB), including interpretations issued by 
the IFRS Interpretations Committee.  

Internal control over financial reporting 
includes policies and procedures that 
pertain to the maintenance of records 
that, in reasonable detail: 

• accurately and fairly reflect transactions 

and dispositions of assets 

• provide reasonable assurances that 

transactions are recorded as necessary 
to permit preparation of financial 
statements in accordance with UK-
adopted international accounting 
standards and IFRS and that receipts 
and expenditures are being made only in 
accordance with authorisations of 
management and the respective 
Directors 

• provide reasonable assurance regarding 

prevention or timely detection of 
unauthorised acquisition, use or 
disposition of assets that could have a 
material effect on the financial 
statements. 

Internal control systems, no matter how 
well designed, have inherent limitations 
and may not prevent or detect 
misstatements. Also, projections of any 
evaluation of effectiveness to future 
periods are subject to the risk that internal 
control over financial reporting may 
become inadequate because of changes in 
conditions or that the degree of 
compliance with the policies or procedures 
may deteriorate.

Management has assessed internal 
control over financial reporting as at 31 
December 2023. In making its 
assessment, management utilised the 
criteria set out in the 2013 COSO 
framework. Management has concluded 
that, based on its assessment, internal 
control over financial reporting was 
effective as at 31 December 2023. 

The system of internal financial and 
operational controls is also subject to 
regulatory oversight in the UK and 
overseas. Further information on 
supervision by financial services regulators 
is provided under Supervision and 
Regulation in the Risk review section on 
pages 363 to 372.
Changes in internal control over financial 
reporting  

There have been no changes that 
occurred during the period covered by this 
report, which have materially affected or 
are reasonably likely to materially affect the 
Group’s internal control over financial 
reporting.

Strategic 
report

Shareholder
information

Climate and
sustainability report

Governance

Risk 
review

Financial 
review

Financial 
statements

Barclays PLC

Annual Report 2023 190

Directors’ report: Other statutory and regulatory information (continued)

Disclosure of information to the auditor

Preparation of accounts

Each Director confirms that, so far as he/
she is aware, there is no relevant audit 
information of which our auditor is 
unaware and that each of the Directors 
has taken all the steps that he/she ought 
to have taken as a Director to make 
himself/herself aware of any relevant audit 
information and to establish that our 
auditor is aware of that information. This 
confirmation is given pursuant to Section 
418 of the Companies Act 2006 and 
should be interpreted in accordance with, 
and subject to, those provisions.
Directors’ responsibilities

The following statement, which should be 
read in conjunction with the Auditor’s 
report set out on pages 396 to 412, is 
made with a view to distinguishing for 
shareholders the respective 
responsibilities of the Directors and of the 
auditor in relation to the accounts.
Going concern

The Group’s business activities and factors 
likely to affect its future development and 
performance are disclosed in the Strategic 
report and Risk review sections of this 
report. The financial performance is 
disclosed within the Financial review with 
funding, liquidity and capital details 
contained within the Risk performance 
section. The Group’s objectives and 
policies in managing the financial risks to 
which it is exposed are discussed in the 
Risk management section.

The Directors considered it appropriate to 
prepare the financial statements on a 
going concern basis.

In preparing each of the Group and 
company financial statements, the 
Directors are required to:

• assess the Group and Company’s ability 

to continue as a going concern, 
disclosing, as applicable, matters related 
to going concern

• use the going concern basis of 

accounting unless they either intend to 
liquidate the Group or the Parent 
company or to cease operations, or 
have no realistic alternative but to do so.

The Directors are required by the 
Companies Act 2006 to prepare Group 
and Company accounts for each financial 
year and, with regard to Group accounts, in 
accordance with UK-adopted international 
accounting standards. The Directors have 
prepared these accounts in accordance 
with (a) UK-adopted international 
accounting standards; and (b) IFRS as 
issued by the IASB, including 
interpretations issued by the IFRS 
Interpretations Committee. Pursuant to 
the Companies Act 2006, the Directors 
must not approve the accounts unless 
they are satisfied that they give a true and 
fair view of the state of affairs of the Group 
and the Company and of their profit or loss 
for that period.

The Directors consider that, in preparing 
the financial statements, the Group and 
the Company have used appropriate 
accounting policies, supported by 
reasonable judgements and estimates, 
and that all accounting standards which 
they consider to be applicable have been 
followed.

The Directors are satisfied that the Annual 
Report and financial statements, taken as a 
whole, are fair, balanced and 
understandable, and provide the 
information necessary for shareholders to 
assess the Group and Company’s position 
and performance, business model and 
strategy.

The Directors are responsible for such 
internal controls as they determine are 
necessary to enable the preparation of 
financial statements that are free from 
material misstatement, whether due to 
fraud or error.
Directors’ responsibility statement

The Directors have responsibility for 
ensuring that the Company and the Group 
keep accounting records which disclose 
with reasonable accuracy the financial 
position of the Company and the Group 
and which enable them to ensure that the 
accounts comply with the Companies Act 
2006.

The Directors are also responsible for 
preparing a Strategic report, Directors’ 
report, Directors’ remuneration report and 
Corporate Governance Statement in 
accordance with applicable law and 
regulations.

The Directors are responsible for the 
maintenance and integrity of the Annual 
Report and Financial Statements as they 
appear on our website. Legislation in the 
UK governing the preparation and 
dissemination of financial statements may 
differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.

The Directors have a general responsibility 
for taking such steps as are reasonably 
open to them to safeguard the assets of 
the Group and to prevent and detect fraud 
and other irregularities.

The Directors, whose names and functions 
are set out on pages 145 to 148, confirm 
to the best of their knowledge that:

(a) the financial statements, prepared in 
accordance with (i) UK-adopted 
international accounting standards; and (ii) 
IFRS as issued by the IASB, including 
interpretations issued by the IFRS 
Interpretations Committee, give a true and 
fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial 
position and profit or loss of the Company 
and the undertakings included in the 
consolidation taken as a whole; and

(b) the management report, on pages 4 to 
58, which is incorporated in the Directors’ 
report, includes a fair review of the 
development and performance of the 
business and the position of the Company 
and the undertakings included in the 
consolidation taken as a whole, together 
with a description of the Principal Risks and 
uncertainties that they face.
Auditor’s report

The Auditor’s report on the Financial 
Statements of Barclays PLC for the year 
ended 31 December 2023 was unmodified 
and its statement under Section 496 of the 
Companies Act 2006 was also unmodified.

By order of the Board

Hannah Ellwood

Group Company Secretary
19 February 2024

Registered in England. 
Company No. 48839

Registered office: 1 Churchill Place,  
London E14 5HP

Strategic 
report

Shareholder
information

Climate and
sustainability report

Governance

Risk 
review

Financial 
review

Financial 
statements

Barclays PLC

Annual Report 2023 191

Remuneration report

Annual statement from the Chair of 
the Board Remuneration Committee

Contents

Annual statement

Executive Director remuneration 
outcomes at a glance 
Wider workforce remuneration

Directors’ Remuneration Policy

Annual report on Directors’ 
remuneration

Dear fellow shareholders

191

195

197

201

207

On behalf of the Board, I am pleased to 
present the Remuneration report for 2023. 
Over the next few pages, we set out our 
key considerations and the remuneration 
decisions we took as a result – both for the 
Executive Directors of Barclays PLC and 
for the wider workforce. 
Since last year’s report, Sir John Kingman 
and Julia Wilson have joined the 
Committee – bringing new perspectives 
and a wealth of experience. I would like 
formally to welcome them both.

I would also like to thank you, our 
shareholders, for the support you showed 
at our 2023 Annual General Meeting, 
approving both our current Directors’ 
Remuneration Policy to apply for three 
years from the date of that meeting – 
supported by 97% of shareholder votes – 
and the implementation during 2022 of our 
previous Directors' Remuneration Policy.
Performance in 2023 

As always, our remuneration approach is 
rooted in our commitment to reward 
sustainable performance. As the Group 
Chief Executive sets out in his review, our 
diversified income approach has enabled 
us to continue to deliver well in 2023 
despite an external backdrop of persistent 
uncertainty – with heightened volatility 
across asset classes, some significant 
market disruption, and escalating 
geopolitical tensions. In this testing 
environment, we took deliberate, proactive 
steps to protect the Group: maintaining a 
prudent approach to risk management; 
managing our balance sheet with care; and 
continuing to invest in talent and 
technology in sustainable growth areas, 
while maintaining our focus on costs.

Barclays demonstrated its sound footing in 
2023 and continued to see solid income 

Board Remuneration Committee

Brian Gilvary

Chair, Board Remuneration Committee 

Committee membership and meeting 
attendance1

Meetings attended/eligible to attend 
(including ad hoc meetings)

Member

Brian Gilvary

Dawn Fitzpatrick
Mary Francis
2
Sir John Kingman
Julia Wilson

3

6/6
5/6
6/6
3/3
2/2

Notes:

1 There were five scheduled meetings and one ad hoc 
meeting of the Committee in 2023. Owing to a prior 
commitment, Dawn Fitzpatrick was unable to attend 
one scheduled meeting of the Committee. 

Committee membership in 2023 

2 Appointed with effect from 16 June 2023.
3 Appointed with effect from 1 July 2023.

performance across all three of our 
operating businesses – resulting in Group 
income of £25.4bn, up 2% on 2022. 
Operating expenses for 2023 were 
£16.9bn, a 1% increase on 2022, reflecting 
business growth, investment spend and 
inflation – delivering statutory profit before 
tax of £6.6bn (2022: £7.0bn), down 6%. 

This included £927m of structural cost 
actions taken in the fourth quarter to help 
drive future returns, having reviewed the 
shape, efficiency and focus of our 
businesses. Excluding these costs, profit 
before tax was £7.5bn (2022: £7.7bn, 
excluding the Over-issuance of Securities) 
and RoTE was 10.6%, achieving our 
greater-than-10% target. Our primary 
frame of reference was financial outcomes 
1
on this basis
, to understand the 
underlying performance of the business 
separate from the costs associated with 
the decisions we made to shape its future. 
We ended the year with a CET1 ratio of 
13.8%, within our target range of 13% to 
14%. We will deliver increased capital 
distributions to shareholders, up c.37% on 
2022, via a total dividend for the year of 
8.0p per share and £1.75bn of announced 
share buybacks – equivalent to a total 
payout of c.19.4p per share.

Although income is down for some 
business areas, those reductions are from 
a starting point of strong 2022 
performance for most business areas.
The Corporate and Investment Bank in 
2023 saw income down slightly, a resilient

performance given the unsettled 
macroeconomic backdrop and the lowest 
investment banking wallet in the last 
2
decade
. Global Markets continued to 
grow its income from our top 100 clients 
and maintained its revenue ranking of 
3
sixth
. Investment Banking also maintained 
its sixth rank globally, despite the subdued 
dealmaking environment, and returned to 
4
first in the UK
, up from fourth in 2022. For 
Consumer, Cards and Payments, income 
was up 18%, reflecting the expansion and 
deepening of our client relationships – 
including our latest partnership launch with 
Microsoft and Mastercard. Income was 
also up in Barclays UK, supported by the 
higher interest rate environment, partially 
offset by competition in mortgage and 
savings products. 
+

Find more about our approach to pay fairness in our 
Fair Pay Report 2023 at: home.barclays/annualreport

Our UK pay gap figures for 2023 and narrative 
explaining them are at: home.barclays/diversity

+

Notes:

1 Page 390 includes a reconciliation of financial results 

excluding the impact of Q423 structural cost actions for 
2023 and the impact of the Over-issuance of Securities 
for 2022.

2 Source: Dealogic.
3 Global Markets rank and revenue share based on 

Barclays’ calculations using peer-reported financials. 
Top 10 peer group includes Barclays, Bank of America, 
Citigroup, Goldman Sachs, JPMorgan Chase & Co, 
Morgan Stanley, BNP Paribas, Credit Suisse, Deutsche 
Bank, and UBS.

4 Source: Dealogic for period covering 1 January 2023 to  
31 December 2023. UK rank based on UK investment 
bank revenue by bank for full year 2023.

  
Strategic 
report

Shareholder
information

Climate and
sustainability report

Governance

Risk 
review

Financial 
review

Financial 
statements

Barclays PLC

Annual Report 2023 192

Remuneration report (continued)

The Committee has maintained its focus 
on ensuring we reward performance that is 
sustainable. During 2023 the management 
team has been embedding a new 
operating standard – Consistently 
Excellent – which aims to transform the 
operational resilience of Barclays. Raising 
our operating standards and reducing the 
impact on financial performance of 
unexpected issues will strengthen our 
foundation to deliver sustainable 
performance. This was reflected in our 
objective setting, performance 
assessment and reward processes for 
senior colleagues for 2023, and in our 
recognition platform for all colleagues, and 
will be embedded more deeply and widely 
during 2024. Striving to achieve a 
consistently excellent standard is 
becoming part of our culture, and initial 
feedback suggests our work to equip all 
colleagues with the right skills to achieve 
this resonates as a way of driving 
long-term success. 
Colleague remuneration 

Alongside rewarding sustainable 
performance, our Fair Pay Agenda 
continues to underpin all our remuneration 
decisions – ensuring we are paying 
colleagues fairly for the work they do and 
recognising the contributions of all, within 
the resources available to us. This is 
especially pertinent given the challenges 
colleagues continue to face – particularly 
those who are lower-paid, given higher-
than-normal increases in the cost of living 
over recent years. You can read more in 
the 'Wider workforce remuneration' 
section on page 204 and in our sixth annual 
Fair Pay Report published alongside this 
Annual Report. We have also published our 
pay gap figures for employees in the UK 
and in Ireland. 

Paying at least a living wage to all our 
colleagues is a central element of our Fair 
Pay Agenda. We continue to ensure we 
meet or exceed living wage benchmarks in 
every jurisdiction in which our employees  
are based. In the UK our employees  
already received more than the Living 
Wage Foundation’s benchmarks, and we 
are further increasing our minimum UK 
full-time equivalent salary to £24,000. We 
continue to meet or exceed Fair Wage 
Network living wage benchmarks in all 
other countries.

We have continued our work to be simpler, 
more transparent and more consistent in 
how we pay our more-junior colleagues. 
For more junior roles in Barclays UK and 
the support functions in the UK, we publish 
starting salaries by role – providing 

transparency for job candidates and 
existing staff alike. From 2023, the 
performance rating of each individual 
across this population consistently drives 
their annual bonus outcome as a 
percentage of their salary. In previous 
years a range of different approaches were 
used and the annual bonus outcomes for 
many of these roles were discretionary.

In setting this year's incentive pool we 
considered Barclays’ financial and non-
financial performance, and the 
performance of the individual businesses 
that make up the Group, in both absolute 
and relative terms. We considered each 
business's contribution to the 
achievement of our strategic targets and 
its importance to our future success. The 
Committee also wanted to recognise the 
resilience across our operating businesses, 
delivered against a backdrop of 
macroeconomic uncertainty, as well as the 
support our colleagues provided to 
customers and clients. Taking all of this 
into account, the Committee has 
approved a Group incentive pool for 2023 
performance of £1,745m (2022: £1,790m), 
down 3% compared to the final incentive 
pool for 2022, which included a c.£500m 
reduction for risk and control issues that 
came to light during 2022. Risk and 
conduct adjustments to the 2023 
incentive pool are materially less than 
those for 2022, so the incentive pool 
before risk adjustments each year fell by 
c.15% from 2023 to 2022.

This level of incentive funding for 2023 
reflects the lower year-on-year financial 
outcomes in some business areas, while 
also enabling us to reward colleagues for 
the performance delivered – recognising 
the progress made towards our strategic 
priorities and our ambition to be 
consistently excellent in our operations. 
We also considered the competitive 
market for hiring and retaining the talent 
we need to achieve those priorities in the 
future. In doing so, we weighed the views 
and expectations of you as shareholders, 
of our customers and clients, of our 
colleagues, and of our stakeholders in 
wider society. Consistent with our Fair Pay 
Agenda, we have chosen to protect the 
incentive outcomes for our more junior 
colleagues – so, in business areas where 
incentive spend was down year on year, 
more senior colleagues experienced 
greater reductions in annual bonus awards. 
As always, a significant portion of the pool 
will be delivered in shares, most of which 
will be deferred over a number of years.

Group income

£25,378m

2022: £24,956m

Group profit before tax

£6,557m

2022: £7,012m

Group profit before impairment 
(excluding adjusting items)1

£9,365m

2022: £8,906m

Group profit before tax 
(excluding adjusting items)1

£7,484m

2022: £7,686m

Group RoTE 
(excluding adjusting items)1

10.6%2022: 11.6%

Group cost: income ratio 
(excluding adjusting items)1

63%2022: 64%

Group CET1 ratio 

13.8%2022: 13.9%

Group compensation to income ratio

34.4%2022: 33.5%

Group incentive pool

£1,745m

2022: £1,790m

Note:

1 Adjusting items: Q423 structural cost actions in 2023 
and the impact of the Over-issuance of Securities in 
2022.

