Right action. 
Right now.

SSE plc Annual Report 2023

S

S

E

p

l

c

A

n

n

u

a

l

R

e

p

o

r

t

2

0

2

3

 
 
 
 
Inside this report

The purpose of this report

S E C T I O N   I

Strategic Report 

SSE at a glance 

Chair’s statement 

Chief Executive’s review 

Our strategy 

Our business model 

Sector review 

Net Zero Acceleration Programme Plus 

A year of strategic progress 

2030 Goals and KPIs 

Our stakeholders and s172 statement 

A sustainable approach 

Non-financial information statement 

Risk-informed decision making 

Financial Review 

Operating Review 

S E C T I O N   I I

Directors’ Report 

S E C T I O N   I I I

Financial Statements 

2

2

4

6

8

10

12

16

18

22-25

26

34

67

68

78

95

110

192

Strategic Report
Seeks to give a fair, balanced and understandable 
record of strategic progress and summarises 
operational and financial performance. It sets  
out SSE’s long-term goals and associated risks,  
and provides open disclosure of material issues 
impacting SSE’s stakeholders and the environment.  
It is complemented by the standalone Sustainability 
Report 2023  which gives enhanced disclosures  
of the impact of SSE’s policies, practices and 
performance on people and the planet.

Directors’ Report
Demonstrates the standards of corporate governance 
set by the Board and which have been applied across 
the work of the Board and its Committees. This includes 
details of Board decision-making and how stakeholder 
views have informed the broad spectrum of Board 
work, including setting strategy and assessing options 
for future growth.

Financial Statements
Are prepared in accordance with UK-adopted 
international accounting standards (IFRS), audited  
by external auditors, and approved by the Board  
as a true and fair view of the financial state of the 
Company in a given year. 

Managing
SSE’s risks

SSE plc Group Risk Report 2023

Just transition: 
measuring progress

From action to accountability

Electronic tagging (ESEF) 
In accordance with European Single Electronic Format (‘ESEF’) 
requirement that UK-listed companies publish primary financial 
statements in machine-readable format, SSE’s 2023 Annual 
Report and Accounts, and notes to the Financial Statements,  
are published as an XHTML tagged document on sse.com 

  Alternative Performance Measures

SSE assesses the performance of the Group using a variety of 
performance measures. These measures are not all defined 
under IFRS and are therefore termed ‘non-GAAP’ measures.  
A reconciliation from these non-GAAP measures to the nearest 
prepared measure in accordance with IFRS is presented and 
described on pages 194 to 201 . The Alternative Performance 
Measures SSE uses might not be directly comparable with 
similarly titled measures used by other companies.

Measurement restatements 
There has been an immaterial restatement to the Financial 
Statements for the year ended 31 March 2022. For further details, 
please see page 209 . 

Using our complete reporting suite
Throughout this report you can find links to our 
complementary suite of reporting by following  
these icons:
 
 
 

 online at sse.com/annualreport2023

 within another section of this report

  in other SSE publications

Help us cut paper
Printing of this Annual Report is carbon balanced, 
with trees planted to help offset the climate impact 
of its production. While SSE has sought to reduce  
the environmental impact of this publication as far  
as possible, it encourages readers to opt out of 
receiving printed copies and make use of SSE’s digital 
reporting suite at sse.com/investors , in order to 
reduce material and resources used.

Glossary
While every effort is made to explain technical terms 
and abbreviations where they appear in the text of 
this Annual Report, a glossary is provided to further 
assist the reader on page 347 . 

SSE plc  Annual Report 2023

1

SSE develops,  
builds, operates and 
invests in low-carbon 
electricity infrastructure 
in support of the 
transition to net zero.

Its businesses are engaged in onshore and offshore wind,  
hydro power, flexible thermal generation, solar and battery 
technologies, electricity transmission and distribution, and 
localised energy systems. It also provides energy products  
and services to businesses and other customers. 

SSE at a glance on page 2 

Financial StatementsStrategic ReportDirectors’ Report 
SSE at a glance

Together, as a Group, SSE’s businesses are  
well positioned to capture the substantial 
growth opportunities generated by driving  
and accelerating the net zero agenda  
through electricity infrastructure.

Market 
based

Economically 
regulated 

Group operating profit/loss

£2,529.2m 

Adjusted

£(146.3)m 

Reported

Financial highlights
In the face of exceptional 
macro-economic conditions, 
SSE saw strong financial 
performance in 2022/23 thanks 
to its resilient business model, 
solid operational delivery and 
good progress on its strategy. 
Below-plan renewables output 
was offset in the year by 
thermal, flexible hydro and  
gas storage assets which  
were rewarded for providing 
timely system backup.

Profit/loss before tax

Earnings/Losses Per Share

£2,183.6m

Adjusted

£(205.6)m 

Reported

166.0p

Adjusted

(14.7)p

Reported

Dividend

96.7p

Adjusted investment and capex

£2,803.3m

(after refunds, including 
acquisitions) 

Balance between market-exposed and  
stable, economically-regulated earnings .

Non-financial 
highlights
The Total Recordable  
Injury Rate safety measure 
increased in the year due  
a rise in contractor hours  
worked on construction.  
SSE continues to make a 
significant contribution to  
the economies it operates in  
as it delivers on its ambitious 
investment programme.

Safety (TRIR) per 100,000 
hours worked

0.19

Economic contribution  
UK/ROI

£6.04bn/ 
€429m 

SSE Renewables 
Onshore and offshore wind; flexible, run-of-river  
and pumped storage hydro; solar and battery.

SSE Thermal
Gas-fired power stations; hydrogen
carbon capture and storage; gas storage.

SSEN Transmission  
Connecting power generation 
to urban areas of demand.

SSEN Distribution
Powering 3.9m homes  
and businesses.

Energy Customer Solutions
Providing access to green energy for 
households and businesses.

Operating profit

£580.0m

Adjusted

£446.3m

Reported

Operating profit

£1,031.9m

Adjusted

£1,089.5m

Reported

Operating profit contribution to Group

Operating profit contribution to Group

23%

Proportion of Group capex

48%

41%

Proportion of Group capex

10%

Operating profit

£372.7m

Adjusted

£405.5m

Reported

Operating profit

£382.4m

Adjusted

£382.4m

Reported

Operating profit contribution  
to Group

Operating profit contribution  
to Group

15%

15%

Proportion of Group capex

Proportion of Group capex

18%

19%

Balance between renewables and thermal output/earnings provides  
a natural hedge against market volatility and weather variability.

Energy Portfolio Management
Procuring the fuel required for, and trading the power 
output from, SSE’s generation assets, as well as trading 
on behalf of its supply businesses.

Operating profit/loss

£80.4m

Adjusted

(£2,626.0)

Reported

SSE Airtricity operating profit

£5.6m

Adjusted

£5.2m

Reported

SSE Business Energy operating profit

£17.9m

Adjusted

£17.9m

Reported

SSE Distributed Energy
inc Solar and Battery*

Operating profit/loss

£(27.4)m

Adjusted

£33.5m

Reported

*  From April 2023 the Solar and Battery business is part of 

SSE Renewables.

2

SSE plc  Annual Report 2023

SSE plc  Annual Report 2023

3

Financial StatementsStrategic ReportDirectors’ ReportChair’s statement

Right 
action. 
Right 
now.

A year of unprecedented challenge in the global 
energy markets has cemented the role that SSE  
and other energy providers must play in providing 
long-term solutions to the challenges of national 
energy security, affordability and climate change.

The actions SSE is taking now will be part 
of the foundation of a transformed energy 
system aligned to the sector’s 1.5°C global 
warming pathway – one that is cleaner, 
more affordable and more secure. In 
support of those goals we are accelerating 
renewables, transforming electricity 
networks, providing vital flexible generation 
back-up, and working hard to ensure 
no-one is left behind along the way. 

Responding to uncertainty 
The war in Ukraine exposed Western 
Europe’s dependency on imported gas.  
The resulting market volatility and energy 
price spikes have rightly made policy 
makers and energy providers the subject  
of intense scrutiny and public discourse. 

Our response has been unambiguous, 
focusing our efforts on where we can  
make the biggest difference. By investing 
record amounts – in excess of profits –  
in critical national infrastructure we are 
helping to address the causes rather than 
the symptoms of the energy crisis. 

As this Strategic Report shows, we have 
successfully navigated the challenges  
that came with turbulent markets and 
unfavourable weather, and engaged 
constructively with policy makers to ensure 
that we can continue to fulfil our purpose, 
and generate value for our shareholders 
and society more widely.

The people driving our delivery
None of our objectives or outcomes are 
possible without the dedication and hard 
work of our people. The executive team 
and our highly capable and committed 
employees and contractors have  
delivered strong operational and financial 
performance in a challenging year, and  
on behalf of the Board I thank them all  
for their efforts. 

I’d also like to express my personal gratitude 
to our outgoing Finance Director, Gregor 
Alexander, who leaves us in December after 
more than 20 years’ excellent financial 
stewardship of the Company. He should  
be very proud – not only of what he has 
achieved during his time at SSE – but of  
the strong position in which he leaves us. 

We are losing one of the FTSE’s finest  
FDs but after a rigorous selection process 
we have a highly capable successor in  
Barry O’Regan. Barry has been integral to 
SSE’s growth story for many years now, 
particularly in terms of the reshaping of the 
Group, and we all look forward to working 
with him through the transition. 

 “None of our objectives or outcomes are possible 
without the dedication and hard work of our 
workforce. The executive team and our highly 
capable and committed employees and contractors 
have delivered strong operational and financial 
performance in a challenging year, and on behalf  
of the Board I thank them all for their efforts.”

Engagement with SSE colleagues was a 
feature of the 2022/23 Board agenda and  
I was particularly pleased that we were able 
to use the time after the main business of 
the AGM to meet a number of employees 
face-to-face and more than 3,500 in a 
virtual townhall setting to discuss the 
Board’s commitment to ensuring SSE offers 
a truly safe and inclusive workplace.

Getting everyone who works for SSE  
home safe at the end of each working  
day has always been our top priority, but it 
has been a difficult year. The devastating 
death in June of Liam Macdonald,  
a young contractor working on Shetland, 
has caused us to refocus our efforts.  
A new contractor safety team has been 
established to ensure our partners are 
supported and performance is closely 
monitored across all our large capital 
projects (See pages 63 and 162 ). 

Right strategy at the right time
With SSE’s opportunities for growth defined 
by the imperative to decarbonise power 
sectors at home and abroad, our Net Zero 
Transition Plan spells out how we will 
remove greenhouse gas emissions from 
our own operations, supported by a 
process for accountability with an annual 
shareholder ‘say on climate’ resolution. 

We welcomed the overwhelming support 
given to our first AGM vote on SSE’s Net 
Zero Transition Report in July 2022. 

Since then, record levels of investment 
and the sale of a minority stake in our 
transmission business have provided the 
platform for us to push ahead with large 
capital projects, grow our development 
pipeline both at home and abroad, and 
implement ambitious business plans in  
our regulated networks businesses. 

However, we have always been clear that 
our Net Zero Acceleration Programme 
(NZAP) was just the start of our ambitions. 

The opportunities and options for SSE to 
deploy its capabilities and resources have 
grown substantially since the programme 
launch in November 2021. 

We have since refreshed the programme 
with the launch of a more stretching ‘NZAP 
Plus’ which includes plans for £18bn of 
investment out to 2027. 

These revised plans, in the context of  
SSE’s Net Zero Transition Plan, reflect the 
continuing strength of our business model 
and balance sheet, the urgency of climate 
action and the wealth of opportunities 
presented to us by the transition to net  
zero and the encouraging economic and 
policy tailwinds we see for the sector.

Going further, and faster
We are proud of the progress we are 
making with a strategy that, over the 
medium term, will help to address the 
dilemmas of affordability, environment  
and security of energy provision. 

We are working with governments to  
create policy frameworks which will 
accelerate investment into much needed 
infrastructure, and bring forward long- 
term solutions for energy users, the 
environment, and society generally. 

As a long-standing Fair Tax-accredited 
company, we are committed to paying the 
right amount of tax, in the right place, at 
the right time. And we recognise that taxing 
extraordinary profits is reasonable where 
those profits are actually realised. But the 
bigger prize will be the fruits of large-scale 
investment in clean energy, so the overall 
investment climate remains important. 

The UK has enjoyed a leading position in 
the flows of green capital over the past 
decade as a result of world-leading policy 
making and a stable investment climate. 
Others are now seeking to overtake, with 
the US Inflation Reduction Act and the EU’s 
Net Zero Industrial Plan. 

The UK Review of Electricity Markets 
Arrangement (REMA) and other policy 
interventions offer an opportunity to put 
the UK back at the leading edge and ensure 
investment can be accelerated throughout 
the value chain. SSE stands ready to assist 
in that development. 

Leaving no-one behind
A truly just transition to net zero will leave 
no-one behind and that means bringing 
our stakeholders with us. SSE was an early 
adopter of the principles of a just transition 
and we recognise that continued consensus 
in favour of net zero will, in part, depend on 
the fairness, perceived and experienced, of 
the way in which the costs and benefits of 
climate action are distributed.

It will require actions as well as words  
and we will continue to take tangible steps, 
for example, by recruiting people from 
high-carbon industries as part of the 
expected intake of the 1,000-plus new  
jobs we expect to create each year. 

Businesses like SSE do not operate in 
isolation. We create value for society and 
provide the critical infrastructure needed 
for a prosperous economy. And by doing 
this in a sustainable way, we secure the 
right to earn a profit. 

It forms a social contract that underpins a 
culture of ‘doing the right thing’ and inspires 
a leadership position on transparency and 
disclosure that makes us accountable to all 
of our stakeholders for our decision-making 
and actions.

A key objective of this Strategic Report  
and the associated Section 172 Statement 
(See page 26 ) is to build on disclosures 
we have provided in recent years and 
reflect on the work being done to promote 
SSE’s long-term success. Both reports are 
approved by the Board in accordance with 
the Companies Act 2006 and we welcome 
comments on the matters covered within 
the following pages.

Sir John Manzoni
Chair, SSE plc 
23 May 2023

4

SSE plc  Annual Report 2023

SSE plc  Annual Report 2023

5

Financial StatementsStrategic ReportDirectors’ ReportChief Executive’s review

Raising  
the bar 
on net 
zero.

The first full year of SSE’s Net Zero Acceleration 
Programme will be remembered as a period of 
strategic gains and financial and operational progress  
in a shifting and uncertain energy landscape.

Over the past year we have continued to 
create value for our shareholders and 
society by investing more than we make in 
profits in the crucial renewables, networks 
and flexible energy assets needed to unlock 
a cleaner, more secure and more affordable 
energy system. We delivered record capital 
investment, exceeding £2.8bn including 
acquisitions. I am proud of what has been 
achieved in a shifting and uncertain energy 
landscape, with the strength of our 
balanced business mix and the quality of 
our people and assets shining through.

There is no doubt that the year also 
brought its challenges. But progress made 
in the face of exceptional macro-economic 
conditions, government intervention in 
energy markets and the continued impact 
of the war in Ukraine gives us immense 
confidence in our strategic direction and 
optimism about meeting our ambitious 
2030 Goals. (See pages 22 to 23 ).

We have always said our Net Zero 
Acceleration Programme (NZAP) represents 
the floor, not the ceiling, of our ambitions. 
Backed by excellent growth options and 
strong financial performance, we are well 
placed to explore further investments to 
support an accelerated transition to net 
zero with the revised ‘NZAP Plus’ we 
announced in May 2023. 

Commitment and resilience
In volatile times SSE continues to be 
resilient thanks to our very deliberate mix of 
market-based and economically regulated 
businesses, world class assets, natural 
hedges, balance sheet strength and, above 
everything else, the quality of our people. 

The nature of our business means everyone 
at SSE has been keenly aware of, but not 
immune to, the inflationary pressure of high 
energy prices in the past year. With this in 
mind we introduced a number of measures, 
including bringing forward a proportion of 
the 2023 pay settlement, to ease the burden 
on employees over winter. We also know 
difficult times bring emotional pressures 
too, and I’m pleased that we have taken 
what we learned from Covid-19 and 
continued to improve the mental health and 
wellbeing support we offer colleagues.

On behalf of the executive team, I would  
like to thank all SSE’s direct employees and 
contractors – not just for their achievements 
in 2022/23 – but for their unremitting 
passion, commitment and dedication to our 
purpose of building a better world of energy.

No matter their role, getting everyone who 
works for SSE home safe at the end of each 
day remains our number one priority and 
that focus is all the keener following the 

 “Backed by excellent growth options and strong 
financial performance, we are well placed to explore 
further investments to support an accelerated 
transition to net zero with the revised ‘NZAP Plus’  
we announced in May 2023.”

tragic death of Liam Macdonald on Shetland 
in June 2022. As our operational activities 
increase so too does our focus on delivering 
industry leading safety programmes with 
our partners. (See pages 63 and 162 ).

Clean, secure, affordable energy
In 2019, we took the decision to align to the 
UN’s Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) 
with four core associated 2030 Goals. The 
NZAP Plus sets the pathway for SSE to meet 
those broad goals in 2030. Recognising  
that decarbonisation represents a radical 
economic transformation affecting all 
sectors of society, we continue to advance 
the case for a just energy transition.

As events of the last year have shown, 
accelerating the energy transition is not 
only a moral imperative in the context of 
the climate emergency, but is also central  
to securing a reliable and affordable energy 
supply. For the electricity system, there is  
no trade-off between our climate ambitions 
and consumer costs or maintaining security 
of supply. And, by investing in energy 
independence, SSE is simultaneously 
tackling the crises of energy affordability 
and security, as well as climate change.

As a business, we remain committed to 
further reducing the system’s reliance on 
imported fossil fuels by reinvesting additional 
profits in the accelerated deployment of 
crucial renewable, flexibility and network 
infrastructure. By doing so, we are creating 
lasting value for SSE’s stakeholders, and 
society as a whole.

Delivering record investment
The NZAP Plus is the platform to achieve 
these aims, giving us a pathway to invest 
£38bn in GB and Ireland by the end of the 
decade. SSE is on course to deliver 20% of 
both the electricity networks and offshore 
wind needed to meet the UK’s net zero 
targets for 2030. And opportunities 
associated with net zero continue to 
accelerate across the value chain,  
not least in SSE’s networks businesses.

The final RIIO-ED2 determination sees 
baseline allowances for SSEN Distribution 
increasing by £300m from draft 
determinations, representing a 22% 
increase in allowed expenditure compared 
to an equivalent period in RIIO-ED1. 

While the original NZAP assumed a 25% 
minority stake sale in SSEN Distribution,  
we consistently review our options and 
direction and the NZAP Plus plan now 
reflects the decision that retaining 100% of 
the business is the right strategy at this time.

A year of milestones
The first full year of the NZAP was packed 
full of milestones on our flagship projects 
whilst the size and diversity of our 
development pipeline continues to grow.

SSE Renewables achieved first power at the 
1,075MW Seagreen offshore wind project 
and made significant progress on Dogger 
Bank, the world’s largest offshore wind 
farm, including the opening of the O&M 
base in Tyneside. The UK’s most productive 
onshore wind farm by output, Viking, 
remains on track for operation in 2024.  
The pipleline grew and further diversified 
too, with the acquisition of SGRE’s onshore 
development platform in Southern Europe. 

It was also a particularly strong year for our 
thermal business, which officially welcomed 
Keadby 2 into the fleet with commercial 
operations at Europe’s most efficient CCGT 
commencing in March 2023. SSE Thermal’s 
portfolio was further bolstered by the 
acquisition of 1.3GW Triton Power with 
Equinor, which holds significant CCS and 
hydrogen potential and has already created 
value for the Group. 

In networks, SSEN Transmission oversaw 
the laying of the Shetland HVDC link, which 
is on course to connect the islands to the 
GB energy system for the first time in 2024, 
while our distribution business delivered 
against a vast range of projects in both the 
north and south network regions during 
the final year of RIIO-ED1.

Ofgem’s Accelerated Strategic Transmission 
Investment (ASTI) framework announcement 
clears the way for SSEN Transmission to build 
the assets required to support 50GW of 
offshore wind by 2030 and SSEN Distribution 
is set to implement a £3.6bn RIIO-ED2 
business plan agreed with Ofgem. 

SSEN Distribution continued to embed 
learnings from our Storm Arwen review  
and action plan, rolling out new processes 
and procedures in the Shetland ice storm  
in December 2022 and Storm Otto in  
February 2023. An improvement in storm 

responses, and consistent ‘above and 
beyond’ levels of service, received plaudits 
from the government, customers and  
other stakeholders.

Options for strategic growth 
Enabled by record levels of investment  
in 2022/23 and the sale of a minority stake 
in our transmission business, we have 
confidence in our ability to go even further, 
faster. With renewables opportunities such 
as Coire Glas, Berwick Bank and Ossian 
(ScotWind), Regulated Asset Value growth 
in our networks businesses, alongside 
developments in CCS, hydrogen, solar  
and battery technologies, we are creating 
substantial growth options in the near and 
medium term. 

And as we explore opportunities to grow at 
home, we are also building our capabilities 
abroad, by exporting our renewables 
expertise to Southern Europe and Japan. 
Completion of the Southern European 
development acquisition this year helped 
drive SSE’s secured pipeline up from  
10GW to nearly 14GW with significant 
future prospects even before upcoming 
auction processes.

An optimistic future 
To close, our strategy looks even better  
one year on than it did at the end of 
2021/22. It is our platform for delivery  
and growth, underpinned by a socially 
responsible purpose and a value-creating 
strategy, investing record amounts in clean, 
green energy infrastructure.

Having navigated the choppy waters of 
market and policy uncertainty this year,  
SSE has emerged with an even clearer 
vision of the role we must continue to  
play in developing and building the energy 
system of the future.

For there is no doubt that, in our people, 
businesses and assets, we hold an important 
part of the long-term solution to the energy 
crisis in our hands. And, as we enter 2023/24, 
we do so emboldened in our pursuit of an 
energy system that is cleaner, more secure 
and more affordable. 

Alistair Phillips-Davies
Chief Executive, SSE plc 
23 May 2023

6

SSE plc  Annual Report 2023

SSE plc  Annual Report 2023

7

Financial StatementsStrategic ReportDirectors’ ReportOur strategy

O U R   P U R P O S E
To provide energy needed today while  
building a better world of energy for tomorrow.

O U R   V I S I O N
To be a leading energy  
company in a net zero world.

O U R   S T R A T E G Y
To create value for shareholders  
and society in a sustainable way  
by developing, building, operating 
and investing in the electricity 
infrastructure and businesses 
needed in the transition to net zero.

O U R   G O A L S
SSE’s 2030 Goals, aligned to the UN’s 
SDGs, provide important milestones 
on the journey to net zero.

More about our progress on page 22 

Develop

Build

Operate

CO2
CO2

Net Zero

CO2

CO2

Acceleration Programme Plus

Invest

Cut carbon  
intensity by 80%

Reduce scope 1 carbon intensity by 80%  
by 2030, compared to 2017/18 levels,  
to 61gCO2e/kWh.

Increase renewable 
energy output fivefold

Enable low-carbon 
generation and demand

Champion a fair and  
just energy transition

Build a renewable energy portfolio 
that generates at least 50TWh of 
renewable electricity a year by 2030.

Enable at least 20GW of renewable 
generation and facilitate around  
2 million EVs and 1 million heat  
pumps on SSEN’s electricity networks 
by 2030.

Be a global leader for the just transition 
to net zero, with a guarantee of fair 
work and commitment to paying fair 
tax and sharing economic value.

O U R   V A L U E S
All of this is underpinned  
by a set of core values 
designed to guide decisions 
and actions in SSE.

Safety
If it’s not safe,  
we don’t do it.

Service
We are a company  
that customers  
can rely on.

Efficiency
We focus on  
what matters.

Sustainability
We do things 
responsibly to add  
long-term value.

Excellence
We continually  
improve the way  
we do things.

Teamwork
We work together, 
respect each other  
and make a difference.

8

SSE plc  Annual Report 2023

SSE plc  Annual Report 2023

9

Financial StatementsStrategic ReportDirectors’ ReportOur business model

W H O   A N D   W H A T   W E   R E L Y   O N

H O W   W E   D O   I T

W H Y   W E   D O   I T 

T H E   V A L U E   W E   C R E A T E

Key stakeholder groups

Employees
SSE’s strategy and success are dependent 
on the shared talent, diversity, innovation 
and values of the people it employs.

Direct employees

c.12k

Shareholders and  
debt providers
SSE must be well-financed, with the ability 
to remunerate shareholders for their 
investment, secure debt at competitive 
rates and grow the business.

Market cap 

£19.6bn

at 31 March 2023

Energy customers 
Consumers create demand for the energy 
and services SSE provides and set the tone 
for our purpose.

Networks and  
supply customers

4.98m

Government and regulators
SSE relies on policy frameworks and  
public services that support investment  
in critical national infrastructure, are  
fair on customers and maintain the 
momentum behind net zero.

Investment in 
infrastructure (capex)

£2.8bn

NGOs, communities, society
SSE needs the support of the communities 
it works in and the backing of civil society  
in pursuit of a just transition to net zero.

Investment in 
communities

£16.5m

Develop

SSE identifies opportunities in domestic and overseas 
markets where it can best use its capability in providing 
the clean, affordable energy infrastructure needed to 
decarbonise the economy.

It works with partners with relevant technical and 
geographic expertise in the deployment of proven and 
innovative technologies to grow a development pipeline 
that creates lasting value and benefits all stakeholders.

Build

SSE consistently delivers highly complex electricity 
infrastructure in a timely manner and within budget.

It draws on a proud heritage of construction  
and utilises modern technologies in the building  
of assets that are critical to a cleaner, cheaper, 
more secure energy system.

Operate

Number of suppliers

c.9,000

SSE operates its assets in a responsive and 
responsible way. It promotes a culture of 
continuous improvement and stakeholder 
engagement to provide quality customer service. 

Suppliers, contractors 
and partners
SSE relies on a healthy supply chain and 
works with partners whose capabilities 
offer synergies for innovative project 
development and efficient ownership 
structures.

More on pages 26 to 33 

Natural environment

From wind and water used to produce 
energy, to materials used to build energy 
infrastructure, natural resources are  
essential to SSE’s value creation. 

Science-based carbon 
targets aligned to

1.5°C

  More on pages 52 to 55 

It invests in asset resilience to meet consumer 
demand and strives to ensure the safety and 
wellbeing of the people and places impacted  
by its activities.

Invest

SSE invests in low-carbon infrastructure as part of 
its net zero-focused strategy. Its investments are 
fully funded and underpinned by partnering which 
unlocks value, and debt secured at efficient rates. 

In May 2023, SSE announced it would be enhancing 
its investment programme as part of an updated 
‘NZAP Plus’ amounting to £18bn of capital 
expenditure.

The developer premium that comes with SSE’s reputation for delivering 
world-class assets enables it to realise value at key stages of projects 
through timely sell-downs.

By extracting value in this way, SSE does not always wholly own projects 
on completion but it does retain stakes and a solid asset base to support 
future earnings.

SSE’s experience in managing large capital projects and navigating 
regulatory and planning processes offers a competitive advantage 
when it comes to securing quality development sites and required 
permissions.

As a national clean energy champion, SSE takes seriously the role it  
has to play in decarbonising the energy system and has published  
the world’s first business strategy for a just transition to net zero.

It is providing the renewables, the enabling networks and the flexible 
thermal generation that will be needed in a smooth transition.

SSE also seeks to fulfil its social contract with communities by  
working with local supply chains, supporting their commitments  
to decarbonisation, and addressing the impact that change is  
having on the sector. 

As a critical service provider, SSE works to ensure the generation  
plant availability and networks resilience needed to support security  
of supply in the UK and Ireland. 

It also operates its assets efficiently through the implementation  
of innovation, learning and technology to maximise shareholder  
return and optimise customer value. 

While SSE is primarily focused on providing and running large 
infrastructure, it is keenly aware of the cost pressures felt by energy 
users. It is committed to the supply of affordable energy and the 
operation of resilient electricity networks for the benefit of customers.

SSE invests to fulfil its core purpose and support the Board’s endeavours 
to promote the long-term success of the Company. 

It invests to create lasting value for shareholders and society, exercising 
financial discipline that commits only to projects that are expected to 
offer returns that are greater than the cost of capital.

And it invests to help meet its social obligations by contributing to  
GDP growth through payment of tax and creating quality jobs and 
supporting the supply chain through growth of the Company. 

At a Business Unit-level, SSE also invests in innovation and R&D that  
is furthering the cause of decarbonisation. More detail on this can be 
found in the SSE Sustainability Report 2023.

Employees
Jobs advertised
3,732

Internal and external roles. SSE expects to create 
1,000 new jobs a year up to 2026.

Shareholders and debt providers
Dividend
96.7p

SSE has a clear dividend policy and  
growth opportunities to support long-term 
shareholder value. 

Energy customers 
SSE Airtricity customer support
€25m

Most comprehensive customer support  
package offered on the island of Ireland.

Government and regulators
Taxes paid UK/ROI
£502m/€53.8m

NGOs, communities, society
Community projects supported
1,160

Covering renewables and networks projects.

Suppliers, contractors, partners
Economic contribution UK/ROI
£6.04bn/€429m

PwC analysis of SSE’s contribution to GDP.

Natural environment
Scope 1 and 2 GHG emissions up 
4.5%

While SSE’s total carbon emissions increased in 
2022/23, emissions intensity has remained relatively 
constant as investment delivers increasing levels of 
renewable energy.

10

SSE plc  Annual Report 2023

SSE plc  Annual Report 2023

11

Financial StatementsStrategic ReportDirectors’ Report 
 
 
Sector review

Navigating 
through 
instability

2022/23 saw deepening economic uncertainty around the world as  
the post-pandemic energy crisis was exacerbated by Russia’s invasion of 
Ukraine. Soaring energy prices principally driven by the cost of international  
gas contributed to high inflation in economies throughout the world.  
The following pages set out how SSE has responded to the opportunities  
and risks emerging from a rapidly shifting energy sector landscape.

Households squeezed as impact of  
war reverberates across Europe

The cost of living crisis in 2022/23 further 
underlined the importance of continued 
investment in homegrown sources of 
energy to reduce national exposure to 
external global forces. 

Simultaneously, governments across 
Europe and the world looked to recalibrate 
and expedite their renewable energy 
ambitions. In tandem with government 
policy, SSE continues to take direct aim  
at the long-term causes of the current 
crisis by investing billions in domestic 
low-carbon infrastructure. 

A prudent approach to hedging throughout 
the year also helped insulate the Group 
from the worst short-term commercial 
impacts of the market volatility.

In response to the cost pressures facing  
its customers, SSE spent much of the year 
working closely with policymakers to 
develop and embed government support 
schemes. SSE Airtricity established the 
largest customer support fund in Ireland, 
with provision for up to €25m in affordability 
funding, before later giving each customer  
a €35 rebate to honour its commitment to 
not making a profit in 2022/23. Meanwhile, 
SSE Business Energy applied customer 
discounts to the value of £721m in the  
year under the UK Government’s Energy  
Bill Relief Scheme.

The cost of living is directly linked to 
SSE’s exposure to the Principal Risk of 
Energy Affordability – details of how 
this is mitigated are on page 73 .

Energy security tops 
the political agenda

The year saw bold targets and aggressive 
policy action to bolster domestic energy 
security as governments set their sights  
on tackling the energy crisis. The last  
12 months put on stark display the 
importance of clean, affordable, 
homegrown energy as the solution  
to countries’ reliance on volatile and 
expensive international gas markets. 
Wholesale prices at times in 2022 were up 
to ten times higher than they were in 2021.

Cross-party political consensus crystalised 
around the importance of rapidly rolling 
out low-carbon technologies such as 
wind, CCS, hydrogen, solar, battery and 
hydro, while urgently accelerating the 
buildout of enabling networks. Ofgem’s 
Accelerated Strategic Transmission 
Investment framework announcement in 
December 2022 saw SSEN Transmission 
given the green light to take forward four 
further subsea HVDC links; a number of 
new 400kV reinforcement projects and  
a 400kV upgrade to the existing Beauly-
Denny line to unlock the rapid growth of 
power generation in the North of Scotland. 

Concurrently, the year saw political 
attention in the UK and further afield  
focus even more acutely on the need  
to accelerate low-carbon infrastructure 
deployment; not only to increase energy 
security, but as a force for social and 
economic good to bring jobs, skills,  
and growth to regional heartlands that 
need it most.

Analysis from SSE Thermal shows its 
Keadby Carbon Capture project, which  
in December 2022 became the first and 
only consented CCS plant in the UK, has 
the potential to bring £470m regional 
Gross Value Added and 7,300 years of 
combined work by all employees over  
the lifetime of the asset. 

Energy Infrastructure Failure is one of 
SSE’s Group Principal Risks, for further 
details on how this is managed please 
see page 74 .

Market intervention in unprecedented times

With the cost of electricity rising 
substantially in 2022/23, governments 
faced exceptional fiscal pressures to 
address high energy bills and the impact  
of the broader cost of living crisis. In 
response to the crisis, a raft of proposals  
to intervene in energy markets were 
considered with the aim of tackling bills  
in the immediate term. Throughout the 
year industry worked constructively with 
policymakers to navigate the crisis and 
engage on the range of potential options 
under consideration.

As a Fair Tax Mark accredited company, 
SSE supported the principle of the 
Electricity Generator Levy (EGL) in the  
UK and the wholesale electricity revenue 
cap in the EU to ensure that an appropriate 
amount of additional tax is paid where 
extraordinary earnings are realised in the 
midst of a crisis. Collectively, the industry 
worked closely with UK, Irish and EU 
officials through the consultative process 
with a view to ensuring that the design of 

the mechanisms achieved these aims 
whilst protecting against unintended 
consequences for security of supply  
and investor confidence.

Ongoing dialogue continues to focus  
on the need to ensure the impacts of 
intervention do not interfere with the 
industry’s ability to deliver record levels  
of investment to address the underlying 
causes of the energy crisis. The European 
Union’s strong signal on the time-limited 
nature of the revenue cap was therefore 
welcomed by industry, while the UK 
Government has recognised the future of 
the EGL must be considered in the context 
of protecting investor confidence.

SSE’s Principal Risks of Energy 
Affordability and Political and 
Regulatory Change are interconnected. 
See pages 73 and 76  for details of  
how SSE’s manages its exposure to  
these risks.

12

SSE plc  Annual Report 2023

SSE plc  Annual Report 2023

13

Financial StatementsStrategic ReportDirectors’ ReportSector review continued

International 
competition heats up

The momentum behind efforts to 
decarbonise is fuelling international 
competition for flows of green capital. 
Governments around the world have 
joined the race to attract inward green 
investment, including the US’s Inflation 
Reduction Act (IRA). Passed by Congress in 
2022, it introduces generous and unlimited 
tax credits for clean energy investments. 
The scope and scale of the legislation is 
beyond anything seen before, amounting 
to over $250bn in public support for new 
energy projects in the coming years. 

In response, other jurisdictions raced to 
send unambiguously positive messages to 
investors, with the European Commission 
instituting a wide-ranging scheme of its 
own. The REPowerEU programme seeks  
to ramp up the bloc’s domestic renewable 
energy generation capacity to 1,236GW  
by 2030. This was positive news for SSE’s 
recently acquired Southern European 
development platform which already 
offers a secured pipeline of 2.2GW with 
additional future prospects.

Greater choice for investors, combined 
with attractive support packages around 
the world, put the onus on the UK to 
respond, keep capital flowing and retain its 
leadership position on low-carbon energy. 
March’s Powering up Britain plan set out 
an initial slew of policy pledges and green 
funding, with the Chancellor earmarking  
a further announcement in the Autumn 
Statement to maintain the country’s 
relative attractiveness in an increasingly 
competitive global investment climate.

For more details on how SSE mitigates  
its exposures to its Principal Risks of 
Climate Change and Speed of Change 
please see pages 72 and 77 .

Supply chains tested as costs climb

As global demand for low-carbon projects 
exponentially grows, so too must the 
supply chain to deliver it. In the next seven 
years, the UK alone is targeting more than 
100GW of renewables capacity. Like other 
industries that have experienced high 
growth, the massive expansion of projects 
to date is already putting pressure on 
supply chains – with significant demand 
growth still to come. 

Over the last 12 months, capital costs for 
low-carbon generation projects have risen 
on average between 20% and 30%, with 
asset costs in some cases exceeding 50%. 
These cost increases are due to several 
factors linked to the supply chain as well as 
inflation in construction costs, commodity 
price increases and interest rate hikes. 

After decades of driving down costs, in  
the case of offshore wind from £140/MWh 
to less than £40/MWh, a clear inflection 
point was reached in 2022/23. Industry 
and government are beginning to think 
differently about procuring renewables 
with a focus on value and deliverability, 
not simply cost. The UK, like other 
countries, will need to build all its projects 

if it is to meet its energy security and net 
zero targets; a race to the bottom on costs 
risks projects not being built and supply 
chain investments going elsewhere.

At the same time, history shows that  
the costs and benefits of such radical 
transitions are not distributed fairly 
without careful planning and there is an 
important role for government working 
alongside the private sector. 

A joined-up, collaborative approach 
between government, industry and society 
is required in 2023/24 and beyond to build 
sustainable homegrown supply chains to 
service growth in demand and unlock 
economic opportunity in all regions. 

Supply chain pressures influence  
SSE’s exposure to its Principal Risk of 
Large Capital Projects Management.  
See page 75 .

Global opportunities emerge 
as net zero resolve hardens

COP27 may have concluded with the 
target of 1.5°C in critical condition, but the 
global commitment to renewable energy 
is stronger than ever. 

carbon alternatives. In terms of energy, 
this means leaving behind a traditional 
system designed around fossil fuels and 
installing a new one – as fast as we can. 

The message from Sharm el Sheikh was 
clear: the energy sector must lead the way 
this decade to keep 1.5°C alive. As it did in 
Glasgow, SSE played its part on the world 
stage, once again making the case for the 
decarbonisation of the energy system to 
go further, faster. 

Meeting the objectives of the Paris 
Agreement calls for us to halve global 
greenhouse gas emissions by 2030 –  
just seven years to replace swathes of 
high-emission technologies with low-

Aiming for 61% of total electricity 
generation to come from renewables by 
2030, the International Energy Agency 
(IEA) estimates that renewable energy 
capacity will have to triple, with a huge 
chunk of this growth to come from wind, 
solar and hydro. Beyond the installation  
of renewable power, this also means 
installing transmission lines, building  
local smart grids and electricity storage, 
and rolling out technologies that enable 
system flexibility.

Climate Change remains a Principal Risk 
for SSE. For further details on how this is 
managed, see page 72 .

SSE’s place in the future energy world

For more detail on the work SSE is doing to meet the 
challenges of the energy sector of tomorrow, go to  
www.sse.com/annualreport2023/.

Adapting to extreme 
weather events

As the world adapts to more extreme 
weather patterns associated with climate 
change the energy sector finds itself on 
the front line. Changes in rainfall and  
wind patterns are felt right across the SSE 
Group, with lower levels of wind impacting 
SSE Renewables’ output for the second 
year running in 2022/23. 

Prolonged spells of still, dry weather 
conditions in winter tested the resilience 
of Europe’s energy system to the full, while 
several weather events this year caused 
significant damage to parts of SSEN’s 
network in the North of Scotland. SSE has 
established crisis management measures 
to mitigate against the impact of severe 
weather events on critical national 
infrastructure and employs meteorological 
expertise to forecast weather events. 

SSE’s forecasting allows it to mobilise 
operational teams in advance of major 
events, while informing trading positions 
taken by the Energy Portfolio Management 
business and purchasing decisions made 
by SSE’s Procurement team. Climate 
adaptation strategies have become an 
increasingly important aspect of 
government and business decision-
making. For SSE, boosting weather 
resilience and assessing climate adaptation 
requirements are essential to the ongoing 
resilience of all its operational businesses. 

Extreme weather influences SSE’s 
exposure to its Principal Risks of Energy 
Infrastructure Failure and Portfolio 
Exposure. See pages 74 and 76 .

14

SSE plc  Annual Report 2023

SSE plc  Annual Report 2023

15

Financial StatementsStrategic ReportDirectors’ ReportNet Zero Acceleration Programme Plus

Optimal pathway 
to growth

SSE made clear that the Net Zero Acceleration Programme (NZAP) it 
launched in November 2021 was a floor, not a ceiling to its ambitions.

NZAP Plus is a 
platform to maximise 
stakeholder value 
into the 2030s

The demand for what SSE has to offer in building a 
cleaner, more secure and more affordable energy 
system is growing steadily. 

In May 2023, 18 months on from its initial launch, the 
NZAP was revised to reflect SSE’s increasing investment 
and earnings, and the wealth of opportunities created 
as the world pursues net zero.

The new NZAP Plus includes investment of £18bn  
over the five years to 2027 and a balanced allocation  
of investment across the Group. 

The added investment means SSE’s total capital 
expenditure equates to around £10m a day spent on 
critical national infrastructure. The plan also features 
revised growth targets to 2027 for SSE Renewables, 
SSEN Transmission and SSEN Distribution.

The NZAP Plus means more value for shareholders  
and society, more financial strength, more investment, 
more jobs, and more growth to come over the next 
decade.

Further details on SSE’s NZAP Plus can be found in the 
Financial Review on page 83  and on sse.com .

Balanced capital investment in 
upgraded, fully-funded plan...

£18bn

Renewables

~40%

Electricity networks

~50%

  Renewables 40%

  Transmission 30%

  Thermal and other 10%

  Distribution 20%

Sharper focus on climate solutions
Supporting SSE’s 2030 Goals with around 90% 
expected to be invested in renewables and 
networks, the substantial majority of the NZAP 
Plus is focused on climate solutions that are 
aligned to a 1.5°C pathway and also aligned to the 
Technical Screening Criteria of the EU Taxonomy. 

Updated dividend plan 
Dividend rebase to 60p from 2024 continues  
to balance income to shareholders with funding 
and a strong investment grade credit rating.  
NZAP Plus also targets dividend growth of 
5%-10% from 2024 to 2027. 

Medium-term targets

Long-term targets

… delivering accelerated growth at 
attractive returns out to 2027…

Renewables

Electricity networks

… with 2030 Goals aligned  
to four UN SDGs …

See page 22  for SSE’s progress against these

Gross RAV CAGR

~14%

Net capacity

>9GW

Pipeline

>15GW

FY22

FY27

FY22

>9GW 

FY27
£14-16bn

£12-14bn

£8.2bn

~4GW 

  Offshore wind 

  Onshore wind 
  Hydro 
  Solar 

  Battery

… enhanced 2032 growth 
targets in the NZAP Plus … 

Net installed renewables capacity

>16GW

Net low-carbon flexible thermal

>2GW

Net networks RAV

>£20bn

  SSE ownership

  Minority interest

1.5°C

Science-based carbon targets aligned to 

Adjusted EPS CAGR

13-16%

Net debt/EBITDA 

3.5-4.0x

Forecast annual dividend growth 

5%-10%

… and a Net Zero Transition Plan 
for net zero emissions on scopes 
1 and 2 by 2040, and scope 3 by 
2050 at the latest.

16

SSE plc  Annual Report 2023

SSE plc  Annual Report 2023

17

Financial StatementsStrategic ReportDirectors’ ReportA year of strategic progress

Delivering  
on net zero

SSE has a clear strategy that is 
aligned to net zero, but delivery  
of it is best seen through the 
progress made, and milestones 
marked over the course of the 
year, by the Group’s individual 
Business Units.

Building for clean,  
secure, affordable energy

The complexity of building large energy 
infrastructure assets, often in harsh 
physical environments, poses risks to 
delivery timelines but, working with its 
construction partners, SSE managed to 
make significant progress on flagship 
projects across its renewables and 
low-carbon thermal portfolio in 2022/23.

The first offshore platform was installed  
at Dogger Bank (3,600MW, 40% SSE stake), 
the world’s largest wind farm currently 
under construction, in April 2022 and it  
is on schedule to deliver first power in 
summer 2023, assuming normal weather 
and resolution of delays to the supply  
of nacelles.

Seagreen (1,075MW, 49% SSE stake), 
overcame difficult weather conditions  
and installation vessel availability problems 
in 2022/23. The world’s deepest fixed-
bottom offshore wind farm, it achieved 
first power in August 2022 and is due for 
completion in summer 2023. 

Onshore, Viking wind farm (443MW) on 
Shetland passed a number of milestones  
in the past year, with 70km of access tracks 
completed, all 103 bases installed and the 
first of the turbines installed in April 2023.

Flexible thermal generation plant like  
SSE’s Keadby 2 power combined-cycle  
gas turbine (CCGT) station in North  
Lincolnshire will also be needed to  
meet net zero ambitions.

After four-and-a-half years in construction, 
Keadby 2 entered commercial operation in 
March 2023. Fitted with a Siemens Energy 
9000HL 50Hz turbine, Keadby 2 is the most 
efficient CCGT plant of its type in Europe 
and work is already under way exploring 
the potential for hydrogen blending at  
the plant.

The wellbeing of those working on SSE’s 
large capital projects continues to be a key 
focus, with measures taken at Group level 
in early 2023 to improve the support given 
to contracting partners and monitor safety 
on construction sites. 

Pursuing opportunities  
at home and abroad

The UK is currently one of the world’s 
leading offshore wind markets, but 
international momentum behind net zero 
means favourable policy environments exist 
in other jurisdictions where SSE Renewables 
can deploy its developer capability.

In Japan, the SSE-Pacifico platform is 
preparing projects for offshore auctions  
in a market with huge potential whilst  
in Northern Europe and the US, SSE is 
working with local partners to gear up  
for future auctions.

The acquisition of a Southern European 
development platform in 2022 increased 
SSE’s secured pipeline from 11GW to 
around 14GW. 

The platform has 3.8GW of onshore  
wind pipeline and prospects and a  
further 1.4GW of hybridisation potential  
in co-located solar across Spain, France, 
Italy and Greece. Around 2.4GW is secured 
pipeline in Southern Europe, with material 
land or permitting rights and construction 
scheduled to get under way on projects in 
France and Spain in Summer 2023. 

Closer to home, Coire Glas, a pumped 
storage hydro project that has long been 
on the drawing board awaiting a supportive 
policy environment for long-duration 
electricity storage, moved a step closer to 
reality in March 2022 with a commitment 
by SSE to £100m of exploratory work. The 
project, which received planning consent 
from the Scottish Government in 2020, 
would more than double Britain’s total 
current electricity storage capacity. Subject 
to good development progress and 
prevailing policy, SSE hopes to make  
a final investment decision in 2024.

A framework for  
transmission growth

SSEN Transmission operates one of the 
fastest growing regulated electricity 
networks in Europe. The second year of 
RIIO-T2 saw delivery milestones on the 
Shetland HVDC (see separate case study) 
and SF6-free Kintore substation projects. 

The ASTI announcement in December 2022 
means SSEN Transmission can now take 
forward four further subsea HVDC links;  
a number of new 400kV reinforcement 
projects and a 400kV upgrade to the 
existing Beauly-Denny line.

Progress was also made through Ofgem’s 
Uncertainty Mechanism on additional 
investments in an East Coast HVDC link, 
Argyll reinforcement works and a Skye link.

At the same time, it is vital to recognise the 
importance of effective engagement with 
communities as this transformational 
infrastructure roll-out progresses. 

Looking further out, and subject to the 
right generator commitments and planning 
and Ofgem approvals, the business expects 
gross Regulated Asset Value to exceed 
£15bn by FY31.

SSEN Transmission is therefore working 
closely with impacted communities  
and other local stakeholders to ensure 
their views are heard and factored into 
decision making.

This projection is based on confidence 
provided by Ofgem’s Accelerated Strategic 
Transmission Investment framework and its 
updated Holistic Network Design, which 
recognise the need for significant networks 
investment to meet the UK’s ambition for 
50GW of offshore wind by 2030. 

This growth trajectory is underpinned by 
the proceeds of a minority 25% stake sale 
in SSEN Transmission in November 2022, 
which unlocked the premium value in  
the business and helped rebalance SSE’s 
mix of regulated and market-based 
revenue streams.

18

SSE plc  Annual Report 2023

SSE plc  Annual Report 2023

19

Financial StatementsStrategic ReportDirectors’ ReportA year of strategic progress continued

Connecting 
Scotland’s islands 

Scotland’s three main island groups hold 
untapped reserves of renewable energy 
and unlocking that potential moved closer 
in 2022/23 thanks to progress made on 
SSEN Transmission’s HVDC link to Shetland 
and Ofgem’s ‘minded to’ decision on a 
subsea connection to Orkney.

The £660m Shetland HVDC link involves 
around 260km of cabling, all but 10km of 
which will be in the sea. The project also 
requires a 320/132kV substation and HVDC 
convertor station at Upper Kergord and an 
HVDC switching station at Noss Head in 
Caithness to connect to the mainland. 

The first 100km of cable was successfully 
installed in July 2022 by a specialist vessel, 
the NKT Victoria. A further 60km was laid 
in March 2023 and the remainder will be  
in place in the North Sea later this year, 
completing the full subsea link.

On track for completion by Summer  
2024, the link will enable 600MW of  
clean, renewable electricity generation  
to connect – including Viking Energy  
Wind Farm. 

The proposal for Orkney would enable  
the connection of up to 220MW of new 
renewables and consists of a new 
substation at Finstown and around  
57km of subsea cable connecting at 
Dounreay in Caithness. 

Powering communities  
through RIIO-ED2

The RIIO-ED2 regulatory price control for 
2023-2028 is an important step on the 
road to net zero and throughout the past 
year SSEN Distribution worked to reach a 
settlement that balances the needs of 
customers and the environment.

The Final Determination published by 
Ofgem on 30 November 2022 quantified 
the outputs that need to be delivered and 
the funding (allowances) SSEN Distribution 
is provided to do so.

The resulting £3.6bn RIIO-ED2 business 
plan sees baseline allowances increasing 
by £300m from the Draft Determinations, 
representing a 22% increase in allowed 
expenditure compared to an equivalent 
period in RIIO-ED1. 

The business plan was stakeholder-led, 
with more than 25,000 people having a 
say in its development. It opens the way 
for significant investment in the local 

network infrastructure that will accelerate 
decarbonisation of streets and homes; 
improve reliability and services for 
customers; and build the smart, flexible 
network of the future.

While the original plan contained 64 
outputs, the Final Determination reduced 
the funding in the core plan by around 
12%. This required a recalibration of what 
the business can deliver and further 
extensive engagement with affected 
stakeholders on the likely impacts.

This follow-up engagement included detail 
of Uncertainty Mechanisms (UMs) that will 
enable SSEN Distribution to further invest 
in the network to facilitate growing net 
zero ambitions. 

Backing up the energy  
system of tomorrow

SSE recognises that more than just 
renewables will be needed in the transition 
to net zero. It is pursuing carbon capture 
and storage, hydrogen and battery 
technologies to provide much-needed 
system flexibility. 

with Equinor to develop the low-carbon 
power station at Peterhead, with the plant 
potentially becoming Scotland’s first 
flexible power station equipped with 
carbon capture technology. 

SSE Thermal is working with partners in 
low-carbon industrial clusters in the 
Humber and the northeast of Scotland to 
bring forward a range of projects that can 
provide crucial system back up.

Keadby 3 Carbon Capture Power Station in 
the Humber was the first CCS power plant 
project in the country to receive planning 
permission. At the same site, development 
work is under way on Keadby Hydrogen 
Power Station, the world’s first major 100% 
hydrogen-fired power station. 

The neighbouring Aldbrough Hydrogen 
Pathfinder project will unite hydrogen 
production, storage and power generation 
in one location by the middle of the decade. 
The project moved a step closer to fruition 
when it secured UK Government backing 
through its Net Zero Hydrogen Fund. 

And the proposed Aldbrough Hydrogen 
Storage Facility, one of the largest of its 
kind, could be in operation by early 2028. 
In Aberdeenshire, SSE Thermal is working 

Although no power CCS projects in  
the Humber or Scotland were taken  
forward in the first phase of the UK’s  
cluster sequencing process, in March the 
Government launched processes for both a 
track one expansion and track two, meaning 
there will be further opportunities ahead. 

SSE will also energise its first 50MW 
battery storage facility at Salisbury in 
September 2023 with construction also 
due to commence in July at its first 30MW 
solar project at Littleton. 

Both projects in England are part of a 
near-2GW pipeline of solar and battery 
projects. This also includes a 150MW 
battery storage site getting under  
way at SSE’s former coal-fired plant  
at Ferrybridge, in Yorkshire, which is 
expected to be operational in late 2024. 

For more information on SSE’s progress 
against its net zero-focused strategy go 
to sse.com/news-and-views/.

20

SSE plc  Annual Report 2023

SSE plc  Annual Report 2023

21

Financial StatementsStrategic ReportDirectors’ Report2030 Goals

Progress 
in action

SSE’s core business goals for 2030, aligned to 
four UN Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) 
most material to its business activities, provide 
important milestones on the journey to net zero 
and place sustainability firmly at the heart of 
SSE’s business strategy.

Accelerating business ambition 
SSE’s 2030 Goals are focused on addressing the challenge of 
climate change, while ensuring this is done in a just and fair way 
that creates and shares value with stakeholders. The imperative  
to accelerate action to deliver net zero was further heightened in 
2023, as the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) 
published its ‘final warning’ on the climate crisis and the urgent 
action that needs to be taken in order to avoid irreversible damage 
from climate change. 

With updated 2030 Goals in early 2022 reflecting an accelerated 
decarbonisation pathway, financial year 2022/23 was marked as a 
year of delivery. SSE continued to deliver on its net zero ambitions 
at pace, investing a record £2.8bn in the first full year of its original 
2021 to 2026 £12.5bn Net Zero Acceleration Programme (NZAP). 

Measures of progress 
Reinforcing SSE’s commitment to the achievement of its 2030 
Goals, performance against them is linked to the long-term 
incentive element of executive remuneration. 2022/23 is the first 
year progress is measured against SSE’s new, more stretching 2030 
Goals announced in February 2022. A summary of this progress is 
outlined opposite, with more detail available in the Remuneration 
Committee’s Report from page 166 . 

More on page 35 

Cut carbon  
intensity by 80% 

Increase renewable 
energy output 
fivefold

Enable low-carbon 
generation and 
demand

Champion a fair  
and just energy 
transition

Reduce Scope 1 carbon intensity by 80% by 2030, 
compared to 2017/18 levels, to 61gCO₂e/kWh. 

The scope 1 GHG intensity of electricity generated  
remained relatively stable, falling by 2% between 2021/22 and 
2022/23. Progress was made in renewables growth  
and in developing lower-carbon thermal generation options. 
While SSE Thermal’s Keadby 3 Carbon Capture Power Station 
project was not progressed to the final stages of the UK 
Government’s Cluster Sequencing Process, a similar 
development at Peterhead attracted the Government’s  
‘Tier 2’ status. Keadby 2 began commercial operations in 
March 2023, which is Europe’s most efficient CCGT. SSE 
Thermal also secured 10-year capacity contracts – subject  
to planning permission and final investment decisions – for 
two new low-carbon power stations fuelled by sustainable 
biofuel in Ireland.

254gCO2e/
kWh 

Scope 1 GHG intensity of electricity generated

17% 

Decrease in Scope 1 GHG intensity of generated 
electricity from the 2017/18 baseline

UN SDG

Build a renewable energy portfolio that  
generates at least 50TWh of renewable  
electricity a year by 2030.

Having experienced exceptionally still and dry conditions  
in the prior year, SSE’s renewable generation volumes  
in 2022/23 rose by 7% but were 13% behind plan due to 
Seagreen project delays and unfavourable weather. SSE 
Renewables made progress with its key flagship projects.  
First power was achieved at the 1,075MW Seagreen offshore 
wind project (49% SSE stake) and progress was made on 
Dogger Bank offshore wind farm (3,600MW, 40% SSE stake). 
Onshore, the 443MW Viking wind farm was successful in 
securing a Contract for Difference (CfD) in July 2022 and 
construction has progressed well, with the first turbine 
successfully installed in April 2023.

Enable at least 20GW of renewable generation and 
facilitate around 2 million EVs and 1 million heat 
pumps on SSEN’s electricity networks by 2030.

At the end of 2022/23, there was just over 9GW of renewable 
capacity connected to SSEN Transmission’s network, up  
from 7.9GW the previous year. In the same period, SSEN 
Distribution had around 208,500 pure electric vehicles or 
plug-in hybrid vehicles registered in its licence areas and  
had connected around 52,500 heat pumps to its networks. 
SSEN Distribution continued to progress several key 
innovation projects with partners to support flexible  
markets and future infrastructure provision for the  
mass adoption of electric vehicles (EVs).

Be a global leader for the just transition to net zero, 
with a guarantee of fair work and commitment to 
paying fair tax and sharing economic value.

Over 2022/23, SSE continued to drive action towards a just 
transition, publishing two new reports detailing its progress 
and thought leadership around the topic. SSE’s commitment 
to fair tax was reaffirmed as it became the first company to 
transition from the Fair Tax Foundation’s UK HQ Multinational 
accreditation to the Foundation’s new Global Multinational 
Business Standard. SSE implemented the annual increase in 
the real Living Wage, which was brought forward by two 
months in recognition of the cost-of-living crisis, and 
continued to work towards rolling out its Living Hours 
commitment across its supply chain.

10.2TWh 

Renewable generation output 2022/23*

UN SDG

2.6GW 

Renewable energy capacity in 
construction at 31 March 2023

*  Includes pumped storage, biomass and constrained 

off wind in GB.

>9GW 

Renewable generation capacity connected  
to SSEN Transmission network

UN SDG

Heat pumps connected to SSEN Distribution’s network

c.52,500 
c.208,500 

Pure electric or plug-in hybrid vehicles registered  
in SSEN Distribution’s licence areas

1st year 

Accredited with the Fair Tax Foundation’s 
new Global Multinational Business Standard

UN SDG

10th year 

Of being a real Living Wage accredited employer

22

SSE plc  Annual Report 2023

SSE plc  Annual Report 2023

23

Financial StatementsStrategic ReportDirectors’ ReportKey Performance Indicators

Resilience  
and growth

SSE uses a number of financial and non-financial measures to track 
progress against its strategy to create value by developing, building, 
operating and investing in electricity infrastructure and businesses 
needed for net zero.

Financial KPIs

DIVIDEND PER SHARE  
(PENCE)

2023

2022

2021

96.7

2023

(14.7)

166.0

2023

(205.6)

2,183.6

85.7

81.0

2022

2021

94.8

78.4

2022

241.2

206.3

2021

1,158.1

948.9

3,476.3

2,418.0

  Adjusted

  Reported

  Adjusted

  Reported

Strategic relevance: SSE has a growth-enabling 
dividend plan that remunerates shareholders for 
their investment in the Company. 

Strategic relevance: Adjusted EPS gives a 
meaningful measure of financial performance 
over the medium term.

Performance: The recommended full-year 
dividend for 2022/23 is in line with SSE’s five-year 
dividend plan to 2023. 

Performance: Results in 2022/23 are attributable 
to strong performance of SSE’s business mix in 
volatile market conditions. 

Strategic relevance: SSE’s objective is to earn a 
sustainable level of profit over the medium term.

Performance: The reported figure for 2022/23 
reflects a significant adverse fair value movement 
on derivatives in the year. 

More information

SSE’s social contribution 
See pages 56 to 66  

Financial Review
See pages 78 to 94  

SSEN Transmission 
Operating Review
See pages 96 to 97  

SSEN Distribution 
Operating Review
See pages 98 to 99  

SSE Renewables 
Operating Review
See pages 100 to 102  

Non-financial KPIs

RENEWABLE GENERATION OUTPUT 
(GWH)* 

SCOPE 1 GHG INTENSITY  
(GCO2E/KWH) 

2023

2022

2021

10,227

2023

9,496

2022

10,242

2021

254

259

256

Strategic relevance: Renewables assets and 
increasing renewables output over time are 
core to SSE’s business strategy, which is 
centred around the net zero transition.

Performance: Volumes increased slightly 
year-on-year but output finished behind  
plan due to variable weather and Seagreen 
project delays.

*  Includes pumped storage, biomass and 

constrained off wind in GB.

Strategic relevance: As a significant generator 
of electricity, SSE must reduce the impact  
of its operations and has set science-based 
targets aligned to a 1.5°C pathway.

Performance: SSE’s scope 1 GHG intensity 
reduced slightly by 2% between 2021/22 and 
2022/23. SSE remains on track to achieve its 
target to reduce intensity by 80% between 
2017/18 and 2030. 

2023

2022

2021

3,382.1

2,251.3

1,995.3

2023

2022

2021

42,370

47,130

2023

2022

60,550

2021

0.19

0.17

0.15

Strategic relevance: Extracting interest, tax, 
depreciation and amortisation from earnings 
provides a useful measure of SSE’s operational 
performance. 

Performance: EBITDA in 2022/23 reflects the 
strong operational performance achieved by 
SSE’s balanced mix of businesses.

Strategic relevance: SSE relies on the people 
that work for it in order to operate, with its 
activities supporting jobs in both urban and 
rural areas.

Performance: Through its operations in the 
UK and Ireland, SSE supported 39,940 and 
2,430 jobs respectively.

Strategic relevance: Safety is SSE’s No 1 value 
and getting everyone home safe after each 
working day remains its top priority.

Performance: There was a rise in contractor 
hours worked in construction, which 
represents a higher-risk environment than 
normal operations. Data includes the sad 
death in June 2022 of a young contractor, 
Liam Macdonald, working on Shetland.

ADJUSTED AND REPORTED EARNINGS/LOSSES  
PER SHARE (PENCE) 

ADJUSTED AND REPORTED PROFIT/LOSS  
BEFORE TAX (£M) 

ADJUSTED EBITDA 
(£M) 

JOBS SUPPORTED IN UK AND IRELAND

TOTAL RECORDABLE INJURY RATE PER  
100,000 HOURS WORKED (EMPLOYEES  
AND CONTRACTORS COMBINED) 

ADJUSTED AND REPORTED OPERATING PROFIT 
BY BUSINESS (£M)

COMBINED NETWORKS REGULATED ASSET 
VALUE (£M) 

ADJUSTED INVESTMENT, CAPITAL  
AND ACQUISITIONS (£M)

ADJUSTED AND REPORTED CAPEX BY CORE 
BUSINESS, BEFORE REFUNDS (£M)

TAXES PAID IN THE UK/IRELAND

ECONOMIC CONTRIBUTION IN UK/IRELAND*

Adjusted
2023

Reported
2023

Adjusted
2022

Reported
2022

372.7

382.4

580.0

2023

9,556

2023

2,803.3

405.5

382.4

446.3

380.5

351.8

568.1

380.5

351.8

427.8

2022

2021

8,209

7,423

2022

2021

912.0

2,067.8

 Transmission 

 Distribution 

 Renewables

Strategic relevance: SSE’s purpose is built on the 
strategic logic of electricity businesses and assets 
that share common skills and capabilities in pursuit 
of net zero.

Performance: Combined, SSE’s renewables and 
electricity networks businesses accounted for 
53% of Group adjusted operating profit.

Strategic relevance: SSE’s ownership of three 
economically-regulated electricity networks 
gives the Group steady, index-linked revenue.

Performance: Inflation in 2022/23, combined 
with acceleration of network build-out and 
reinforcement, contributed to higher RAV  
values in the year. 

Strategic relevance: SSE applies strict financial 
discipline that supports investment in assets that 
are expected to provide returns that are greater 
than the cost of capital.

Performance: The good progress made  
in execution of the Net Zero Acceleration 
Programme resulted in a record investment  
year for the Group in 2022/23. 

Adjusted
2023

Reported
2023

Adjusted
2022

Reported
2022

495.5

421.0

837.5

543.8

502.0

997.0

614.4

364.8

674.3

614.4

456.1

458.4

2023

2022

2021

€53.8m

€46.4m

€20.4m

£502m

£335m

£379m

2023

2022

2021

€429m

€417m

€415m

£6.04bn

 £5.98bn

£5.36bn

 Transmission 

 Distribution 

 Renewables

  UK

  Ireland

  UK

  Ireland

Strategic relevance: The primary focus of SSE’s 
capex plans is investment in the low-carbon 
electricity assets and infrastructure needed to 
achieve net zero.

Performance: SSE’s renewables and networks 
businesses accounted for around 81% of capex  
in the year.

Strategic relevance: Taxes support the public 
services everyone relies on. SSE is accredited to 
the Fair Tax Foundation’s Global Multinational 
Business Standard and believes in paying the 
right amount of tax, at the right time and in 
the right place. 

Performance: An increase in total taxes  
paid reflects increased profitability and 
corresponding corporation taxes paid  
during 2022/23.

Strategic relevance: SSE depends on a healthy 
and thriving economy to enable its business 
success, which is why it calculates the value  
it adds to UK and Irish GDP each year. 

Performance: SSE’s GDP contribution in its 
home markets remained fairly consistent 
between 2021/22 and 2022/23.

*  Previous years figures have been adjusted to 

current prices.

24

SSE plc  Annual Report 2023

SSE plc  Annual Report 2023

25

Financial StatementsStrategic ReportDirectors’ Report 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Our stakeholders

Creating lasting 
societal value

Our key  
stakeholder groups

Section 172 
statement 

A sustainable strategy is one that serves  
the interests of people and planet.  
Through delivery of its strategy SSE fulfils 
an unwritten social contract, under which 
society provides human capital and the 
right to earn a profit and in return the 
Company safely and reliably provides 
energy, invests in critical infrastructure, 
creates jobs and contributes to GDP.

Central to this contract are SSE’s key 
stakeholders; identified as the people, 
communities and organisations with an 
interest in its purpose, strategy, operations 
and actions and who may be affected by 
them. The relationship with key stakeholders 
is two-way and an overview of the 
reciprocal nature is set out in SSE’s business 
model and across the pages 28 to 33 .

Strategic stakeholder engagement 
underpins the understanding of issues 
material to each group and includes a 
combination of business-led and Board-
level interaction. This approach is reflective 
of legislative and regulatory requirements 
and is designed to ensure all views are 
heard. The result is stakeholder influence 
within, and validity of, business plans and 

Employees
SSE’s strategy and success are 
dependent on the shared talent, 
diversity, innovation and values  
of the people it employs.

Shareholders and debt 
providers
SSE must be well-financed, with the 
ability to remunerate shareholders  
for their investment, secure debt at 
competitive rates and grow the business.

Energy customers
Consumers create demand for the 
energy and services SSE provides  
and set the tone for our purpose.

Government  
and regulators
SSE relies on policy frameworks and 
public services that support investment 
in critical national infrastructure, are  
fair on customers and maintain the 
momentum behind net zero.

NGOs, communities  
and civil society
SSE needs the support of the 
communities it works in and the 
backing of civil society in pursuit  
of a just transition to net zero.

Suppliers, contractors  
and partners
SSE relies on a healthy supply chain 
and works with partners whose 
capabilities offer synergies for 
innovative project development  
and efficient ownership structures.

supporting objectives. Situations will exist 
where not every stakeholder interest can 
be addressed in full, however stakeholder 
regard continues to the greatest extent 
possible in decision-making at every level. 
The framework set by the Board in which 
decision-making takes place is explained 
on page 124 .

This statement, and the following 
stakeholder pages, summarise how the 
Board has upheld SSE’s social contract 
through the discharge of its duties under 
Section 172 of the Companies Act 2006.  
In doing so, it promotes the long-term 
success of the Company for the benefit  
of SSE’s six key stakeholder groups  
by considering: 

(a) The likely consequences of any decision 

in the long term.

(b) The interests of the Company’s 

employees.

(c) The need to foster the Company’s 

business relationships with suppliers, 
customers and others.

(d) The impact of the Company’s 
operations on the community  
and the environment.

(e) The desirability of the Company 
maintaining a reputation for high 
standards of business conduct.
(f)  The need to act fairly between  
members of the Company.

Detail of how s172 and stakeholder 
factors have influenced Board decision-
making in the year can be found on 
pages 127 to 129 .

Considering long-term consequences  
s172 link (a)

Fostering stakeholder relationships  
s172 links (b, c)

As a long-term business, SSE’s actions have far-reaching impact 
which is recognised in SSE’s strategic approach of creating value 
for shareholders and society. Four 2030 Goals and a clear net 
zero-focused strategy frame decision-making, and provide 
important interim milestones to 2050. These parameters, set by 
the Board, are reflected within strategy work and objectives, which 
extends to: capital investment; the Group budget; dividend plans; 
and future resourcing requirements. SSE’s Risk Management 
Framework, including the Group’s Principal Risks, the identification 
of emerging risks and the Group’s Risk Appetite statement further 
shape long-term perspectives.

Constructive two-way dialogue with SSE’s key stakeholders, 
including employees, suppliers, customers and communities,  
tracks priorities and identification of issues as they arise. Supporting 
conversations and strategic engagement reflect an operating  
model based on autonomous Business Units with decision-making 
authority. The Board creates the correct conditions for this approach 
by setting SSE’s long-term direction, overarching decision-making 
framework and culture. This is in line with the Board’s own 
understanding of stakeholder needs, as advocated through SSE’s 
Just Transition Strategy and engagement surrounding the future  
of the energy system. 

Relevant S172(a) disclosures
Pages 8 to 9  Board-agreed purpose, vision and strategy.
Pages 126 to 129  Board strategy work and decisions 2022/23.
Pages 68 to 77  Approach to risk-informed decision-making.

Relevant S172(b,c) disclosures
Page 124  SSE’s decision-making framework.
Pages 28 to 33  Stakeholder engagement and actions.
Pages 56 to 66  Ensuring a just transition.

Protecting communities and environment  
s172 link (d)

Setting culture and conduct  
s172 link (e, f)

SSE recognises the serious threat that climate change poses to the 
natural world, and therefore to communities and the economy. 
Climate change features across all areas of the Board agenda, and 
SSE commits to open and transparent disclosure to allow proper 
assessment of its environmental performance and the potential 
impact of various climate scenarios on future financial performance.

The Board leads and monitors SSE’s culture, by setting the  
tone and framework within which agreed values and accepted 
behaviours can be embraced by employees. This includes a safe 
and inclusive working environment that encourages doing the 
right thing, through responsible business conduct and making  
a positive difference for stakeholders. 

Relevant S172(d) disclosures
Pages 36 to 55  Accelerating climate action and Protecting  
the natural environment.
Page 130 to 131  Board-level oversight of sustainability  
and climate.
Page 156  Audit Committee and TCFD.
Pages 162 to 165  SSE’s SSHEAC.

Relevant S172(e,f) disclosures
Pages 137 to 138  Board focus on culture.
Pages 58 to 63  SSE’s approach to fair and decent work, 
inclusion and diversity, and health, safety and wellbeing. 

26

SSE plc  Annual Report 2023

SSE plc  Annual Report 2023

27

Financial StatementsStrategic ReportDirectors’ ReportOur stakeholders continued

Employees

Why we engage

Input to SSE

Value created

Engagement helps  
SSE attract, retain and 
develop a talented 
workforce now and  
for the future.

Talent, skills, values  
and human capital.

Inclusive, fulfilling  
and high-performing 
workplace.

How we engage

Material issues in 2022/23

Group engagement
•  Multi-channel Leader-led Engagement 
Programme with in-person and virtual 
interactions.

•  Employee voice soundings through 
annual survey of all colleagues.

•  SSE’s employee offering: reward, 
benefits, inclusivity, flexibility in  
context of rising cost of living.

•  Ways of Working in the post-pandemic 

workplace. 

•  Agreement with trade union partners  

•  Assessment of employee sentiment  

on pay progression.

and engagement with strategy through 
post-communication polling.
•  Analysis of data from exit surveys.
•  Engagement with trade unions.
•  SSE’s employee offering: reward, benefits, 
inclusivity, flexibility in context of rising 
cost of living.

•  Employee wellbeing, support and 

resilience.

•  Giving all employees a voice and  
taking action in response to key 
issues identified in the Great Place  
to Work survey.

•  Engagement with SSE’s Inclusion  

and Diversity strategy.

Board engagement
•  Participation in Leader-led Engagement 

•  Engagement with SSE’s approach  
to a just transition to net zero.

Programme.

•  Active support of SSE’s I&D strategy 
through involvement in awareness 
activities with SSE’s Belonging Groups.

•  Employee-focused work by the 

non-Executive Director for Employee 
Engagement and subsequent feedback 
to the Board.

•  Site visits and hosting of employees  

at Board events.

Priorities for 2023/24

•  Ensuring a safe, inclusive and  

flexible workplace.

•  Attraction and retention of talent. 
•  Maintaining culture in a rapid growth 

phase and amidst international 
expansion.

More on pages 58 to 63 

2022/23
Actions

•  In response to the cost of 

living crisis an interim salary 
increase of 5% for all eligible 
employees was agreed from 
1 October 2022 (see page 
179 ). 

•  To maximise the opportunity 

presented by full Board 
attendance at the AGM, an 
all-employee Q&A session 
followed the main business 
of the day (see page 135 ). 

•  Following relaxation of  

covid restrictions, the Board 
resumed a full programme  
of engagement across sites 
(see pages 135 and 163 ).

2022/23
Actions

•  Provided deeper insight  
into the SSE Renewables  
and SSEN Transmission 
businesses, including 
exposure to wider 
management through a 
two-day investor event  
(see page 132 ). 

•  Chair and Chief Sustainability 
Officer held a virtual ESG 
investor seminar focusing on 
the 2022 Net Zero Transition 
Report (see page 133 ). 
•  Re-established physical 

overseas roadshows with 
Executive Directors following 
investor demand.

•  Initiated an annual Chair 
roadshow focused on 
Corporate Governance. 

•  Engaged with debt providers 
to raise £1.7bn of new hybrid 
capital and long-term debt 
over the last 12 months.

Shareholders and debt providers

Why we engage

Input to SSE

Value created

To enable informed 
decisions from those 
that invest in and lend  
to SSE through open 
communication.

Ensure financial stability, 
provide stewardship 
perspectives and 
feedback on strategic 
priorities.

Sustainable return on 
long-term investment 
through capital growth 
and dividends and 
achieving 2030 Goals.

How we engage

Material issues in 2022/23

Group engagement 
•  Responding to queries from shareholders 
and debt providers and holding meetings 
with all types of investors on an ongoing 
basis.

•  Engagement with environmental, social 
and governance (ESG) ratings agencies 
used by many investors and debt providers 
to gauge sustainability credentials.

Board engagement
•  A programme of Director-investor 
meetings covering key financial 
announcements, long-term priorities 
and specific issues at investors’ request.

•  Participation in virtual and physical 

investor conferences.

•  Dedicated ESG webinars and conference 
participation and an annual review of 
SSE’s performance in a dozen investor-
led ESG reviews and ratings.

•  Monthly Board updates on investor  
and financial market sentiment.
•  Detailed reporting of shareholder 
feedback during and after Half-  
and Full-year Results roadshows.
•  Bi-annual updates from SSE’s brokers.
•  Executive Director engagement with credit 
ratings agencies used by debt providers.
•  Engagement with shareholders at SSE’s 

Annual General Meeting.

More on pages 132 to 133 

•  Financial and ESG performance 

compared to market expectations.
•  Benefits and detriments of a balanced 
business mix including the merits of 
flexible generation and gas storage.
•  Optimising capital allocation across 

SSE’s Business Units including the sale of 
a minority stake in SSEN Transmission. 

•  High and turbulent gas and power 
prices, their impact on SSE and 
government policy, including the 
Electricity Generator Levy. 

•  Progress against, and alignment to,  

a 1.5°C climate pathway.

•  The effect of competition, cost 

pressures and supply chain constraints 
on returns in renewables investment.
•  The level of protection SSE has against 

rising inflation and interest rates.
•  SSE’s refinancing requirements and 

liquidity availability.

Priorities for 2023/24

•  Timely engagement on the progression 
of SSE’s ongoing investment programme 
and financial and investment targets.
•  Continued evolution and refinement of 
SSE’s strategy, governance and policies.

•  Alignment of green and hybrid bond 
strategy, debt terms, maturity and 
covenants to NZAP Plus targets.

•  Responding to changing shareholder 
perceptions and market environment, 
sharing feedback internally.

•  Positive shareholder vote on the annual 

Net Zero Transition Report.

M E A S U R I N G   E N G A G E M E N T   A N D   V A L U E   C R E A T E D

Employee engagement score

Combined attendance at in-person 
and virtual employee events

Employee sentiment towards SSE’s  
net zero-focused strategy  

Dividend Per Share

Earnings Per Share

One-to-one investor sessions 
2022/23

82%

82%

84%

2021

2022

2023

43,000 

employees attended

92% 

2023

2022

2021

96.7p

85.7p

81.0p

2023

2022

2021

94.8p

78.4p

166.0p 182

28

SSE plc  Annual Report 2023

SSE plc  Annual Report 2023

29

Financial StatementsStrategic ReportDirectors’ Report2022/23
Actions 

•  SSE Airtricity announced 

measures in response to the 
cost of living crisis, and made 
no profit, returning €35 to 
every customer in April 2023 
(see pages 64, 82 and 107 ).
•  SSEN Distribution responded 

to two storms which 
impacted its network, 
working to restore power  
to customers swiftly (see 
page 98 ).

•  SSEN Distribution led the 
creation of a new Priority 
Services Register website,  
to better support customers 
(see page 65 ).

Our stakeholders continued

Energy customers

Why we engage

Input to SSE

Value created

Dialogue aims to 
support the transition to 
a decarbonised energy 
system in a fair and 
affordable way.

Customer priorities, 
expectations and 
ultimate remuneration.

Reliable and inclusive 
provision of service.

How we engage

Material issues in 2022/23

SSE directly serves energy customers  
in the domestic (all-island Ireland) and
business-to-business (UK and Ireland)
energy supply markets and provides  
grid connection to non-direct networks
customers in its Distribution and
Transmission operating licence areas.

Group engagement
•  Dedicated panels to ensure the 

perspectives of vulnerable customers 
are considered and forums to engage 
with large business customers.

•  Monitoring a wide range of indicators of 
performance and customer sentiment.

•  Working with third parties to actively 

identify and make provision for customer 
vulnerability, including through 
encouraging eligible customers to be 
added to the Priority Services Register.

Board engagement
•  Updates from SSE’s customer facing 
Business Units on the influence of 
customer factors driving business 
direction and propositions.

•  Monitoring of customer performance  
to ensure delivery of an appropriate  
level of service and investment. 

More on pages 64 to 65 

Networks customers
•  Benefits and costs of RIIO-ED2 

• 

• 

• 

• 

settlement.
Increased resilience and greater  
support for all household customers  
in vulnerable situations.
Improved customer service/connections 
processes in Distribution.
Impact of extreme storms with a 
particular focus on investment, 
communications and support for 
vulnerable customers.
Impact of potential rota load 
disconnections (RLD). 

Energy supply customers
•  Affordable and accessible energy in the 
context of ongoing market volatility and 
increasing international instability.

•  Energy efficiency and the cost of energy 

for business customers.

•  Continued focus on the best way for 

businesses to decarbonise, highlighting 
the cost-reduction benefits with energy 
costs on the rise. 

•  Providing clarity to businesses on how 

to access energy bill support.

•  Decisions relating to prices and profits.

Priorities for 2023/24

•  Safe, reliable and efficient delivery of 

service to networks customers.

•  Cost of living pressures on direct retail 

customers. 

•  GB domestic retail brand separation 

finalisation.

2022/23
Actions

•  Direct engagement with  
the UK Government on 
formulation of the temporary 
Energy Generator Levy in  
an effort to secure the best 
short-term outcomes  
for SSE’s stakeholders  
(see page 39 ).

•  Engagement with UK 

Government on its Review  
of Electricity Market 
Arrangements to ensure  
the best long-term outcomes 
for SSE’s stakeholders and 
net zero.

•  Working with the Irish 

Government on the provision 
of Emergency Generation 
capacity at Tarbert to 2028 
and implementation of  
the EU revenue cap  
(see page 105 ).

Government and regulators

Why we engage

Input to SSE

Value created

Constructive 
engagement aims  
to ensure fair and 
effective energy sector 
frameworks for energy 
customers and investors.

Public policy and 
regulatory frameworks.

Considered and expert 
sector views; investment 
in delivery of 
government priorities.

How we engage

Material issues in 2022/23

Group engagement
•  Primarily through SSE’s Political 

Engagement Policy under which it 
makes representations to the institutions 
of government in a politically-neutral 
way consistent with the Company’s core 
purpose and strategy.

•  Ongoing dialogue with the industry 
regulator Ofgem on networks price 
controls, market design and carbon 
pricing, and support for low-carbon 
energy technologies.

•  Accelerating infrastructure delivery  
to improve energy security and 
decarbonise the sector. 

•  Strategic investment in networks  
to facilitate net zero and improve  
energy resilience. 

•  Navigating the energy crisis to support 
consumers and businesses facing high 
energy costs whilst protecting investor 
confidence in the UK. 

•  Policy frameworks to bring forward 
investment in CCS and hydrogen.

•  Participation in UK trade delegations 

•  The evolution of the electricity  

abroad.

•  Events, panel discussions, round tables 
and thought-leadership publications to 
engage policy-makers and regulators 
with energy issues.

Board engagement
•  Oversight of the implementation of 

SSE’s Political Engagement Policy and 
corresponding advocacy priorities. 
•  Monitoring of engagement activity and 
responses to regulators to ensure that 
strategic, financial, investment and 
operating frameworks align to the 
external landscape.

More on page 13 

market and support mechanisms  
to continue to deliver investment in 
energy infrastructure. 

•  Building support for Coire Glas and the 
need for policy support mechanisms  
for long duration storage.

Priorities for 2023/24

•  Engagement with all parties on SSE’s  
net zero-focused advocacy priorities.
•  Engagement with governments and 
regulators in the emerging overseas 
markets in which SSE has an interest.

•  Ensuring electricity market design 

reforms being considered in the UK and 
EU support cost-effective renewables 
and network investments.

•  Policy support for flexible energy 
solutions including long duration  
energy storage and CCS and hydrogen 
technologies.

•  Consenting and progression of 

low-carbon investment programme.

M E A S U R I N G   E N G A G E M E N T   A N D   V A L U E   C R E A T E D

Customers on SSEN Distribution’s 
Priority Services Register (PSR)

Stakeholder engagement events  
held by SSEN Distribution

SSE Airtricity’s support scheme on the 
island of Ireland was worth up to 

Meetings with political or regulatory 
stakeholders

Stakeholder mentions of SSE and  
its projects 

Shared platforms with stakeholder 
representatives 

770,844

768,104

853,416

870

827

715

2021

2022

2023

2021

2022

2023

€25m

81 

65 

34

30

SSE plc  Annual Report 2023

SSE plc  Annual Report 2023

31

Financial StatementsStrategic ReportDirectors’ ReportOur stakeholders continued

NGOs, communities and civil society

Suppliers, contractors and partners

Why we engage

Input to SSE

Value created

Working openly  
and progressively  
seeks to support the 
achievement of shared 
goals with both social 
and environmental 
benefit.

Distinctive social, 
environmental and 
energy-related 
perspectives.

Robust social contract 
through which value  
is shared.

How we engage

Material issues in 2022/23

Group engagement
•  Partnering with key NGOs to deliver 

•  Net zero transition planning, considering 
both social and nature interdependencies.

2022/23
Actions

•  Multi-stakeholder event held 
to promote just transition 
(see page 56 ).

•  SSE invested £16.5m in 

communities across the UK 
and Ireland (see page 57 ).

•  SSE contributed a total of 

£6.47bn to the UK and Irish 
economies and supported 
42,370 jobs (see page 57 ).

social and environmental benefits for 
the communities in which SSE operates.

•  Community consultation events 

throughout the year to gather feedback 
on projects and business plans.

•  Collaboration with academic 

partnerships to inform strategic 
decision-making and knowledge 
sharing on policy, energy systems  
and innovation.

Board engagement
•  Review of SSE’s 2030 Goals set aligned 
to UN Sustainable Development Goals 
framework and oversight of associated 
strategic delivery plans.

•  Due consideration of the local 
community benefits of large  
capital project investment.

•  The cost of energy, particularly in the 
context of the cost of living crisis.
•  Socio-economic and environmental 

impact of SSE’s investments in 
communities that host low-carbon 
infrastructure.

•  Policies and practices that support  
a just and fair transition to net zero.

•  Employment standards, including Living 
Wage, safe workplaces and inclusion 
and diversity. 

•  Responsible behaviour on tax policies 

and tax transparency.

•  The allocation and impact of SSE’s 

community investments.
Impacts on the natural environment.

• 

Priorities for 2023/24

•  Creation of quality green jobs in support 

of a just transition.

•  Response to storms, network resilience.
•  Community support schemes that 

address vulnerability.

•  Constructive dialogue on the 

development of large capital projects. 
•  The impact of SSE’s activities on nature 

and eco-systems.

More on page 57 

2022/23
Actions

•  Collaboration with partners 
on SHE performance with  
the establishment of central 
team in 2022/23 to drive 
forward a strategy to support 
performance among 
principal contractors working 
on large capital projects  
(see page 164 ). 

•  Launch of the Coalition  

for Wind Industry Circularity 
to support the re-use, 
refurbishment and re-
engineering of broken  
wind turbine parts  
(see page 55 ). 

•  Continued engagement on 
supply chain learnings at 
COP27 (see page 66 ).

Why we engage

Input to SSE

Value created

Fostering healthy 
reciprocal relationships 
helps SSE to ensure it 
achieves the greatest 
all-round value from  
its investments and 
activities.

Quality goods and 
services and investment.

Sustainable 
relationships,  
value creation and 
partnership expertise.

How we engage

Material issues in 2022/23

Group engagement
•  SSE’s primary method of engagement  
is through its Supplier Relationship 
Management (SRM) programme. This  
is aligned to SSE’s Business Units and 
encompasses around 40 suppliers who 
are key to the growth and success of 
business ambitions.

•  A forum of 21 supply chain partners, 
called the Powering Net Zero Pact, 
supports collaborative, pre-competitive 
work on sustainability challenges.
•  Monthly engagement sessions with 
sustainability professionals in supply 
chain organisations, led by Business Unit 
Sustainability and Procurement and 
Commercial sustainability teams.

•  Consultations with strategic suppliers, 
senior leaders, Business Units and 
internal Procurement and Commercial 
teams on current and future supply 
chain needs. 

Board engagement
•  SSE’s Executive Directors meet with 
suppliers and strategic partners, 
including shareholders in joint ventures.
•  Regular Board updates on joint venture 

project strategy and progress in 
domestic and international markets.

•  Leadership on net zero, circular 

economy, human rights, social and 
environmental impacts.

•  Collaborative working with supply chain 
partners to support strategic delivery 
and supply chain capacity in areas such 
as SSEN Transmission growth, RIIO-ED2, 
ScotWind and hydrogen production. 
Inward investment and local content 
opportunities across the supply chain. 

• 

•  Alignment of supply chain partners  

and other sector leaders to minimise 
resource gaps. 

•  Positioning SSE as a ‘customer of 
choice’ within the energy sector.

•  Mitigation of potential human rights risk. 

Priorities for 2023/24

• 

Implementation of new contractor 
safety strategy. 

•  UK supply chain resilience.
•  Ongoing interaction through Supplier 

Relationship Management programme. 

•  Promotion of Powering Net Zero Pact 

and circular economy.

•  Continued focus on industry 

understanding of Scope 3 emissions.

•  Driving cross-sector collaboration  
on net zero delivery and mitigation  
of human rights risks.

•  Monitoring supply chain risk areas such 
as human rights and modern slavery.

More on page 66 

M E A S U R I N G   E N G A G E M E N T   A N D   V A L U E   C R E A T E D

Communities directly engaged with 
through SSE Renewables’ community 
investment funds

Strategic academic partnerships

150 

5 

SSE Airtricity’s donation to 
EnergyCloud will help divert  
surplus energy to up to  

10,000 

fuel poor homes

Participants in SSE’s Supplier 
Relationship Management 
programme

Members of the Powering  
Net Zero Pact

Leadership status maintained  
for supply chain engagement  
with CDP for its 2022 submission

2023

2022

2021

45 21

(vs 11 2022)

34

28

32

SSE plc  Annual Report 2023

SSE plc  Annual Report 2023

33

Financial StatementsStrategic ReportDirectors’ ReportA sustainable approach

Embedding  
sustainability

 “It is impossible to be sustainable without  
taking action to tackle climate change. But it is 
possible to tackle climate change in a way that 
is unsustainable for people and nature. That is 
why, while SSE is wholly focused on finding 
the profitable solutions to the problem of 
climate change, it is seeking to do so in a  
way that adds value to communities and  
the wider environment too.”

Rachel McEwen
Chief Sustainability Officer

SSE’s approach to sustainability  

35 

Accelerating climate action 
Climate-related financial disclosures  
and GHG emissions performance 

Protecting the natural environment 
Responsible resource use and managing  
impacts on nature and biodiversity  

Ensuring a just transition 
Workforce disclosures, including inclusion  
and diversity, and how SSE creates and  
shares value with customers, communities  
and supply chain 

36 to 51 

52 to 55 

56 to 66 

SSE’s approach to 
sustainability reporting 
SSE integrates the principles of long-term 
sustainability within its business strategy. 
Factoring in environmental and social 
considerations to business activities is 
central to creating and sharing value with 
stakeholders, and for ensuring the continued 
success of the Company. Stakeholders  
are vested in SSE’s sustainability impacts,  
and SSE is committed to providing 
comprehensive and transparent non-
financial disclosures.

SSE’s most material environmental and 
social disclosures, including climate-related 
issues – specifically, reporting against  
Task Force on Climate-related Financial 
Disclosures (TCFD) recommendations – 
nature and ensuring a fair and just energy 
transition, are integrated into this Annual 
Report. SSE’s Sustainability Report 2023 is 
the sister document to the Annual Report 
2023, providing enhanced disclosure of 
SSE’s policies, practices and performance 
against key economic, social and 
environmental impacts and goals.

Further disclosures can be found at  
sse.com/sustainability .

A sustainable business strategy
The UN’s 17 Sustainable Development 
Goals (SDGs) are the global blueprint for a 
sustainable future and provide a powerful 
framework to align SSE’s strategic business 
objectives with societal ones. 

Since 2019, SSE has aligned its business 
strategy to the SDGs most material to its 
business. The schematic below depicts the 
flow of sustainability from SSE’s objective 
set in its strategy statement to “create value 
for shareholders and society”, with UN 
SDGs providing the framework to guide  
the creation of that shared value. Within 
this framework SSE has identified four 
SDGs which are highly material to the 
business, and to which it has linked its  
four core 2030 Goals, and a further three 
material SDGs, which are focused on the 
environment and guide the pillars of SSE’s 
environment strategy. More information on 
SSE’s sustainability framework can be found 
in the Sustainability Report 2023 . 

Focusing on the most  
material issues
SSE’s stakeholders expect meaningful 
information relating to its social and 
environmental impacts. That means 
disclosures must be focused on the issues 
most material to its business activities.  
This principle is further reinforced through 

recent developments in standardised 
sustainability reporting frameworks  
which require disclosures against material 
sustainability-related issues. 

Over 2022/23, SSE undertook a double 
materiality assessment, supported by a 
third-party, with the objective of confirming 
the environmental, social and governance 
(ESG) issues most material to its business 
activities. Following a process of stakeholder 
consultation and analysis, the assessment 
identified 21 sustainability issues material to 
SSE. The top five of these material issues are 
outlined below, alongside where further 
detail can be found. 
1.  Carbon emissions (see pages 49 to 51 ).
2.  Sustainable energy generation  

(see pages 100 to 102 ).

3.  Affordable and reliable energy  

(see pages 64 and 65 ).
4.  Supply chain management  

(see page 66 ).

5.  Skilled workforce (see page 58 ).

The results confirm that SSE’s approach to 
sustainability remains focused on the most 
material issues from both an internal and 
external perspective. Carbon emissions align 
to the SDG 13, sustainable energy generation 
and affordable and reliable energy align to 
the SDG 7 and SDG 9. The issues arising from 
supply chain management and a skilled 
workforce predominantly align to SDG 8.  

Full detail of both the process and the results 
of the double materiality assessment can be 
found in SSE’s Sustainability Report 2023 .

Aligning with external 
frameworks 
SSE is a signatory to the United Nations 
Global Compact (UNGC), incorporating the 
Ten Principles of the UNGC into its approach 
to business, and aligns disclosures and KPIs 
in its Sustainability Report to international 
non-financial reporting standards, including 
the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) and the 
SASB Standards. SSE also actively engages 
with key investor ESG ratings agencies  
and investor-led initiatives. Detail of SSE’s 
performance in these ratings can be  
found at sse.com/sustainability . 

Developments in standardised sustainability 
disclosures have continued at pace over 
2022/23, including the International 
Sustainability Standards Board (ISSB) 
consultation on its first two frameworks, 
expected to be finalised in summer 2023, 
and the EU Corporate Sustainability 
Reporting Directive (CSRD) coming  
into force in January 2023. While these 
frameworks will not impact SSE this year, 
SSE continues to monitor developments 
and remains mindful of these frameworks 
in its 2022/23 reporting, working towards 
preparedness for upcoming disclosure 
requirements.

Driven by SSE’s strategy “...creating value for shareholders and society...”

Aligned to shared value global framework United Nations Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs)

Four highly material SDGs linked to SSE’s 2030 Goals

SSE’s 2030 Goals

Cut carbon  
intensity by 80%

Increase renewable  
energy output fivefold 

Enable low-carbon  
generation and demand

Champion a fair and 
just energy transition

Three further material SDGs linked to SSE’s Environmental Strategy

Resource use

Natural environment

34

SSE plc  Annual Report 2023

SSE plc  Annual Report 2023

35

Financial StatementsStrategic ReportDirectors’ Report 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
A sustainable approach continued

Accelerating 
climate action

The climate emergency requires urgent action. That is why SSE’s net zero 
ambitions place climate action front and centre of its strategy. SSE aims  
to support the transition to a decarbonised power system and align with  
a 1.5°C global warming pathway. 

Climate-related financial disclosures

Climate change represents both a risk  
and an opportunity to the energy sector. 
That is why, since 2018, SSE structures its 
climate disclosures against the Task Force 
on Climate-related Financial Disclosures 
(TCFD) recommendations. Climate 
disclosures provide a channel to elevate 
climate challenges informing decisions  
and driving change to deliver a net  
zero economy. 

Mandated climate-related 
financial disclosure in the UK
The Financial Conduct Authority  
(FCA) listing rule LR 9.8.6 R(8) requires 
organisations to report against the TCFD 
recommendations, recommended 
disclosures and the Annex and guidance 
(published 2021) in annual reports.

SSE believes that whilst it is compliant  
with the listing rule there is still opportunity 
for increasing maturity across all TCFD 
disclosure requirements. SSE continues to 

actively seek feedback from shareholders 
and stakeholders on best practice on  
TCFD disclosures. 

SSE has considered climate change in the 
preparation of the financial statements  
as at 31 March 23 on pages 192 to 347  
and further information has been included  
in note 4.1(v) Impact of climate change  
and the transition to net zero – financial 
judgement and estimation uncertainty  
on pages 213 to 214 .

Task Force on Climate-related  
Financial Disclosures (TCFD) 
recommendations

Governance
Disclose the organisation’s 
governance around 
climate-related risks  
and opportunities. 

More on pages 37 and 38 

Strategy
Disclose the actual and 
potential impacts of 
climate-related risks and 
opportunities on the 
organisation’s businesses, 
strategy, and financial 
planning where such 
information is material. 

More on pages 39 to 47 

Risk Management
Disclose how the 
organisation identifies, 
assesses, and manages 
climate-related risks. 

More on page 48 

Metrics and Targets
Disclose the metrics and 
targets used to assess  
and manage relevant 
climate-related risks and 
opportunities where such 
information is material. 

More on pages 49 to 51 

Compliant 

Compliant 

Compliant 

Compliant 

Governing climate-related risks and opportunities

Board oversight of climate issues
Responding to the challenge of climate 
change is central to SSE’s strategy and, as  
a result, the SSE Board considers climate 
change as it establishes SSE’s purpose, 
vision and strategy. 

Throughout 2022/23 climate matters were 
assessed in dedicated strategy sessions  
and during Board meetings. Board sessions 
considered both transitional and physical 
climate-related opportunities and risks and 
took this into account in the decisions it 
made (see page 131 ).

The Board is supported by a series of 
Board-level and Executive-level governance 
committees in carrying out its role to 
oversee climate-related opportunities  
and risks. This is set out in the governance 
pathways below. 

SSE has a set of 19 Group Policies applicable 
across its entire organisation, of which 
Climate Change and Sustainability are  
two. Policies are reviewed and endorsed  
by the Group Executive Committee and 
approved by the Board annually. 

Compliance with Group policies is also 
considered as part of the annual review of 
the effectiveness of the System of Internal 
Control (see page 159 ).

The Board’s Schedule of Reserved  
Matters; the Terms of Reference of  
the Board Committees and the Group 
Executive Committee; and the role  
profiles for key Board roles present the 
division of responsibilities across SSE 
relating to climate matters (sse.com   
and pages 114 to 141 ).

Board climate expertise  
and training
Collectively, and individually, members  
of the Board possess a depth of long-
standing energy sector experience. The 
specific expertise required to lead SSE’s 
net-zero aligned strategy within the 
external operating context, including 
considering of the impact of climate 
change, is set out in the SSE’s skills  
matrix on page 115 . Amongst other 
matters, knowledge deemed material to 
the Board’s role includes clean energy 
technologies and climate science, 
alongside understanding of the policy 
framework required to support society 
transition to a net zero world. The skills 

TCFD Governance 
recommendations:

Governance

a) Describe the board’s 
oversight of climate-related 
risks and opportunities. 

b) Describe management’s role 
in assessing and managing 
climate-related risks and 
opportunities. 

matrix details the individual non-Executive 
Directors who support these attributes.  
The Executive Directors are deemed to 
meet all of the criteria in the skills matrix 
and lead the delivery of SSE’s strategy, 
science-based targets and a set of 2030 
Goals, which is supported by extensive 
engagement on climate-related issues  
with SSE’s stakeholders. 

Structured governance pathways

See the Corporate Governance framework on page 122 .

Board of Directors
Sets SSE’s purpose, vision and strategy. 
Oversees SSE’s material sustainability matters including climate change.

Nomination Committee
Responsible for Board appointments to  
support SSE’s strategy.

Audit Committee
Oversees SSE’s climate-related financial disclosures  
in SSE’s Annual Report.

Safety, Sustainability, Health and 
Environment Advisory Committee
Oversees SSE’s climate adaptation and  
resilience plans.

Group Executive Committee
Implements SSE’s strategy which includes  
climate change policies and practice. 

Remuneration Committee
Responsible For Remuneration Policy that includes  
climate factors.

Group Risk Committee
Reviews the processes, controls and content  
of climate-related financial disclosures.

TCFD Steering Group
Advises on the development of comprehensive, fair, balanced and understandable  
climate-related financial disclosures.

TCFD Working Group
Responsible for the production of SSE’s climate-related opportunity and risk disclosures with  
appropriate stakeholder input.

B
o
a
r
d
L
e
v
e
l

L
e
v
e
l

E
x
e
c
u
t
i
v
e

B
u
s
i
n
e
s
s
L
e
v
e
l

36

SSE plc  Annual Report 2023

SSE plc  Annual Report 2023

37

Financial StatementsStrategic ReportDirectors’ Report 
 
 
 
 
 
 
A sustainable approach continued
Accelerating climate action continued

The Group Risk Committee (GRC)  
monitors all Group risks on a regular  
basis and ensures that the Business Units  
are managing the risks for which they  
are responsible. The GRC has overall 
responsibility for ensuring the right 
mechanisms are in place for managing  
all risks, including climate-related risk  
and opportunities. 

Reporting to the GRC is a TCFD Steering 
Group, comprising representatives from 
Group Finance, Group Risk, Investor 
Relations, Company Secretary, Corporate 
Affairs and Sustainability, focused on 
advising, steering and governing the 
development of fair, balanced and 
understandable climate-related financial 
disclosures. The TCFD Working Group 
supports the TCFD Steering Group to 
produce SSE’s TCFD disclosures.

In 2022/23, SSE’s Board alongside 
members of the executive team received 
updates on climate reporting (including  
the Taskforce on Climate-related Financial 
Disclosures (TCFD) and Corporate 
Sustainability Reporting Directive (CSRD)), 
as well as deep dives on technical topics 
including the future of hydrogen, the  
role of carbon capture and storage and 
distribution networks and net zero. These 
are detailed in the discussion of how the 
Board sets SSE’s strategy on page 125 . 

Role of senior management
Strategy is implemented by the Group 
Executive Committee through SSE’s 
Business Units. This includes ensuring  
that business decisions are aligned with 
SSE’s strategy and objectives, such as its 
2030 Goals and science-based targets. 

As Chair of the Group Executive Committee 
the Chief Executive is responsible for 
climate-related initiatives. The Chief 
Executive agrees the annual objectives  
for the Chief Sustainability Officer who  
is a direct report. The Chief Sustainability 
Officer advises the Board, Group Executive 
Committee, Group Risk Committee and 
Business Units on climate-related matters 
and progress against SSE’s Net Zero 
Transition Plan.

Aligning incentives to 
climate outcomes
SSE’s approach to Executive 
Director remuneration reflects 
the role of sustainability and 
climate-related considerations 
within SSE’s purpose and 
strategy, with sustainability-
linked metrics and targets 
forming an element of 
performance-related pay.  
The framework of SSE’s 2030 
Goals has been used since 2019 
to assess performance, which 
was linked to the performance 
based Annual Incentive Plan 
until 2021/22. The updated 
Directors’ Remuneration Policy, 
approved by shareholders  
at the 2022 AGM, has seen 
performance against these 
Goals now linked to the 
longer-term Performance  
Share Plan, which will vest for 
the first time in 2025. More 
information can be found in  
the Remuneration Committee 
Report on pages 173 and 183 .

Climate governance activity in 2022/23
Some of the key governance-based decisions taken in the year are presented in the timeline below. Further detail of net 
zero-linked strategic decisions made during the year can be found on pages 126 to 129 . 

 MAY 2022 

 OCT 2022 

 FEB 2023 

 MAR 2023 

Board-level

Board approval  
of management-
sponsored climate 
resolution proposed  
at the 2022 Annual 
General Meeting. 

Executive-level

SSHEAC review  
of climate adaptation 
plans. 

Board approval of the 
updated Net Zero 
Transition Plan.

Board approval  
of SSE’s Just Transition 
priorities for 2023/24.

Audit Committee 
approval of SSE’s 
approach to climate-
related financial 
disclosures and 
associated assurance 
arrangements.

Safety, Health  
and Environment 
Committee  
review of climate  
adaptation plans.

Recommended Board 
approval of SSE’s 
updated Net Zero 
Transition Plan.

Group Risk Committee 
approval of SSE’s 
governance and 
controls for SSE’s  
TCFD disclosures.

Recommended Board 
approval of SSE’s Just 
Transition priorities for 
2023/24.

A strategy to support net zero

Providing profitable solutions  
to climate change
SSE’s purpose is to build a better world of 
energy for tomorrow and, by doing this, 
SSE is helping directly to address the 
energy transition to net zero. It achieves 
this through its strategy of developing, 
building, operating and investing in the 
electricity infrastructure and businesses 
needed to decarbonise the power sector. 

SSE’s goal is to achieve net zero GHG 
emissions across its scope 1 and scope 2 
emissions by 2040 (subject to security of 
supply requirements) and for remaining 
scope 3 emissions by 2050. These long-
term net zero ambitions are supported  
by interim science-based targets aligned  
to a 1.5°C pathway.

A plan for a net zero transition 
SSE’s Net Zero Transition Plan, available  
at sse.com/sustainability , sets out for 
stakeholders the key actions SSE will take to 
drive progress towards its net zero ambitions 
and its interim science-based targets aligned 
to a 1.5°C pathway. SSE’s first Net Zero 
Transition Report, published June 2022, 
presented SSE’s progress against its plan  
and was received by shareholders through 
its climate resolution at its Annual General 
Meeting with 98.92% of votes in favour.

The Plan was updated in November 2022 to 
take account of feedback from shareholders 
and other stakeholders. Changes involved 
the inclusion of SSE’s joint acquisition of 
Triton Power (see more information on 
pages 103 to 105 ); the addition of 
cross-cutting issues to recognise the 
importance that climate adaptation and 
resilience and the just transition play in the 
transition to net zero; and, an enhanced 
definition of net zero to SSE and further 
explanations on the role of neutralisation 
technologies in achieving net zero. 

To ensure its Plan remains relevant and 
comprehensive, SSE develops and iterates 
its content and its active involvement in the 
UK’s Transition Plan Taskforce, ensuring it 
can both influence and learn from 
emerging best practice.

With climate-related disclosure provided 
within SSE’s Annual Report and Sustainability 
Report, its annual Net Zero Transition Report 
provides a summary and navigation tool 
from which shareholders vote each year. 
SSE’s Net Zero Transition Report can  
be found at sse.com/sustainability . 
Progress in 2022/23 is disclosed across  
this Annual Report and SSE’s Sustainability 
Report 2023 .

Engagement in action
Government and regulators 

Engaging on policy interventions

TCFD Strategy 
recommendations:

Strategy

a) Describe the climate-related 
risks and opportunities the 
organisation has identified  
over the short, medium,  
and long term. 

b) Describe the impact  
of climate-related risks  
and opportunities on the 
organisation’s businesses, 
strategy, and financial  
planning. 

c) Describe the resilience of the 
organisation’s strategy, taking 
into consideration different 
climate-related scenarios, 
including a 2°C or lower 
scenario. 

Throughout the year SSE worked 
constructively with policymakers to 
navigate the energy crisis and engage  
on the range of potential political 
interventions under consideration. 

As a responsible business, SSE believes that 
electricity generators have a role to play in 
bringing down energy prices, but in a way 
that protects investor confidence in the 
energy sector and energy security more 
broadly. As a Fair Tax Mark accredited 
company SSE also believes in paying its  
fair share of tax. 

SSE supported the principle of the 
Electricity Generator Levy (EGL) in the UK 

and the wholesale electricity revenue cap 
in the EU to ensure that an appropriate 
amount of additional tax on extraordinary 
earnings – where they materialise –  
are paid at a time when consumers are 
experiencing abnormally high prices. 

Alongside other industry participants  
and stakeholders, SSE worked closely 
with the UK and Irish government officials 
through their consultative process with  
a view to ensuring that the design of  
the mechanisms achieved these aims 
whilst protecting against unintended 
consequences for security of supply  
or investor confidence. 

Engagement was well received and helped 
inform practical implementation of the 
policy in a number of important aspects. 

SSE will continue to work constructively 
with all parties to respond to the energy 
crisis, without impacting industry’s ability 
and appetite to deliver the unprecedented 
levels of private capital needed to address 
the main cause of the energy crisis – our 
dependence on imported fossil fuels. 
Addressing the causes of the crisis, rather 
than the short-term symptoms, will 
ultimately require policy frameworks  
that support long-term investment.

38

SSE plc  Annual Report 2023

SSE plc  Annual Report 2023

39

Financial StatementsStrategic ReportDirectors’ ReportFurther information on each climate-
related opportunity and risk is also 
presented in SSE’s CDP Climate Change 
Programme submission, available at  
sse.com/sustainability . 

Conducting climate  
scenario analysis
In 2022/23, SSE conducted scenario 
analysis of its material climate-related 
opportunities and risks. SSE introduced 
‘impact pathways’ to map each potential 
climate event and its effect on SSE’s 
business activities. To calculate the 
potential financial impact a combination  
of data sources were used involving 
historical internal business data, external 
independent climate-related scenario  
data alongside current and approved 
forecast financial data. 

Transition risk scenario frameworks: to 
quantify the potential financial impact  
of the climate transition opportunities or 
risks two external independent climate-
related scenarios were drawn from to 
inform scenario analysis:

1.  International Energy Association’s (IEA) 
Net Zero Emissions by 2050 scenario 
shows a pathway to limit global 
temperature to 1.5°C and aligns with the 
International Panel on Climate Change 
(IPCC) sixth assessment report; and IEA 

Stated Policies Scenario (STEPS) which 
reflects current policy settings based  
on ‘sector by sector’ and ‘country by 
country’ assessments of the specific 
policies that are in place, as well as 
those that have been announced by 
governments around the world and is 
consistent with a global temperature  
rise of 2.5°C. 

Report Representative Concentration 
Pathways (RCPs). For the 1.5°C scenario, 
SSE used the Met Office Climate 
Projections 1.6°C temperature pathway 
which is consistent with the IPCC RCP  
2.6 pathway. The 4°C scenario draws  
from the UK Met Office 4.3°C temperature 
pathway which is consistent with the  
IPCC RCP 8.5 pathway.

General climate change trends project an 
increased chance of warmer, wetter winters 
and hotter, drier summers along with an 
increase in the frequency and intensity  
of extremes. These trends are projected  
to occur from the middle of the century 
onwards. As a result, SSE has modelled  
the physical risks of climate change in  
2050 and 2080 to reflect the longer term 
nature of changes in climate. In addition, 
for these physical risks SSE has used 
climate projection data associated with  
a 1.5°C and 4°C temperature change to 
assess the impact of a more extreme 
warming scenario.  

2.  National Grid Future Energy Scenarios 
which involve four different, credible 
pathways for the future of energy 
between now and 2050. SSE uses  
the ‘Leading the Way’ and ‘Consumer 
transformation’ pathways, which are 
aligned to the UK Net Zero emissions  
by 2050 target that aims to keep global 
temperature rise to below 1.5°C, for its 
1.5°C scenario. SSE uses the National 
Grid Future Energy Scenario ‘Falling 
short’ pathway for its 2.5°C scenario,  
this does not achieve the UK net zero 
emissions by 2050 target and is 
therefore assumed to represent a 
pathway that leads to a warmer global 
temperature outcome of 2.5°C.

Physical risk scenario frameworks: to 
quantify the potential financial impact  
of the physical risk of climate change,  
SSE used the UK Met Office’s climate 
projections (UK CP18) tool. The UK CP18 
data aligns to the International Panel on 
Climate Change’s (IPCC) Sixth Assessment 

A sustainable approach continued
Accelerating climate action continued

Advocating for climate action 
SSE actively and positively advocates for 
more ambitious climate change policy to 
achieve net zero and conducts its advocacy 
in line with the goals of the Paris Agreement 
and its own net zero strategy.

In 2022/23 SSE’s climate advocacy was 
focused on the acceleration of renewables 
deployment to deliver net zero and avoid 
future cost-of-living crises. The importance 
of progress on decarbonising thermal 
generation, heat, and transport has also 
been an advocacy priority for the Group  
in 2022/23.

To maintain momentum towards achieving 
net zero ambitions in the UK SSE engaged 
the UK’s Department for Environment and 
Rural Affairs on matters relating to climate 
adaptation and resilience planning, and 
responded to UK government consultations 
on the Electricity Networks Strategic 
Framework and the Review of Electricity 
Market Arrangements (REMA). In Ireland, 
SSE successfully advocated for an increase 
to the 2030 offshore wind target from 5GW 
to 7GW and responded to the Government’s 
hydrogen strategy for Ireland.

SSE also supported the Transition Plan 
Taskforce preparers and users working 
group to develop guidance on Transition 
Plans and is now a member of the TPT’s 
Delivery Group after involvement with the 
TPT sandbox (testing) exercise. 

Detail of advocacy activities undertaken 
across 2022/23 can be found throughout 
the Strategic Report of this Annual  
Report (pages 2 to 109 ) and in SSE’s 
Sustainability Report 2023  available  
on sse.com/sustainability .

Aligning capital deployment 
to a 1.5°C pathway 
SSE supports the integration of standardised 
and robust sustainability considerations  
into all of its investment decisions. This is 
achieved through internal investment criteria 
which tests capital investment decisions 
against SSE’s commitment to its core 2030 
Goals, including the targeted reductions  
in GHG emissions consistent with a 1.5°C 
Paris-aligned pathway as verified by the 
Science Based Targets initiative. 

In November 2021, SSE announced its  
Net Zero Acceleration Programme which 
committed to enhanced investment in 
renewables, networks and flexibility, whilst 
beginning to export SSE’s renewables 
capabilities overseas. With rising ambitions 
in key markets, combined with an increasing 
focus on energy security, SSE has upgraded 
this strategic programme for the period 
2022 to 2027, referred to as ‘NZAP Plus’,  
to invest more capital into the low-carbon 
electricity infrastructure needed by society. 

Financing climate strategies
SSE understands that investors seek robust 
mechanisms through which they can 
ensure their investments are sustainable 
and take account of climate-related risks. 
To support both its own developments and 
the growth of green finance, SSE also has 
pursued a strategy of issuing green bonds, 
when appropriate, to fund its investments. 

In July 2022, SSE issued a €650m seven-
year Green Bond, the proceeds of which 
were allocated to help fund SSE Renewables’ 
flagship onshore and offshore wind projects 
which are currently under construction or 
recently completed. This marks SSE’s fifth 
Green Bond in six years and reaffirms its 
status as one of the largest issuer of Green 
Bonds from the UK corporate sector. It 
remains the only UK corporate to offer 
multiple Green Bonds and this latest 
issuance brings SSE’s total outstanding 
green bonds to over £2.5bn. More 
information can be found at sse.com/ 
greenbond .

With around 90% of the NZAP Plus 
expected to be invested in either 
renewables or networks, the substantial 
majority of the investment plan is directly 
focussed on climate solutions to achieve 
SSE’s 2030 Goals, the four material UN 
Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) 
which underpin them and is aligned to  
the Technical Screening Criteria of the EU 
Taxonomy. The remaining 10% includes 
investment in low-carbon flexible service 
technologies, such as the two recently 
announced Biofuel projects in Ireland,  
as well as other capital investment such  
as maintenance spend and investment in 
Group IT infrastructure.

Material climate impacts
The most material climate-related 
opportunities and risks are described  
in detail on pages 42 to 45  and have  
the potential to significantly impact SSE’s 
business, strategy and financial planning. 

The opportunities (pages 42 and 43 ) relate 
to the role that renewables, transmission and 
distribution electricity networks, and thermal 
generation play in supporting the transition 
to net zero. The material risks (pages 44 and 
45 ) are associated with the physical 
impacts of extreme or changing weather 
conditions on renewable and network 
operations; alongside transition risks  
related to renewable wholesale prices  
and resilience of thermal power generators 
to changing policy. 

Net Zero Transition Plan pathway

S1

Scope 1  S2

Scope 2  S3  Scope 3

2025

2035

2050

Target

Short term (to 2025)

Medium term (2025–2035)

Long term (2035–2050)

Engage with 50%  
of suppliers by  
spend to set an  
SBT by 2024.

Reduce the carbon 
intensity of scope 1 
GHG emissions by 
80% by 2030, from 
2017/18 baseline.

Reduce absolute 
scope 1 and 2 GHG 
emissions by 72.5%  
by 2030 from a 
2017/18 base year.

Reduce absolute  
GHG emissions from 
use of products sold 
by 50% by 2034 from  
a 2017/18 base year.

Net zero for SSE’s 
scope 1 and 2 
emissions by 2040.

Net zero for all SSE’s 
remaining scope 3 
emissions by 2050.

S3

S1

S1

S2

S3

S1

S2

S3

Note: for definitions of scopes 1, 2 and 3 SSE follows the GHG Protocol.  
For further information on SSE’s GHG and Water reporting criteria see sse.com/sustainability .

40

SSE plc  Annual Report 2023

SSE plc  Annual Report 2023

41

Financial StatementsStrategic ReportDirectors’ Report 
 
 
A sustainable approach continued
Accelerating climate action continued

Understanding climate-related opportunities and risks 
The purpose of TCFD disclosures is to demonstrate the resilience of a company to climate change. An important way to consider that 
resilience, is to define climate-related opportunities and risks and subject them to different climate outcomes. The next four pages are 
dedicated to helping stakeholders understand SSE’s resilience under varying scenarios and timeframes. This analysis does not represent 
a prediction of the future, simply a tool to understand a plausible spectrum of outcomes. 

Pages 42 and 43  assesses SSE’s climate opportunities and pages 44 and 45  considers SSE’s identified climate risks. 

Potential financial impact of assessed climate opportunities

Opportunities

2030 ( EBIT £bn)

2050 (EBIT £bn)

1.5°C

2.5°C

1.5°C

2.5°C

1. Accelerated wind investment1

0.48 – 0.66

0.35 – 0.47

1.09 – 1.50

0.63 – 0.86

Link to strategy

Develop

Operate

Build

Invest

2. Accelerated transmission growth

Context
All net zero pathways for the UK require new 
sources of renewable wind generation, at scale, 
in the north of Scotland. This energy must be 
transported to the regions of demand, requiring 
significant expansion of the north of Scotland 
electricity transmission network. 

Projected renewables generation capacity for 
Scotland from the National Grid Future Energy 
Scenarios ‘Leading the way’ and ‘Falling short’ 
and SSE’s investment in the north of Scotland 

electricity transmission network assumptions 
have been used in the scenario analysis.

Impact to SSE 
As part of the scenario analysis, SSE assessed  
the current and future capital investment plans 
for its SSEN Transmission business. The National 
Grid ‘Leading the way’ Future Energy Scenario 
indicated a significantly greater opportunity in 
2030 and 2050, with ranges of £0.46bn to 
£0.62bn and £1.10bn to £1.50bn respectively, 
when compared to the ‘Falling short’ scenario.

Strategic alignment
While SSEN Transmission has completed the first 
year of its five-year RIIO-T2 investment plan, 
making progress with key strategic investments 
under the Ofgem uncertainty mechanism,  
the scale of growth to 2030 has become clear. 
Ofgem’s ‘Pathway to 2030’ identified £7bn of 
further investment required in the north of 
Scotland establishing confidence that both 
national climate targets can be met, and that 
SSEN Transmission’s growth will more closely 
align with the ‘Leading the way’ climate scenario. 

2. Accelerated transmission growth2

0.46 – 0.62

0.21 – 0.28

1.10 – 1.50

0.82 – 1.11

3. Valuable flexible hydro

3. Valuable flexible hydro1

4. Valuable flexible thermal1

0.00 – 0.01

0.00 – 0.01

0.15 – 0.20

0.13 – 0.17

0.14 – 0.20

0.66 – 0.99

0.05 – 0.07

5. Driving distribution transformation3

0.09 – 0.12

0.04 – 0.06

0.31 – 0.42

0.28 – 0.37

The potential financial impact of all scenarios is stated in GBP billion (£bn) based on one-year annualised earnings before interest and tax (EBIT) and presented as a 
range to reflect sensitivities applied to each climate scenario. For each opportunity, the annualised EBIT is adjusted for the capacity or other growth assumptions from 
the noted scenarios. Further adjustments for price changes based on increased system capacity were made for opportunities 1 and 3.

1  The 1.5°C scenario draws from the IEA Net Zero Emissions by 2050 pathway and from the IEA STEPS pathway for the 2.5°C scenario. 
2  The 1.5°C scenario draws from the National Grid Future Energy Scenario ‘Leading the way’ pathway and from the National Grid Future Energy Scenario ‘Falling 

short’ pathway for the 2.5°C scenario.

3  The 1.5°C scenario draws from the National Grid Future Energy Scenario ‘Consumer transformation’ pathway and from the National Grid Future Energy Scenario 

‘Falling short’ pathway for the 2.5°C scenario. 

Resilience after scenario analysis
Climate change scenarios present different possible futures and are based on independent projections from external scenario providers 
including the International Energy Agency (IEA), National Grid Future Energy Scenarios and the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate 
Change (IPCC). Scenarios are not forecasts and should not be relied upon for decision making. The scenarios are designed for SSE  
to test its resilience against a range of different future states and inform strategic decision making.

The scenario analysis completed by SSE on its material climate opportunities indicates that SSE, its strategy and financial plans are resilient 
under a range of climate-related scenarios, including a 1.5°C and 2.5°C temperature pathway. Due to SSE’s strategy to focus on the transition 
to a net zero world, opportunities under a 1.5°C scenario represent greater growth than those under a 2.5°C temperature pathway. 

Context
A renewables-led electricity system will require 
support from flexible generators that provide 
system services, such as short-term reserve, 
frequency and long-duration storage services. 
The opportunity exists to use low-carbon flexible 
hydro capacity and invest in pumped storage 
capacity to support the GB electricity system. 

Key assumptions included the projected hydro 
generation capacity from the IEA Net Zero 

Emissions and STEPS scenarios, SSE’s renewable 
investment projections and internal price factors 
to take account of market volatility.

Impact to SSE 
The scenario analysis assessed the optimisation of 
SSE’s existing hydro assets and the development 
of Coire Glas a large scale, long-duration pumped 
storage project. The 1.5°C scenario indicated a 
greater opportunity for SSE’s hydro assets in 2050 
reflecting the impact of investing in Coire Glas, 

with a range of £0.15bn to £0.20bn, when 
compared to the warmer 2.5°C scenario.

Strategic alignment
SSE seeks to invest in its existing 1.5GW of  
hydro capacity as well as develop pumped 
storage capacity at Coire Glas as part of its 
current five-year investment programme. This 
investment strategy is therefore aligned to the 
opportunities arising from a 1.5°C scenario.

4. Valuable flexible thermal

Context
A renewables-led electricity system requires 
support from flexible generators that provide 
system services, such as short-term reserve, 
frequency, security of supply and price stability. 
There is the opportunity to repurpose SSE’s 
existing gas-powered electricity generators,  
as well as invest in new low-carbon thermal 
generation assets. 

Natural gas with carbon capture and storage 
generation projections from the IEA Net Zero 
Emissions by 2050 and STEPS scenarios and SSE’s 
current and future investment plans in low-

carbon thermal generation assumptions have 
been used in the scenario analysis.

Impact to SSE 
The scenario analysis assessed current and  
future capital investment plans for SSE’s  
Thermal business. The 1.5°C scenario indicated  
a significantly greater opportunity in 2050, with a 
range of £0.66bn and £0.99bn, when compared 
to a warmer 2.5°C scenario. The opportunity 
highlights that investment in low-carbon thermal 
technologies in the short and medium term 
present greater growth in the long term.

Strategic alignment
SSE is actively developing options to decarbonise 
its fleet, most notably in carbon capture and 
storage and hydrogen technologies. Projects 
include carbon capture and storage projects as 
part of the UK cluster sequencing programme  
at Keadby in the Humber and Peterhead in the 
North of Scotland alongside hydrogen projects at 
Keadby and Saltend and the repurposing of SSE’s 
Aldbrough Gas Storage site for the safe storage of 
hydrogen. These plans are therefore aligned to 
the opportunities arising from a 1.5°C scenario.

Climate opportunity impacts
With five relevant material climate opportunities identified, each is defined with its impact on strategy described below: 

5. Driving distribution transformation

1. Accelerated wind investment

Context 
UK and international binding net zero targets 
supported by renewable capacity growth plans 
and targets provide an opportunity to invest  
in the growth of SSE’s installed onshore and 
offshore wind generation capacity. 

Key assumptions included the wind capacity 
projections from the IEA Net Zero Emissions  
by 2050 and STEPS scenarios, SSE’s current  
and pipeline wind investment projections and 
internal wind capture price factors.

Impact to SSE 
As part of the scenario analysis, SSE assessed its 
current and pipeline wind portfolio to understand 
the potential opportunity of accelerated wind 
investment to the business in 2030 and 2050. 
The 1.5°C scenario indicated a significantly 
greater opportunity in 2030, with a range of 
£0.48bn to £0.66bn and an opportunity of more 
than double that in 2050 with a range of £1.09bn 
to £1.50bn, when compared to a warmer 2.5°C 
scenario for the same time horizons.

Strategic alignment
Under the NZAP Plus, SSE anticipates that around 
5GW of additional net capacity will be added 
across the five-year plan, with net installed 
capacity exceeding 9GW by March 2027. This 
investment strategy aligns to the opportunities 
arising from a 1.5°C scenario.

Context
To deliver net zero targets across all sectors  
and countries requires a shift to zero emission 
vehicles and electric heating. In the UK this 
requires the transformation of the distribution 
system to ensure the system is fit to manage the 
potential five to ten-fold increase in annual load 
expected between now and 2038. 

Projected electricity consumer demand from the 
National Grid Future Energy Scenarios ‘Consumer 

transformation’ and ‘Falling short’ and SSEN 
Distribution’s investment plans to support the 
electrification of the energy system have been 
used in the scenario analysis.

opportunity in 2030 and 2050, with ranges of 
£0.09bn to £0.12bn and £0.31bn to £0.42bn 
respectively, when compared to the ‘Falling  
short’ scenario.

Impact to SSE 
As part of the scenario analysis, SSE assessed  
the current capital investment plans for its  
SSEN Distribution business. The National Grid 
‘Consumer transformation’ Future Energy 
Scenario indicated a significantly greater 

Strategic alignment
SSEN Distribution’s current RIIO-ED2 business 
plan for 2023 to 2028 sets out the flexibility and 
network investment required to accelerate net 
zero and therefore is aligned to the opportunities 
arising from a 1.5°C scenario.

42

SSE plc  Annual Report 2023

SSE plc  Annual Report 2023

43

Financial StatementsStrategic ReportDirectors’ Report 
 
A sustainable approach continued
Accelerating climate action continued

Potential financial impact of assessed physical risks of climate change
To SSE, climate-related risk expresses itself in two ways: through the physical risk associated with a climate changed world; and through 
the transition risks associated with policy or market change. The tables presented on pages 44 and 45  present SSE’s material climate-
related risks alongside the potential financial impact against a series of climate scenarios. The impacts described are designed to aid 
understanding of SSE’s climate risks and are not intended to be forward looking guidance.

Link to strategy

Develop

Operate

Build

Invest

Potential financial impact of assessed transition risks

Physical climate risks from a changed climate

Risks

2050 (EBIT £bn)

2080 (EBIT £bn)

1.5°C

4°C

1.5°C

4°C

Risks

2030 (EBIT £bn)

2050 (EBIT £bn)

1.5°C

2.5°C

1.5°C

2.5°C

Transition risks arising from policy and market change

1. Variable renewable generation risk1

(0.10) – (0.14)

(0.13) – (0.17)

(0.15) – (0.20)

(0.20) – (0.27)

3. Accelerated gas closure risk1

(0.34) – (0.51)

(0.17) – (0.26)

2. Storm, wind and heat damage to networks assets risk2

(0.07) – (0.09)

(0.07) – (0.10) 

(0.13) - (0.18)

(0.15) - (0.20)

4. Wind capture market risk2

(0.11) – (0.15)

(0.03) – (0.04)

(0.38) – (0.52)

(0.10) – (0.14)

The potential financial impact of all scenarios is stated in GBP billion (£bn) based on one-year annualised earnings before interest and tax (EBIT) and presented as a 
range to reflect sensitivities applied to each climate scenario. Storm, wind and heat damage to networks assets risk is stated in GBP billion (£bn) based on one year 
annualised storm costs. External climate models have inherent limitations, with a lack of data on extreme climate events, and lower confidence levels on certain 
climate variables such as wind. SSE’s assessments account for uncertainties by extracting average wind speed data to assess the impact.

1  The 1.5°C scenario draws from the  IEA Net Zero Emissions by 2050 pathway and the UK Met Office Climate Projections (UK CP18) 1.6°C temperature pathway 
which is consistent with the IPCC RCP 2.6 pathway. The 4°C scenario draws the IEA Net Zero Emissions by 2050 pathway and the UK Met Office CP18 4.3°C 
temperature pathway which is consistent with the IPCC RCP 8.5 pathway.

2  The 1.5°C scenario draws from the National Grid Future Energy Scenario ‘Consumer transformation’ pathway and the UK Met Office Climate Projections (UK CP18) 
1.6°C temperature pathway which is consistent with the IPCC RCP 2.6 pathway. The 4°C scenario draws the National Grid Future Energy Scenario ‘Falling short’ 
pathway and the UK Met Office CP18 4.3°C temperature pathway which is consistent with the IPCC RCP 8.5 pathway.

Resilience after scenario analysis
The scenario analysis completed by SSE on its material climate physical risks indicates that SSE is reasonably resilient to identified climate-
related scenarios including 1.5°C and 4°C pathways. For SSE, the potential financial impact at a 1.5°C pathway presents a lower risk in the 
scenarios than a 4°C pathway. This reflects the potential impact of greater global warming and the associated weather impacts of sustained 
higher temperatures and extreme weather events (including storms, heat waves and flooding) associated with a warming world. 

Due to SSE’s strategy and the key controls that it employs to manage and mitigate the climate risks, SSE is positioned well to respond to 
the risks presented in both a 1.5°C pathway and 4°C pathway.

Physical climate risk impacts 

1. Variable renewable generation

Context
Longer term changes in climate patterns cause 
sustained higher temperatures that may result  
in lower rainfall and reduced wind levels. These 
changes may impact SSE’s renewable output  
and associated earnings in the short, medium  
and long term. 

Key assumptions included the IEA Net Zero 
Emissions by 2050 wind generation projections 
and the Met Office UK Climate projections for 
average wind speed times.

Impact to SSE 
This is a perennial risk that impacts SSE.  
For instance, in the first half of 2021/22 SSE 
experienced one of the driest and calmest summer 
periods (April to September) on record which 
reduced adjusted operating profit through the 
summer period and impacted financial plans for 
the year. For the future, with a five-fold increase  
in renewables capacity by 2031 and prospects 
beyond 2031, this risk will continue to impact SSE. 

The 4°C scenario indicated a greater risk in 2050, 
with a range of £0.13bn and £0.17bn and a more 
significant risk in 2080 with a range of £0.20bn to 

£0.27bn, when compared to a 1.5°C scenario for 
the same time horizons.
Strategic alignment
The technical and geographical nature of SSE’s 
renewable capacity alongside meteorological 
monitoring, crisis management and business 
continuity plans are some of the ways that SSE 
manages and mitigates its business against this risk.

2. Storm, wind and heat damage to networks assets 

Context
Increased severity of extreme weather events, 
such as storms, floods and heat waves bring 
prolonged extreme temperatures, wind or 
rainfall. This may damage or stress network 
assets and result in additional costs to repair  
and maintain the network and the loss of 
incentive revenue for distribution operators. 

Projected electricity consumer demand from 
National Grid Future Energy Scenarios ‘Consumer 
transformation’ and ‘Falling short’, Met Office UK 
Climate projections for average wind speed times 
and internal assumptions on the projected 

44

SSE plc  Annual Report 2023

frequency of extreme storms and heat waves 
have been used in the scenario analysis.

£0.20bn when compared to a 1.5°C scenario  
for the same time horizons.

Impact to SSE 
This risk has the potential to impact SSE’s 
networks assets in the medium and long term. 
For example, in the 2021/22 winter season, SSE 
experienced five storms named by the Met Office 
that became Red Alert events and impacted over 
100,000 customers with many impacted for a 
multi-day period. 

The 4°C scenario indicated a more significant risk 
in the longer term, with a range of £0.15bn to 

Strategic alignment
A programme of investment into the 
strengthening and improvement of SSE’s  
networks alongside meteorological modelling, 
crisis management and business continuity plans 
are some of the ways that SSE manages and 
mitigates its business against this risk. 

The potential financial impact for the accelerated gas closure risk is stated in GBP billion (£bn) based projected Net Present Value for each gas-fired power station and 
the wind capture market risk is stated in GBP billion (£bn) based on one-year annualised earnings before interest and tax (EBIT). All scenarios are presented as a range 
to reflect sensitivities applied to each climate scenario. Further adjustments for price changes based on increased system capacity were made for risk 4.

1  The 1.5°C scenario draws from the National Grid Future Energy Scenario ‘Leading the way’ pathway and from the National Grid Future Energy Scenario ‘Falling 

short’ pathway for the 2.5°C scenario.

2  The 1.5°C scenario draws from the IEA Net Zero Emissions by 2050 pathway and from the IEA STEPS pathway for the 2.5°C scenario. 

Resilience after scenario analysis
The scenario analysis completed by SSE on its material climate transition risks indicates that SSE is resilient to identified climate-related 
scenarios including 1.5°C and 2.5°C pathways. For SSE, the potential financial impact at a 1.5°C pathway presents a greater risk than  
the 2.5°C pathway in these climate scenarios. This reflects the potential impact of climate policy in the 1.5°C scenario which may bring 
forward the closure of unabated thermal generation to 2030 or earlier and potentially impact future earnings. Whilst the wind capture 
market risk has the potential in the 1.5°C scenario to have a greater impact on SSE’s current renewable capacity and future new renewable 
capacity and potential future earnings. Due to SSE’s strategy and the key controls that SSE employs to manage and mitigate the climate 
risks, SSE is positioned well to respond to the risks presented in both a 1.5°C pathway and 2.5°C pathway.

Climate transition risk impacts 

3. Accelerated gas closure 

Context
More aggressive climate change policy may bring 
forward the closure of unabated gas generation 
from 2030. 

Key assumptions included the National Grid 
Future Energy Scenarios ‘Leading the way’ and 
‘Falling short’ for installed unabated natural gas 
generation capacity decline projections in 2030 
and 2035 and the net present value of existing 
gas-fired power stations with a life expectancy 
post 2030.

4. Wind capture market

Context
All credible pathways to net zero in the UK and 
beyond assume the dramatic scaling up of wind 
(especially offshore) generated electricity. As 
wind generation capacity increases, it is expected 
that the average electricity price wind power 
(‘wind capture price’) achieves will be less than 
the average price for electricity (‘baseload price’). 
There is a risk that this lower average price for 
wind output is more extreme than expected by 
the market or SSE. 

Key assumptions included wind capacity 
projections from the IEA Net Zero Emissions by 

Impact to SSE 
SSE’s existing 5.3GW fleet of installed gas- and 
oil-fired generation will be nearing the end of its 
expected life by the end of the 2020s. However, 
2.3GW of Combined Cycle Gas Turbine (CCGT) 
capacity will still be in operation in 2030. The 
climate scenario analysis assessed the impact of 
this capacity not being able to generate beyond 
2030 without low-carbon abatement technology. 

Under the 1.5°C scenario all remaining gas-fired 
capacity closes by 2030 whilst the 2.5°C scenario 
assumes some gas-fired power stations are still 
able to operate beyond 2030 but expects any 

remaining power stations to close by 2035. The 
1.5°C scenario indicated a greater risk in 2030, 
with a range of £0.34bn and £0.51bn when 
compared to a warmer 2.5°C scenario for the 
same time horizon.

Strategic alignment
To mitigate this risk, SSE is in the process  
of repurposing existing thermal assets and 
developing low-carbon thermal technologies 
and in addition has a strong pipeline of new 
renewables projects that provide a natural  
hedge against this risk.

2050 and STEPS scenarios, internal non-
subsidised wind output and internal wind capture 
price factors.

Impact to SSE 
The wind capture market risk has the potential  
to be greater in a 1.5°C scenario than in the 2.5°C 
scenario due to the expectation that the 1.5°C 
scenario expects new renewable capacity to be 
built at a greater pace to meet the net zero by 
2050 goal. 

The climate scenario assessed SSE’s current and 
future renewables capacity against the future IEA 

projections for both pathways. The 1.5°C 
scenario indicated a greater risk in 2030, with  
a range of £0.11bn and £0.15bn and a more 
significant risk in 2050 with a range of £0.38bn  
to £0.52bn, when compared to a warmer 2.5°C 
scenario for the same time horizons.

Strategic alignment
SSE’s balanced portfolio of generation capacity, 
power hedging strategies and the fact that SSE 
factors wind capture price into its long term price 
forecasts are some of the ways that SSE manages 
and mitigates its business against this risk.

SSE plc  Annual Report 2023

45

Financial StatementsStrategic ReportDirectors’ Report 
Proxies 
Where financial results are not 
appropriately split into Taxonomy  
eligible activities (namely Energy Portfolio 
Management trading and power sale 
activities), revenue has been allocated 
based on purchased power volumes  
from renewable versus non-renewable 
assets, and operating profit/loss has been 
apportioned based on internal contractual 
trading agreements.

Materiality 
The analysis has been prepared by applying 
a top-down review of SSE’s activities and the 
alignment with existing segmental reporting 
within taxonomy eligible activities. There  
are some activities that fall below specified 
thresholds which are not taxonomy eligible. 
As SSE’s reporting processes and controls 
will be refined ahead of implementation of 
the UK Green Taxonomy, it is expected that 
some reclassification of activities may occur 
due to changes in materiality thresholds or 
clarification on eligible activity criteria. 

A sustainable approach continued
Accelerating climate action continued

Classifying sustainable 
investments
Progressing towards a UK  
Green Taxonomy
SSE is an advocate of the development  
of sustainable finance beyond green and 
sustainable debt markets. SSE supports the 
integration of standardised sustainability 
criteria into investment decisions. Its  
own internal investment criteria ensures 
alignment of capital investment plans to its 
core 2030 Goals which includes targeted 
reductions in GHG emissions consistent 
with a 1.5°C Paris Agreement pathway.

The reason that SSE’s taxonomy-eligible 
revenue appears low in relation to its  
total revenue is primarily due to Energy 
Portfolio Management (EPM) trading activity 
and the sale of power to end customers, 
both of which are high volumes, with 
pass-through costs and lower margins than 
in larger businesses such as renewables 
generation and networks. SSE believes  
that revenue is a poor measure in assessing 
its economic activity and that the most 
appropriate measures of its taxonomy-
eligible economic activity are in relation to  
its capital investment and its operating profit. 

The taxonomy non-eligible activities are 
associated with SSE’s thermal generation 
and gas storage businesses. As these 
businesses continue their decarbonisation 
pathways, it is expected that emerging 
activities such as low-carbon flexible 
generation or hydrogen storage will  
qualify in the future.

Finally, activities that have not been 
identified in the taxonomy as they either  
do not significantly contribute to climate 
change mitigation or could yet be 
integrated into the Taxonomy at a later date 
comprise SSE’s Business Energy, Airtricity, 
Distributed Energy, EPM and Corporate 
businesses. These activities either operate 
as customer focussed businesses, a route  
to market for generation, or do not contain 
material activities at this time. 

Providing the UK Green Taxonomy does 
not deviate significantly from the EU model, 
SSE expects its assessment of its taxonomy 
eligible activities disclosed on page 47  to 
be consistent with a future UK framework.

Taxonomy eligible activities  
at a glance
Assumptions 
SSE’s accounting policies for these 
calculations are based on the current  
EU Taxonomy Regulation 2020/852,  
and delegated acts. 

Linkage principle
In calculating each taxonomy-eligible 
proportion, a ‘linkage principle’ has been 
applied, stipulating that any revenue, 
operating profit/loss or capital expenditure 
that can be justifiably linked to an identified 
taxonomy economic activity can be 
classified as taxonomy-eligible. Using  
this principle, revenue and operating  
profits from SSE’s balancing activities, 
hedging, and trading can be linked to  
the EU taxonomy eligible activities when 
the activity is undertaken to directly 
support the eligible activities. 

The announcement by the UK Government 
in March 2023 that it would consult on a  
UK Green Taxonomy in Autumn 2023 was 
therefore a welcome step, and SSE looks 
forward to engaging in the consultation 
process. SSE continues to make the  
case that a UK-appropriate taxonomy – 
consistent with the broad principles 
established by the EU Taxonomy but with  
a focus on being simpler, more transparent 
and auditable – would help support the 
quality of standards, labels and disclosures 
required to define green finance activity. 
SSE’s Sustainability Report 2023  
discusses the opportunities to enhance  
the UK Green Taxonomy, available at  
sse.com/sustainability .

Assessing SSE’s eligible activities
To provide stakeholders with an indication 
of the scale of SSE’s green economic 
activities, SSE has taken a best efforts 
approach to consider its alignment  
to the EU Taxonomy. Key strategic  
activities (ie onshore wind, offshore wind, 
transmission, distribution) from SSE’s 
Reporting Segments were assessed against 
the technical screening criteria. While an 
internal assessment against the Do No 
Significant Harm and minimum safeguards 
criteria was undertaken, a second party 
opinion has not yet been sought. 

The financial metrics disclosed continue  
to be classified based on SSE’s reportable 
segments. Table 1 on page 47  provides 
the output from this principle-based 
assessment of SSE’s taxonomy aligned 
activities. 

Taxonomy eligible activities in 2022/23  
are from SSE’s onshore and offshore wind 
generation, hydro (run of river and pumped 
storage) as well as its networks transmission 
and distribution activities. In 2022/23,  
the proportion of SSE’s taxonomy-eligible 
activities across the different measures 
were: adjusted operating profit, 55%; 
adjusted investment and capital 
expenditure, 81%; and, revenue, 26%. 

46

SSE plc  Annual Report 2023

Table 1: Assessment of SSE’s taxonomy aligned activities

SSE’s reported segments (a)

Taxonomy eligible activity (a)

Revenue (b)

Adjusted operating  
profit (c)

Adjusted investment and 
capital expenditure (d)

SSEN Transmission 

Transmission of electricity

SSEN Distribution 

SSE Renewables 

EPM

Distribution of electricity 

Electricity generation 

As route to market for  
SSE Renewables 

£m

656.1 

1,102.7 

334.8 

1,150.2 

%

5.3

8.8

2.7

9.2

£m

372.7 

382.4 

580.0 

62.3 

Total taxonomy eligible activities

3,243.8 

26.0

1,397.4 

SSE Thermal 

Gas Storage

EPM 

Thermal Generation

Supply of energy

As route to market for  
SSE Thermal

Taxonomy non-eligible activities

Business Energy

SSE Airtricity

EPM

Distributed Energy

Corporate unallocated

740.4 

12.2 

3,198.6 

3,951.2 

3,313.5 

1,776.9 

– 

139.1 

66.2 

5.9

0.1

25.6

31.6

26.6

14.2

–

1.1

0.5

1,031.9 

212.5 

(3.0)

17.9 

5.6 

21.1 

(27.4)

(126.8)

Total taxonomy partially/not-aligned activities

5,295.7 

42.4

(109.6)

%

14.7

15.1

22.9

2.5

55.2

40.8

8.4

(0.1)

£m

495.5 

421.0 

837.5 

1.2 

%

22.9

19.5

38.7

0.1

1,755.2 

81.2

153.2 

6.3 

1.2 

7.1

0.3

0.1

7.5

1.8

0.5

0.1

5.7

3.2

11.3

1,241.4 

49.1

160.7 

0.8

0.2

0.8

(1.1)

(5.0)

(4.3)

38.9 

10.5 

2.3 

124.7 

68.3 

244.7 

Total continuing operations

12,490.7 

100.0

2,529.2 

100.0

2,160.6 

100.0

Notes:
(a)  Alignment is based on segmental reporting in SSE’s financial year end statements.
(b)   Revenue: derived from the disaggregation of revenue from contracts by customers, in line with the requirements of IFRS 15 ‘Revenue from Contracts with 

Customers’ (see note 5.1.1).

(c)  Adjusted operating profit/loss: calculated as adjusted operating profit/loss related to the businesses aligned with the taxonomy categories (see note 5.1.2).
(d)   Adjusted investment and capital expenditure: calculated as adjusted capital expenditure related to assets or processes associated with taxonomy-eligible 
economic activities that is accounted for based on IAS 16, IAS 38 and IFRS 16 and thereby included within adjusted capital expenditure (see note 5.1.3).

Revenue

Adjusted operating profit

Adjusted investment and  
capital expenditure

   Eligible
   Not eligible
   Not aligned

SSE plc  Annual Report 2023

47

Financial StatementsStrategic ReportDirectors’ ReportA sustainable approach continued
Accelerating climate action continued

Climate opportunity and risk management

Identifying and assessing climate 
opportunities and risks
SSE’s Group Risk Management Framework 
(pages 156 and 157 ) is complemented by 
a specialist TCFD climate assessment that 
identifies and assesses climate opportunity 
and risk in the short, medium and long term. 

The climate risk assessment involves senior 
business leader interviews supported by 
ongoing business unit risk assessments to 
capture and understand a long list of climate 
opportunities and risks. A materiality test  
is completed, and a final list of significant 
climate opportunities and risks defined. 

SSE identifies the climate impact on its 
operations over the short (up to three 
years), medium (four to 10 years) and long 
term (up to 30 years) from the perspective 
of market, policy or regulatory transition 
opportunities and risks. Climate impacts  
to SSE’s operations from the physical risks 
of climate change are assessed over the 
short (up to three years), medium (four to 
10 years) and long term (up to 80 years). 
SSE’s time horizons for assessing climate-
related opportunities and risks are aligned 
with other business practice time horizons.  
The three climate-related time horizons 
mirror the investment, capital and 
regulatory time horizons that govern SSE’s 
financial, operational and capital plans. 

Materiality is tested for each climate 
opportunity or risk based on its ability  
to have a substantive potential financial 
impact on SSE’s strategy or significant 
impact on SSE’s stakeholders.

In 2022/23, the assessment process 
reconfirmed that the material climate-
related opportunities and risks (on pages  
50 to 53  of SSE’s Annual Report 2022 ) 
remained relevant to SSE with some minor 
amendments to a few such as, the ‘storm 
damage network risk’ was updated to  
more precisely account for the impact  
of wind and heat (page 44 ).

Managing climate opportunities 
and risks 
SSE’s System of Internal Control defines the 
policy, standards and governance for the 
management of all risks, including those 
relating to climate. The system involves  
the critical controls that are in place to 
manage risk including climate risk. Controls 
include business continuity plans, crisis 
management and incident response, large 
capital project governance and internal and 
external assurance. 

The climate-related opportunities and  
risks (pages 42 to 45 ), combined with 
SSE’s Sustainability Report 2022  and CDP 
Climate Change response provides further 
information on these actions and controls.

Integrated climate-related  
risk assessment 
SSE’s Group Risk Management Framework 
(pages 156 and 157 ) manages risks  
that can threaten the achievement of  
SSE’s strategic objectives, including  
climate change. 

TCFD Risk Management 
recommendations:

Risk Management

a) Describe the organisation’s 
processes for identifying  
and assessing climate- 
related risks. 

b) Describe the organisation’s 
processes for managing 
climate-related risks. 

c) Describe how processes  
for identifying, assessing,  
and managing climate-related 
risks are integrated into the 
organisation’s overall risk 
management. 

Climate change is a Group Principal Risk  
to SSE and has the ability to affect the 
achievement of agreed strategic objectives 
and the long term success of SSE (see page 
72 ). Scenarios related to physical risks 
associated with climate change form part 
of SSE’s viability assessment (page 71 ). 
Climate-related influencing factors and key 
developments are also considered against 
all relevant Group Principal Risks (pages 68 
to 77 ).

48

SSE plc  Annual Report 2023

Climate metrics and targets

GHG emissions preparation
SSE’s GHG inventory is prepared in 
accordance with the UK Government’s 
environmental reporting guidelines  
(BEIS, March 2019); the Greenhouse Gas 
Protocol: A Corporate Accounting and 
Reporting Standard (revised edition) 
developed by the World Resources Institute 
and the World Business Council for 
Sustainable Development (2004); and  
ISO 14064-1:2018 Specification with 
Guidance at the Organization Level  
for Quantification and Reporting of 
Greenhouse Gas Emissions and Removals. 

For more information on SSE’s GHG 
emissions data and how it is produced,  
see SSE’s GHG and Water reporting criteria 
available at sse.com/sustainability .

GHG emissions inventory
Table 2, in combination with the energy  
use data outlined in Table 6 on page 54 , 
represents SSE’s disclosures in line with the 
UK Government Streamlined Energy and 
Carbon Reporting requirements. SSE  
takes an operational control consolidation 
approach to account for its GHG emissions. 
Under the operational control approach, 
SSE includes all joint arrangements that it 
has operational control in its scope 1 and 2 
inventory. For activities SSE does not have 
operational control, the GHG emissions 
from the most material joint arrangements 
(where SSE holds an equity share equal to 
or greater than 50%) are included in SSE’s 
scope 3 inventory.

SSE’s inventory details its direct and  
indirect GHG emissions (scopes 1, 2 and 3) 
performance (measured in million tonnes 
of carbon dioxide equivalent – MtCO2e), 
provided as total emissions as well as split 
out by UK and Irish activity. It also provides 
a carbon intensity measure based on direct 
GHG emissions released for each unit of 
electricity SSE produced. 

Table 2: SSE’s GHG inventory

Total GHG emissions1

Unit

MtCO2e

2022/23

11.33(A)

Scope 1 GHG emissions1 – total (UK/Ire) MtCO2e

Scope 2 GHG emissions – total (UK/Ire) MtCO2e

Scope 3 GHG emissions – total (UK/Ire)1,4 MtCO2e
Scope 1 GHG emissions intensity of 

6.08(A) 
(5.35/0.73)

0.44(A)
(0.44/<0.01)

4.81(A)
(4.12/0.69)

2021/22

9.93(B)

5.75(B)
(4.22/1.53)

0.49(B)
(0.49/<0.01)

3.69(B)
(2.86/0.83)

electricity generated

Total renewable generation output2  

– total (UK/Ire)

gCO2e/kWh 254(A)
9,665
(8,308/1,357)

GWh

259(B)

8,799 
(7,602/1,197)

Total non-renewable generation output3 

– total (UK/Ire)

GWh

14,302
(12,770/1,532)

13,356 
(10,394/2,962)

Total generation output – total (UK/Ire)

GWh

23,967
(21,078/2,889)

22,155
(17,996/4,159)

1  Excludes immaterial GHG emissions from Keadby 2 gas-fired power station, which was in the final stages 

of testing from September 2022 and was handed over to SSE on 15 March 2023.

2  Total includes pumped storage and biomass output and excludes constrained-off wind in Great Britain. 
Includes 50% output from Seabank power station reflecting the end of SSE’s power purchase agreement 
3 
on 30 September 2021 and SSE’s 50% ownership share from October 2021 onwards. Also includes 50% 
output from Saltend power station and Indian Queens power station from the date of SSE’s acquisition of 
Triton Power on 1 September 2022. Excludes output from Keadby 2 gas-fired power station which was 
handed over to SSE on 15 March 2023.
Includes GHG emissions associated with gas generation through Joint Venture holdings according to 
equity share. They are: Seabank gas-fired power station and Triton Power (which includes Saltend 
gas-fired power station, Indian Queens gas-fired power station and the decommissioned Deeside Power 
station. This reflects the fact that under SSE’s operational control method of reporting GHG emissions, 
Joint Venture equity share of GHG emissions is classed under the scope 3 ‘investment’ category in 
accordance with the GHG Protocol.

4 

TCFD Metrics and  
Targets recommendations:

Metrics and Targets

a) Disclose the metrics used  
by the organisation to assess 
climate-related risks and 
opportunities in line with  
its strategy and risk 
management process.  

b) Disclose Scope 1, Scope 2, 
and, if appropriate, Scope 3 
greenhouse gas (GHG) 
emissions, and the  
related risks.  

c) Describe the targets used by  
the organisation to manage 
climate-related risks and 
opportunities and performance 
against targets.  

More on sse.com/sustainability 

(A) This data is subject to external  

independent limited assurance by 
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP (‘PwC’).  
For the results of that assurance, see 
PwC’s assurance report and SSE’s GHG 
and Water Reporting Criteria 2023 on  
sse.com/sustainability . 

(B) This data was also subject to external 
independent limited assurance by 
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP (‘PwC’).  
For the results of that assurance,  
see PwC’s assurance report in SSE’s 
Sustainability Report 2022 and SSE’s GHG 
and Water Reporting Criteria 2022, both 
available on sse.com/sustainability .

SSE plc  Annual Report 2023

49

Financial StatementsStrategic ReportDirectors’ Report 
A sustainable approach continued
Accelerating climate action continued

Absolute GHG emissions  
in 2022/23
To understand the GHG emission trends 
between reporting periods the GHG 
emission inventory is broken down by scope 
and a description of material contributing 
factors presented. In 2022/23, SSE’s total 
GHG emissions consisted of 54% scope 1 
emissions, 4% scope 2 emissions and 42% 
scope 3 emissions. Overall, SSE’s total  
GHG emissions increased by 14% between 
2021/22 and 2022/23. 

Between 2021/22 and 2022/23, GHG 
emissions arising from electricity generation, 
consisting 99% of SSE’s scope 1 emissions, 
increased by 6%. This was predominantly a 
result of a rise in output from SSE’s thermal 
generation plant by 7% compared to the 
previous year due to market conditions  
and the reinstatement of operations 
following planned and unplanned  
outages the previous year. The impact  
of weather, demand and availability  
of plant creates variation in the pathway  
of emissions reduction. 

SSE’s scope 2 GHG emissions were  
0.44MtCO2e in 2022/23, representing an 
11% reduction from the previous year. This 
reduction in scope 2 emissions is largely  
a result of a fall in the greenhouse gas 
emissions associated with losses on the 
electricity network, which is a result as  
a fall in the grid electricity factor by 9%  
over the same period. 

Total scope 3 emissions increased by 30% 
between 2021/22 and 2022/23. The two 
material contributing factors include:
•  The inclusion of 0.6MtCO2e GHG 

emissions from Saltend gas-fired power 
station from September 2022 onwards. 
This reflects SSE’s 50% purchase of 
Triton which completed in September 
2022. The emissions from Triton are 
defined as scope 3 emissions according 
to SSE’s 50% ownership share. 
•  12 months of GHG emissions data  
from Seabank (50% equity share) 
contributing 0.9MtCO2e following the 
end of SSE’s power purchase agreement 
in September 2021. It should be noted 
that, prior to September 2021, 100%  
of Seabank GHG emissions were 
accounted in SSE’s scope 1 emissions 
according to the GHG Protocol.

The increase in scope 3 emissions is partly 
offset by a reduction of 5.5% in gas sold 
GHG emissions between 2021/22 and 
2022/23.

Scope 1 GHG intensity  
in 2022/23
SSE’s scope 1 GHG emissions intensity fell 
by 2% to 254gCO2e/kWh from 259gCO2e/
kWh the previous year, which is a fall  
of 17% since the 2017/18 base year of 
307gCO2e/kWh. 

SSE’s intensity performance is calculated 
based on two elements – total generation 
output, comprising thermal and renewables 
generation sources and total scope 1 GHG 
emissions (99% of which is from thermal 
generation).

Output from SSE’s renewable generation 
portfolio (inc. pumped storage and biomass) 
increased to 9.7TWh in 2022/23, from 
8.8TWh the previous year, a rise of 10% 
between the same periods. This was driven 
by increased output having experienced  
an exceptionally still and dry weather 
conditions the previous year and output 
from the operational turbines at Seagreen 
offshore wind farm.

With scope 3 emissions increasingly 
becoming a greater proportion of SSE’s 
GHG emission inventory as a result of  
the approach it is taking to delivery its 
strategy, SSE is working with its Joint 
Venture partners to ensure each put in 
place their own Net Zero Transition Plans. 
SSE’s scope 3 emissions represent 42% of 
its total GHG emissions inventory and the 
emissions associated with Joint Venture 
thermal generation contributes to 32%  
of the scope 3 GHG inventory. 

Output from SSE’s thermal generation  
also increased, however this was by a  
lesser extent than for renewables output. 
This meant that the proportion of total 
generation output contributed to by 
renewable generation continued to 
represent 40% of the total portfolio  
in 2022/23. 

Overall, SSE’s scope 1 GHG intensity was 
slightly lower than the previous year due to 
a reduction in output from the most carbon 
intensive generating plant in SSE’s portfolio, 
including from carbon intensive peaking 
plant in Ireland.

40,000

35,000

30,000

25,000

20,000

15,000

10,000

5,000

)
h
W
G

(

t
u
p
t
u
o
n
o
i
t
a
r
e
n
e
G

12

9

6

3

s
n
o
i
s
s
i

m
e
G
H
G
1
e
p
o
c
S

)
e
2
O
C
s
e
n
n
o
t
n
o

i
l
l
i

m

(

18/19

19/20

20/21

21/22

22/23

  Renewables output 
   Scope 1 GHG emissions 

  Coal output 

  Gas and oil output* 

  Multifuel output 

* In 2022/23, oil-fired generation output contributed around 2% of gas and oil output. 

Performance against targets
To support improved performance, SSE 
measures and reports progress against 
interim science-based targets on a 1.5°C 
pathway. This performance is outlined in 
Table 3. 

SSE remains on track to achieve its 
SBTi-approved target to reduce scope 1 
GHG emissions intensity by 80% between 
2017/18 and 2030. It is expected that SSE’s 
NZAP Plus will develop and connect the 
renewables capacity which will contribute 
to a reduction in the scope 1 GHG intensity 
by 2030.

SSE’s total scope 1 and 2 GHG emissions 
combined were 6.52MtCO2e in 2022/23, 
this is a reduction of 41% from the 2017/18 
base year of SSE’s SBTi-approved absolute 
scope 1 and 2 GHG target. Overall, SSE’s 
scope 1 and 2 GHG emissions have 
reduced significantly compared to the base 
year, reflecting lower output from thermal 
power stations and the closure of SSE’s last 
coal-fired power plant in March 2020. SSE 
aims to reduce absolute scope 1 and 2 
GHG emissions by 72.5% between 2017/18 
and 2030.

GHG emissions from gas sold to 
customers, which contribute around 45%  
of SSE’s scope 3 emissions in 2022/23, 
decreased by 5.5%. This was a result of 
lower market demand reflecting increased 
market prices. This means GHG emissions 
from gas sold have reduced by 15% from 
2017/18. SSE’s SBTi-approved target is to 
reduce GHG emissions from gas sold by 
50% between 2017/18 and 2034. 

Table 3: SSE’s performance against its science-based carbon targets

Target

Unit

2017/18

2021/22

2022/23

Target

Progress against target

Reduce the GHG intensity of scope 1 
GHG emissions by 80% by 2030, 
from a 2017/18 base year

Reduce absolute scope 1 and 2 GHG 
emissions by 72.5% by 2030 from a 
2017/18 base year

Reduce absolute GHG emissions 
from use of products sold by 50%  
by 2034 from a 2017/18 base year

gCO2e/kWh

307

259

254

61

MtCO2e

11.06

6.24

6.52

3.04

MtCO2e

2.53

2.29

2.16

1.27

Engage with 50% of suppliers by 
spend to set an SBT by 2024

%

0

48

51

50

17% reduction in GHG intensity 
since 2017/18

41% reduction in absolute 
scope 1 and 2 GHG emissions 
since 2017/18

15% reduction in GHG 
emissions from gas sold  
since 2017/18

52% of SSE’s suppliers (by value) 
that set or committed to set 
their own science-based 
targets through the SBTi

Working with supply chain 
partners to drive climate action
To support the reduction of emissions 
associated with the goods and services  
SSE purchases, SSE seeks to engage with 
50% of suppliers (according to financial 
expenditure) to set their own science-
based targets by 2024. SSE continued to 
engage with its supply chain on climate 
matters through its partnership with the 
Supply Chain Sustainability School with 
nearly 27% of suppliers by spend using the 
resources and training available. In addition, 
a carbon working group was set up through 
the Powering Net Zero Pact, that aims to 
collaborate on a fair and just transition to 
net zero carbon emissions, with the aim of 
improving scope 3 emissions reporting.

At 31 March 2022, 34% of SSE’s suppliers  
by value had set their own science-based 
targets through the SBTi, with a further  
17% committed to setting one. In 2022/23, 
SSE and CDP Supply Chain collaborated  
to deliver supplier webinars that aimed at 
increasing the climate change questionnaire 
response rate from its suppliers, the 
engagement led to 237 key suppliers 
responding to the questionnaire and  
a supplier response rate of 56%.

Carbon pricing
As a generator of electricity, SSE is  
subject to policies that impact the price  
of carbon, which means the price of 
carbon is an explicit consideration in  
many investment decisions. 

SSE’s generation activities in the GB are 
subject to the UK Emissions Trading  
Scheme (UK ETS), which is a cap-and-trade 
emissions scheme. In addition, SSE’s 
generation assets in GB are subject to the 
Carbon Price Support mechanism which 
sets a price per tonne of carbon emitted and 
combined with the UK ETS allowance price, 
makes up the Total Carbon Price paid by 
electricity generators. In Ireland SSE’s 
generation assets are subject to the EU 
Emissions Trading Scheme (EU ETS). At the 
time of reporting, SSE used carbon prices of 
£78/tCO2 in GB and €86/tCO2 in the EU. Our 
future plans include assumptions on low, 
central and high carbon range forecasts.

SSE is required to report its GHG emissions 
and energy consumption and this is 
presented on page 54 . For further  
details on SSE’s approach to carbon pricing 
see SSE’s Sustainability Report 2023  
alongside SSE’s CDP climate change 
submission sse.com/sustainability .

50

SSE plc  Annual Report 2023

SSE plc  Annual Report 2023

51

Financial StatementsStrategic ReportDirectors’ Report 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
A sustainable approach continued

Protecting  
the natural 
environment

Nature has a central role in supporting the achievement of net zero and adapting 
to a climate changed world, and the nature and climate crises must be addressed 
hand-in-hand. SSE’s Environment Strategy provides a framework for SSE to 
manage and mitigate impacts to terrestrial, freshwater and marine ecosystems, 
and build a business that uses resources efficiently and embraces the principles 
of a circular economy.

Emerging nature frameworks 
2022/23 saw a continued international 
focus on nature and biodiversity and some 
significant steps forward for biodiversity 
were made, including the landmark deal 
made at the UN Convention on Biological 
Diversity (UNCBD) in Canada in December 
2022, to protect a third of the planet for 
nature by 2030. 

While frameworks such as the Taskforce  
on Nature-related Financial Disclosures 
(TNFD) and the EU Corporate Sustainability 
Reporting Directive (EU CSRD) are emerging, 
there remains room for greater clarity on 
best practice measurement and disclosure  
of nature-related information. Increasing 
meaningful disclosures around nature-
related impacts is a key focus for SSE, and  
it will monitor how these frameworks and 
standards develop and work to improve  
its own disclosures, including against its 
biodiversity net gain metrics. 

Governing environmental 
performance 
SSE’s Chief Executive has overall lead 
responsibility for environmental 
performance, including at Board-level. The 
Safety, Health and Environment Committee 
(SHEC) advises the Board on matters relating 
to safety, health and environment (SHE). The 
work of the SHEC is designed around SSE’s 
eight SHE Enduring Goals, one of which is 
Environment: Protecting the environment 

and operating in a sustainable way. The 
SHEC is responsible for setting SHE 
performance targets, which include 
environmental performance.

The SHEC reports to the Sustainability, 
Safety, Environment Advisory Committee 
(SSHEAC) which is a Board level committee 
that has specific oversight of environment 
matters. 

At business level, Managing Directors are 
accountable for environmental performance 
and for managing environmental impacts by 
applying SSE’s SHE Management System.

SSE’s Group Environment Policy guides 
decision making within the company  
and outlines its commitments around 
protecting the environment, preventing 
pollution and operating in a sustainable 
way. This policy is approved by the SSE 
Board and is available publicly for SSE’s 
stakeholders at sse.com/sustainability .

A strategic approach to 
environmental protection 
While SSE’s GHG emissions are its most 
material environmental impact, it also  
has wider impacts on the natural world  
that must be carefully managed. Halting 
the impact of nature loss and providing 
opportunities to enhance ecosystems  
and biodiversity will support SSE to meet  
its net zero ambitions. 

SSE’s Environment Strategy provides the 
framework by which SSE considers these 
wider environmental impacts. It is centred 
around three UN Sustainable Development 
Goals (SDGs) focused on the environment: 
SDG14 Life Below Water; SDG15 Life Above 
Land; and, SDG12 Responsible Consumption 
and Production. The Strategy is supported  
by policies and procedures to guide SSE’s 
day-to-day operations and interactions with 
the environment. 

To ensure effective environmental 
management, SSE operates an 
environmental management system which 
sets the controls, processes and procedures. 
In 2022/23, a number of SSE’s business units 
achieved ISO14001 certification – SSEN 
Distribution, SSE Energy Customer Solutions 
and SSE Enterprise. All of SSE’s businesses 
are now certified to ISO14001.

Further detail around SSE’s approach  
to managing environmental impacts, 
including information on its ISO14001 
certification, can be found in SSE’s 
Sustainability Report 2023 .

O U R   T A R G E T
SSE is committed  
to delivering 
Biodiversity Net  
Gain by 2025 on  
all onshore Large 
Capital Projects in 
the UK and Ireland

Understanding SSE’s nature 
impacts and dependencies
SSE operates in some of the UK and 
Ireland’s least populated places, home to  
a wide variety of valuable ecosystems and 
habitats. It works to manage the impacts of 
its activities to ensure it protects and, where 
possible, enhances these environments. 
Measurable, science-based data as 
presented in SSE’s Sustainability Report 
2023  are key to ensuring nature impacts 
and dependencies are understood and 
considered in decision making with the aim 
of making progress towards preserving and 
protecting nature. 

Targeting biodiversity net gain 
For onshore Large Capital Projects, all of 
SSE’s Business Units have committed to 
delivering no ‘net loss’ in biodiversity on 
those consented from 2023 onwards  
and ‘net gain’ in biodiversity on those 
consented from 2025 onwards.

SSE’s approach to Biodiversity Net Gain 
began in 2020, with the development of 
SSEN Transmission’s site optioneering 
toolkit, which is now in implementation 
and allows consideration of biodiversity  
at the earliest stages of development and 
has been recognised for its pioneering 
approach. In 2022, SSE Renewables also 
published optioneering toolkits and project 
biodiversity net gain metric, which has 
adapted the SSEN site optioneering toolkit 
and the Defra Biodiversity Metric 3.1. 
Biodiversity net gain will also be delivered 
by SSEN Distribution as part of its ED2 
business plan. While SSE has focused on 
terrestrial habitats it is also exploring the 
potential for enhanced biodiversity within 
the marine environment.

Managing water use 
Water plays a significant role in SSE’s 
operations, being used in the energy 
production process including as a coolant  
in power stations and a source for power 
generation in hydroelectric generators. SSE 
also uses water as an amenity in its buildings. 

SSE’s total water abstracted excluding 
hydro operations also fell slightly over  
this period. This was predominantly due to 
an unplanned outage at a thermal power 
station that uses a once through (direct) 
cooling water system. Such assets have 
higher abstraction rates than stations with 
cooling tower systems. 

SSE has policies and processes in place, 
and works closely with environmental 
regulators, to ensure that it uses water in a 
sustainable way in its operations. SSE has 
an ongoing investment programme within 
its hydro operations to improve efficiency, 
enhance water capture and minimise spill 
from its plant. 

None of SSE’s thermal and hydro generation 
assets impact on water stressed areas, as 
defined by the relevant environmental 
regulators in the jurisdictions in which  
they operate. 

In 2022/23, total water abstracted by  
SSE fell to 23,354 million m3 from 23,896 
million m3 the previous year. This was 
largely due to a reduction in water passing 
through SSE’s hydro generation plant as a 
result of lower levels of rainfall compared  
to the previous year. The vast majority  
(97%) of water abstracted in 2022/23  
was used in SSE’s hydro generation 
operations. This water is technically 
recorded as abstracted, but it passes 
through turbines to generate electricity  
and is returned to the environment almost 
immediately, and therefore has minimal 
environmental impact. 

Total water abstracted by SSE (excluding hydro 
generation) (million m3) 

  Fresh water (rivers and groundwater) 
  Brackish and estuarine water

729

777

2.2

1.9

2022/23

2021/22

Total water consumed increased 
significantly over this period, by over 70%. 
This was due to increased output from 
thermal generation overall, as well as a 
proportional increase in the output from 
thermal power plant with cooling towers 
which have higher evaporative losses  
of water than once through (direct)  
cooling systems.

Unit

2022/23

2021/22

Table 4: SSE’s water data 

Water use

Total water abstracted

Total water abstracted  

(exc. Hydro generation)

Million m3

Million m3

23,354(A)

23,896(B)

731

2.2

779

1.9

Freshwater abstracted  

Million m3

(rivers and groundwater)  
(exc. hydro generation)

Total water returned

Total water consumed

Million m3

Million m3

23,353(A)

23,895(B)

1.4(A)

0.8(B)

(A) This data is subject to external independent limited assurance by PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP (‘PwC’).  

For the results of that assurance, see PwC’s assurance report and SSE’s GHG and Water Reporting Criteria 
2023 on sse.com/sustainability . 

(B) This data was also subject to external independent limited assurance by PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP 

(‘PwC’). For the results of that assurance, see PwC’s assurance report in SSE’s Sustainability Report 2022  
and SSE’s GHG and Water Reporting Criteria 2022, both available on sse.com/sustainability .

52

SSE plc  Annual Report 2023

SSE plc  Annual Report 2023

53

Financial StatementsStrategic ReportDirectors’ ReportA sustainable approach continued
Protecting the natural environment continued

Managing air emissions 
In 2022/23, emissions of nitrogen oxides 
(NOx), sulphur dioxide (SO2) and particulate 
matter (PM10) all reduced compared to  
the previous year, with emissions of SO2 
reducing by more than a half. The falling 
trend across three of these key air emission 
sources, reflects a reduction in output from 
oil-fuelled peaking plant in Ireland compared 
to the previous year. 

Mercury emissions to air increased almost 
fivefold, due to an increased level of test 
running on back-up fuel oil that was required 
during the year, as dictated by Transmission 
Operator on the island of Ireland. See Table 5 
for full data on air emissions. 

Sulphur hexafluoride (SF6) is a highly 
effective insulating gas used for safety in 
electrical transformers and in 2022/23, 
SSE’s SF6 emissions increased by almost 
40% compared to the previous year. This 
was due to a combination of factors, 
including more robust reporting of minor 
leakages and increasing numbers of assets 
(to deliver net zero) that still requires SF6  
as an insulating gas. SSE has a number of 
initiatives to reduce its dependency on SF6 
in its networks, including working with 
suppliers to install SF6-free alternatives 
across its electricity transmission network. 
You can read more about what SSE is doing 
to reduce the impact of SF6 in its business 
activities in its Sustainability Report 2023  
and its Net Zero Transition Plan. 

SSE’s energy consumption 
Between 2021/22 and 2022/23, the energy 
SSE purchased for use in its assets (offices, 
depots, thermal power stations, gas storage 
facilities, and data centres) increased by 5%, 
from 196GWh to 206GWh.

A large contributor to this trend was a 60% 
increase in energy consumed in SSE’s gas 
storage facilities compared to 2021/22. This 
was largely due to increased gas storage 
activities at SSE’s Aldbrough facility to 
ensure security of supply. 

Energy consumed in SSE’s offices, depots 
and data centres reduced by 5% compared 
to 2021/22. This was due to the continued 
investment by SSE in 2022/23 in a range  
of energy efficiency measures including  
a programme of LED lighting upgrades to 
depot sites and it continued its ‘Better Off’ 
behaviour change campaign. 

In 2022/23, SSE purchased 100% of its 
electricity for use in its directly managed 
offices from renewable sources, backed by 
renewable guarantees. In 2022/23, around 
52% of the electricity that SSE purchased 
for its assets (offices, depots, thermal 
power stations, gas storage facilities, and 

54

SSE plc  Annual Report 2023

Table 5: SSE’s air emissions data 

Unit

2022/23

2021/22

Air emissions

Sulphur dioxide (SO2) – thermal 

Tonnes

generation

1,336

3,021

Nitrogen oxide (NOx) – thermal 

Tonnes

3,870

4,573

generation

Sulphur hexafluoride (SF6) –  
thermal generation and  
electricity transmission and 
distribution activities

Kg

424

305

Particulates emissions (PM10)  

Tonnes

from thermal generation assets

Mercury emissions from  

thermal generation assets

Kg

116

10.6

277

2.2

with a higher proportion of waste being 
processed as energy from waste and an 
increase in recycled waste as well, as a 
result of improved recycling processes 
implemented at sites and as the inclusion 
waste recycling data such as metals. 

Over 2023/24, SSE expects to further 
broaden the coverage of waste 
performance data to include large capital 
projects and minor works. SSE’s 2023/24 
performance target is to divert 95% of 
waste by tonnage from landfill and recycle 
50% of waste by tonnage. It is expected 
that the planned scope expansion of waste 
data in 2023/24 will influence performance, 
in particular recycled waste data. SSE will 
continue to review its waste target to 
ensure that it remains stretching. 

Table 7: SSE’s waste data by end destination

Total waste produced

Tonnes

Proportion of total waste:

  Sent to landfill

  Processed as energy from waste

  Recycled

%

%

%

  Composted/sent to anaerobic digestion %

  Treated

Hazardous waste

%

Tonnes

2022/23

6,063

2021/22

5,287

5%

29%

62%

3%

2%

12%

25%

59%

1%

4%

144.4

147.9

Data excludes waste data from contractors for large capital projects, minor works contracts and some 
specialised waste streams.

Table 6: SSE’s energy use data 

Energy use*

Unit

2022/23

2021/22

Engagement in action
Suppliers, contractors and partners 

Purchased heat from non-

GWh

3.3/0.06

3.3/0.08

renewable sources – UK/Ire

Purchased electricity from 

GWh

103.7/1.1

73.3/0.98

renewable sources – UK/Ire

Purchased electricity from non-
renewable sources – UK/Ire

GWh

97.9/0

118.6/0

*  This information, taken in conjunction with Table 2 on page 49 , represents SSE’s disclosures in line with 

the UK Government Streamlined Energy and Carbon Reporting requirements. 

data centres) was from renewable sources, 
up from around 39% the previous year. 

SSE is a member of the Climate Group’s 
EP100 initiative to encourage businesses to 
double energy productivity associated with 
office and depot buildings by 2030 from a 
2011 baseline. 

Embedding circular  
economy principles
Circularity is built on the principles of 
reducing waste, increasing resource 
efficiency, and promoting renewable 
energy sources. By adopting circular 
strategies, SSE is able to minimise its 
environmental impact, enhance 
operational efficiency, strengthen  
resilience to resource shortages and  
create new value for stakeholders. SSE is 

introducing the concepts of circularity into 
its business activities and is collaborating 
with stakeholders to create solutions for 
industry-wide challenges and support 
circular supply chains. 

Table 7 outlines SSE’s key waste data, 
including by end destination. In 2022/23, 
SSE managed 6,063 tonnes of waste, up 
from 5,287 tonnes in 2021/22. This increase 
was due to SSE widening the scope and 
improving the accuracy of its waste data. 
SSE’s target for 2022/23 was to divert 85% 
of waste by tonnage from landfill and 
recycle 40% of waste by tonnage. It 
exceeded these targets, with 65% of SSE’s 
total waste being recycled/composted  
and only 5% being sent to landfill. The 
proportion of waste sent to landfill more 
halved compared to the previous year,  

Data and assurance
SSE takes an integrated approach towards assurance utilising internal audit 
and external assurance providers to ensure accurate, complete disclosures. 
Where data has been externally and independently assured, this has been 
noted in the relevant tables. In all other areas, data is identified and disclosed 
according to SSE’s internal processes, guided by environmental regulations 
where appropriate. 

A coalition for circularity in the wind sector

instructive to establishing a wider circular 
model throughout the wind industry 
supply chain. 

To support the acceleration of a circular 
economy for the wind sector based  
in the UK, this year SSE Renewables, the 
University of Strathclyde and Renewable 
Parts joined forces to launch CWIC, the 
Coalition for Wind Industry Circularity. 
CWIC aims to stimulate collaboration 
between industry peers, suppliers,  
and government agencies to unlock  
and deliver economic, social, and 
environmental opportunities. There are 
immediate opportunities in the repair  
and maintenance of existing wind assets, 
and a longer-term prize through the 
design of future wind technology both 
onshore and offshore. 

SSE Renewables’ wind portfolio in the UK 
and Ireland comprises some of the most 
productive onshore wind generation assets 
in Europe. The optimum maintenance  
of those assets further maximises value  
to SSE, whilst contributing to climate 
mitigation solutions. The opportunity to 
maintain the components of those assets 
using circular economy principles (reduce, 
reuse, repair, remanufacture, recycle,  
and recover) is emerging as an important 
driver of future commercial, social and 
environmental value. 

SSE Renewables is driving forward a 
strategy to increase the use of refurbished 
and remanufactured minor component 
parts for the maintenance and repair of 
existing components across its wind 
portfolio, with particular focus on its 
onshore portfolio in the immediate term. 
Through a partnership with Scottish-based 
SME, Renewable Parts Ltd, rather than 
replacing broken turbine gears with newly 
manufactured gears, Renewable Parts 
refurbish and repair existing components 
to a high standard, with high-performance 
outcomes. This practical solution has been 

SSE plc  Annual Report 2023

55

Financial StatementsStrategic ReportDirectors’ ReportA sustainable approach continued

Ensuring a 
just transition

A sustainable transition to net zero is one that is fair 
to working people, consumers and communities. 
SSE seeks to ensure the benefits of net zero are 
shared widely and unfairness is predicted and pre-
empted. Influencing a fair and just transition to net 
zero is a strategic objective for SSE. 

Leading on a just transition

SSE published its Just Transition Strategy  
in November 2020, setting out the 20 
principles it will follow to ensure that the 
impacts from the decisions it takes are fair 
and that it maximises the opportunities  
for communities to benefit from net zero. 
The 20 principles sit under five key themes: 
good green jobs, consumer fairness, 
building and operating new assets, 
looking after people in high-carbon 
jobs, supporting communities. 

With SSE’s Just Transition Strategy, and a 
subsequent report focused on the worker 
transition in 2021, SSE continued extensive 
multi-stakeholder engagement in the pursuit 
of a net zero transition that is fair to working 
people, consumers and communities.

This has taken several different forms 
including:

•  Just transition documentary: A short 
documentary featuring voices of SSE 
employees with the lived experience of 
transitioning from high- to low-carbon 
work, supplemented by the perspectives 

of the Prospect trade union and 
environmental NGO WWF aimed to 
bring the notion of a just transition  
to life. The film explains that a just 
transition is about protecting workers 
and communities in the face of 
substantial industrial change and that 
people must be at the centre of efforts 
to tackle climate and nature crises. This 
documentary has been shared widely 
with stakeholders including trade 
unions, investors, and NGOs, and was 
also shown to over 1,660 employees. 
•  Multi-stakeholder event: An event  
in London in April 2023 aimed to 
normalise the just transition within 
corporate climate discourse, enhancing 
accountability and bringing the just 
transition from concept to action. 
The objectives included establishing a 
sense of collaboration and openness 
around a just transition; showing SSE’s 
good stewardship of its own transition 
to net zero and highlighting the business 
benefits that come from establishing  
the world’s first business strategy for a 
just transition.

•  Measuring progress report: A progress 
update published in April 2023 in which 
SSE set out to demonstrate the impact 
its 20 principles for a just transition  
have had across the business. These 
specifically aim to promote a smooth, 
fair and just transition to net zero by 
disclosing progress (or otherwise) 
against the Just Transition Strategy. 

More details on the report and the short 
documentary can be found at sse.com/
sustainability/just-transition/

Just transition: 
measuring progress

From action to accountability

SSE’s UK and Irish GDP contribution, jobs supported and taxes paid for 2022/23

UK contribution to GDP 

£6.04bn

2021/22: £5.98bn

UK jobs supported

39,940

2021/22: 45,290

Ireland contribution to GDP

Ireland jobs supported

€429m

2021/22: €417m

2,430

2021/22: 1,840

UK taxes paid

£502m

2021/22: £335m

Ireland taxes paid

€53.8m

2021/22: €46.4m

2021/22 contribution to GDP figures have been adjusted to current prices.

Sharing the benefits from net zero
Contributing to jobs and GDP
Under its revised Net Zero Acceleration 
Programme Plus, SSE plans to invest £18bn 
in the five years to March 2027. This scale of 
investment generates considerable value 
for the communities in which SSE operates. 

The purpose is to demonstrate an ongoing 
commitment to upholding the principles of 
fair tax as SSE expands internationally.

Every year SSE commissions an 
independent assessment of the value it 
adds to GDP and the jobs it supports across 
the UK, Scottish and Irish economies. Over 
2022/23, SSE contributed an estimated 
£6.04bn to UK and €429m to Irish GDP. This 
represented a slight increase compared to 
2021/22 figures, which were £5.98bn and 
€417m respectively (adjusted for current 
prices). Jobs supported in these countries 
fell from 47,130 in 2021/22 to 42,370 in 
2022/23, due to a reduction in supply chain 
spend. More detail on SSE’s contribution to 
GDP and jobs supported in 2022/23 can be 
found in SSE’s Sustainability Report 2023 .

SSE’s economic contribution reports can 
be found at sse.com/sustainability . 

Paying a fair share of tax
SSE considers the responsible payment  
of tax a core element of how it shares  
value with society. While SSE was the first 
FTSE 100 company to be Fair Tax accredited 
in 2014, in 2022/23, SSE also became the 
first company to transition from the Fair Tax 
Foundation’s UK HQ Multinational 
accreditation to the Foundation’s new 
Global Multinational accreditation. 

Over 2022/23, SSE’s total tax contribution 
was £1.3bn, consisting of £549m taxes  
paid (including £217m corporation tax) and 
£764m taxes collected. Further information 
on SSE’s tax position can be found on 
pages 93 and 237 to 239  of this report,  
and in the Sustainability Report 2023 .

SSE is committed to the transparency of its 
tax affairs and publishes an annual Talking 
Tax report with enhanced country-by-
country tax disclosures alongside detail of 
SSE’s tax strategy. SSE’s Talking Tax reports 
can be found on sse.com/sustainability . 

Sharing value directly 
with local communities
An integral part of a just transition is being  
a positive contributor to local communities 
by sharing the economic value from its 
assets and its business activities. During 
2022/23, SSE invested around £16.5m in 
communities across the UK and Ireland. 
This included £10m awarded through  
SSE Renewables community funds,  
£1.4m awarded through SSEN’s Resilient 
Communities Fund, and around £5m of 
donations made directly to charitable 
groups by SSE Airtricity to support with  
the cost of living crisis (see page 64 ), 
alongside smaller contributions from 
employee-led initiatives. 

Invested in communities across the UK and Ireland 
by SSE in 2022/23.

£16.5m

SSE recognises the exceptional challenges 
faced by communities because of the cost 
of living crisis and in 2022/23 consulted 
with a wide range of stakeholders to 
understand where community funding 
could make the biggest difference. With 
stakeholder approval, SSE focused on 
investing in projects which would directly 
help improve energy efficiency and reduce 
fuel poverty. In November 2022, SSE 
Renewables’ Sustainable Development 
Fund panel awarded its largest-ever single 
award of £1m to support the Highland 
Energy Efficiency Programme which 
provides energy efficiency measures 
including solar, battery, air source heating 
and insulation to households in extreme 
fuel poverty.

More detailed disclosure on SSE’s 
community investment can be found  
in SSE’s Sustainability Report 2023 , 
available at sse.com/sustainability .

56

SSE plc  Annual Report 2023

SSE plc  Annual Report 2023

57

Financial StatementsStrategic ReportDirectors’ ReportA sustainable approach continued
Ensuring a just transition continued

A guarantee of fair and decent work
Jobs for net zero
With the scale of growth in energy 
investment over the next decade, it is 
essential that action is taken to attract more 
people into STEM (Science, Technology, 
Engineering, Maths) careers, whilst training 
existing talent to ensure the sector has a 
future-fit workforce with the skills and 
talent to deliver net zero.

SSE’s employee retention level in 2021/22 
was 90.5%, which remained slightly 
elevated compared to pre-pandemic rates. 
In 2022/23, retention decreased to 89.5% 
reflecting a return towards pre-pandemic 
labour market conditions. SSE’s 2022/23 
voluntary turnover rate was 7.0%, compared 
to 7.8% in 2021/22. 

Developing the future skills 
required for net zero
SSE’s investment in learning, training and 
development increased to £10.4m in 
2022/23 from £7.5m in 2021/22. Average 
training hours per full-time employee was 
19.8, a decrease from 20.7 in 2021/22,  
with 85.5% of SSE’s employees receiving 
some form of training over the year. 

Core to SSE’s strategy to build its future 
workforce is consistent investment in its 
pipeline programmes. These pipeline 
programmes include apprenticeships, 
technical skills trainee programmes  
and graduate programmes. The number  
of people on one of SSE’s pipeline 
programmes increased to 564, compared 
to 465 individuals in 2021/22. Investment in 
pipeline programmes increased to £12.8m 
in 2022/23 from £9.8m in 2021/22. This 
brings SSE’s total investment in pipeline 
programmes over the last three years to 
just over £30m. 

Total investment in learning, training and 
pipeline programmes in 2022/23

£23.2m

Over 2022/23, SSE identified the critical 
skills of its workforce required to deliver its 
Net Zero Acceleration Programme (NZAP). 
Actions have been identified to develop the 
skills of new and existing talent for the key 
roles it recognises as facing potential skills 
shortages. This approach to development 
and training is especially important for skills 
gaps that recruitment alone will not solve.

Targeted investment and focus was given 
to a series of specific skills gaps and 
shortages across the SSE Group, from 
upskilling existing electrical jointers, to 
developing new roles in system planning  
to support smart grids. Simultaneously, SSE 
is working to understand the skills required 
for new technologies of the future, for jobs 
that may not exist today, but which may  
be required to be implemented at pace  
to deliver net zero by 2030. 

Within SSE, at least 1,000 new jobs are 
expected to be created every year to 2025. 
Opportunities will be created in a range  
of role types, which will mean adding to 
existing skills and delivering new skills as 
SSE moves into new technologies. To fill 
these roles, SSE’s recruitment strategy 
seeks to bring new talent into the 
organisation immediately, at the same  
time as developing a longer-term pipeline 
to meet the skills needs of the future.

New jobs expected to be created every 
year to 2025

1,000

For the jobs of today, SSE focuses on 
recruiting new talent through its early 
careers and pipeline programmes, as  
well as attracting those from sectors like  
oil and gas as part of the just transition,  
and reaching those in wider industries with 
similar skills such as mining, construction, 
transport and logistics. 

To support a long-term pipeline, SSE  
works to inspire young people into STEM 
careers through strategic partnerships with 
secondary and primary schools (see SSE’s 
Sustainability Report 2023  for details), 
and over 2022/23 has performed a skills 
gap analysis to understand key training 
requirements for existing talent (see 
’Developing the future skills required for  
net zero’ on this page for more details). 

At 31 March 2023, SSE’s headcount was 
12,180, up from 10,754 at 31 March 2022. 
This includes 100 employees in locations 
outside the UK and Ireland. To meet the 
demand of its growing Business Units, the 
total number of people joining SSE rose 
from 2,290 in 2021/22, to 3,226 for the 
same time period in 2022/23. This means 
that SSE filled a total of 4,401 positions 
across internal and external recruitment over 
2022/23, an increase of 38% from 2021/22. 
For information about SSE’s approach to 
inclusive and diverse hiring, see its Inclusion 
and Diversity Report 2023 .

58

SSE plc  Annual Report 2023

SSE has also continued to develop its 
graduate offering to ensure that it attracts 
future talent into this key early career 
pipeline. SSE has significantly expanded the 
number of graduate placements, from 60 
participants in 2020/21 to 220 graduates 
enrolled for the September 2023 scheme 
which covers 13 different programmes.

More information on SSE’s approach to 
learning and development and its training 
programmes can be found in its 
Sustainability Report 2023 .

Paying a fair wage
Fair remuneration is a cornerstone of SSE’s 
approach to being a responsible employer 
and providing good jobs. SSE is actively 
involved in the living wage movement. 
Having been a real Living Wage accredited 
employer in the UK since 2013, it has also 
paid the Living Wage in Ireland since 2016 
and continues to chair the Living Wage 
Scotland’s Leadership Group.

In September 2022 in response to the 
cost-of-living crisis, the Living Wage 
Foundation announced the new real Living 
Wage for the UK two months earlier than 
usual. This saw a 10.1% increase from the 
2021 UK rate. SSE welcomed the action 
taken by the Living Wage Foundation and 
implemented the increase in November 
2022, backdated to the 1 October 2022. 

Since its accreditation as a Living Hours 
employer in March 2021, SSE has been 
working to roll out this enhanced standard 
across its supply chain. 

The right to freedom of 
association and collective 
bargaining
Everyone in SSE has the fundamental right 
to freedom of association and to join a trade 
union. SSE has four recognised trade union 
partners (Prospect, Unite, Unison and the 
GMB) which it works with through the Joint 
Negotiating and Consultative Committee 
and through regular ongoing dialogue.  
In 2022/23, 50.3% of SSE’s total direct 
workforce were covered by collective 
bargaining agreements. Broader 
incorporation of employee voice is 
recognised by SSE as an important part  
of decision-making and strategy. See the 
stakeholder engagement section on 
employees on page 28  of this report.

A growing package 
of employee benefits 
SSE offers a wide range of employee 
benefits, including flexible working 
arrangements, 21 weeks of fully-paid 
maternity leave, all-employee share plans,  
a holiday purchase scheme, cycle-to-work 
schemes, salary sacrifice low emissions car 
scheme, and technology loans, amongst 
other initiatives. 

In November 2022, SSE announced 
significant improvements to its family  
leave offering, well beyond the statutory 
minimum specified in UK and Irish 
employment law. The enhancements aimed 
to ensure that all new and prospective 
parents at SSE feel supported, regardless  
of personal or family circumstances and 
where they are on the journey to becoming 
a parent. This includes an additional seven 
weeks paid leave for partners, two weeks’ 
full pay pregnancy loss leave, and two 
weeks’ full paid leave for fertility treatment. 
See SSE’s Inclusion and Diversity Report 
2023  for more information. 

Over the course of 2022/23, SSE also 
enhanced its offering around health and 
wellbeing support. More detail can be 
found (see page 63 ).

Embedding a healthy 
business culture
SSE has well established processes and 
procedures to embed a healthy business 
culture at all levels of its business, to support 
people to do the right thing. SSE’s ‘Doing the 
right thing’ guide to good business ethics 
applies to direct employees and those that 
work on SSE’s behalf, and covers a wide 
range of topics, including bribery and 
corruption, fair competition, engagement 
with politicians and regulators, and cyber 
security. It is supported by a number  
of internal and external documents  
to help colleagues to do the right thing, 
which are outlined throughout the  
guide. The guide is available publicly  
at sse.com/sustainability  and is promoted 
to all employees through SSE’s internal 
communication channels and mandatory 
e-learning modules, as well as being 
highlighted to suppliers in SSE’s  
Sustainable Procurement Code.

SSE also has a suite of mandatory ethics and 
compliance training modules, including 
modules on fraud awareness, bribery and 
anti-corruption, and anti-money laundering 
and financial sanctions, which all employees 
must complete bi-annually. Additional 
modules on competition law and REMIT  
are required for selected employees. 

A review of cultural metrics is undertaken 
twice annually by the Board supported  
by a cultural dashboard (see pages 137  
and 138 ).

Table 8: Reported incidents of suspected wrongdoing by category

Category of incident reported

Health and safety 

(General Safety/Covid-19/Environmental/Product Contamination)

Dishonest behaviour 

(Fraud/Theft/Bribery/Integrity/Money laundering/Corruption)

Conduct 

(Bullying/Harassment/Victimisation)

Inclusion and diversity 

(Racism/Discrimination/Unfair Treatment) 

Drugs/alcohol

Regulatory Compliance

General  

 (Data Protection/Policy/Reputation/Corporate Governance/
Failure to Investigate)

Total

2022/23

2021/22 

8

16

10

2

5

1

8

50

9

12

15

2

0

0

11

49

Table 9: Outcomes of investigations into reported incidents of suspected 
wrongdoing 

Outcome of investigation

Dismissal/Resignation 

Warning issued

No action taken

Investigated as grievance

Investigated and partly substantiated but with no action taken

Investigated but case not proven

Initial investigation established insufficient evidence to proceed further

Unable to investigate due to insufficient information to establish 

the nature, cause, location or otherwise of the allegation 

Cases Still Under Investigation

Total

2022/23

2021/22 

10

1

0

1

16

12

4

1

5

50

1

5

4

3

15

13

4

4

0

49

Reporting and investigating 
wrongdoing
A healthy business culture is one where 
everyone feels able to speak up, in the event 
of wrongdoing. People that work for SSE, or 
on its behalf, are encouraged to speak up 
and are protected from retribution. SSE has 
an independent whistleblowing channel, 
hosted by SafeCall, with the option to 
report anonymously, which supplements 
internal reporting channels.

The number of reports of suspected 
wrongdoing has remained stable year-on-
year, with 50 reports made through SSE’s 
speak up channels in 2022/23, compared 
to 49 the previous year. Every report is 
triaged and considered for investigation. 
SSE monitors the trends of Speak Up cases 
closely. The outcomes of reported incidents 
and investigations for 2021/22 and 2022/23 
are outlined in Table 8 and Table 9. 

Supporting whistleblowers
SSE’s Speak Up Aftercare Programme  
has been designed to promote good 
communication with people who speak up 
and provide reassurance that there will be 
no detriment for anyone speaking up in 
good faith. The programme takes the form 
of a survey that is issued at the point of 
initial complaint, at 90 days and then at  
180 days. Each survey is slightly different, 
having been designed to ensure that there 
is opportunity to highlight detriment in any 
form, provide an outlet for discussion and 
resolutions, and also seek feedback for SSE 
on the user experience, ease of reporting, 
what went well and to constantly improve 
the service SSE is offering.

SSE’s Group Whistleblowing Policy is 
available on sse.com/sustainability , with 
the effectiveness of SSE’s whistleblowing 
arrangements reviewed twice yearly by the 
Group Executive Committee and the Board.

SSE plc  Annual Report 2023

59

Financial StatementsStrategic ReportDirectors’ ReportA sustainable approach continued
Ensuring a just transition continued

Promoting inclusion and diversity

SSE’s approach to  
inclusion and diversity 
SSE’s Inclusion and Diversity Strategy, 
launched in 2021, builds on the inclusion 
and diversity initiatives that SSE has been 
undertaking since 2014. It is framed on  
four pillars: Ambition; Education and 
Development; Inclusive Processes; and 
Employee Voice. 

Delivery of the strategy relies on 
engagement and effort from many  
in SSE, and has been informed through 
collaborating with external partners  
to identify opportunities for further 
improvement. It focuses on inclusion for all 
by listening to underrepresented groups 
and their unique experiences, and invests 
leadership development to help shape and 
influence the actions needed to embed 
positive change across all levels of the 
business. Learnings from these initiatives 
will continue to develop the strategy further. 

Developing leadership to 
drive inclusion from the top
SSE’s has a number of leadership 
programmes in place, which are designed 
to build leadership confidence and raise 
awareness for all to create an inclusive 
workplace. This includes SSE’s Igniting 
Inclusion Programme, which supports 
managing directors and Business Unit 
executive committees to learn about key 
inclusion and diversity themes, and how 
these can be practically applied in the 
workplace. Over 2022/23, SSE also 
embedded inclusivity throughout its 
existing Leadership Blueprint, ensuring that 
leaders build proud and inclusive teams. 

Creating an inclusive  
employee culture
Listening to employees enables SSE  
to focus business priorities and improve 
initiatives, whilst also ensuring employees 
feel valued and have increased 
opportunities for development. SSE gains 
insight on employee voice through its 
’Belonging in SSE’ communities, each of 
which is sponsored by a Managing Director, 
and which aim to bring people together 
across the organisation for open and 
constructive employee-led discussion. 
Over 2022/23, SSE increased its members 
in the ‘Belonging in SSE’ communities to 
just over 2,000 and continued to listen to, 
and engage with, employees on subjects 
such as intersectionality, culture, ethnicity, 
and neurodiversity. Each Belonging in  
SSE community has developed an action 
plan and every two months they meet  
with SSE’s Group Executive sponsors to 
discuss progress and opportunities to  
move forward with their action plans.

Measuring progress 
A key part of SSE’s Inclusion and Diversity 
Strategy is the ability to measure the 
progress being made as a result of the 
various initiatives in place. SSE has been 
tracking progress against a wide range of 
diversity metrics within the business since 
2015, including the proportion of women, 
ethnic minority, disabled, and LGBTQIA+ 
employees. Setting measurable ambitions 
that align with best practice enables SSE  
to work towards stretching ambitions and 
monitor its progress against these. 

Inclusion and Diversity 
Report 2023
SSE publishes an annual 
Inclusion and Diversity Report, 
which provides comprehensive 
information around SSE’s 
Inclusion and Diversity Strategy 
and progress against it. 

Further information around 
SSE’s approach to inclusion  
and diversity over 2022/23,  
the actions it is taking to drive 
improvements and plans for  
the coming years, see SSE’s 
Inclusion and Diversity Report 
2023 , available at sse.com/
sustainability . 

Ambition

Education and development

Setting measurable goals 
Setting ambitions and KPIs, and using 
external benchmarking.

Focusing on behaviours
Building leadership confidence and  
raising awareness for all to create an 
inclusive workplace.

Inclusive processes

Employee voice

Embedding best practice 
Ensuring policies and processes are 
inclusive and support everyone. 

Actively listening
Understanding what matters to employees 
to inform and shape the improvements 
needed.

SSE’s 2023 gender pay gap 
Between 2021/22 and 2022/23, SSE saw  
a positive trend in its headline UK gender 
pay gap statistics. SSE’s gender pay gap 
reduced from 18.0% at 5 April 2022 to 
15.3% at 5 April 2023.

The reduction in SSE’s UK median  
gender pay gap between 2021/22 and 
2022/23 has been driven by three main 
contributing factors:
• 

Interim cost-of-living pay increase:  
In recognition of the cost-of-living 
pressures affecting its employees, on 
1 October 2022 SSE brought forward 
part of its trade union negotiated cost  
of living increase for 2023, by awarding 
up to a 5% increase to all employees 
earning less than £100,000 annually. 
The structure of this pay award was  
to prioritise helping those on lower 
salaries who are most affected by the 
rise in living costs, therefore employees 
received either a 5%, 3%, or 0% increase 
depending on their salary, with those  
in the lower pay brackets receiving the 
highest percentage increase. At SSE 
representation of women is highest  
in the lower and lower-middle pay 
quartiles, resulting in a higher 
percentage of female employees 
receiving a 5% pay award. However,  
the full impact of the 2022/23 pay award 
on SSE’s gender pay gap will not be fully 
understood until the second part of the 
award is made for full-year in the first 
quarter of 2023/24 (backdated to  
1 April 2023).

•  Salary uplift for employees on Joint 

Agreement contracts: SSE introduced a 
new skill-based Pay Progression model 
in 2021, which saw employees’ salaries 
being mapped according to their 
skill-level. This resulted in many 
employees receiving salary uplifts, 
mainly those in the lower pay quartile. 
As SSE has higher female representation 
in this quartile, this meant a high 
number of women received a pay 
increase. Over 2022/23, the positive 
impact of this new pay model on the 
gender pay gap has continued with a 
slightly higher proportion of female 
employees progressing through the  
pay progression framework.

SSE’s 2023 UK gender pay gap performance

UK gender pay gap

UK bonus gender pay gap

Median

15.3%

(2022: 18.0%)

Mean

12.1%

(2022: 13.2%)

Median

14.7%

(2022: 17.6%)

Mean

44.3%

(2022: 45.9%)

SSE’s 2022/23 
recognition 

Ranked #30 in the top 100 
Globally for Gender Equality  
by Equileap. 

Included in the Bloomberg 
Gender Equality Index for  
the 6th consecutive year. 

Performed in the top decile 
of WDI responders for 2022 
submission. 

• 

Increasing representation of women in 
high-paid roles: Over 2022/23, female 
representation in high-paid roles, 
classed as those earning over £100,000 
per year, has more than doubled from 
25 to 53 female employees, compared 
to a 50% increase for male employees, 
from 145 to 217. Due to SSE’s female 
population representing 30% of its 
workforce, changes such as these have 
an impact on the median pay gap. 

More detail on SSE’s UK gender pay gap, 
including further data, analysis, and 
disclosure of the wide range of actions 
taken to reduce the pay gap, is provided  
in SSE’s Inclusion and Diversity Report 
2023 .

SSE has voluntarily disclosed its Ireland 
Gender Pay Gap since 2021, calculating  
it in line with the UK Gender Pay Gap 
methodology, based on a snapshot date  
of 5 April. In December 2022, SSE disclosed 
its first set of Ireland gender pay gap data  
in line with the Irish Government’s new 
mandatory gender pay gap requirements 
which launched in May 2022. This data is 
calculated using a 30 June snapshot and 
SSE will publish its 2023 Ireland gender pay 
gap disclosure later in 2023. More detail on 
SSE’s 2022 Ireland gender pay gap can be 
found at sse.com/sustainability .

60

SSE plc  Annual Report 2023

SSE plc  Annual Report 2023

61

Financial StatementsStrategic ReportDirectors’ ReportA sustainable approach continued
Ensuring a just transition continued

Making progress with 
women’s representation
In 2021/22, SSE simplified its gender 
reporting and set stretching gender 
ambitions in line with the FTSE Women 
Leaders Review. These are outlined in  
Table 10 and are approved by the Group 
Executive Committee (GEC) and Board-
level Nomination Committee. 

Over 2022/23, progress has been made 
across the business, moving SSE closer  
to achieving its medium- and long-term 
targets. Female representation on the 
Board is currently 42%, following changes 
to the Board which took effect post 
31 March 2023, which remains above  
the 40% Board Policy target. Full details  
of changes across membership and 
Nomination Committee focus are set  
out on pages 115 and 142 to 149 . The 
representation of women in the GEC and 
direct reports has increased from 22.4% at 
31 March 2022 to 34% at 31 March 2023, 
representing maintenance of the progress 
disclosed in the 2022 Annual Report and 
offering a strong platform for continued 
work towards the 2025 ambition of 40%.

Table 10: SSE’s gender data for senior levels and all employees at 31 March in  
each year

Year

Ambition

Board1

Ongoing

50%, with no less 
than 40% female 
representation

Group Executive 
Committee (GEC)2

–

–

2022/23 
% Female (Male/ 
Female headcount)

2021/22
% Female (Male/ 
Female headcount)

46% (7/6)

50% (6/6)

27% (8/3)

25% (6/2)

GEC2 and direct 
reports (excl. 
administrative roles)

2025

40% female

34% (54/28)

22.4% (45/13)

Leadership Group3 

2030

40% female

25% (812/274) 23.7% (681/212)

All employees

2030

33% female

30% 
(8,525/3,655)

28.8% 
(7,658/3,096)

1  As at 23 May 2023, the Board has 42% female representation (seven men and five women), see page 149  

2 

for more detail.
In the context of gender reporting, the GEC includes all members of the GEC and the Company Secretary. 
This is the definition of senior managers in SSE for the purposes of s414C(8)(c)(ii). 

3  Employees in SSE’s senior level pay grades. 

Wider diversity targets
SSE tracks progress against a range of 
diversity metrics, including the proportion 
of ethnic minority, disabled, and LGBTQIA+ 
employees. Senior leaders focus on 
progress as part of broad internal inclusion 
and diversity ambitions quarterly, and these 
metrics are reviewed twice yearly by the 
GEC and the Board. SSE understands that 
transparency supports inclusion and 
diversity progress, and therefore is working 
to increase the proportion of employees 
disclosing their diversity data to SSE, so that 
it can improve external disclosure as it 
becomes feasible to do so.

Over 2022/23, SSE has developed its 
ethnicity pay gap analysis, in line with the 
UK Government guidelines published in 
April 2023. SSE is using this data for internal 
analysis and aims to publish its ethnicity pay 
gap when employee disclosure rates are 
high enough to ensure anonymity and 

provide meaningful insight. At 31 March 
2023, SSE had an employee disclosure rate 
of 39% of the total employee population for 
diversity metrics including ethnicity, sexual 
orientation, and disabilities, an increase 
from 32% the previous year. SSE’s diversity 
data based on the population of employees 
disclosing this information is provided in 
Table 11. Increasing employees’ voluntary 
disclosure of their diversity data, even if they 
select ‘prefer not to say’, is essential in order 
for SSE to set ambitions, develop strategies, 
and gain learnings that will increase diversity 
within the business. See SSE’s Inclusion and 
Diversity Report 2023  for details about 
how SSE is working to increase diversity 
data disclosure rates.

An ethical business culture alongside 
inclusion and diversity are directly 
linked to the Group Principal Risk of 
People and Culture – full details are 
available on page 75 .

Table 11: SSE’s wider diversity data at 31 March in each year*

Diversity category

Disability 

Ethnic Minority

LGBTQIA+

Year

2030

2030

2030

Ambition 
(% of employees)

2022/23
(% of employees)

2021/22
(% of employees) 

8

15

8

8.9 

8.1

3.8 

6.8

6.3

3.6

*  Data is collected on SSE’s HR data reporting system ‘Harmony’. Gender has a 100% completion rate,  
and is based on biological sex. Disability, Ethnic Minority, and LGBTQIA+ data is voluntarily disclosed  
by employees, with a 39% disclosure rate at 31 March 2023 and a 32% disclosure rate at 31 March 2023.  
Data excludes those without facility to share information on Harmony.

.

Protecting health, safety and wellbeing

Monitoring health 
and safety performance
Safety remains SSE’s first priority with the 
objective that ‘everyone gets home safe’ 
and that focus is all the keener following 
the tragic death of Liam Macdonald, a 
young contractor working on Shetland,  
in June 2022.

The Total Recordable Injury Rate (TRIR)  
for direct employees and contractors 
combined was 0.19 per 100,000 hours 
worked, up from 0.17 in 2021/22. This 
increase reflects a significant surge in 
investment and construction, and an 
associated rise in contractor hours worked. 
Further detail on SSE’s TRIR is outlined  
in Table 12, with additional information  
on contractor safety outlined on pages 66 
and 164 . 

SSE seeks to embed a strong safety culture 
and to ensure that all those working on its 
behalf feel confident to speak up around 
safety. In SSE’s 2022 all-employee survey, 
which had a 79% response rate, 92% of 
employees said that their manager sets  
the right example when it comes to Safety, 
Health and Environment and 94% said that 
SSE makes it easy for people to do the right 
thing on Safety, Health and Environment.

Detailed information on SSE’s health  
and safety performance over 2022/23 is 
provided in the Safety, Sustainability, Health 
and Environment Advisory Committee 
report on pages 162 to 165  of this report 
and in the Sustainability Report 2023 .

Taking a holistic 
approach to wellbeing
In 2021/22, SSE undertook a strategic 
review of occupational benefits which  
also included recruitment of a dedicated 
Head of Health and Wellbeing. The review 
recognised that while a very good range of 
support was already in place, there were 
opportunities for some services to be used 
more and/or expanded upon.

Building upon the outcomes of the 
strategic review and recognising the impact 
which Covid and the cost of living crisis 
have had on employees’ wellbeing, over 
2022/23 SSE developed a holistic range of 
benefits which support physical, mental 
and financial wellbeing. 

In addition to providing a wider range of 
support services, a key focus in 2022 was to 
make it easier for employees to access the 
right form of support when they need it. As 
a result, SSE launched the Health Hub, an 
online portal with clear signposting to all of 

Table 12: Total Recordable Injury Rates for SSE’s employees and contractors

Unit

Total Recordable Injury Rate 
– employees and contractors

Per 100,000 
hours worked

Total Recordable Injury  
Rate – employees

Total Recordable Injury 
Rate – contractors

Per 100,000 
hours worked

Per 100,000 
hours worked

2022/23

2021/22

0.19 

0.17

0.10 

0.09

0.34

0.32

the wellbeing support and guidance 
available to employees. 

Increased investment  
in employee health
Over 2022/23, SSE made a significant 
investment to enhance the health support 
it provides to its employees. One of the  
key investments it made was the launch  
of a new service, WeCare, which enables 
employees in the UK and Northern Ireland 
to access free online GP appointments 
within 48 hours and access to a private 
prescription service, to help colleagues 
receive the medical care they need. 
WeCare can be used by all UK and 
Northern Ireland employees, as well as 
their immediate family who live in the same 
home, and it also offers 24/7 support on 
physical and mental health issues, general 
wellbeing and financial and legal matters. 
Employees in Ireland can receive similar 
support through SSE’s partnerships with 
VHI Healthcare.

In 2022, SSE also launched a pilot  
scheme in partnership with the British 
Heart Foundation providing employees 
with free health assessments. The service 
was accessed by over 150 colleagues in 
2022/23 and SSE plans to make it more 
widely available in 2023/24.

These initiatives build upon a strong 
foundation of existing support services 
including Nuffield mental health and 
musculoskeletal support, comprehensive 
Employee Assistance Programmes,  
a suite of toolkits covering mental health, 
menopause and other health issues, a 
series of health and wellbeing webinars  
and Nudge, a financial education resource. 

Safety and the Environment remains  
as a Principal Risk to the Group, further 
details on how this is mitigated can be 
found on page 77 .

WeCare  

Free online GP appointments  
within 48 hours. 

Access to a private  
prescription service. 

24/7 support on physical  
and mental health issues,  
general wellbeing and financial 
and legal matters. 

Can be used by all UK and 
Northern Ireland employees, as 
well as their immediate family. 

62

SSE plc  Annual Report 2023

SSE plc  Annual Report 2023

63

Financial StatementsStrategic ReportDirectors’ ReportA sustainable approach continued
Ensuring a just transition continued

Providing affordable and clean energy

Avoiding the next energy crisis 
SSE recognises the hugely challenging 
circumstances faced by energy consumers 
in 2022/23. SSE Airtricity responded through 
a combination of keeping tariffs as low as 
possible for all consumers through not 
passing through the full impact of wholesale 
costs, a price freeze for financially vulnerable 
consumers and customer support funds. 
The business also honoured its commitment 
not to make a profit in the year. Residual 
profits of €8.6m were distributed to ROI 
domestic customers in full, after the year- 
end in April 2023, amounting to a credit of 
€35 per customer.

Short-term measures, however, are not a 
long-term solution to high energy costs 
and a reliance on unpredictable sources of 
energy. Therefore, the need to accelerate 
the delivery of renewable energy generation 

and accelerated energy efficiency rollout for 
homes and businesses is more important 
now than ever. It is this multi-track approach, 
supporting customers in the short-term, with 
industry and government working together 
in the medium-term for a secure, clean and 
affordable future energy system.

plans to deliver up to 40,000 installations 
over the next 10 years. This activity is also 
helping to support local jobs, with the 
creation of 200 highly skilled green jobs 
over the next two years announced by 
Activ8 in 2022, supporting a just transition 
towards net zero.

Energy Affordability remains a Principal 
Risk to the Group, for further details 
please see page 73 .

Powering greener homes  
and businesses 
SSE Business Energy helps business 
customers of all sizes across the UK to 
reduce their carbon emissions through its 
green electricity offering. All SSE Business 
Energy green electricity is backed by 
Renewable Energy Guarantees of Origin 
(REGOs) and is independently verified. 
In addition to this, SSE Airtricity has a 50% 
ownership share in Activ8 Solar Energies, 
which carried out over 1,500 domestic 
solar installations in 2022/23, with further 

Engagement in action
Energy customers

Supporting customers  
through exceptional times

SSE Airtricity provided a holistic range  
of practical measures up to the value  
of €25m, including targeting families  
who are struggling financially. This has 
included:

•  Price promise: SSE Airtricity held 
energy costs at June 2022 levels  
until the end of March 2023, for  
up to 60,000 financially vulnerable 
customers.

•  Discretionary fund: a €1m 

discretionary fund was created to 
provide direct support to customers  
in difficulty.

•  Energy efficiency measures: to  

vulnerable households, at no cost,  
and a €2.5m donation to not-for-profit 
organisation EnergyCloud, which will 
help divert surplus renewable energy 
to up to 10,000 fuel poor homes 
across Ireland.

•  Working with partners to support 
households: over 2022/23, SSE 
Airtricity made donations to trusted 
charity partners to support households 
in need of financial assistance across 
the island of Ireland, regardless of who 
their supplier is. This included a €1m 
donation to St Vincent de Paul (SVP) 
and donations totalling £2m to Bryson 
Charitable Group.

help tackle one of the root causes of 
fuel poverty, SSE Airtricity supported 
vulnerable households with energy 
efficiency. This has included delivering 
home energy upgrades for up to 600 

•  Energy Bill Relief Scheme: Airtricity 
also applied discounts to the value  
of £116m in the year to customers 
under the UK Government’s Energy 
Bill Relief Scheme. 

The number of customers 
benefiting from Airtricity holding 
prices at June 2022 levels was 

60,000

next two decades with technology rapidly 
advancing and high-carbon heating and 
transport being phased out. 

In addressing these critical issues,  
SSEN Distribution has created an action 
plan for delivering a just transition for 
energy consumers. With 10 commitments, 
it will progress alongside further 
recommendations for the energy industry 
and policy makers to help unlock the 
benefits of net zero for all consumers.

SSEN Distribution’s commitments cover  
a range of areas, including: supporting 
knowledge-sharing and collaboration; 
addressing emerging vulnerabilities resulting 
from the transition to net zero; ensuring 
equal access to electricity infrastructure; and, 
supporting remote and rural communities, 
which may be off-grid, to benefit from the 
electricity system of the future. 

The full report can be found at  
ssen.co.uk . 

A FAIR ENERGY
FUTURE

Unlocking a just transition  
for consumers

March 2023

Providing an inclusive service  
to network customers
SSEN Distribution’s Priority Service Register 
(PSR) is the mechanism to target support 
for people in vulnerable situations. The  
PSR provides support for customers who 
require adapted services, or who may need 
additional support, particularly in the event 
of power cuts. It is therefore critical that the 
Register is comprehensive, accurate and 
captures all those in need. 

To achieve that aim, in March 2023 a  
new website thepsr.co.uk  was created 
through a collaborative initiative led  
by SSEN Distribution and including 10 
Distribution Network Operators (DNOs) 
and Gas Distribution Network Operators 
(GDNs). This website brings together 
individual registers from DNOs and GDNs, 
making it easier to raise awareness of the 
additional support available nationwide. 
Furthermore, the website supports external 
partners such as local and national charities 
and NHS Trusts to promote the PSR to their 
customer base through a clear process. 

Unlocking a just transition  
for network customers 
SSEN Distribution is at the forefront of 
enabling net zero at a local level, operating 
the electricity distribution network that will 
facilitate new forms of heating, battery 
storage and many more electric vehicles.  
In March 2023, it published a report which 
explores how net zero can be delivered 
fairly for consumers, ensuring people  
can participate in and benefit from the 
energy transition. 

The report, titled A Fair Energy Future , 
details the partnerships and innovation 
projects SSEN Distribution has undertaken 
to explore and understand the new energy 
challenges that consumers will face in the 

Creating new standards  
in equal EV access

In October 2020 SSEN Distribution 
established ‘Equal EV’, a collaboration 
with Disabled Motoring UK (DMUK)  
to identify the unique enablers  
and barriers faced by drivers with 
vulnerabilities adopting electric 
vehicles (EVs) and the role of 
technologies and Distribution 
Network Operators in removing 
barriers. The insights gained from  
the work have been instructive and 
have supported the inclusion of a 
commitment to improve accessibility 
at public charge points for disabled 
users in the UK Government’s Electric 
Vehicle Infrastructure Strategy.

In 2022, the Equal EV project fed into 
the creation of the British Standard 
Institution (BSI) PAS 1899, a new 
specification on accessible public 
charge points for EVs covering the 
design of charge points, including 
the location spacing and surrounding 
environment, as well as the 
appropriate information, signals  
and indicators to be provided. 

In addition, Disabled Motoring  
UK (DMUK) launched a parking 
standard called the Disabled Parking 
Accreditation (DPA) which signposts 
off-street car parks that are 
accessible to disabled people and  
will soon include a dedicated section 
on EV charge point provision. 

64

SSE plc  Annual Report 2023

SSE plc  Annual Report 2023

65

Financial StatementsStrategic ReportDirectors’ ReportA sustainable approach continued
Ensuring a just transition continued

Non-financial information statement

Supporting a sustainable supply chain

An increasing focus on 
contractor safety
In 2022/23 there was a significant rise  
in contractor hours worked on SSE’s  
large capital projects, which represent a 
higher-risk environment than for SSE’s 
operational activity. SSE’s contractor TRIR 
increased slightly compared to 2021/22 
performance and there was a contractor 
fatality on Shetland in June 2022. See  
the Safety, Sustainability, Health and 
Environment Advisory Committee report 
on pages 162 to 165  of this report for 
more information around SSE’s response  
to this incident.

Given the rise in contractor hours worked in 
SSE’s current growth phase, there is a need 
for a strategy that builds stronger, more 
collaborative relationships with supply chain 
partners to keep everyone safe. 

A dedicated, Group-level contractor safety 
team was established in early 2023 to 
ensure partners are fully supported and 
performance is monitored across all of 
SSE’s large capital projects.

Mitigating modern slavery 
in the supply chain
Over 2022/23, SSE continued to deliver  
its Modern Slavery Action Plan. Key 
developments over the year included  
the rolling out its updated modern slavery 
clause and Living Hours clause into supplier 
contracts, and completion of onsite 
modern slavery audits. 

SSE finalised the programme of onsite 
modern slavery audits for three of its key 
sites, which have been undertaken by third 
party organisation Stronger Together since 
2021/22. Findings showed that health, 
safety, and labour standards were very high 
on all three sites assessed and that risk of 
modern slavery was very low. The gap 
analysis highlighted key improvement 
areas, including around risk identification, 
supplier due diligence and training, which 
have been embedded in SSE’s Action Plan. 

Deep dive assessments for high risk areas 
of SSE’s business activities continued. Work 
was undertaken with Slave Free Alliance  
to identify risk associated with Solar and 

Battery projects, and mitigation actions are 
ongoing. SSE Renewables increased focus 
on high-risk areas such as vessels which 
service offshore wind farms to identify  
key risk areas and ensure additional due 
diligence is put in place where required. 

In addition, SSE continued to actively 
participate in a number of industry  
working groups and initiatives that seek to 
develop best practice and industry-wide 
approaches to addressing modern slavery. 

More information on SSE’s actions to 
mitigate the risk of human rights abuses 
and modern slavery, and the industry 
collaboration being undertaken, can  
be found in SSE’s Sustainability Report  
2023 . 

Healthy supply chains influence SSE’s 
exposure to the Principal Risks of Large 
Capital Projects Management and Speed 
of Change – further details on how these 
are managed can be found on pages 75 
and 77 .

Engagement in action
Suppliers, contractors and partners 

Supply chain learnings from COP27

SSE participated in climate debates on the 
fringe of COP27 in Egypt in November 
2022. SSE’s objective in its attendance 
was to further the case for net zero 
through the practical demonstration  
and example of its investments in 
low-carbon infrastructure in the UK, 
Ireland and beyond. 

One further objective was to learn from 
international experiences in relation  
to the mining and extraction of metals 
and minerals critical to the technology 
required by SSE’s investments. 

SSE actively participated in discussions 
and panels on the just transition, 
considering issues through the lens of 
indigenous communities, many of whom 
host the commercial mining of minerals 
such as cobalt, lithium and silicon. 

The result of the engagement was an 
understanding of the importance of 
‘FPIC’ principles (free, prior and informed 
consent) and an imperative to work more 
closely with the most strategic suppliers 
on efforts to ensure components 
contained within the manufactured 
capital assets SSE procures are sourced 
from responsible sources. 

The engagement at COP27 was 
particularly instructive to SSE and has  
led to the development of a workstream 
that can deliver a transition to net zero in 
a responsible and ethical way. This work, 
directly with suppliers, is in addition to 
ongoing human rights work with the 
Sustainability Supply Chain School and 
industry collaborations including Utilities 
Against Modern Slavery and Scotland 
Against Modern Slavery.

SSE has reported extensively on its non-financial impacts within its Annual Report for a number of years and welcomes continued 
increasing focus from regulators, shareholders and other stakeholders. This table outlines how SSE meets the Non-Financial Reporting 
requirements contained within the Companies Act 2006. Further disclosure can also be found in SSE’s Sustainability Report 2023 .

Reporting requirement and  
SSE’s material areas of impact

Relevant Group Principal  
Risks, pages 72 to 77 

Relevant Group Policies  
on sse.com

Policy embedding, due diligence, 
outcomes and key performance indicators

Climate Change

Group Climate Change Policy

Safety and the Environment

Group Environment Policy

People and Culture

Group Employment Policy

Safety and the Environment

Group Safety and  
Health Policy

People and Culture

Group Sustainability Policy

Speed of Change

Group Taxation Policy

Energy Affordability

Group Procurement Policy

2030 Goals progress,  
pages 22 to 23 

A year of strategic progress, 
pages 18 to 21 

Accelerating climate action, 
pages 36 to 51 

Protecting the natural 
environment, pages 52 to 55 

Safety, Sustainability, Health 
and Environment Advisory 
Committee Report, 
pages 162 to 165 

2030 Goals progress,  
pages 22 to 23 

Ensuring a just transition,  
pages 56 to 66 

Focusing on culture,  
pages 59 and 137 to 138 

Empowering the employee 
voice, pages 134 to 136 

Safety, Sustainability, Health 
and Environment Advisory 
Committee Report,  
pages 162 to 165 

2030 Goals progress,  
pages 22 to 23 

Ensuring a just transition,  
pages 56 to 66 

People and Culture

Group Human Rights Policy

Large Capital Projects 
Management

Group Corruption and 
Financial Crime Prevention 
Policy

Group Whistleblowing Policy

SSE’s social contribution, 
pages 58 to 59 

Focusing on culture, 
pages 59 and 137 and 138 

Environmental matters 
•  Delivering net zero 
•  Managing climate-related 

issues 

•  Carbon performance, 
metrics and targets

•  Responsible resource use  
– water and energy use,  
air emissions

•  Managing impacts on the 
natural environment and 
biodiversity

Employees 
•  Protecting health, safety 

• 

and wellbeing
Investing in training  
and learning

•  Culture and ethics
•  Reward and benefits
•  Employee voice
•  Promoting inclusion  

and diversity

Social matters 
•  Ensuring a just transition
•  Contributing to jobs  

and GDP

•  Sustainable procurement 

and supporting local supply 
chains

•  Paying a fair share of tax
•  Supporting customers 
through the cost of  
living crisis

•  Sharing value with local 

communities

Human rights,  
anti-corruption  
and anti-bribery 
•  Reinforcing an ethical 

business culture
•  Speaking up against 

wrongdoing

•  Prevention of bribery  

and corruption

•  Approach to human rights 

and modern slavery

66

SSE plc  Annual Report 2023

SSE plc  Annual Report 2023

67

Financial StatementsStrategic ReportDirectors’ Reportreview of SSE’s Principal Risks that took 
place during the financial year.

way that reflects the expectations of SSE’s 
key stakeholder groups.

Risk-informed decision making
Managing SSE’s risks

The execution of SSE’s strategy and the creation of value from 
the opportunities arising from net zero are dependent on the 
effective identification, understanding and mitigation of the 
Group’s Principal Risks.

Throughout 2022/23 SSE has met and 
managed unprecedented challenge  
in the markets in which it operates. As 
highlighted in the Chair’s Statement on 
pages 4 and 5 , issues such as safety 
programmes, affordability, sectoral risks 
(such as extremely volatile commodity 
prices and inflationary pressures), extreme 
weather and climate change have featured 
heavily in strategic risk discussions.

While managing these external challenges, 
SSE has continued to make substantial 
progress on the execution and delivery  
of it’s Net Zero Acceleration Programme 
(NZAP), with in excess of £2.8bn of capital 
investment including acquisitions delivered 
during the course of the year. Supporting  
a just transition through continuing to 
create options for investment and growth 
by boosting energy security, supporting 
communities and creating green jobs, 
coupled with its balanced mix of 
businesses, uniquely positions SSE for  
the transition to net zero and resilience 
against volatility. These factors along  
with the ongoing geopolitical crisis in 
Ukraine having a significant impact on 
energy affordability and security of supply 
concerns, formed the basis of the full 

SSE’s risk management process is 
comprised of four main stages summarised 
in the diagram below. Continued maturity 
and refinement of our risk management 
framework ensures that it remains aligned 
with SSE’s strategy and this year included 
the review and redrafting of the Group Risk 
Management Policy which is available to 
view on sse.com . 

SSE’s sector review on pages 12 to 15  
provides more detail on the range of external 
factors that influenced the risk exposures to 
the Group over the course of the year.

Board considerations
Effective identification, understanding  
and mitigation of Principal Risks underpins 
the Board’s approach to setting strategic 
objectives for SSE and informing strategic 
decision making (please see page 124  for 
SSE’s decision making context). The Board 
aims to consider all material influencing 
factors and key external trends in the energy 
market, including those relating to climate 
change, technological developments and 
government policy and aims to do so in a 

Principal Risk assessment processes

Individual risk 
reviews

Outputs:  
Actions  
and risk  
disclosures

Committee  
self-assessments

Risk  
monitoring

Risk  
identification

Risk  
response

Risk  
assessment

Board  
assessment

Executive 
Committee 
assessment

68

SSE plc  Annual Report 2023

These material influencing factors also 
have an impact on the nature and extent  
of risks the Board is willing to take to meet 
these objectives, and related mitigation 
strategies adopted by the Group. Material 
changes in the nature, proximity and 
potential impacts of SSE’s Group Principal 
Risks are regularly assessed by the 
oversight committees and the Business 
Unit executive committees with appropriate 
mitigations implemented where necessary.

Overseeing risk
The Group Executive Committee and its 
subcommittees (as detailed on page 122 ) 
have responsibility for overseeing SSE’s 
Principal Risks. During the third quarter of 
SSE’s financial year, an assessment of each 
Principal Risk is completed by the assigned 
oversight committee. This assessment 
requires committee members to provide 
commentary on contextual changes to the 
risks, consider whether over the course of 
the year the risks have become more or less 
material based on impact and likelihood 
and to confirm effective mitigations are in 
place for controlling risks. Consideration is 
also given to emerging risks and whether 
any of those identified have the potential  
to become a Principal Risk to the business 
in the medium to long-term.

These responses are then consolidated  
into reports, one for each Principal Risk, 
which are presented back to the committees 
along with the results of provisional viability 
testing and analysis of relevant, current 
management information and key 
information relating to Business Unit 
Principal Risks and controls. These reports 
form the basis for the committees to discuss 
and confirm the risk trend (more, less or 
equally material), overall effectiveness of the 
risk control and monitoring environment, 
and whether any additional control 
improvement actions are required. This is  
an inclusive and iterative process that results 
in considered and objective outputs and a 
robust assessment of the Principal Risks. The 
outputs from these committee assessments 
are then presented to the Group Executive 
Committee for full review.

Group Principal Risks
As reflected throughout the Strategic Report, this year exposures to a number of external factors, 
particularly those driven by macro-economic and geopolitical events, have increased materially.  
This, in turn, has increased the residual exposures of a number of the Group Principal Risks set  
out on the following pages, primarily Energy Affordability, Cyber Security and Resilience, Portfolio 
Exposure and Political and Regulatory Change. 

The graphic below illustrates SSE’s 11 Group Principal Risks positioned to highlight the residual risk 
impact scores against residual likelihood scores following completion of the Principal Risk Self 
Assessment process. 

Change to individual risk rating
Change to individual risk rating

Risk trend key

Increased in materiality 

Not changed significantly

Reduced in materiality

1.  Climate Change

2. 

 Cyber Security  
and Resilience

3.  Energy Affordability

4. 

 Energy Infrastructure 
Failure

5.  Financial Liabilities

6. 

 Large Capital Projects 
Management 

7.  People and Culture

8. 

 Political and  
Regulatory Change

9.  Portfolio Exposure

10.   Safety and the 
Environment

11.  Speed of Change

h
g
H

i

d
o
o
h

i
l

e
k
L

i

l

a
u
d
i
s
e
R

w
o
L

1

3

8

7

6

10

11

2

9

4

5

*  Safety remains SSE’s most important value, and management of this risk remains SSE’s highest priority.
**  It should be noted that Energy Affordability is particularly closely linked to – and therefore impacted by – Political and Regulatory Change and  

Less

Residual Impact

More

Portfolio Exposure.

This year, due to the pace of change in  
the markets in which SSE operates, an 
additional assessment of the Principal Risks 
was undertaken by the relevant subject 
matter experts and the Group Executive 
Committee during the last quarter of the 
financial year. The output of this was then 
considered, with any emerging risks or 
additional material changes resulting from 
this being proposed to the Board.

2022/23 Review Outcome
Following the 2022/23 annual review 
process, the number of Principal Risks to 
the Group remains at 11 with two revisions 
of note. The previously named Group 
Principal Risk of ‘Commodity Prices’ has 

been redefined and renamed ‘Portfolio 
Exposure’. The second revision relates to 
the previously named Group Principal Risk 
of ‘Politics, Regulation and Compliance’ 
which has been redefined and renamed 
‘Political and Regulatory Change’, both  
of these revisions have been made in order 
to better reflect and articulate the risk 
exposures to the Group.

An essential tenet of SSE’s Risk Management 
process is the consideration of potential 
emerging risks and whether any of those 
identified have the potential to become a 
Group Principal Risk in the medium to long 
term. While no new emerging Principal 
Risks have been identified this year 

important revisions have been made to  
the descriptions of each of the Principal 
Risks to take account of key changes  
and corresponding mitigations that were 
introduced during the year. 

Full details of the Group Principal Risks  
are available on pages 72 to 77 . Key 
developments that have influenced the  
risk exposures to the Group have also  
been highlighted in detail throughout the 
Strategic Report.

SSE plc  Annual Report 2023

69

Financial StatementsStrategic ReportDirectors’ Report 
Risk-informed decision making continued
Managing SSE’s risks continued

Risk Appetite Statement
The Group risk appetite remains aligned  
to the achievement of SSE’s strategic 
objectives. SSE will however only accept  
risk where it is consistent with its core 
purpose, strategy and values; is well 
understood; can be effectively managed;  
is in line with stakeholder expectations  
and offers commensurate reward.

The sectors in which SSE operate are part of 
a rapidly changing industry subject to a high 
degree of political, regulatory and legislative 
change as well as risk arising from other 
developments including technology, the 
impact of competition, stakeholders’ 
evolving expectations and climate change. 
Furthermore, each of SSE’s Business Units 
have differing levels of exposure to additional 
risks. For example, the Transmission and 
Distribution businesses are economically 
regulated and are characterised by relatively 
stable, inflation linked cash flows while the 
SSE Renewables business benefits from cash 
flows linked to government-mandated 
renewables subsidies. Those Business Units 
that generate and trade energy are also 
exposed to significant medium- to long-
term energy market and commodity risks in 
operational and investment decision making. 

The key elements of SSE’s Strategic 
Framework – including SSE’s Purpose, 
Strategy, Goals and Values, as well as  
the focus of its business model, are fully 
reflective of its risk appetite (see pages 8 
and 9  for further details). 

Fundamentally: 

In determining its appetite for specific risks, 
the Board is guided by three key principles: 

1.  Risks should be consistent with SSE’s 
core purpose, financial objectives, 
strategy and values; 

2.  Risks should only be accepted where 
relevant approvals have been attained 
through the Governance Framework  
to confirm appropriate reward is 
achievable on the basis of objective 
evidence and in a manner that is 
consistent with SSE’s purpose, strategy 
and values; and 

3.  Risks should be actively controlled and 
monitored through the appropriate 
allocation of management and  
other resources, underpinned  
by the maintenance of a healthy 
business culture. 

The Board has overall responsibility for 
determining the nature and extent of the 
risk it is willing to take to achieve strategic 
objectives and for ensuring that risks are 
managed effectively across the Group.

•  SSE has a clear strategy to create value 

for shareholders and society in a 
sustainable way by developing, building, 
operating, and investing in the electricity 
infrastructure and businesses needed in 
the transition to net zero.

•  SSE has a good understanding of the 
risks and opportunities in the Great 
Britain and Ireland energy markets  
and a strong associated knowledge  
of adjacent EU markets, augmented by 
its acquisitions. UK and Irish markets, 
alongside EU markets therefore provide 
the Group’s geographic focus, with 
expansion into other new international 
markets being subject to rigorous 
scrutiny and ensuring the appropriate 
governance arrangements which are 
consistent with the Group’s values and 
strategic goals are in place. 

•  Safety is SSE’s first value and it has no 

appetite for risks brought on by unsafe 
actions, nor does it have any appetite 
for risks brought on by insecure actions 
including those relating to cyber security. 
In areas where SSE is exposed to risks  
for which it has little or no appetite,  
even though it has implemented high 
standards of control and mitigation, the 
nature of these risks mean that they 
cannot be eliminated completely. 

Viability Statement
SSE provides the energy needed today 
while building a better world of energy  
for tomorrow through creating value for 
shareholders and society in a stainable  
way by developing, building, operating and 
investing in the electricity infrastructure 
and businesses needed in the transition  
to net zero. The delivery of SSE’s purpose 
and execution of its strategy depends on 
the skills and talent of a diverse workforce, 
the quality of its assets and the effective 
identification, understanding and mitigation 
of risk.

As required within provision 31 of the UK 
Corporate Governance Code, the Board 
has formally assessed the prospects of  
the Company over the next four financial 
years to the period ending March 2027.  
The Directors have determined that as this 
time horizon aligns with the Group’s Net 
Zero Acceleration Programme Plus, which 
includes a fully funded capital investment 
programme to 2027, a greater degree  
of confidence over the forecasting 
assumptions modelled can be established.

In making this statement the Directors  
have considered the resilience of the Group 
taking into account its current position,  
the Principal Risks facing the Group and  
the control measures in place to mitigate 
each of them. The Directors recognise the 
significance of the strong balance sheet 
with total undrawn committed lending 
facilities as shown above:

Matures

Comment

SSE plc

SSE plc

SSE plc

£bn

1.30

0.20

1.00

March 2026

October 2026

February 2024

SSEN Transmission* 0.75

November 2025

SSEN Distribution

0.25

November 2025

3.50

* The Transmission facility is available to that Business Unit only.

Collateral facility with 1 year 
extension option (in favour  
of the banks)

2, 1 year extension options  
(in favour of the Group)

2, 1 year extension options  
(in favour of the Group)

The Group is an owner and operator of 
critical national infrastructure and has  
a proven ability to maintain access to 
capital markets during stressed economic 
conditions. The Group has demonstrated 
this through securing £3.0bn of funding 
since April 2021 including the issuance of  
a 1bn Euro Hybrid bond in April 2022 and 
€650m bond in July 2022. Further detail 
relating to planned funding is available in 
A6.3  Accompanying Information to the 
Financial Statements in the Annual Report 
and Accounts.

The Group has a number of highly 
attractive and relatively liquid assets – 
including a regulated asset base which 
benefits from a strong regulated revenue 
stream as well as the operational wind 
portfolio – which provide flexibility of 
options. This has been demonstrated 
through the success of the programme  
of disposals set out by the Group in June 
2020 and with the recent sale of a 25% 
stake in the Transmission business.

To help support this Statement, over the 
course of the year a suite of severe but 
plausible scenarios has been developed  
for each of SSE’s Principal Risks. These 
scenarios are based on relevant real life 

events that have been observed either  
in the markets within which the Group 
operates or related markets globally. 
Examples include critical asset failure to 
generation assets (for Energy Infrastructure 
Failure); changes to key government  
energy policies (for Political and Regulatory 
Change); and the physical impacts of 
climate change on distribution assets 
through more frequent and increasingly 
severe storm events (for Climate Change). 

Scenarios are stress tested against forecast 
available financial headroom and in 
addition to considering these in isolation, 
the Directors also consider the cumulative 
impact of different combinations of 
scenarios, including those that individually 
have the highest impact.

Upon the basis of the analysis undertaken, 
and on the assumption that the fundamental 
regulatory and statutory framework of the 
markets in which the Group operates does 
not substantively change, and the Group 
continues to be able to refund its debt at 
maturity, the Directors have a reasonable 
expectation that the Group will be able to 
continue to meet its liabilities as they fall  
due in the period to March 2027.

70

SSE plc  Annual Report 2023

SSE plc  Annual Report 2023

71

Financial StatementsStrategic ReportDirectors’ Report 
 
Group Principal Risks

Risk trend key

Link to strategy

Increased in 
materiality 

Not changed 
significantly

Reduced in 
materiality

Develop

Operate

Build

Invest

Climate Change

What is the risk?
The risk that SSE’s strategy, 
investments or operations  
are deemed to have an 
unacceptable future impact  
on the natural environment  
and on national and 
international targets to  
tackle climate change.

Oversight
Group Risk Committee

Link to strategy

Material influencing factors
•  The impact of physical risks associated 
with climate change, such as severe 
adverse weather that causes damage or 
interrupts energy supply or generation.

•  The speed of technological 

developments. 

•  Transitional risks relating to developments 
in political and regulatory requirements 
related to the products and services that 
SSE provides. 

•  Ensuring the continuation of Large 

Capital Projects which are fundamental 
to Group net zero targets.

•  Global and domestic policies including 
those published by the UK’s Committee 
on Climate Change relating to the 6th 
carbon budget for the period 2032 and 
2037.

•  Political and regulatory engagement.
•  Plans to transition to a decarbonised 

energy system.

•  Geopolitical events relating to the 
security of supplies and macro-
economic stress.

Risk trend

Cyber Security and Resilience

Risk trend

Key mitigations
•  Policy link: SSE Climate Change Policy and SSE 

Sustainability Policy. 

•  SSE is investing on average £10m a day on 

decarbonising infrastructure over a five-year  
period to FY27 as part of its Net Zero Acceleration 
Programme Plus. 

•  SSE provides transparent disclosures of its 

governance around climate-related risks and 
opportunities to allow its stakeholders to properly 
assess its performance in managing climate related 
issues.

•  The Group Executive Committee is responsible  
for implementing the Group strategy set by the 
Board and driving climate-related performance 
programmes across the organisation. The Chief 
Sustainability Officer is responsible for advising the 
Board, Group Executive Committee and businesses 
on climate related matters and provides support  
in the implementation of relevant initiatives across 
the Group.

•  The TCFD Steering Group, which consists of 

representatives from Finance, Group Risk and 
Sustainability conducts an annual review of the 
outputs of the climate-related risk and opportunity 
assessment process and assesses the potential 
financial impact of key risks and opportunities in  
a fair, balanced and understandable way. This is then 
reviewed and approved by the Group Risk Committee.

•  SSE’s approach to executive remuneration reflects 

the role of sustainability and climate-related 
considerations within SSE’s purpose and strategy, 
with sustainability-linked metrics and targets an 
element of performance related pay. As part of  
the 2022 Directors’ Remuneration Policy review,  
the Remuneration Committee further strengthened 
the link between sustainability and executive pay  
by introducing sustainability measures in the 
long-term incentive (PSP) for the first time. 
Performance is assessed against SSE’s 2030 Goals 
and also against strategic performance in relation  
to the implementation of the NZAP strategy.  
These measures are worth a combined 30%  
of the overall award.

What is the risk?
The risk that key infrastructure, 
networks or core systems are 
compromised or are otherwise 
rendered unavailable.

Oversight
Group Risk Committee

Link to strategy

Material influencing factors
•  Software or hardware issues, including 
telecoms networks, connectivity and 
power supply interruption.

•  Heightened threat of cyber-attacks  

• 

• 
• 

due to geopolitical events. 
Increased sophistication and likelihood 
of ransomware attacks. 
International expansion.
Ineffective operational performance,  
for example, breach of information 
security rules or poor management  
of resilience expertise.

•  Employee and contractor understanding 
and awareness of information security 
requirements.

•  Malicious cyber attack.

Key mitigations
•  Policy link: SSE Cyber Security Policy and SSE  
Data and Information Management Policy.
•  Key technology and infrastructure risks are 

incorporated into the design of systems and  
are regularly appraised with risk mitigation  
plans recommended.

•  SSE conducts regular internal and third-party testing 
of the security of its information and operational 
technology networks and systems.

•  Continued strengthening and embedding of the 

cyber risks and controls framework to continue to 
identify threats and reduce exposures through, for 
example, improved use of data analytics and further 
migration from unsupported systems.

•  Significant longer term Security Programme 

• 

investment and planning which seeks to strengthen 
the resilience of the systems on which SSE relies.
IT Service Assurance works with individual Business 
Units to form and agree appropriate service level 
agreements for business-critical IT services.

•  Business continuity plans are reviewed in response 
to changes in the threat to the Group and regularly 
tested.

•  Over the course of the year an updated Cyber 

Security Culture Strategy was launched. This has 
been designed to continue to improve the cyber 
security maturity across the Group and build 
positively on the existing, strong cyber culture.  
The implementation of this strategy will be assessed 
and monitored to measure its impact on the levels 
of cyber security awareness and culture across  
the Group.

Energy Affordability

Risk trend

What is the risk?
The risk that energy customers’ 
ability to meet the costs of 
providing energy, or their ability 
to access energy services is 
limited, giving rise to negative 
political or regulatory 
intervention that has an impact 
on SSE’s regulated networks 
and energy businesses.

Oversight
Group Executive Committee

Link to strategy

Material influencing factors
•  Technology changes and innovations  
to develop sustainable infrastructure  
and energy solutions.

•  Supply chain cost management.
•  Public policies, including those aimed  
at reducing carbon emissions and 
energy consumption.

Key mitigations
•  Policy link: SSE Sustainability Policy.
•  SSE Airtricity established the largest customer 

support fund in Ireland, with provision for up to  
€25m in affordability funding, and SSE Business 
Energy has implemented the Energy Bill Relief 
Scheme.

•  Robust stakeholder engagement across 

•  Accessibility to energy and related 

government, regulators and relevant counterparties.

• 

services for all.
Increased focus on energy security in 
response to current geopolitical events.
•  Required investment in the upgrading of 
the UK’s energy infrastructure to achieve 
net zero.

•  Political interventions.
•  Fluctuations in the cost of fuels.
•  Supplier and customer failures and 

related bad debt.

•  SSE is focused on fixing the long-term causes, not 
the short-term symptoms of the current energy 
crisis, as such it continues to advocate for 
progressive policies that will help bring forward 
necessary investment in low-carbon infrastructure 
at lowest cost to reduce customers’ exposure to gas 
price volatility and deliver net zero affordability.

72

SSE plc  Annual Report 2023

SSE plc  Annual Report 2023

73

Financial StatementsStrategic ReportDirectors’ ReportGroup Principal Risks continued

Risk trend key

Link to strategy

Increased in 
materiality 

Not changed 
significantly

Reduced in 
materiality

Develop

Operate

Build

Invest

Energy Infrastructure Failure

Risk trend

Large Capital Projects Management 

Risk trend

What is the risk?
The risk of national energy 
infrastructure failure, whether  
in respect of assets owned by 
SSE or those owned by others 
which SSE relies on, that 
prevents the Group from 
meeting its obligations.

Oversight
Group Executive Committee

Link to strategy

Material influencing factors
•  Longer term changes in climate patterns 
cause sustained higher temperatures 
that may result in lower rainfall and 
reduced wind impacting renewable 
generation output.

•  Government policy regarding the 
operation of the energy network  
which relates to security of supply.

•  Failures in any aspect of the Great Britain 

national critical infrastructure.

•  Appropriate asset management and 
necessary upgrading works of both 
generation and network assets.

•  Malicious attack on the Great Britain 

energy infrastructure.

•  Energy network balancing mechanisms. 
•  Continued availability of competent 

personnel. 

•  Continued availability of key systems.

Key mitigations
•  Policy link: Business Unit Asset Management 

Policies.

•  SSE assesses the climate impact on its operations 
over the short, medium and long term from the 
perspective of market, policy or regulatory transition 
risks and opportunities and the physical risks of a 
changed climate.

•  SSE’s dedicated Engineering Centres of Excellence 
review and develop plans to ensure the ongoing 
integrity of its generation assets is maintained.
•  Targeted investment plans to ensure the ongoing 

health and integrity of network assets.

•  Crisis management and business continuity plans 
are in place across the Group. These are tested 
regularly and are designed for the management of, 
and recovery from, significant energy infrastructure 
failure events. Where there are material changes in 
infrastructure (or the management of it) additional 
plans are developed.

•  SSE continues to be an active participant in national 

security forums such as the Centre for the 
Protection of National Infrastructure (CPNI).
•  Flexible and reliable power will continue to be 
required to back up wind and solar generation, 
ensuring security of supply across the UK. In line 
with its commitment to a net-zero future, SSE is 
actively progressing plans to deliver new low-
carbon capacity to play this critical role, with CCS 
and pumped storage hydro projects in development. 

Financial Liabilities

Risk trend

What is the risk?
The risk that funding is not 
available to meet SSE’s financial 
liabilities, including those 
relating to its defined benefit 
pension schemes, as these fall 
due under both normal and 
stressed conditions without 
incurring unacceptable costs or 
risking damage to its reputation.

Oversight
Group Risk Committee

Link to strategy

Material influencing factors
•  Ongoing commitment to an investment 

grade credit rating.

•  Global macroeconomic changes and 

subsequent volatility in foreign exchange 
markets.

•  Fluctuations in interest rates and inflation 

which influence borrowing costs.
•  Defined benefit pension scheme 

performance including the impact of 
fluctuations in gilt yields on the value  
of scheme liabilities.

Key mitigations
•  Policy link: SSE Financial Management Policy.
•  Committed borrowings and facilities are always 

available equal to at least 105% of forecast 
borrowings over a rolling 6-month period.

•  Detailed and continuous financial modelling and 
forecasting on a Group and Business Unit basis.
•  SSE seeks to maintain a diverse and innovative 

portfolio of debt to avoid over-reliance on any one 
market. This allows it to build relationships with, and 
create competition between, debt providers.
•  Each of SSE’s defined benefit pension schemes  

•  Counterparty credit limit exposures.
•  Operational and trading collateral 

has a Board of Trustees which acts independently  
of the Group.

requirements.

•  The approval of all material counterparty credit 

limits is a matter reserved for the Board. 

•  The newly formed Collateral Committee meet 

weekly to monitor ongoing collateral requirements.
•  SSE has a proven ability to maintain access to capital 
markets during stressed economic conditions. The 
Group has demonstrated this through securing 
£3.0bn of funding since April 2021 including the 
issuance of a 1bn Euro Hybrid bond in April 2022 
and €650m bond in July 2022.

What is the risk?
The risk that SSE develops and 
builds major assets that do not 
realise intended benefits or 
meet the quality standards 
required to support economic 
lives of typically 25 to 60 years 
within forecast timescales  
and budgets.

Oversight
Group Large Capital Projects 
Committee

Link to strategy

Material influencing factors
•  Appropriate contractual arrangements 
which meet the requirements of any 
jurisdiction in which SSE operates.

•  New or unproven technology.
•  Appropriate and effective budget 

management.

•  All aspects of supply chain management, 
including those relating to human rights, 
modern slavery and labour standards as 
well as supply chain impacts associated 
with new entities, new assets and a new 
network structure created by joint 
ventures and Brexit.

•  Availability and capacity of competent 
contractors in any jurisdiction in which 
SSE operates.

Key mitigations
•  Policy link: SSE’s Large Capital Projects Governance 
Framework manual ensures that all major capital 
investment projects for the Group are governed, 
developed, approved and executed in a consistent 
and effective manner, with full consideration of  
best practice project delivery. The manual, which 
was reviewed and updated in detail during 2022, 
provides common standards across the Group and 
incorporates continuous improvement practices.
•  The Large Capital Project Services function employs 
dedicated quality and assurance teams who perform 
in-depth quality reviews, the outputs of which are 
presented to the Board where appropriate.

•  Ongoing interaction with key suppliers through 

• 

SSE’s Supplier Relationship Management 
Programme.
In major projects, SSE generally manages insurance 
placement by organising owner-controlled insurance. 
This strategy allows it to have greater control and 
flexibility over the provisions in place. SSE also sees 
the insurance market as an important source of 
information on the reliability of technology and uses 
this to inform the design process of major projects.
•  Appropriate governance arrangements, including 

those relating to Joint Venture and Partner 
Management.

People and Culture

Risk trend

What is the risk?
The risk that SSE is unable to 
attract, develop and retain an 
appropriately skilled, diverse 
and responsible workforce and 
leadership team, and maintain  
a healthy business culture 
which encourages and  
supports ethical behaviours  
and decision making.

Oversight
Group Executive Committee

Link to strategy

Material influencing factors
•  Rewarding employee contributions 

Key mitigations
•  Policy link: SSE Employment Policy and SSE 

through fair pay and benefits.

Whistleblowing Policy.

•  Acquisition of competent skills and 

•  SSE has a detailed Inclusion and Diversity  

resources to support growth plans in 
international markets.

•  SSE embraces cultural diversity in the 

workplace and recognition of the value 
and benefit of having an inclusive and 
diverse workforce.

•  A responsible employer ethos. For full 
details please see the Sustainability 
Report .

•  Clearly defined roles, responsibilities and 

accountabilities for all employees.
•  Availability of career development 

opportunities and appropriate succession 
planning that recognises potential future 
skills shortages.

•  Clear personal objectives and 

communication of the SSE set of values.
•  A focus on ethical business conduct and 
creating a culture in which employees 
feel confident to speak up when they 
suspect wrongdoing.

•  The health and wellbeing of all employees 

(see the Sustainability Report  for 
further detail).

•  Clear and well-structured employee 
engagement and communications.

plan, progress against which is reviewed and 
monitored by SSE’s Group Executive Committee  
on a regular basis. Further details are available  
on pages 60 to 62  and on page 136  of the 
Directors’ report.

•  SSE Governance arrangements, including those 

relating to JV and Partner Management.
•  There are a wide range of tools and services 

available to all employees to support mental health 
and wellbeing, including those provided as part  
of the Employee Assistance Programme. Further 
details on careers sse.com/employee-benefits .
•  “Doing the Right Thing, a guide to ethical business 
conduct”, explicitly outlines the steps employees 
should take to ensure their day-to-day actions and 
decisions are consistent both with SSE’s values and 
ethical business principles. All SSE employees can 
report incidents of wrongdoing through both 
internal and external mechanisms. SSE uses an 
independent ‘Speak Up’ phone line and email 
service, hosted externally by SafeCall, through 
which incidents can be reported.

•  SSE’s business leaders are required to undertake 
regular succession planning reviews. At a Group 
level, SSE continues to develop its approach to the 
management of talent.

74

SSE plc  Annual Report 2023

SSE plc  Annual Report 2023

75

Financial StatementsStrategic ReportDirectors’ ReportGroup Principal Risks continued

Risk trend key

Link to strategy

Increased in 
materiality 

Not changed 
significantly

Reduced in 
materiality

Develop

Operate

Build

Invest

Political and Regulatory Change

Risk trend

Safety and the Environment 

Risk trend

What is the risk?
The risk associated with 
operating in a fast-paced,  
highly regulated environment 
which is subject to constantly 
changing political, regulatory 
and legislative expectations  
and interventions.

Oversight
Group Executive Committee

Link to strategy

Material influencing factors
•  SSE’s most significant contribution is  
to align with the Paris Agreement goal 
and aim to achieve net zero greenhouse 
gas emissions by at least 2050.
•  Material changes to regulatory 

frameworks in any jurisdiction in which 
SSE operates.

•  Government intervention into the 

structure of the energy sector in any 
jurisdiction in which SSE operates.
•  Constitutional uncertainty in any 
jurisdiction in which SSE operates.
•  Changes in financial, employment, 

safety and consumer legislation and/or 
regulation and the impact of these 
changes on business-as-usual activities 
in any jurisdiction in which SSE operates.

Key mitigations
•  Policy link: SSE Political and Regulatory  

Engagement Policy.

•  The Group has dedicated Corporate Affairs, 

Regulation, Legal and Compliance departments  
that provide advice, guidance and assurance to  
each business area regarding the interpretation of 
political, regulatory and legislative change. These 
teams take the lead in engagement with regulators, 
politicians, officials, and other such stakeholders. 
Full details of SSE’s Stakeholder Engagement can be 
found on page 26 to 33 .

•  SSE has a clear Political Engagement Policy that  
sets out principles for any employees who make 
representations to institutions of governments  
or to legislatures on the Company’s behalf.

•  SSE Governance arrangements, including those 

relating to JV and Partner Management.

•  The Group puts in place dedicated project teams  
to manage all aspects of significant regulatory and 
legislative change.

•  There is regular engagement with the Board and 
Group Executive Committee on political and 
regulatory developments which may impact SSE’s 
operations or strategy. 

Portfolio Exposure

Risk trend

What is the risk?
The risk to the Group’s  
portfolio value associated  
with fluctuations in both the 
price and physical volume of 
key energy market indices or 
drivers– primarily gas, carbon 
and electricity – as well as 
foreign exchange values, CO2 
permits and oil.

Oversight
Group Risk Committee

Link to strategy

Material influencing factors
•  Global geopolitical events.
•  Fluctuations in demand, supply and 
generation capabilities both in Great 
Britain and globally. Further detail is 
available on page 12  of the Strategic 
Report. 

•  Generation technology advancements.
•  Government intervention into the 

structure of the energy sector in any 
jurisdiction in which SSE operates.
International and national agreements 
on climate change.
International flows of fuel.

• 

• 

Key mitigations
•  Policy link: An asset-by-asset approach to hedging 
strategy that ensures trading positions cannot have  
a material impact on SSE Group earnings. The latest 
update on SSE’s hedging approach can be found on 
sse.com .

•  The Group Energy Markets Exposure Risk 

Committee has operational oversight of commodity 
positions; reporting to the Board Energy Markets 
Risk Committee that has responsibility for 
monitoring the ongoing effectiveness of Group 
hedging arrangements. For further details please  
see pages 160 to 161 . 

•  SSE uses VaR and PaR measures to monitor and 
control exposures. Trading limits are reviewed 
regularly by the Energy Markets Risk Committee, 
with consideration given to changes in the material 
influencing factors noted above, before being 
approved by the Board.

•  SSE’s Energy Economics team provides commodity 
price forecasts which are used to inform decisions 
on trading strategy and asset investment.
•  SSE utilises hedging instruments to minimise 
exposure to fluctuations in foreign exchange 
markets, details of which are available in the 
Financial Statements section of the Annual  
Report and Accounts.

•  SSE monitors the impact from recent reforms in 
Europe (e.g., the European Market Infrastructure 
Regulation (EMIR), Markets in Financial Instruments 
Directive (MiFID) and Regulation on Energy Market 
Integrity and Transparency (REMIT)) and those 
resulting from the Electricity Market Reform  
(EMR) process.

What is the risk?
The risk of harm to people, 
property or the environment 
from SSE’s operations.

Oversight
Group Safety, Health and 
Environment Committee

Link to strategy

Material influencing factors
•  Safety culture and SSE’s commitment to 

Key mitigations
•  Policy link: SSE Safety and Health Policy and  

getting everyone home safe. 

SSE Environment Policy.

•  Clear and appropriately communicated 

safety processes.

•  Regular and documented training.
•  The size, scale, complexity and number 

of projects under way.

•  Adverse weather.
•  Challenging geographic locations.
•  Appropriate task and asset risk 

assessment.

•  Clear, effective and regular 

communications of all relevant safety 
updates.

•  Competent employees and contractors.

•  Safety is the Group’s No. 1 value with Board 
oversight being provided by the Safety, 
Sustainability, Health and Environment Advisory 
Committee (SSHEAC).

•  SSE has formed a new central Contractor Safety 
Team supported by dedicated Contractor SHE 
Managers and Assurance Auditors to improve 
contractor safety performance. For full details 
please see the Sustainability Report .

•  Crisis management and business continuity plans 
are in place across the Group. These are tested 
regularly and are designed for the management  
of, and recovery from, significant safety and 
environmental events.

•  Each business carries out regular SHE assurance 

reviews of the risks faced, the controls in place and 
the monitoring that is undertaken. 

•  SSE’s dedicated Engineering Centres of excellence 

review and develop plans to ensure that the integrity  
of its generation assets is maintained.

Speed of Change 

Risk trend

What is the risk?
The risk that SSE is unable to 
keep pace with the speed of 
change affecting the sector  
and markets in which it 
operates and so fails to meet 
the evolving expectations of  
its stakeholders or achieve its 
strategic objectives.

Oversight
Group Executive Committee

Link to strategy

Material influencing factors
•  Geopolitical events.
•  Fast developing customer needs and 
expectations in relation to efficient, 
innovative and flexible products and 
services.

•  Technological developments and 

innovation.

•  Net-zero strategic goals.
• 

Increased competition from market 
entrants including international oil 
companies.

•  Longer term capital investment plans and 

budgets.

•  The size, scale and number of change 

programmes under way, including those 
relating to regulatory or legislative 
requirements in any jurisdiction in which 
SSE operates.

•  Governance and decision-making 

frameworks, including those relating to 
JV and Partner Management.

Key mitigations
•  Policy link: SSE Operating Model Policy.
•  The Board sets the risk appetite of the Group  

and approves and regularly reviews the Group’s 
commercial strategy, business development initiatives 
and long-term options ensuring alignment of risk 
appetite and strategic objectives.

•  SSE’s Group operating model has been designed  
to ensure dynamic and efficient decision-making, 
empowered and accountable delivery of Business 
Unit strategies and to fulfil SSE’s purpose to provide 
energy needed today while building a better world 
of energy for tomorrow. Details of SSE’s decision-
making context are available on page 124  of the 
Directors Report.

•  The Group Executive Committee is responsible for 

ensuring that Business Unit strategies are consistent 
and compatible with the overarching Group strategy 
and its vision to be a leading energy provider in a net 
zero world.

76

SSE plc  Annual Report 2023

SSE plc  Annual Report 2023

77

Financial StatementsStrategic ReportDirectors’ ReportFinancial Review

Platform  
for 
growth.

Balance and strategic focus in a year of strong financial 
performance provide the foundations of long-term growth  
and shareholder value creation. 

In networks, SSEN Transmission had a  
year of solid financial performance with 
operating profit broadly flat as higher 
allowed revenues were offset by lower-
than-expected volumes, higher operating 
costs, and the 25% minority interest which 
is excluded from adjusted metrics for part 
of the year. SSEN Distribution earnings  
were up year-on-year on higher tariffs and 
reduced operating and fault costs when 
compared to the previous year when Storm 
Arwen had an impact.

SSE’s performance in 2022/23 showed yet 
again the real value of a balanced portfolio 
of businesses, with 65% of Group adjusted 
operating profit contributed by our 
market-facing generation businesses and 
30% from our index-linked regulated 
electricity networks.

Delays on the Seagreen project and the 
impact of the UK Electricity Generator  
Levy meant SSE Renewables was broadly 
flat year-on-year, but this was more than 
offset by our thermal, flexible hydro and 
gas storage assets which were rewarded  
for providing timely backup to the market 
when it was needed. 

78

SSE plc  Annual Report 2023

While market conditions played a part in 
this year’s results, we anticipate a degree of 
continuing volatility which, combined with 

Gregor Alexander
Finance Director, SSE plc
23 May 2023 

the rise in variable wind capacity  
coming onto the system, presents an 
opportunity for ongoing value creation 
for our large-scale flexible assets.

Solid strategic progress in the year, 
including execution of spending plans 
under the Net Zero Acceleration 
Programme (NZAP), saw £2.8bn invested 
in critical national infrastructure – an 
all-time record level of capex and 
investment for SSE which represented  
a 37% increase on 2021/22.

Our balance sheet continues to be 
underpinned by high-quality assets  
and credit ratings compare favourably 
with our peers. In the context of the 
Group’s strong FY23 earnings, net debt 
to EBITDA fell to 2.7x – well below our 
4.5x ceiling. 

We expect to report adjusted EPS  
of more than 150p for 2023/24, 
dependent upon market conditions, 
plant availability and weather conditions. 
And – as announced in May 2022 – our 
recent performance, financial strength 
and growth opportunities give us 
confidence in the ‘NZAP Plus’ plans 
outlined on pages 16 and 17  and  
in the following Financial Review. 

Our revised plans mean more value for 
shareholders and society, more financial 
strength, more investment, more jobs, 
and more growth to come over the next 
decade. The NZAP Plus is the platform 
for around £18bn of investment in the 
decarbonising infrastructure needed  
for a cleaner, more secure and more 
affordable future energy system.

In closing, this being my last contribution 
to an SSE Annual Report, I would like  
to express my thanks to the many 
colleagues – past and present – who 
have so ably supported me throughout 
my 21 years as Finance Director. It has 
been an absolute privilege and honour 
working for 32 years in a company that 
has such a strong purpose and heritage, 
driving forward its net zero ambitions. 

I leave in the knowledge that the 
Company’s finances are in the safe 
hands of Barry O’Regan who brings a 
wealth of energy experience to the role 
and is ideally placed to help seize the 
wealth of opportunities coming SSE’s 
way as net zero draws closer. 

Financial Review
Year ended 31 March 2023
This Group Financial Review sets out the financial performance of the SSE Group for the year ended 31 March 2023. See also the 
separate sections on Group Financial Outlook, 2023/24 and beyond and Supplemental Financial Information.

The definitions SSE uses for adjusted measures are consistently applied and are explained in the Alternative Performance Measures 
section of this document before the Financial Statements.

Key financial metrics
(continuing operations) 

Operating profit/(loss)
Net Finance (costs)/income
Profit/(loss) before tax
Current tax (charge)/credit
Effective current tax rate (%)
Profit/(loss) after tax
Less: hybrid equity coupon payments
Less: profits attributable to minority interests
Profit/(loss) after tax attributable to ordinary shareholders

Adjusted

Reported

March  
2023  
£m

2,529.2
(345.6)
2,183.6
(358.8)
16.4
1,824.8
(38.8)
–
1,786.0

March  
2022 
£m

1,530.9
(372.8)
1,158.1
(107.1)
9.2
1,051.0
(50.7)
–
1,000.3

March  
2023  
£m

(146.3)
(59.3)
(205.6)
110.0
12.7
(95.6)
(38.8)
(23.6)
(158.0)

March  
2022 
£m

3,749.5
(273.2)
3,476.3
(881.3)
26.2
2,595.0
(50.7)
–
2,544.3

Earnings/(loss) per share (pence)

166.0

94.8

(14.7)

241.2

Number of shares for basic/reported and adjusted EPS (million)
Shares in issue at 31 March (million)*

1,075.6
1,090.3

1,055.0
1,067.6

1,075.6
1,090.3

1,055.0
1,067.6

*  Excludes treasury shares.
2021/22 numbers above restated to recognise Keadby 2 pre-commissioning revenues and costs in Income Statement following adoption of amendments to IAS 16 
Property, Plant and Equipment – Proceeds Before Intended Use.

Dividend Per Share (pence) 

Interim dividend
Final dividend
Full Year dividend

Impact from market volatility 
The Group’s balanced mix of economically 
regulated and market-based businesses 
provides a natural hedge against short-term 
commodity price volatility. Nevertheless, 
the volatile commodity price environment 
throughout the year combined with the 
continued higher power price, gas price 
and inflation rate environment, will have  
a continued impact on SSE’s businesses 
which can be summarised as follows:

SSEN Transmission and SSEN Distribution 
operate under a regulatory price control 
framework which is set by Ofgem. Returns 
under this framework have no direct 
relationship to power and gas market 
prices. However, both allowed revenues 
and Regulated Asset Values are index linked 
(Transmission to CPI(H) for the RIIO-T2 
price control period which lasts from 1 April 
2021 to 31 March 2026, and Distribution to 
RPI (for RIIO-ED1 which ended on 31 March 
2023) and CPI(H) (for RIIO-ED2 which lasts 
from 1 April 2023 to 31 March 2028).

Within SSE Renewables, the established 
hedging approach generally reduces  
its broad exposure to commodity price 
variation at least 12 months in advance  
of delivery. This approach secures  
value for the business, by reducing 
exposure to short-term commodity price 
movements which would drive variable 
financial performance.

Hedges may be achieved either through  
the forward sale of power or gas and 
carbon equivalents. This approach aims to 
reduce the exposure of these wind assets to 
volatile spot power market outcomes whilst 
still providing an underlying commodity 
price hedge. When gas-and-carbon  
hedges are converted into electricity 
hedges a ‘spark spread’ is realised which 
can lead to changes in the average hedge 
price expected. This can increase the 
previously published average hedge price, 
as has been seen in 2022/23, or decrease it.

March  
2023

March  
2022

29.0
67.7
96.7

25.5
60.2
85.7

Whilst this hedging approach provides 
relatively stable realised power prices, 
market volatility in periods where wind 
volumes are significantly lower than 
expected can necessitate ‘buy-backs’ of 
excess forward sales contracts at higher 
prices, which would reduce the trading 
result, as has also been seen in 2022/23.

For SSE Thermal (as well as the Hydro plant 
within SSE Renewables), value has come 
from the ability of the plant to respond  
to market conditions and provide vital 
balancing services to support security  
of supply through flexibility provision in  
less predictable market conditions.

The last twelve months has seen the 
Thermal business navigate extreme 
volatility in the forward power markets. 
Whilst some of this volatility is directly 
attributable to the war in Ukraine and 
ensuing gas crisis, there are other more 
fundamental drivers relating to price 
uncertainty which are longstanding. 

SSE plc  Annual Report 2023

79

Financial StatementsStrategic ReportDirectors’ ReportFinancial Review continued

These longer-term price drivers include 
liquidity, carbon price basis risk, regulatory 
or political interventions, and the availability 
of risk capital and collateral within the 
markets. This business therefore aims to 
reduce earnings volatility by establishing a 
hedge for the expected economic output 
in the six months prior to delivery, although 
this approach is closely monitored for any 
unexpected changes in exposures as a 
result of current market conditions, such as 
the plant availability exposure, counterparty 
credit risk, and changes to cost of capital 
for collateral.

Higher power and gas prices are generally 
more economically favourable for these 
businesses, driving premiums over forward 
peak spark prices which includes market-
based income from other sources outside of 
the simple spark spread such as Balancing 
Mechanism and ancillary Grid contracts. 
Income from Capacity Mechanism is known 
ahead of each delivery year and is unrelated 
to current market conditions.

However, if plant is unavailable at times  
of system stress then excess forward sales 
contracts would again need to be ‘bought 
back’ in the market which would negatively 
impact the trading result.

The Gas Storage assets are operated on a 
merchant basis, to optimise value arising 
from changes in the spread between 
summer and winter prices, market volatility 
and plant availability. As such, volatile  
gas prices are generally positive for this 
business, to the extent that the assets  
can respond to volatility and capture the 
positive gas price spreads arising. To the 
extent that gas remains in storage at the 
period end, a remeasurement gain or loss 
may also be recognised with reference to 
the forward month market price.

Energy Portfolio Management, as the 
market-facing commodity trader for each 
business unit, holds the Group’s direct 
exposure to unsettled commodity contracts 
and therefore may experience significant 
unrealised mark-to-market remeasurement 
gains or losses in periods of volatility. 
However, these revaluations are unrelated 
to operating performance with traded 
volumes backed by SSE’s future generation 
output or expected customer demand. 
Whilst EPM is permitted to take small 
positions in the market to manage the 
Group’s trading requirements and execute 
optimisation opportunities, this is contained 
within strict Value at Risk (‘VAR’) limits that 
limits trading exposure in volatile markets.

During the year, market volatility and 
increased margining requirements resulted 
in a significant increase in the collateral 

80

SSE plc  Annual Report 2023

required for trade with counterparties and 
on exchanges, this was monitored closely 
by the Group and effectively managed  
with more than sufficient levels of liquidity 
maintained. The level of collateral required 
has decreased over the second six months 
of the financial year as older trades have 
been settled and newer trades have 
experienced lower levels of volatility.

SSE Business Energy and SSE Airtricity 
(aside from Northern Ireland, where SSE 
Airtricity’s gas supply business is subject  
to a regulatory pricing mechanism) are  
not subject to a regulated price cap and 
therefore variable tariffs are adjusted 
dynamically and fixed tariff rates are reset 
for new customers as wholesale costs 
increase or decrease. Although the 
businesses are insulated against gas price 
rises insofar as they are hedged, there  
are external circumstances that would 
result in hedge adjustments such as 
weather, supplier failures and broader 
economic conditions. Due to the difficult 
affordability circumstances created by 
escalating wholesale prices across the year, 
a decision was made to protect domestic 
customers in Ireland from the full impact  
of these increases; tariff changes therefore 
did not fully reflect increases in wholesale 
prices. A dynamic forecasting approach has 
been implemented to help the business 
respond quickly to volume changes. 

Both businesses have administered 
government-backed support schemes 
during the year, intended to protect 
domestic and non-domestic customers 
from the full impact of the heightened power 
and gas price environment. These schemes 
provide discounts to customers based on 
estimated usage and recover amounts from 
government based on actual customer 
usage – the most material of these being  
the Energy Bills Relief Scheme (‘EBRS’).

In relation to Airtricity, vertical integration 
of generation and customer businesses  
in the Irish market limits commodity 
exposures with some benefit received 
through Renewable Energy Feed-in Tariffs 
(‘REFIT’) receipts on legacy wind assets. 

Finally, SSE Group is well funded with a 
strong investment grade credit rating; a 
high proportion of the £8.9bn adjusted  
net debt (c.92%) is fixed rate and the 
average maturity of SSE’s debt is 6.4 years. 
The Group has been successful despite 
challenging debt markets, issuing €1bn of 
Hybrid Bonds, a £350m Private Placement 
and a €650m Eurobond earlier in the 
financial year at well-below current market 
prices. SSE’s balance sheet strength allows 
the Group to meet additional collateral 
requirements on higher and more volatile 

commodity contracts, while the high 
proportion of fixed-rate debt provides 
robust financing in an inflationary 
environment.

Operating profit 
Adjusted and reported operating profits/
losses in SSE’s business segments for the 
year to 31 March 2023 are set out below; 
comparisons are with the same period to 
31 March 2022 unless otherwise stated.

SSEN Transmission: Adjusted operating 
profit decreased by 2% to £372.7m,  
which includes a £(32.8)m minority interest 
adjustment following completion of the 
25% divestment on 30 November 2022. 
SSEN Transmission’s significantly higher 
allowed revenues in the year were partially 
offset by a combination of a negative 
timing impact on lower-than-expected 
Transmission Network Use of System 
‘TNUoS’ volumes, and increases in 
operating costs and depreciation charges, 
as the business continues to grow the asset 
base and develop its operational capacity.

Reported operating profit increased  
by 7% to £405.5m, reflecting all of the 
adjustments above except for the £(32.8)m 
minority interest adjustment, as minority 
interests are fully consolidated for all profit 
metrics except for Earnings Per Share 
under IFRS.

SSEN Distribution: Adjusted and reported 
operating profit increased by 9% to  
£382.4m in the period. Higher allowed 
revenues including previously under-
recovered allowances following the  
impact of coronavirus on Distribution  
Use of System ‘DUoS’ volumes in 2020/21, 
were broadly offset by a negative timing 
impact on lower-than-expected volumes  
in 2022/23. In addition, 2022/23 operating 
costs were lower than prior year mainly 
driven by a reduction in fault costs, given 
the impact of severe weather on the 
network during 2021/22. 

SSE Renewables: Adjusted operating profit 
increased by 2% to £580.0m in the year. 
Having experienced exceptionally still and 
dry weather in he prior year, volumes 
increased 0.7TWh or 7% in the current  
year but were still around 1.5TWh or  
13% behind planned levels due to less 
favourable weather than the long-term 
average and delays to construction of the 
Seagreen project. 

In line with SSE’s hedging approach, SSE 
Renewables entered the financial year with 
around 40% of its wind volume hedged  
in gas and carbon equivalents, rather than 
electricity. The conversion of those gas  
and carbon trades into electricity ahead  

Operating profit performance for the year to 31 March 2023
Business-by-business segmental 

Operating profit/(loss)
SSEN Transmission
SSEN Distribution
Electricity networks total

SSE Renewables

SSE Thermal
Gas Storage
Thermal total

SSE Business Energy (GB)
SSE Airtricity (NI and Ire)
Energy Customer Solutions total

Adjusted

Reported

March  
2023  
£m

March  
2022  
£m

March  
2023  
£m

March  
2022  
£m

372.7
382.4
755.1

380.5
351.8
732.3

405.5
382.4
787.9

380.5
351.8
732.3

580.0

568.1

446.3

427.8

1,031.9
212.5
1,244.4

300.4
30.7
331.1

1,089.5
249.2
1,338.7

17.9
5.6
23.5

(21.5)
60.4
38.9

17.9
5.2
23.1

624.2
125.4
749.6

(21.5)
60.4
38.9

Energy Portfolio Management

80.4

(16.8)

(2,626.0)

2,083.6

Distributed Energy

Neos Networks

Corporate unallocated

(27.4)

(10.9)

(33.5)

(29.2)

(39.8)

(16.1)

(56.0)

(140.0)

(87.0)

(95.7)

(26.8)

(113.5)

Total operating profit/(loss) from continuing operations

2,529.2

1,530.9

(146.3)

3,749.5

Net finance (costs)/income

(345.6)

(372.8)

(59.3)

(273.2)

Profit/(loss) before tax from continuing operations

2,183.6

1,158.1

(205.6)

3,476.3

Notes: Table above excludes any result from discontinued operations, being the Group’s investment in Scotia Gas Networks Limited which was disposed on 22 March 
2022 (2022/23: £nil; 2021/22: adjusted operating profit of £21.0m) and the Group’s Gas Production operations which were disposed on 14 October 2021 (2022/23: 
adjusted operating profit of £nil; FY2021/22: adjusted operating profit of £101.4m).

2021/22 restated to recognise Keadby 2 pre-commissioning revenues and costs in Income Statement following adoption of amendments to IAS 16 Property, Plant and 
Equipment – Proceeds Before Intended Use.

In order to present the financial results and performance of the Group in a consistent and meaningful way, SSE applies a number of adjusted 
accounting measures throughout this financial report. These adjusted measures are used for internal management reporting purposes and 
are believed to present the underlying performance of the Group in the most useful manner for shareholders and other stakeholders.

Following the acquisition in the year of Triton Power Limited (JV with Equinor, SSE’s share 50%), the definitions SSE uses for adjusted 
measures have been refined to consider the treatment of fair value gains arising from acquisition of a business or a joint venture interest. 
Aside from this refinement, the definitions are consistently applied and a reconciliation of adjusted operating profit by segment to 
reported operating profit by segment can be found in note 5.1(ii) to the Financial Statements.

Segmental EBITDA results are included in note 5.1(v) to the Financial Statements.

of delivery in the year – combined with an 
unusually high and volatile electricity price 
attributable to factors such as the war in 
Ukraine and French nuclear outages – 
drove a significant uplift in the achieved 
price on hedged volumes in the year, with 
approximately £216m additional benefit 
captured. This uplift more than offset a 
£(143)m net loss from Seagreen which 
mainly reflected the buy-back costs of 
undelivered hedged volumes in a higher 
price environment.

Elsewhere, the higher and more volatile 
price environment was beneficial for 
flexible hydro and pumped storage,  
as those assets efficiently responded to 
capture peak prices in the market. Finally, 
the adjusted result also includes a net  
£43m charge relating to the Electricity 
Generator Levy, which came into effect 
from 1 January 2023 and is charged  
on receipts generated from eligible 
generation sources which are in excess  
of a £75/MWh benchmark.

Reported operating profits have increased 
by 4% to £446.3m in the year. In addition  
to the factors noted above, the reported 
result also reflects a £18.6m reduction in 
exceptional charges mainly as a £28.6m 
exceptional tax charge recognised in  
the prior year – driven by the impact on 
Joint Venture deferred tax balances from  
the substantive enactment of the UK 
Corporation Tax rate change, which  
– was non-recurring. 

SSE plc  Annual Report 2023

81

Financial StatementsStrategic ReportDirectors’ ReportFinancial Review continued

However, this reduction in exceptional 
charges was partially offset by a £10.1m 
increase in Joint Venture share of interest 
and tax charges driven by higher profitability 
in these entities.

SSE Thermal Generation: Adjusted 
operating profit increased 244% to 
£1,031.9m, compared to £300.4m in the 
prior year. SSE has continued to invest in 
optimising its thermal generation fleet 
despite many years of low returns and 
significant write-downs because it believed 
the inherent value the fleet offers the energy 
system through its flexibility would eventually 
be recognised. As noted previously, the last 
twelve months has seen the Thermal 
business navigate extreme volatility in the 
forward power markets through the flexibility 
it offers. The increase in adjusted operating 
profit reflects additional capacity in the year 
from Triton Power (acquired on 1 September 
2022, £220m adjusted operating profit) and 
Keadby 2 (entered commercial operation on 
15 March 2023, £37m adjusted operating 
profit), and additional generation volumes 
from SSE Thermal’s existing feet together 
with higher power prices and a strong 
performance in the balancing market. In 
addition, capacity market revenues – which 
are unaffected by market prices – were 
£33m higher compared to the prior year. 

This was partially offset by £97m of  
hedge buy-back losses due to unplanned 
outages – mainly arising from Great Island 
CCGT but also the reduction in capacity 
from Tarbert oil-fired station – as well as 
higher operating costs and increases in 
depreciation charges due to historic 
impairment reversals recognised in 
September 2021 and March 2022. 

Reported operating profit increased  
by 75% to £1,089.5m in the year. The 
acquisition in September 2022 of Triton 
Power has resulted in a number of 
exceptional items being recognised: a 
£140.7m fair value uplift on acquisition  
and a £172.0m fair value remeasurement 
on operating derivatives (net of tax) were 
mostly offset by a £(291.6)m impairment 
charge reflecting the profitability delivered 
to date by that business. These movements, 
combined with a £89.1m gain on disposal 
of Fiddlers Ferry land, a £17.8m reversal  
of historic Great Island CCGT impairment 
and an increase in the Joint Venture share 
of interest and tax charges of £50.9m 
account for the majority of the difference. 
The prior year result included £333.3m of 
exceptional items, mainly comprising the 
reversal of historic impairment charges 
relating to the Groups’ CCGT plants. 

Gas Storage: Adjusted operating profit 
increased by 592% to £212.5m, compared 
to £30.7m in the prior year. The higher and 
more volatile gas market price environment 
during the year benefitted these assets 
which operated on a merchant basis to 
capture positive gas price spreads. In 
normal market conditions, the seasonal 
price spread occurs between summer and 
winter which results in minimal profitability 
for this segment in the first half of the year. 
However, due to low Russian gas supplies 
and increased European demand as gas 
stores were built up for winter, the usual 
spread was inverted, with summer gas 
prices higher than winter at points during 
the period. That inversion led to around 
£46m of incremental profitability in the  
first six months of the year. Aside from that 
one-off benefit, the assets continued to 
capture the usual summer-winter spread 
while supporting vital energy security in 
times of high gas demand across the winter. 
Again, the strong performance of the Gas 
Storage business affirms SSE’s decision 
during previous years when earnings were 
weaker to continue investing in these 
critical assets. 

Reported operating profit increased by  
99% to £249.2m in the year. In addition  
to the movements above, the prior year 
included an impairment reversal of £97.3m 
compared to a £45.7m further reversal 
during 2022/23 as historic impairment 
charges against these assets were partially 
reversed. In addition, the reported results 
include a £(9.0)m revaluation loss on gas 
held in storage, compared to a £(2.6)m loss 
in the prior year.

SSE Business Energy: Adjusted and 
reported profitability increased to £17.9m  
of profit in 2022/23 compared to a £(21.5)m 
loss in the prior year. Market volatility since 
the start of 2022 continues to create a 
challenging environment for consumers 
and consumer-facing businesses such  
as Business Energy and Airtricity. With  
the prior year loss including around  
£34m of one-off charges relating to 
non-recoverable Balancing System use  
of Service ‘BSUoS’ costs and additional 
mutualisation costs, 2022/23 has 
demonstrated a recovery in underlying 
profitability as the economy continued to 
emerge from the impact of coronavirus. 

However, even with the UK Government’s 
EBRS support scheme, bad debt expenses 
have increased by £(89.5)m from prior year 
reflecting the deterioration of aged debt as 
consumers’ finances are stretched.

SSE Airtricity: Adjusted profitability 
decreased to £5.6m from £60.4m in the 
prior year. Airtricity responded to the hugely 
challenging circumstances faced by its 
domestic energy customers during the 
2022/23 financial year and – through a 
combination of keeping tariffs as low as 
possible for all consumers through not 
passing through the full impact of wholesale 
costs, a price freeze for financially 
vulnerable consumers, customer support 
funds and finally, in April 2023, a €35  
rebate to each customer – honoured its 
commitment not to make a profit in the year 
in recognition of the cost-of-living crisis. 
The cost of the €35 rebate will be reflected 
in Airtricity’s financial results for 2023/24.

Reported profitability has decreased to 
£5.2m from £60.4m in the prior year 
reflecting the movements above as well  
as a £(0.4)m share of interest and tax in  
the current year from Joint Ventures.

Energy Portfolio Management: Adjusted 
operating profit has increased to £80.4m 
from a £(16.8)m loss in the prior year. EPM 
continues to generate a relatively low level 
of baseline operating earnings through 
service provision to those SSE businesses 
requiring access to the energy markets. 
However, in addition to this, the business  
is permitted to take small optimisation 
opportunities whilst managing liquidity and 
shape on external trades. As outlined above, 
these optimisation opportunities are subject 
to strict internal VAR limits and controls.  
The increase in profitability is mainly due to 
the heightened volatility and price of power 
and gas trades in the market, which has 
driven higher profits from the trading and 
optimisation activities for this business.

A reported operating loss of £(2,626.0)m 
was recognised in the year, compared  
to a £2,083.6m profit in the prior year.  
In addition to the movements above,  
the reported operating result includes  
the net remeasurement loss on forward 
commodity derivatives in the period which 
are fair valued in accordance with IFRS 9.  
In line with previous years, this excludes 
any remeasurement on ‘own use’  
contracts and is unrelated to underlying 
operating performance.

Distributed Energy: An adjusted operating 
loss of £(27.4)m was recognised, compared 
to a loss of £(10.9)m in the prior year. The 
business continues to incur losses as it 
invests to support business growth, 
particularly in the solar and battery storage 
business which will be reported under SSE 
Renewables from April 2023.

The reported operating loss of £(33.5)m has 
increased from a prior year loss of £29.2m 
which reflects the above factors partially 
offset by a smaller £(6.1)m charge mainly 
related to the sale of the Contracting and 
Rail business in June 2021 compared to the 
£18.3m charge recognised in the prior year.

Neos Networks: SSE’s remaining 50% share 
in the Telecoms business Neos Networks 
Limited recorded an adjusted operating loss 
of £(39.8)m compared to £(16.1)m in the 
prior year, and a reported operating loss of 
£(56.0)m compared to a loss of £(140.0)m 
in the prior year. This result reflects the 
losses incurred to support future business 
growth, and includes a £37.7m impairment 
of the Group’s investment in that business 
of which £31.8m has been treated as 
non-exceptional.

Corporate unallocated: Adjusted operating 
loss of £(87.0)m compares against a loss  
of £(95.7)m in the prior year. Whilst there 
continues to be an unwind of historic 
transitional service agreements with  
SSE Energy Services (disposed to Ovo  
in January 2020), Neos Networks (part-
disposed in January 2019) and SSE 
Contracting (disposed to Aurelius in July 
2021), the segment has also benefited  
from a review of the corporate cost base  
at the start of the year.

Reported operating loss of £(26.8)m 
compares against a loss of £(113.5)m in the 
prior year which included a £(13.1)m adverse 
revaluation adjustment relating to the legacy 
Gas Production decommissioning provision. 
In the current year, a £50.5m positive 
revaluation adjustment was recognised  
on the same provision.

Adjusted Earnings Per Share
To monitor its financial performance  
over the medium term, SSE reports on  
its adjusted Earnings Per Share measure. 
This measure is calculated by excluding the 
charge for deferred tax, interest costs on 
net pension liabilities, exceptional items, 
depreciation on fair value adjustments, 
revaluation adjustments to the retained 
60% Gas Production decommissioning 
obligation and the impact of certain 
remeasurements. 

SSE’s adjusted EPS measure provides an 
important and meaningful measure of 
underlying financial performance. In 
adjusting for depreciation on fair value 
adjustments, revaluation adjustments  
to the retained 60% Gas Production 
decommissioning obligation, exceptional 
items and certain remeasurements, 
adjusted EPS reflects SSE’s internal 
performance management, avoids the 

volatility associated with mark-to-market 
IFRS 9 remeasurements and means that 
items deemed to be exceptional due to 
their nature and scale do not distort the 
presentation of SSE’s underlying results.  
For more detail on these and other  
adjusted items please refer to the  
Adjusted Performance Measures  
section of this statement. 

In the year ended 31 March 2023, SSE’s 
adjusted Earnings Per Share on continuing 
operations was 166.0p. This compares to 
94.8p for the previous year and reflects  
the movements in adjusted operating  
profit outlined in the section above.

Group financial outlook – 
2023/24 and beyond
Financial outlook for 2023/24
The 2022/23 financial year saw SSE’s 
balanced portfolio of market-based and 
economically-regulated businesses 
successfully navigate the risks and 
opportunities arising from the higher  
and more volatile price environment. In 
particular, the strong performance from 
flexible thermal and hydro plant more than 
offset the impact of the challenges faced by 
onshore and offshore wind, namely lower 
than expected windspeeds and construction 
delays and the associated buy-back costs on 
Seagreen offshore wind farm. 

SSE remains focused on delivering long- 
term sustainable financial performance. 
And whilst energy prices and energy  
price volatility have been reducing  
from the highs of the last financial year,  
SSE expects a relatively higher price 
environment to endure. 

Against this backdrop, SSE remains 
confident that its businesses will continue 
to deliver strong adjusted operating profit 
in the 2023/24 financial year, specifically:
•  For SSEN Transmission, increases to  
the allowed revenue under RIIO-T2 
combined with timing effects from 
under-recoveries in the prior year are 
expected to more than offset both 
increases to the cost base as well as  
the impact from an additional eight 
months of earnings attributable to 
minority interests.

•  For SSEN Distribution, increases to the 
operational cost base are not expected 
to be recovered until future periods 
under the tariff setting process, with 
allowed revenue therefore expected to 
be broadly flat.

•  For SSE Renewables, assuming normal 
weather and plant availability, SSE 
expects to report around 12.5TWh  
of generation output during 2023/24, 

excluding any output from the Dogger 
Bank A wind farm which is expected to 
achieve first power during the year and 
remains unhedged.

•  For SSE Thermal and Gas Storage, 
assuming normal plant availability,  
SSE expects adjusted operating profit  
to be more than £750m as the full-year 
effect from the additional Keadby 2 and 
Triton Power capacity is combined with 
a sustained higher price environment in 
the medium-term.

Taking the above factors into account,  
SSE currently expects to report full-year 
2023/24 adjusted Earnings Per Share of 
more than 150p.

SSE is fulfilling its commitment to growing 
the 2022/23 dividend by RPI and is 
recommending a 96.7p full-year dividend in 
line with that plan. Also in line with that plan, 
in 2023/24, the dividend will be rebased to 
60p in order to align future dividends with 
SSE’s ambitious growth profile.

Capital expenditure and investment in 
2023/24 is expected to exceed the £2.8bn 
record investment in 2022/23, with the net 
debt to EBITDA ratio expected to be within 
the 3.5x – 4.0x target range.

Net Zero Acceleration 
Programme Plus
SSE is a purpose-led company, seeking  
to provide the energy needed today  
while building a better world of energy  
for tomorrow. It is a long-term business 
with a clear strategy aligned with the 
transition to net zero.

In November 2021, SSE set out a five-year 
capex plan that aligned capital allocation 
with the Group’s 2030 Goals and its 
changing energy mix. This plan, referred to 
as the Net Zero Acceleration Programme, or 
NZAP, provided the optimal pathway at that 
time to maximise total shareholder returns 
from both earnings and asset value growth, 
whilst remunerating shareholders through a 
rebased dividend with attractive growth.

This plan and the targets contained within it 
– which were partially updated in May 2022 
to reflect the evidence of increasing value 
creation potential – represented a floor, not 
a ceiling, and were intended to position SSE 
to take other opportunities as they emerge.

In the time since the NZAP was launched, 
the global green transition has accelerated 
as countries look towards providing energy 
security by increasing their renewables and 
low-carbon generation ambitions.  

82

SSE plc  Annual Report 2023

SSE plc  Annual Report 2023

83

Financial StatementsStrategic ReportDirectors’ ReportFinancial Review continued

NZAP Plus highlights

Key targets and ambitions
Five-year targets:

– Capital investment (net)
– Adjusted Earnings Per Share CAGR

–  Dividend growth beyond 2023/24  

60p rebase

– Net debt/EBITDA expectations
– Net installed Renewable capacity
– Net Networks RAV

Ten-year ambition:

– Net installed Renewable capacity
– Net installed low-carbon flexible capacity
– Net Networks RAV

NZAP (previous)
to 2025/26

NZAP Plus (new)
to 2026/27

£12.5bn
7 – 10%
From 2020/21 87.5p
At least 5% to 2025/26

Below 4.5x
Around 8GW
>£9bn

to 2030/31

>13GW
>3GW*
>£14bn

£18.0bn
13–16%
From 2021/22 94.8p
Between 5–10% to 
2026/27
Between 3.5–4x
More than 9GW
£12–14bn

to 2031/32

>16GW
>2GW
>£20bn

* Included Distributed Energy capacity from Solar & Battery, now included within Renewable capacity ambition.

It is against this backdrop, and in light of 
recent business performance, that SSE now 
expects to meet or exceed the original 
NZAP financial targets. SSE has therefore 
announced an ‘NZAP Plus’ which rolls the 
plan forward by 12 months and upgrades 
the targets, ambitions and investment mix 
to match the enhanced opportunity.

Upgraded capital investment plan to 2027
The NZAP Plus is a five-year £18.0bn capital 
investment plan to 2026/27 – mainly driven 
by new growth (c.£2.2bn or c.20%) but also 
updating for supply chain cost increases 
(c.£2.0bn or c.15%), removal of the 
Distribution minority interest assumption 
(c.£0.6bn or c.5%) and project phasing 
(c.£0.7bn or c.5%). This increase – which 
collectively represents an increase of over 
40% on the NZAP – is focused on:
•  Regulated electricity networks (c.50%)

SSEN Transmission (c.30%) will 
comprise the majority of expected 
investment in electricity networks, as the 
RIIO-T2 baseline investment programme 
has increased through uncertainty 
mechanism projects such as the Skye  
and Orkney subsea links. Whilst the 
majority of Ofgem’s Accelerated  
Strategic Transmission Investment (ASTI) 
framework will be delivered towards the 
end of the decade, the five-year plan also 
includes early construction costs as these 
projects are progressed. As such, SSEN 
Transmission investment is expected to 
increase to over £5bn from over £3bn  
in the previous plan, net of the 25% 
Minority Interest share, driving the gross 
Regulatory Asset Value (‘RAV’) to between 
£8–9bn by the end of 2026/27, and 
deliver expected adjusted operating 
profits of at least £400m on average 
across the five year plan.

  Whilst SSEN Distribution (c.20%) has  
a lower share of networks investment, 
the absolute amount of investment is 

84

SSE plc  Annual Report 2023

increasing with around £3.5bn of expected 
investment compared to around £2bn  
in the previous plan. This increase 
reflects 100% ownership of the business  
over the period, and is driven by the 
£3.6bn of totex in the RIIO-ED2 Final 
Determination, which runs from April 
2023 to March 2028, with the potential 
for additional investment in other net 
zero-aligned projects to meet the 
increasing electrification demands of 
consumers. This investment is expected 
to drive the gross RAV to between 
£6–7bn by the end of 2026/27, and 
deliver expected adjusted operating 
profits of at least £450m on average 
across the five year plan.

  Overall, as SSEN Transmission and SSEN 
Distribution continue to form a key  
part of the low-carbon electricity core in 
SSE, the total electricity networks RAV is 
expected to increase from £8.2bn at the 
start of the plan to between £14–16bn by 
the end, of which SSE’s share after Minority 
Interest is expected to be between 
£12–14bn. On a gross basis, this equates  
to a c.14% compound average growth 
rate (‘CAGR’) over the five-year plan. 

•  Renewable energy generation (c.40%)

Since November 2021, SSE Renewables 
has continued to grow its secured 
pipeline of projects – which currently 
stands at c.15GW – and also the quality 
and diversity of these prospects. With a 
continued focus on financial discipline 
through targeting attractive returns on 
new projects, it is expected that around 
5GW of additional net capacity will be 
added across the five-year plan, with net 
installed capacity of more than 9GW by 
March 2027. This growth will be fulfilled 
through a diverse mix of technologies, 
with an increasing number of attractive 
battery and solar projects adding to SSE 
Renewables’ core hydro, onshore and 
offshore wind projects. The incremental 
capacity, combined with changing mix 

and inflationary impacts, means around 
£7bn of net investment is expected 
across the five-year period – a £2bn 
increase on the expected investment  
in the previous plan – and is expected to 
drive a c.20% adjusted operating profit 
CAGR across the five year plan subject 
to normal weather and a c.£85/MWh 
baseload power price in 2026/27.

•  Low-carbon flexible thermal generation 

and other businesses (c.10%)

  The extreme volatility seen in energy 
markets over the last year has made  
it clear that investment in flexible, 
low-carbon thermal generation – such 
as sustainable biofuels, carbon capture 
and storage and ultimately hydrogen – 
will be critical to society in the transition 
to net zero as a counterbalance for 
increasing intermittent renewables 
generation. The NZAP Plus expects to 
invest up to £2.5bn in SSE Thermal’s 
increasing pipeline of low-carbon 
flexible generation prospects, which 
currently stands at around 5GW across  
a range of technologies, and deliver 
expected adjusted operating profits  
of around £500m on average across  
the remaining four years to 2026/27. 

  The remaining capital investment will  

be spent across SSE’s corporate centre, 
distributed energy and customers 
businesses, which remain part of a  
very deliberate business model with 
each playing its own role in delivering 
SSE’s net zero-focused strategy.

With around 90% of the NZAP Plus 
expected to be invested in renewables  
and networks, the substantial majority of 
the investment plan is focused on climate 
solutions to achieve SSE’s interim 2030 
Goals which are linked to material UN 
Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs),  
and it is aligned to the Technical Screening 
Criteria of the EU Taxonomy.

Maintaining disciplined investment  
at attractive returns 
The changing investment mix within the 
NZAP Plus reflects SSE’s focus on allocating 
capital based on clear internal investment 
criteria intended to maximise total 
shareholder returns whilst ensuring strategic 
alignment with SSE’s net zero electricity 
focus. This investment criteria includes:
•  Strategic fit – aligned with SSE’s 

commitment to its 1.5-degree science-
based carbon targets, business mix  
and capabilities;

•  Optimum mix – balancing risk and 

returns through a mix of economically 
regulated and unregulated, market-
based assets; and

•  Targeted returns – focusing investment 

on high-quality assets where SSE’s 
capabilities can deliver favourable risk- 
adjusted project returns, namely targeting:

 – Onshore wind and solar: returns 

between 50–300bps over WACC for 
unlevered projects, depending on the 
balance of merchant, technology and 
construction risk for each project;
 – Offshore wind: more than 11% equity 
returns (excluding developer profits) 
for project financed developments;

 – Networks: between 7–9% return  
on equity, assuming a level of 
outperformance, CPIH inflation  
of 2% p.a. and an average gearing 
ratio of 60%;

 – Emerging technologies: between 

300–500bps over WACC for 
unlevered projects, reflecting  
the expected increased risk on 
newer, first-of-a-kind technologies 
including carbon capture and 
storage, hydrogen-fuelled  
generation and battery storage.

These investment criteria – and targeted 
returns – are applied in both domestic and 
overseas markets.

Updating the growth-supporting 
dividend plan
The original NZAP set out a five-year 
dividend plan to support accelerated growth 
by confirming previous commitments to 
target dividend increases in line with RPI for 
2021/22 and 2022/23, before rebasing to 60 
pence in 2023/24 and targeting at least 5% 
dividend increases in 2024/25 and 2025/26. 

The Board has delivered on this dividend 
commitment for 2021/22 and 2022/23  
and continues to consider that the rebased 
dividend to 60 pence in 2023/24 supports 
SSE’s ongoing ambitions to accelerate 
investment in the assets required to reach 
net zero.

The capital allocation outlined in the NZAP 
Plus is expected to drive a 13-16% Group 
adjusted Earnings Per Share CAGR over the 
five-year plan – against the 2021/22 baseline 
of 94.8 pence – with around 50% of adjusted 
EBITDA expected to be underpinned by 
index-linked revenue streams.

The NZAP Plus extends the original NZAP 
dividend plan to 2027 and, reflecting the 
SSE Board’s confidence in future earnings 
growth, now sets out a commitment to 
target dividend increases of between 5  
to 10% per year in 2024/25, 2025/26 and 
2026/27. This updated dividend plan aims 
to balance income to shareholders with 
funding and a strong investment grade 
credit rating alongside an upgraded 
investment plan that will ultimately  
create greater value and total returns for 
shareholders over the long term. This plan 
also retains the scrip dividend option for 
shareholders with the cap on take-up still 
set at 25% and implemented if necessary  
by means of a share buyback.

A fully-funded plan, supported by  
a strong balance sheet
Through effective capital allocation, raising 
debt at highly attractive terms, capital 
recycling and unlocking value through 
partnerships, SSE continues to demonstrate 
that it can take advantage of the accretive 
opportunities it creates. It has a proven 
ability to realise value from disposals, create 
sustainable earnings growth and maintain 
strong investment grade credit ratings – all 
whilst aligning with a 1.5-degree pathway.

The Group’s business mix, future capital 
investment and funding plans are designed 
to ensure that it retains an investment 
grade credit rating which provides capacity 
to reach a 4.5x net debt/EBITDA ratio.  
The financial strength of the Group means 
that it expects to be within an average of 
3.5–4.0x net debt/EBITDA across the 
five-year plan.

More ambitious targets to 2032
The upgraded targets and ambitions within 
the NZAP Plus provide the platform for 
SSE’s businesses to grow substantially 
through the remainder of the decade, and 
are necessary to deliver the Group’s 2030 
Goals and associated 1.5 degree aligned 
carbon targets.

Looking further ahead, SSE is therefore also 
rolling forward and upgrading key targets 
for the 10 years to 2032 as set out below:
•  A fourfold increase in SSE’s owned 
renewables capacity to over 16GW  
(net) from c.4GW today;

•  Delivering more than 2GW of net 

installed low-carbon flexible thermal 
capacity;

•  An increase to more than £20bn (net)  
in SSE’s electricity networks RAV, from 
£8.2bn (gross) in March 2022, equivalent 
to a 14% gross RAV CAGR.

Disposal of minority stake  
in networks
The selected use of partnerships remains a 
key part of SSE’s strategy: to spread risk and 
financial exposure; to unlock value whilst 
avoiding non-earning debt; and to enable 
future investment and growth.

During 2022/23, the Group completed a 
25% minority interest disposal of the SSEN 
Transmission business to Ontario Teachers’ 
Pension Plan Board for consideration of 
£1,465m at a premium to RAV of around 
1.9x at 30 September 2022. 

Supplemental financial information
Adjusted investment and capex summary

SSEN Transmission (excluding 25% MI from 1 Dec 2022)
SSEN Distribution
Regulated networks total

SSE Renewables
SSE Thermal
Gas Storage
Thermal Total

Energy Customer Solutions
Energy Portfolio Management
Distributed Energy
Corporate unallocated

March  
2023  

Share %

23%
19%
42%

39%
7%
–
7%

2%
–
6%
4%

March  
2023  
£m

495.5 
421.0
916.5 

837.5
153.2 
6.3 
159.5 

49.4
4.7
124.7
68.3

March  
2022  
£m

614.4
364.8
979.2

811.0
123.4
2.1
125.5

39.8
2.4
26.6
78.7

Adjusted investment and capital expenditure,  

before refunds

100%

2,160.6

2,063.2

Project finance development expenditure refunds

–

(136.7)

Adjusted investment and capital expenditure

2,160.6

1,926.5

Acquisitions

642.7

141.3

Adjusted investment, capital and acquisitions 

expenditure

2,803.3

2,067.8

Notes: 2021/22 restated to recognise Keadby 2 pre-commissioning revenues and costs in Income Statement 
following adoption of amendments to IAS 16 Property, Plant and Equipment – Proceeds Before Intended Use.

SSE plc  Annual Report 2023

85

Financial StatementsStrategic ReportDirectors’ Report 
 
Financial Review continued

This successful transaction reflected both 
the current value and significant growth 
potential of SSEN Transmission as one of 
Europe’s fastest growing transmission 
networks, with the proceeds released by 
the sale supporting the significant growth 
and investment across the Group.

While the November 2021 NZAP assumed 
that a similar 25% minority stake in the SSEN 
Distribution business would be disposed by 
the 2025/26 financial year, SSE consistently 
reviews strategic options and direction and 
the NZAP Plus plan now reflects retaining 
100% of the business. Strategies evolve  
and a significant strengthening of SSE’s 
balance sheet and an upgraded NZAP  
Plus investment plan which remains well 
balanced are the main factors contributing 
to the Board assessment that continuing to 
hold 100% of SSEN Distribution is the right 
strategy at this time.

SSEN Distribution is a high-quality, core 
business for the Group and will make  
a significant contribution to delivering 
sustainable long-term value as it plays a key 
role in enabling net zero for consumers.

SSE’s capital expenditure 
programme 
During the year to 31 March 2023,  
SSE’s adjusted investment, capital  
and acquisitions expenditure totalled 
£2,803.3m, representing an increase of 
36% versus the prior year. Included within 
the amount recorded are acquisitions 
totalling £642.7m of which £519.5m is in 
respect of the Southern European onshore 
wind development platform acquisition and 
£123.2m in respect of SSE’s share of the 
purchase of Triton Power, both transactions 
completed on 1 September 2022. 

The remaining investment was delivered 
mainly by SSE’s Renewables, Networks  
and Thermal business units including the 
highlights discussed below. 

In SSEN Transmission, the second year  
of RIIO-T2 saw deployment of a further 
£495.5m of capex (SSE share, excluding 25% 
from 1 December 2022 onwards), including 
£152m on the Shetland connection with 
160km of the total 260km subsea cable 
which will connect the Shetland islands to 
the GB Transmission system now installed. 
In addition, £144m of spend was invested 
progressing the East Coast development 
project which will increase the overhead 
lines from 132kV to 275kV and ultimately  
to 400kV, as well as a further £55m on the 
Argyll project. 

In the final year of RIIO-ED1, SSEN 
Distribution invested £178m in the North 
networks across a broad range of projects, 
with additional reinforcement spend 
needed following storm damage in FY22. 
SSEN Distribution’s SHEPD network 
delivered investment of £10m to upgrade 
infrastructure at Aultbea-Ullapool and £5m 
on Islay to maintain and enhance network 
reliability to these island communities.  
Both projects are under way and will be 
complete by 2023/24. Further south, major 
capital investment continued in the SEPD 
network with a total spend of £243m in the 
period, including upgrades to the network 
in Bordon and Alton to enhance resilience 
and future proof it for predicted uptake in 
consumer led low-carbon-technology. 

Significant expenditure was delivered on 
SSE Renewables’ flagship construction 
projects, including £339m of equity 
drawdown for Seagreen Offshore 
Windfarm, as the development progresses 
towards commercial operations over the 
summer of 2023. Construction of Viking 
wind farm on the Shetland islands has 
continued according to plan, with an 
additional £202m deployed, the first 
turbine erected in April 2023 and the 
project on track to achieve commercial 
operations in Summer 2024, while all  
spend on the Dogger Bank wind farm  
in the year was funded by debt raised  
at the project level, and therefore not 
included in SSE’s adjusted investment, 
capital and acquisitions expenditure. 

In SSE Thermal, around £88m was invested 
on the development of the 50MW Slough 
Multifuel station, a joint venture with CIP, 
which is progressing towards handover 
during 2024/25. As well as around £20m of 
residual spend on Europe’s most efficient 
gas fired station at Keadby 2, which entered 
commercial operation on 15 March 2023, 
limited early development expenditure on 
Keadby 3 was included within Thermal’s 
reported number.

SSE’s hedging position at 
31 March 2023
SSE has an established approach to hedging 
through which it generally seeks to reduce 
its broad exposure to commodity price 
variation at least 12 months in advance of 
delivery. SSE continues to monitor market 
developments and conditions and alters its 
hedging approach in response to changes in 
its exposure profile, such as the acceleration 
of hedging by SSE Renewables previously 
disclosed in May 2022. SSE will continue to 
provide a summary of its hedging approach, 
including details of any changes in the 
period, within its Interim and Full-year 
Results Statements.

A summary of the hedging position for  
each of SSE’s market-based businesses is 
set out below.

SSE Renewables – GB wind and hydro
The following table provides an update for SSE’s GB Wind and Hydro generation hedge 
positions against the forecast merchant volume exposure as at 31 March 2023.

Wind

Expected volume – TWh
Volume hedged – %
Proportion of hedge in 

electricity – %

Hedge price - £MWh

Hydro Expected volume – TWh

Volume hedged – %
Proportion of hedge in 

electricity – %

Hedge price – £/MWh

2021/22

2022/23

2023/24

2024/25

2025/26

4.2
85%

100%
£48

3.6
83%

100%
£50

5.3
91%

62%
£54

3.5
85%

100%
£63

6.5
85%

68%
£75

3.5
85%

84%
£86

6.8
77%

30%
£115

3.6
68%

31%
£113

6.8
17%

20%
£116

3.6
23%

10%
£113

Note: where gas and carbon trades have been used as a proxy for electricity, a constant 1MWh : 69.444 th and 
1MWh : 0.3815 te/MWh conversion ratio between commodities has been applied.

The expected volumes include SSE’s equity 
share of forecast pre-CFD volumes from 
Seagreen offshore wind farm. No volumes 
have yet been included for Viking onshore 
wind farm nor Dogger Bank offshore wind 
farm as hedging for these assets has not 
commenced.

The table excludes additional volumes and 
income for BM activity, ROCs, ancillary 
services, capacity mechanism and shape 
variations and optimisations. It also excludes 
volumes and income relating to Irish wind 
output, pumped storage and CfDs.

Energy output hedges for both wind and 
hydro are progressively established over 
the 36 months prior to delivery (although 
the extent of hedging activity for future 
periods depends on the level of available 
market depth and liquidity). Normal target 
hedge levels continue to be achieved 
through the forward sale of either 
electricity, or gas and carbon equivalents. 
Where the market depth and liquidity 
significantly differs between gas and 
carbon, the hedging approach allows –  
for any time period – for the separate 
forward sale of either commodity where it 
is believed that it would reduce risk against 
or secure value for generation assets. This 
has not been applied to date.

This approach aims to reduce the exposure 
of these wind assets to volatile spot power 
market outcomes whilst still providing an 
underlying commodity price hedge. When 
gas-and-carbon hedges are converted  
into electricity hedges a ‘spark spread’ is 
realised which can lead to changes in the 
average hedge price expected. This can 
increase the previously published average 
hedge price, as has been seen in 2022/23, 
or decrease it.

For wind energy output, SSE’s established 
approach to hedging seeks to account for 
the effect of the ‘wind capture price’ by 
targeting a hedge of less than 100% of its 
anticipated wind energy output for the 
coming 12 months. The targeted hedge 
percentage is reviewed and adjusted as 
necessary to reflect any changes in future 
market and wind capture insights. The  
last such revision occurred in March 2022, 
with around 90% of the anticipated energy 
output from wind for the coming twelve 
months being hedged from that date.

The approach to hedging hydro energy 
output remains unchanged at approximately 
85% of its anticipated energy output for the 
coming twelve months.

GB Thermal: In the six months prior to 
delivery, SSE aims to hedge all of the 
expected economic output of its CCGT 
assets, having progressively established this 
hedge over the 18 months prior to delivery.

This hedging approach is adjusted to take 
into account any changes in exposures as a 
result of current market conditions, such as 
the plant availability exposure, counterparty 
credit risk, and changes to cost of capital 
for collateral.

Hedging activity also depends on the 
availability of sufficient market depth and 
liquidity, which can be limited, particularly 
for periods further into the future.

Energy Portfolio Management (EPM): EPM 
provides the route to market and manages 
the execution for all of SSE’s commodity 
trading outlined above (spark spread, 
power, gas, oil and carbon). This includes 
monitoring market conditions and liquidity 
and reporting net Group exposures. The 
business operates under strict position 
limits and VAR controls. There is some 
scope for small position-taking to  
permit EPM to manage around shape and 
liquidity whilst taking small optimisation 
opportunities. This is contained within a 
total VAR limit of £5m.

Ireland: Vertical integration of the 
generation and customer businesses in 
Ireland limits the Group’s commodity 
exposure in that market.

Gas Storage: The assets are being 
commercially operated to optimise value 
arising from changes in the spread between 
summer and winter prices, market volatility 
and plant availability. At 31 March 2023, 
125.6mTh of gas inventory was physically 
held which represents c.65% of SSE’s share 
of capacity (at 31 March 2022, 0.9mTh of 
gas inventory representing c.1% of SSE’s 
share of capacity).

UK Business Energy: The business supplies 
electricity and gas to business and public 
sector customers. Sales to contract 
customers are hedged: at point of sale for 
fixed contract customers; upon instruction 
for flexi contract customers; and on a 
rolling hedge basis for tariff customers.

Given the pricing and macro-economic 
context, Business Energy is dynamically 
monitoring nearer term consumption 
actuals for any early signs of demand 
variability and adjusting future volumes 
hedged accordingly.

Summarising movements on exceptional items and  
certain remeasurements 
Exceptional items
In the year ended 31 March 2023, SSE recognised a net exceptional charge within 
continuing operations of £(0.4)m before tax. The following table provides a summary  
of the key components making up the net charge: 

Exceptional credits/(charges) within continuing operations

Thermal Electricity Generation historic impairment reversal
Gas Storage historic impairment reversal
Fiddlers Ferry land sale
Triton Power Joint Venture bargain purchase gain and impairment
Neos Networks impairment
Reversal of previously recognised exceptional charges or judgements

Total exceptional charge

Total  
£m

17.8
45.7
89.1
(150.9)
(5.9)
3.8

(0.4)

Note: The definition of exceptional items can be found in note 3.2 of the Financial Statements. 

In addition to the above exceptional items from continuing operations, a net exceptional 
gain within discontinued operations of £35.0m after tax was recognised. This related to 
the release of a provision following further clearance granted in respect of the Group’s 
disposal of its Gas Production business which completed on 14 October 2021.

For a full description of exceptional items, see note 7 of the Financial Statements.

Certain remeasurements
In the year ended 31 March 2023, SSE recognised an adverse net remeasurement within 
continuing operations of £(2,351.5)m before tax. The following table provides a summary 
of the key components making up the adverse movement:

Certain remeasurements within continuing operations

Operating derivatives (including Joint Ventures, net of tax)
Commodity stocks held at fair value
Financing derivatives

Total net adverse remeasurement

Total  
£m

(2,544.4)
(9.0)
201.9

(2,351.5)

86

SSE plc  Annual Report 2023

SSE plc  Annual Report 2023

87

Financial StatementsStrategic ReportDirectors’ ReportThese remeasurements are presented 
separately as they do not represent 
underlying business performance in the 
period. The result on financing derivatives 
will be recognised in adjusted profit before 
tax when the derivatives are settled.

Reported profit before tax and 
Earnings Per Share
Taking all of the above into account, 
reported results for the year to 31 March 
2023 are significantly lower than the 
previous year. In addition to the £(2,351.5)m 
net pre-tax loss on forward commodity, 
gas inventory and financing derivative fair 
value remeasurements and the £(0.4)m net 
pre-tax exceptional charge noted above 
– reported results also include £16.2m of 
interest income on the net pension asset.

Reported results in the prior year reflected 
pre-tax certain re-measurement gains of 
£2,118.8m mainly driven by the significant 
volatility in commodity markets in the prior 
year, as well as pre-tax exceptional items  
of £305.0m mainly driven by the reversal  
of historic SSE Thermal and Gas Storage 
impairment charges, and £7.6m of interest 
income on the net pension asset. 

Financial Review continued

Operating derivatives
SSE enters into forward purchase contracts 
(for power, gas and other commodities)  
to meet the future demands of its energy 
supply businesses and to optimise the  
value of its generation assets. Some of 
these contracts are determined to be 
derivative financial instruments under IFRS 
9 and as such are required to be recorded 
at their fair value as at the date of the 
financial statements.

SSE shows the change in the fair value  
of these forward contracts separately as 
this mark-to-market movement does not 
reflect the realised operating performance 
of the businesses. The underlying value  
of these contracts is recognised as the 
relevant commodity is delivered, which  
for the large majority of the position at 
31 March 2023 is expected to be within  
the next 6 – 12 months.

The change in the operating derivative 
mark-to-market valuation was a £(2,544.4)m 
adverse movement from the start of the 
year, reflecting a £(2,708.2)m adverse 
movement on fully consolidated operating 
derivatives offset by a £163.8m share of 
positive movement on derivatives in jointly 
controlled entities (net of tax) which mainly 
results from commodity hedging within the 
Triton Power Joint Venture.

The adverse movement of £(2,708.2)m on 
fully consolidated operating derivatives 
includes:
•  Settlement during the year of £272.0m 
of previously net ‘out-of-the-money’ 
contracts in line with the contracted 
delivery periods; and

•  An adverse net mark-to-market 

remeasurement of £(2,980.2)m on 
unsettled contracts, largely entered  
into during the course of 2021/22 and 
2022/23 and in line with the Group’s 
stated approach to hedging. This 
mark-to-market remeasurement – 
which compares to a £3,527.2m positive 
movement in the prior year – reflects 
the extreme volatility seen in commodity 
markets during the period.

As in prior years, the reported result does 
not include remeasurement of ‘own use’ 
hedging agreements which do not meet the 
definition of a derivative financial instrument 
under IFRS 9 ‘Financial Instruments’.

Commodity stocks held at fair value
Gas inventory purchased by the Gas 
Storage business for secondary trading 
opportunities is held at fair value with 
reference to the forward month market 
price. The £(9)m adverse movement in the 
year reflects the increase in the underlying 
volumes of gas held at year end have been 
negatively impacted by lower forward 
market prices.

However, whilst this movement reflects  
the net change in fair value of physical gas 
inventory held at the year end, it does not 
take into account any positive or negative 
mark-to-market movement on forward 
contracted sales. Therefore, similar to 
derivative contracts held at fair value,  
we do not expect that all of this valuation 
movement will be realised by the business.

Financing derivatives
In addition to the movements above, a 
positive movement of £201.9m was 
recognised on financing derivatives in the 
year ended 31 March 2023, including 
mark-to-market movements on cross-
currency swaps and floating rate swaps that 
are classed as hedges under IAS 39. These 
hedges ensure that any movement in the 
value of net debt is predominately offset by 
a movement in the derivative position. The 
adjustment was primarily driven by higher 
interest rates driving significant reductions 
in the ‘out of the money’ position on SSE’s 
fixed rate swaps, in addition to settlement 
of previously ‘out-of-the-money’ contracts 
in line with the contracted delivery periods.

88

SSE plc  Annual Report 2023

Financial management and balance sheet
Debt metrics

Net Debt/EBITDA*
Adjusted net debt and hybrid capital (£m)
Average debt maturity (years)
Adjusted interest cover
Average interest rate for the period (excluding JV/assoc. interest and all hybrid coupon payments)
Average cost of debt at period end (including all hybrid coupon payments)

March  
2023

September  

2022

March  
2022

2.7x
(8,894.1)
6.4
7.6x
3.35%
3.92%

N/A
(9,988.6)
6.5
4.2x
3.25%
3.83%

4.0x
(8,598.2)
6.8
4.0x
3.29%
3.81%

*  Note: Net debt represents the group adjusted net debt and hybrid capital. EBITDA represents the full year group adjusted EBITDA, less £147m (at March 2023) for the 

proportion of adjusted EBITDA from equity-accounted Joint Ventures relating to project financed debt.

Net finance costs reconciliation

Adjusted net finance costs
Add/(less):
Lease interest charges
Notional interest arising on discounted provisions
Hybrid equity coupon payment
Adjusted finance costs for interest cover calculation

SSE principal sources of debt funding

Bonds
Hybrid debt and equity securities
European investment bank loans
US private placement
Short-term funding
Index-linked debt
% Of which has been secured at a fixed rate

March  
2023  
£m

March  
2022  
£m

345.6

372.8

(29.4)
(22.1)
38.8
332.9

(30.4)
(5.7)
50.7
387.4

March  
2023

54%
18%
5%
10%
9%
4%
92%

September  

2022

52%
18%
7%
10%
10%
3%
92%

September 
2021

55%
21%
7%
9%
5%
3%
96%

Rating Agency

Rating

Criteria

Date of Issue

Moody’s
Standard and Poor’s

Baa1 ‘stable outlook’
BBB+ ‘positive stable’

‘Low teens’ Retained Cash Flow/Net Debt
About 18% Funds From Operations/Net Debt December 2022

March 2023

Maintaining a strong  
balance sheet
A key objective of SSE’s long-term approach 
to balancing capital investment, debt 
issuance and securing value and proceeds 
from disposals is by maintaining a strong 
net debt/EBITDA ratio. SSE calculates this 
ratio based on a methodology that it 
believes best reflects its activities and 
commercial structure, in particular its 
strategy to secure value from partnering  
by using Joint Ventures and non-recourse 
project financing.

SSE considers it has the capacity to reach  
a ratio of up to around 4.5x, comparable 
with private sector utilities across Europe, 
whilst remaining above the equivalent 
ratios required for an investment grade 
credit rating.

While there may be short-term fluctuations 
in leverage as demonstrated by the 2.7 net 
debt/EBITDA achieved at 31 March 2023 
(2022: 4.0x), it is expected that this ratio will 
generally fall between 3.5 – 4.0x across the 
five years to 31 March 2027.

• 

• 

SSE’s S&P credit rating were updated in 
December 2022 to at BBB+ ‘positive outlook’ 
and its Moody’s rating remains at Baa1 with 
‘stable outlook’.

Adjusted net debt and hybrid capital
SSE’s adjusted net debt and hybrid capital 
was £8.9bn at 31 March 2023, up from 
£8.6bn at 31 March 2022. In addition to 
dividends, capex spend and revaluation  
of currency debt as well as various working 
capital movements, this movement 
includes the completion of two acquisitions 
and one divestment during the year:
• 

In September 2022, SSE Renewables 
completed the acquisition from Siemens 
Gamesa Renewable Energy of an 
onshore development platform across 
Spain, France, Italy and Greece for a 
consideration of €580m (£519.5m); and

In September 2022, SSE Thermal, 
alongside Equinor as 50/50 partners, 
completed the acquisition of the Triton 
Power portfolio with SSE’s share of the 
purchase being £123.2m.
In December 2022, a 25% Minority 
Interest stake in SSEN Transmission was 
disposed of, with £1.46bn of proceeds 
received from Ontario Teachers Pension 
Plan.

Debt summary as at 31 March 2023
The SSE Group issued £1.7bn of hybrid 
capital and new medium- long-term debt 
in the year ended 31 March 2023 whilst also 
significantly increasing short-term debt 
capacity in the form of Commercial Paper:
In March 2022, the SSE Group through 
• 
its SSEN Transmission entity priced and 
committed to a £350m dual tranche 
private placement, being a £175m 
10-year tranche at 3.13% and £175m 
15-year tranche at 3.24% giving an all-in 
average rate of 3.19%. The proceeds 
were received on 30 June 2022. 

SSE plc  Annual Report 2023

89

Financial StatementsStrategic ReportDirectors’ ReportFinancial Review continued

• 

• 

In April 2022, SSE plc issued a €1bn  
NC6 equity accounted hybrid bond at 
4% to refinance the dual tranche debt 
accounted hybrid bonds issued in March 
2017. SSE has taken advantage of the 
3-month par call option on these 2017 
hybrid bonds, meaning they were repaid 
on 16 June 2022 in advance of the first 
call date. The €1bn equity accounted 
hybrid bond has been kept in Euros and 
the proceeds were used to cover the 
portion of the maturing hybrid that was 
originally swapped to Euros (€575m) and 
to finance a portion of SSE Renewables’ 
European onshore development 
platform acquisition as noted above.
In August 2022, SSE plc issued a 7 year 
€650m Eurobond at a coupon of 2.875% 
which was left in Euros as part of our  
net investment hedge in overseas assets 
held in that currency. The bond was 8 
times oversubscribed which allowed SSE 
to secure a highly competitive rate for 
the issuance.

•  Over the course of the year, SSE plc 

rolled maturing short-term debt in the 
form of Commercial Paper in addition to 
raising a further £0.4bn, which takes the 
total outstanding Commercial Paper at 
31 March 2023 to €1,376m (£1,048m). 
Commercial Paper has been issued in 
Euros and swapped back to Sterling  
at an average cost of debt of 4.53%  
and matures between April 2023 and 
June 2023.

In addition to the March 2017 hybrid bonds 
which were called in June 2022 as noted 
above, a further £613m of medium-to-
long-term debt has matured in the year 
comprising £163m (US Private Placement) 
which matured in April 2022, £300m 
(Eurobond) which matured in September 
2022 and £150m European Investment 
Bank fixed rate loan which matured in 
October 2022. In the next twelve months, 
there is a further £719m of medium-to-
long-term debt maturing being £50m 
(European Investment Bank) maturing in 

August 2023, £35m maturing in April 2023 
and £120m maturing in September 2023 
(both US Private Placements) and a €700m 
bond maturing in September 2023. Despite 
this, the Group expects to have minimal 
long-term debt refinancing requirements 
to 2024/25, given expected asset disposal 
proceeds. As noted above, a further 
€1,048m (£929m) of short-term debt in  
the form of Commercial Paper is also due 
to mature in the second half of 2023/24, 
however the current intention is to roll  
this maturing short-term debt forward 
throughout the 2023/24 financial year.

Hybrid bonds summary as at  
31 March 2023
Hybrid bonds are a valuable part of SSE’s 
capital structure, helping to diversify SSE’s 
investor base and most importantly to 
support credit rating ratios, with their 50% 
equity treatment by the rating agencies 
being positive for SSE’s credit metrics.

A summary of SSE’s hybrid bonds as at 
31 March 2023 can be found below:

Issued

July 2020
July 2020
April 2022

Hybrid Bond Value1

All in rate2

First Call Date

Accounting Treatment

£600m
€500m (£453m)
€1bn (£831m)

3.74%
3.68%
4.00%

Apr 2026
July 2027
Apr 2028

Equity accounted
Equity accounted
Equity accounted

1  Sterling equivalents shown reflect the fixed exchange rate on date of receipt of proceeds and is not subsequently revalued.
2  All in rate reflects coupon on bonds plus any cost of swap into sterling which currently only applies to July 2020 Hybrid.

Further details on each hybrid bond can be found in notes 21 and 22 to the Financial Statements and a table noting the amounts, timing 
and accounting treatment of coupon payments is shown below:

Hybrid coupon payments

Total equity (cash) accounted
Total debt (accrual) accounted
Total hybrid coupon

SSE’s July 2020 and April 2022 hybrid bonds 
are perpetual instruments and are therefore 
accounted for as part of equity within the 
Financial Statements but, consistent with 
previous years, have been included within 
SSE’s ‘Adjusted net debt and hybrid capital’ 
to aid comparability. The March 2017  
hybrid bonds which were called and  
settled in 2022/23 had a fixed redemption 
date and were therefore debt accounted 
and included within Loans and Other 
Borrowings; as such they were already part 
of SSE’s adjusted net debt and hybrid capital.

The coupon payments relating to the 
equity accounted hybrid bonds are 
presented as distributions to other equity 
holders and are reflected within adjusted 
Earnings Per Share when paid. The coupon 
payments on debt accounted hybrid bonds 
are treated as finance costs under IFRS 9 
‘Financial Instruments’.

90

SSE plc  Annual Report 2023

2023/24

2022/23

HYe

£74m
–
£74m

FYe

£74m
–
£74m

HYa

£39m
£21m
£60m

FYa

£39m
£21m
£60m

Managing net finance income/(costs) 
SSE’s adjusted net finance costs – which 
includes interest on debt accounted hybrid 
bonds but not equity accounted hybrid 
bonds – were £345.6m in the year ended 
31 March 2023, compared to £372.8m in 
the previous year. The lower level of finance 
costs from year to year mainly reflects lower 
levels of net debt during the financial year 
given proceeds from the disposal of Scotia 
Gas Networks on 22 March 2022 (£1,225m) 
and a 25% minority interest stake in SSEN 
Transmission on 30 November 2022 
(£1,465m).

Reported net finance income was £59.3m 
compared to a reported net finance cost of 
£273.2m in the previous year, reflecting the 
movements above as well as the £201.9m 
positive movement on financial derivatives 
previously referenced.

Summarising cash and cash equivalents 
At 31 March 2023, SSE’s adjusted net debt 
included cash and cash equivalents of 
£0.9bn, down from £1.0bn at March 2022.

The cash collateral position has increased 
from £74.7m of cash provided as collateral 
at 31 March 2022 to £316.3m of cash 
provided at 31 March 2023. Cash collateral 
is only required for forward commodity 
contracts traded through commodity 
exchanges, and generally comprises an 
‘initial margin’ element based on the size 
and period of the trade and a ‘variation 
margin’ element which will change from 
day to day depending on the fair value  
of that trade each day. The level of cash 
collateral either provided or received 
therefore depends on the volume of 
trading through the exchanges, the periods 
being traded and the associated price 

volatility. As collateral is only required  
on a portion of trades, the movement in 
collateral provided or received will not 
correlate to the IFRS 9 fair value movement 
recognised, which also only covers a 
portion of the total Group trading activity. 
The cash collateral position had increased 
at 31 March 2023 due to the continued 
higher forward power and gas price 

environment, alongside heightened  
price volatility in those markets. The 
collateral position is lower than earlier  
in the financial year as volatility and risk 
factors have reduced, although prices do 
remain heightened when compared to 
previous years.

Revolving credit facility/ 
short-term funding
SSE has £3.5bn of committed bank facilities 
in place to ensure the Group has sufficient 
liquidity to allow day-to -day operations 
and investment programmes to continue in 
the event of disruption to Capital Markets 
preventing SSE from issuing new debt for a 
period of time. These facilities are set out in 
the table below.

Date

Issuer

Debt type

Mar 19
Oct 19
Nov 22
Nov 22
Feb 23

Syndicated Revolving Credit Facility with 10 Relationship Banks
SSE plc
Revolving Credit Facility with Bank of China
SSE plc
SHET plc
Syndicated Revolving Credit Facility with 11 Relationship Banks
SHEPD plc and SEPD plc Syndicated Revolving Credit Facility with 11 Relationship Banks
Syndicated Revolving Credit Facility with 10 Relationship Banks
SSE plc

Term

2026
2026
2025
2025
2024

Value

£1.3bn
£200m
£750m
£250m
£1.0bn

Ahead of the 25% minority interest stake 
disposal, SSEN Transmission entered a 
three-year £750m facility and SSE 
Distribution entered a similar 3 year £250m 
facility, both having two one-year optional 
extensions. These facilities were entered 
into to help cover the future long-term 
funding requirements and the working 
capital of those businesses as they look  
to become financially independent of the 
Group. The facilities will therefore support 
the ongoing capital expenditure investment 
programmes that are required to deliver 
their ambitious future growth plans and  
will be drawn on a regular basis.

The new £1bn facility signed in February 
2023 was executed to cover potential cash 
collateral requirements required to cover 
commodity position on exchanges or via 
credit support annex’s on bilateral contracts. 

The facilities can also be utilised to cover 
short-term funding requirements; however, 
the majority remain undrawn for most of 
the time and at 31 March 2023, £100m was 
drawn on the new £750m Scottish Hydro 
Electric Transmission plc facility. 

The two SSE plc facilities totalling £1.5bn 
that mature in 2026 are classified as 
sustainable facilities with interest rate and 
fees paid dependant on SSE’s performance 
in environmental, social and governance 
matters, as assessed independently by 
Moody’s ESG Solutions. The new £750m 
Transmission facility is also classified as a 
sustainable facility with interest rate and 
fees paid dependant on four ESG KPI’s 
being achieved.

In addition to the above, a $300m private 
placement shelf facility exists with NY Life 
which can be drawn in approximately two 
equal tranches 12 months apart over the 
next three years. At 31 March 2023 no 
drawings have been made on this facility.

In addition to these committed bank 
facilities, the Group has access to £50m  
of uncommitted bank lines and a £15m 
overdraft facility.

Maintaining a prudent treasury policy
SSE’s treasury policy is designed to be 
prudent and flexible. In line with that, cash 
from operations is first used to finance 
regulatory and maintenance capital 
expenditure and then dividend payments, 
with investment and capital expenditure for 
growth generally financed by a combination 
of cash from operations, bank borrowings 
and bond issuance.

As a matter of policy, a minimum of 50%  
of SSE’s debt is subject to fixed rates of 
interest. Within this policy framework, SSE 
borrows as required on different interest 
bases, with financial instruments being 
used to achieve the desired out-turn 
interest rate profile. At 31 March 2023, 92% 
of SSE’s borrowings were at fixed rates.

Borrowings are mainly in Sterling and  
Euros to reflect the underlying currency 
denomination of assets and cash flows 
within SSE. All other foreign currency 
borrowings are swapped back into either 
Sterling or Euros.

Transactional foreign exchange risk arises 
in respect of procurement contracts, fuel 
and carbon purchasing, commodity 
hedging and energy portfolio management 
operations, and long-term service 
agreements for plant.

SSE’s policy is to hedge any material 
transactional foreign exchange risks 
through the use of forward currency 
purchases and/or financial instruments. 
Translational foreign exchange risk arises in 
respect of overseas investments; hedging 
in respect of such exposures is determined 
as appropriate to the circumstances on a 
case-by-case basis.

Ensuring a strong debt structure 
through medium- and long-term 
borrowings
The ability to raise funds at competitive 
rates is fundamental to investment. SSE’s 
fundraising over the past five years, 
including senior bonds, hybrid capital and 
term loans, now totals £9.5bn and SSE’s 
objective is to maintain a reasonable range 
of debt maturities. Its average debt maturity, 
excluding hybrid securities, at 31 March 
2023 was 6.4 years, down from 6.8 years at 
31 March 2022. This movement reflects the 
£1.7bn of new hybrid capital and long-term 
debt issued in the last twelve months but 
has been offset by a higher short-term 
funding position via Commercial Paper. 
SSE’s average cost of debt is now 3.92%, 
compared to 3.81% at 31 March 2022.

Going Concern
The Directors regularly review the Group’s 
funding structure and have assessed that 
the Full Year Financial Statements should  
be prepared on a going concern basis.

In making their assessment the Directors 
have considered sensitivities on the forecast 
future cashflows of the Group for the period 
to 31 December 2024 resulting from the 
current volatile market conditions; the 
Group’s credit rating; the success of the 
Group’s disposal programme through 
2020/21 to 2022/23; the successful issuance 
of £1.7bn of hybrid equity, Eurobond and 
private placement debt issued during the 
period; and the likelihood of disposal of 
assets which have been announced as in 
progress and related debt funding. The 
Directors have also considered the Group’s 
obligations under its debt covenants,  
with projections to 31 December 2024 
supporting the expectation that there will  
be no breaches.

SSE plc  Annual Report 2023

91

Financial StatementsStrategic ReportDirectors’ ReportFinancial Review continued

The Directors have assessed that the Group 
remains able to access Capital Markets, as 
demonstrated by the £3.6bn of debt issued 
over the last 24 months. There is also an 
expectation of continued availability of  
the Commercial Paper market along with 
future available liquidity in the private 
placement market in addition to the 
Group’s existing liquidity with £3.5bn  
of undrawn committed borrowing  
facilities which has been increased by 
£2.0bn during the 2022/23 financial year.

Operating a scrip dividend scheme
SSE’s Scrip Dividend Scheme was last 
renewed for a three-year period at the  
2021 AGM and continues to be offered  
to all shareholders. For the period out to 
2026/27, take-up from the Scrip Dividend 

Scheme will be capped at 25%. SSE plans  
to implement this cap by means of a share 
repurchase programme, or ‘buyback’, in 
October each year following payment of 
the final dividend. The scale of any share 
repurchase program would be determined 
by shareholder subscription to Scrip 
Dividend Scheme across the full year, 
taking into account the interim and final 
dividend elections.

Following approval of the dividend at the 
Annual General Meeting on 20 July 2023, 
the scrip reference price will be determined 
across the period from 27 July to 2 August 
2023, with notification of the final scrip 
reference price issued on 3 August 2023. 
Following receipt of the final dividend scrip 
elections on 24 August 2023, the overall 

scrip dividend take-up for the financial  
year will be calculated and any intention  
to initiate a buy-back will be announced.  
It is intended that any scrip buy-backs in 
respect of 2022/23 will be completed 
before 31 March 2024.

SSE believes limiting the dilutive effect  
of the Scrip in this way strikes the right 
balance in terms of giving shareholders 
choice, potentially securing cash dividend 
payment savings and managing the 
number of additional shares issued.

SSE’s principal joint ventures and associates
SSE’s financial results include contributions from equity interests in joint ventures (‘JVs’) and associates, all of which are equity accounted. 
The details of the most significant of these are included in the table below. This table also highlights SSE’s share of off-balance sheet 
debt associated with its equity interests in JVs which totals around £3bn as at 31 March 2023.

SSE principal JVs and associates1

Asset type

SSE  
holding

SSE share of external debt 
as at 31 Mar 2023

SSE Shareholder loans  
as at 31 Mar 2023

Marchwood Power Ltd
Seabank Power Ltd
SSE Slough Multifuel Ltd 
Triton Power Holdings Ltd
Beatrice Offshore Windfarm Ltd
Dogger Bank A Wind Farm
Dogger Bank B Wind Farm
Dogger Bank C Wind Farm
North Falls Offshore Wind Farm Ltd
Ossian Offshore Windfarm Ltd
Seagreen Offshore Windfarm Ltd
Seagreen 1a Ltd
Cloosh Valley Wind Farm

Clyde Windfarm (Scotland) Ltd
Dunmaglass Windfarm Ltd
Lenalea Wind Energy DAC
Stronelairg Windfarm Ltd
Neos Networks Ltd

50%
920MW CCGT
50%
1,234MW CCGT
50%
50MW energy-from-waste facility
50%
1,200MW CCGT & 140MW OCGT
588MW offshore wind farm
40%
Up to 1,200MW offshore wind farm.  40%
Up to 1,200MW offshore wind farm.  40%
Up to 1,200MW offshore wind farm.  40%
50%
Offshore wind farm extension
40%
ScotWind seabed
49%
1,075MW offshore wind farm
49%
Offshore wind farm extension
25%
105MW onshore windfarm (part of 
Galway Wind Park)
522MW onshore wind farm
94MW onshore windfarm
30MW of onshore windfarm
228MW onshore wind farm
Private telecoms network

50.1%
50.1%
50%
50.1%
50%

No external debt
No external debt
No external debt
No external debt
£681m
£745m
£616m
£344m
No external debt
No external debt
£628m
No external debt
No external debt

No external debt
No external debt
No external debt
No external debt
No external debt

£26m
No loans outstanding
£128m
No loans outstanding
Project financed
Project financed
Project financed
Project financed
No loans outstanding
No loans outstanding
£816m2
£16m
£26m

£127m
£46m
£8m
£88m
£56m

Notes:
1  Greater Gabbard, a 504MW offshore windfarm (SSE share 50%) is proportionally consolidated and is reported as a Joint Operation with no loans outstanding.
2  For accounting purposes, £223m of the £816m of SSE Shareholder loans advanced to Seagreen Windfarm Limited as at 31 March 2023 have been classified  

as equity.

Taxation
SSE is one of the UK’s biggest taxpayers, 
and in the 2022 PwC Total Tax Contribution 
survey published in November 2022 was 
ranked 16th out of the 100 Group of 
Companies in 2022 in terms of taxes  
borne (those which represent a cost to  
the company, and which are reflected  
in its financial results). 

SSE considers being a responsible taxpayer 
to be a core element of its social contract 
with the societies in which it operates  
and seeks to pay the right amount of tax  
on its profits, in the right place, at the  
right time. While SSE has an obligation  
to its shareholders, customers and other 
stakeholders to efficiently manage its total 
tax liability, it does not seek to use the tax 
system in a way it does not consider it was 
meant to operate or use tax havens to 
reduce its tax liabilities. 

Under its social contract SSE has an 
obligation to the society in which it 
operates, and from which it benefits – for 
example, tax receipts are vital for the public 
services SSE relies upon. Therefore, SSE’s tax 
policy is to operate within both the letter 
and spirit of the law at all times.

SSE was the first FTSE 100 company  
to be Fair Tax Mark accredited and has  
now been accredited for nine years. The 
group’s overseas expansion presented the 
opportunity to move to Fair Tax Foundation’s 
Global Multinational Business Standard 
Accreditation, which was launched in  
late 2021, SSE being the first company  
to transition from the UK headquartered 
accreditation to the global accreditation.

In November 2022, SSE published ‘Talking 
Tax 2022: Fair tax in a time of change’ report. 
It did this because it believes building trust 
with stakeholders on issues relating to tax is 
important to the long-term sustainability of 
the business. 

outside the UK in which it currently has 
significant trading operations. SSE’s 
operations elsewhere are still at an early 
stage and are not yet paying material 
amounts of tax. 

As part of the Spring Finance Bill, released 
on 23 March 2023, the UK Government 
published the final draft legislation behind 
the Electricity Generator Levy (‘EGL’).  
This measure introduces a temporary 45% 
charge on exceptional receipts generated  
by specific generation sources which are  
in excess of a £75/MWh benchmark price 
(adjusted in line with Consumer Price Index). 
The levy will be in effect from 1 January 
2023 to 31 March 2028, and therefore a  
net charge of £43m has been recognised  
in respect of the EGL within the 2022/23 
financial year which has been excluded  
from the Income Tax disclosure in line with 
current accounting practice.

In the year to 31 March 2023, SSE paid 
£501.7m of profit taxes, property taxes, 
environmental taxes, and employment taxes 
in the UK, compared with £335.3m in the 
previous year. The increase in total taxes 
paid in 2022/23 compared with the previous 
year was primarily due to higher levels of 
corporation tax being paid on UK profits and 
higher levels of Climate Change Levy being 
paid as a result of fewer outages at SSE’s 
gas-fired power stations compared with the 
previous year.

In 2022/23 SSE also paid €53.8m of taxes in 
Ireland, compared to €46.4m the previous 
year, due to increased profits in SSE’s Irish 
businesses. Ireland is the only country 

As with other key financial indicators, SSE’s 
As with other key financial indicators, SSE’s 
focus is on adjusted profit before tax and, in 
line with that, SSE believes that the adjusted 
current tax charge on that profit is the tax 
measure that best reflects underlying 
performance. SSE’s adjusted current tax 
rate, based on adjusted profit before tax, 
was 16.4%, compared with 9.2% in 2021/22 
on the same basis. The increase in rate is 
primarily as a result of higher profit before 
tax, partly mitigated by increased capital 
allowances. In addition, a decision finding in 
SSE’s favour was released by the Supreme 
Court on 17 May 2023 on the group’s 
long-running capital allowances case in 
relation to Glendoe Hydro Electric Station. 
The successful outcome has resulted in  
the release of a £27.9m corporation tax 
provision, which in turn reduced SSE’s 
adjusted underlying current tax rate for  
the year by 1.3%.

The UK Budget in March 2021 introduced  
a ‘super-deduction’ for qualifying capital 
expenditure incurred during the two-year 
period from 1 April 2021 to 31 March 2023. 
Capital allowances rates of 130% and 50% 
replace the existing rates of 18% and 6% 
respectively for qualifying capital expenditure 
in that period, significantly increasing the 
amount of capital allowances available on 
the Group’s capital investment programme.

92

SSE plc  Annual Report 2023

SSE plc  Annual Report 2023

93

Financial StatementsStrategic ReportDirectors’ ReportFinancial Review continued

Operating Review

Pensions
Contributing to employees’ pension schemes – IAS 19 

Pension scheme asset recognised in the balance sheet before deferred tax £m
Pension scheme liability recognised in the balance sheet before deferred tax £m
Net pension scheme asset recognised in the balance sheet before deferred tax £m
Employer cash contributions Scottish Hydro Electric scheme £m
Employer cash contributions SSE Southern scheme £m
Deficit repair contribution included above £m

In the year to 31 March 2023, the surplus 
across SSE’s two pension schemes 
decreased by £43.8m, from £584.9m  
to £541.1m, primarily due to actuarial  
losses of £79.2m and contributions  
made to the schemes. 

The valuation of the SSE Southern Pension 
Scheme increased by £107.1m in 2022/23 
primarily due to actuarial gains of £72.8m, 
in particular the impact of higher discount 
rates, as well as deficit repair contributions 
exceeding service costs.

The Scottish Hydro Electric Pension 
Scheme has insured against volatility in its 
deferred and pensioner members through 
the purchase of ‘buy-in’ contracts meaning 
that the Group only retains exposure to 
volatility in active employees. During the 
year the Scottish Hydro Electric Pension 
Scheme surplus decreased by £150.9m 
mainly as a result of actuarial losses from 
plan assets. 

March  
2023

March  
2022

541.1
–
541.1
1.0
52.1
38.0

584.9
–
584.9
1.0
58.0
40.9

Additional information on employee 
pension schemes can be found in note 23 
to the Financial Statements.

usiness Unit  

Operating Review

SSE’s strategy of sustainably developing, building, 
operating and investing in the electricity infrastructure 
and businesses needed in the transition to net zero is 
delivered through a focused mix of market-based and 
economically-regulated energy businesses. 

SSE’s businesses are key to enabling a net zero economy, have significant 
growth potential and, importantly, are highly complementary. With common 
skills and capabilities in the development, construction, financing and 
operation of highly technical electricity assets, there are strong synergies 
between them and valuable links across them. SSE’s business mix is very 
deliberate, highly effective, fully focused and well set to prosper on the 
journey to net zero, whilst contributing to energy security and affordability. 

The review of the Business Units that follows provides visibility of 
performance and future priorities.

94

SSE plc  Annual Report 2023

SSE plc  Annual Report 2023
SSE plc  Annual Report 2023

95
95

Financial StatementsStrategic ReportDirectors’ ReportOperating Review continued

SSEN Transmission
SSEN Transmission owns, operates and develops the high voltage electricity transmission system 
in the North of Scotland and its islands. Following a minority stake sale completed in November 
2022, the business is owned 75% by SSE plc and 25% by Ontario Teachers’ Pension Plan Board. 
All capex and RAV references in this update relate to 100% of the business unless otherwise 
stated. The business is well placed to capture significant long-term growth opportunities from 
investment in enhancing energy security and enabling the development of renewables across 
the North of Scotland.

Who SSEN Transmission 
serves 
Electricity generators, large electricity 
demand customers and ultimately  
all electricity customers across the 
North of Scotland and beyond.

How it supports SSE’s strategy
SSEN Transmission invests in the 
critical infrastructure needed for a 
network for net zero that connects 
sources of renewable electricity to the 
national grid and transports it to areas 
of demand.

How it is remunerated
Through economically regulated 
returns recovered from generators 
and customers that are potentially 
enhanced through efficient delivery.  
In addition to Certain View 
expenditure, Uncertainty Mechanisms 
permit recovery of additional revenue 
in a given price control period to 
reflect additional investment 
requirements. These Uncertainty 
Mechanisms fund network upgrades 
during the price control period. 

 “Through our ambitious 
investment programme as one 
of Europe’s fastest growing 
transmission networks, we  
are committed to improving 
network reliability for the 
communities we serve, 
alongside supporting climate 
and energy security targets,  
as we deliver a network for net 
zero at an affordable cost to 
consumers, while providing  
a fair return to shareholders.”

Rob McDonald
Managing Director,  
SSEN Transmission

96

SSE plc  Annual Report 2023

Operational delivery 
In 2022/23, SSEN Transmission delivered 
another year of exceptional operational 
performance, achieving the maximum 
reward available through the Energy Not 
Supplied Incentive of £0.8m for the third 
consecutive year, which will be reflected in 
revenue in 2024/25. This strong operational 
performance is underpinned by a robust 
programme of inspection, maintenance, 
refurbishment and replacement of its 
transmission assets, keeping the lights on for 
communities around the North of Scotland 
and ensuring reliable network access for its 
electricity generation customers to support 
security of supply. 

SSEN Transmission’s capital investment 
programme remains on track with good 
progress being made on all major projects. 
This includes the second phase of the 
Inveraray-Crossaig overhead line replacement 
project, with the installation of all steel towers 
now complete and the project on track for 
energisation this summer. As well as 
maintaining and enhancing network reliability 
to the communities it serves, the Inveraray-
Crossaig project will also enable the growth in 
renewable electricity generation across the 
region as part of the wider Argyll and Kintyre 
275kV Strategy. 

The Shetland High Voltage Direct Current 
(HVDC) transmission link also continues to 
make excellent progress with the second 
phase of the subsea cable installation works, 
which commenced in March 2023, now 

complete. 160km of the total 260km of 
subsea cable is now installed. Noss Head 
Switching Station in Caithness, which the 
Shetland HVDC link will connect to, was 
successfully energised in April 2023. Upon 
competition, the Shetland HVDC link will 
connect to the existing Caithness-Moray 
HVDC link, becoming the world’s first 
multi-terminal HVDC system outside of 
China. It is a key innovation to support the 
future development of integrated HVDC grids, 
with HVDC links to date largely point-to-point 
connections. The project remains on track  
for completion and energisation in 2024. 

Good progress continues to be made to 
increase the capacity of the North East 
transmission network to 400kV, with this 
phase of network upgrades remaining on 
track for energisation by the end of 2023. 
Work to incrementally increase the east 
coast transmission network also remains  
on track, to 275kV by the end of 2023 and 
then to 400kV by 2026.

These strategic investments in new and 
upgraded infrastructure are key to help 
enable the continued growth in renewable 
electricity generation across the North of 
Scotland. These renewable connections 
includes the completion of the third circuit of 
the Seagreen offshore wind farm connection 
to Tealing substation in Angus which 
completed in November 2022.

As at 31 March 2023, the total installed 
capacity of the North of Scotland 
transmission network was around 10.5GW, 
of which just over 9GW is from renewable 
sources. This includes the successful 
energisation of the Creag Rhiabhach  
wind farm (92MW) near Lairg in December 
2022 and the successful completion of all 
three phases of the Seagreen (1,075MW) 
grid connection. Factoring in the forecast 
growth in renewables in the remaining 
years of the RIIO-T2 period, SSEN 
Transmission remains well on track to 
meeting, and likely exceeding, its goal to 
transport the renewable electricity that 
powers 10m homes. 

For financial performance commentary 
please refer to the Financial Review. 

SSEN Transmission key performance indicators

SSEN Transmission
Transmission adjusted operating profit1 – £m
Transmission reported operating profit – £m
Gross Regulated Asset Value (RAV) – £m
SSE Share Regulated Asset Value (RAV)1 – £m
Renewable Capacity connected to SSEN Transmission Network2 – MW
Transmission adjusted investment and capital expenditure1 – £m

March 
2023

March 
2022

372.7
405.5
4,836
3,627
9,208
495.5

380.5
380.5
4,155
4,155
7,790
614.5

1  Excludes 25% minority interest from 1 December 2022.
Includes full Seagreen Transmission Entry Capacity.
2 

Growth opportunities in RIIO-T2 
SSEN Transmission continues to make 
tangible progress in unlocking several 
investments over and above its baseline 
investment case secured at the start of 
RIIO-T2. These additional projects, which 
are being taken forward through Ofgem’s 
Uncertainty Mechanisms, will be key to 
delivering a pathway to net zero and 
helping support energy security. 

In October 2022, SSEN submitted to Scottish 
Ministers its Section 37 planning application 
for the replacement and upgrade of the Fort 
Augustus to Skye transmission line, with 
Highland Council’s Planning Committee 
unanimously supporting the application  
in March 2023. The replacement line is 
required to maintain security of supply  
and enable the connection of renewable 
electricity generation along its route. In May 
2023, Ofgem published for consultation  
its response to SSEN Transmission’s FNC, 
setting out its ‘minded-to approve’ 
provisional decision. Subject to timely 
planning and regulatory approvals, the 
project is on track for completion in 2026.

Following Ofgem’s approval of SSEN 
Transmission’s Initial Needs Case for the 
Argyll 275kV Strategy in December 2022, in 
May 2023, SSEN Transmission submitted its 
FNC. This followed a direction from Ofgem 
to allow submission in advance of securing 
all main planning consents due to the risk of 
delay and likely increase in cost that would 
otherwise have been the case, alongside 
providing certainty to support the project’s 
procurement process. The Argyll and Kintyre 
275kV Strategy is required to upgrade the 
local transmission network from 132kV to 
275kV operation, supporting the forecast 
growth in renewables in the region. 

The decision in October 2022 by Argyll  
and Bute Council’s Planning Committee to 
raise an objection to SSEN Transmission’s 
proposed overhead line between Creag 
Dhubh and Dalmally has resulted in a Public 
Local Inquiry (PLI), which is now under  
way. SSEN Transmission remains extremely 

disappointed by the decision, which went 
against the recommendations of the 
Council’s own Planning Officer, with no 
other statutory stakeholder objections 
received, and continues to review what  
this means for its delivery programme and  
will work with all stakeholders to minimise 
the impact of this on new renewable 
generation connections. 

In March 2023, Ofgem provisionally 
approved long established plans to provide 
a 220kV subsea transmission link to Orkney, 
the timing of which remains subject to 
Ofgem’s final decision and ongoing 
discussions with the supply chain. 

Further expenditure to connect new 
renewable generation, enable rail 
electrification and support system security 
is also expected throughout the RIIO-T2 
period and beyond when the need for this 
investment becomes certain. 

Subject to regulatory and planning 
approvals, SSEN Transmission’s expenditure 
across the price control period could take 
its RAV to between £8bn to £9bn by 2027.

Further growth opportunities 
In July 2022, the National Grid Electricity 
System Operator (ESO) published the 
Pathway to 2030 Holistic Network  
Design (HND). It set out the onshore and 
offshore electricity transmission network 
infrastructure required to deliver the UK 
Government’s 50GW by 2030 offshore 
wind target. 

In December 2022, Ofgem published  
its Accelerated Strategic Transmission 
Investment (ASTI) framework decision,  
which provided the regulatory framework 
under which those investments will be taken 
forward. Ofgem’s ASTI decision is a major 
step forward in strategic network planning 
for electricity transmission infrastructure and 
included ‘approval of need’ of all investments 
in SSEN Transmission’s network region set 
out in the HND report as ‘required’ to enable 
2030 targets. The ASTI framework also 

unlocks early pre-construction expenditure 
to help secure the supply chain, alongside 
allowances to support early construction 
activities.

In light of these developments, SSEN 
Transmission has upgraded its long term  
RAV target, which is now expected to exceed 
£15bn by 2032. Subject to timely and positive 
planning decisions and the outcome of 
competitive tenders for delivery of these 
projects, SSEN Transmission is committed  
to 2030 delivery of these projects.

Beyond these investments, in October 2022, 
Ofgem published its decision on the onshore 
and offshore classification of the offshore 
HND assets. It confirmed that a proposed 
subsea connection from Fetteresso to a new 
substation in Lincolnshire will be classed as 
an onshore electricity transmission asset, 
which is likely to support further growth. 

With the HND enabling around 11GW of 
ScotWind’s 28GW ambition, a follow-up 
exercise is now under way which will set 
out how ScotWind’s full offshore wind 
ambition will be realised, the outcome of 
which is expected before the end of 2023. 
The Scottish Government is also consulting 
on its Draft Energy Strategy and Just 
Transition Plan, which includes proposals 
for an additional 8-12GW of onshore wind 
by 2030.

Recognition by Ofgem and the ESO of these 
further potential growth and investment 
opportunities, alongside ever-increasing  
UK and Scottish Government energy targets 
and ambitions, underlines the importance  
of the Transmission network, particularly in 
the North of Scotland, in transitioning the 
GB energy system to net zero. 

Given the scale of investment required to 
deliver net zero, it is crucial that the policy 
landscape and regulatory framework, 
particularly financial parameters, continue 
to attract the investment required to 
support delivery of the most ambitious 
investment plan in low-carbon 
infrastructure for a generation.

SSE plc  Annual Report 2023

97

Financial StatementsStrategic ReportDirectors’ ReportOperating Review continued

SSEN Distribution
SSEN Distribution, operating under licence as Scottish Hydro Electric Power Distribution plc 
(SHEPD) and Southern Electric Power Distribution plc (SEPD), is responsible for safely and 
reliably maintaining the electricity distribution networks supplying over 3.9m homes and 
businesses across central southern England and the North of Scotland. SSEN Distribution’s 
networks cover the greatest land mass of any of the UK’s Distribution Network Operators with 
over 75,000km² of extremely diverse terrain. The business has significant growth opportunities 
as a key enabler of the local and national transition to a net zero future.

SSEN Distribution key performance indicators

SSEN Distribution
Distribution adjusted and reported operating profit – £m
Regulated Asset Value (RAV) – £m
Distribution adjusted investment and capital expenditure – £m
Electricity Distributed – TWh
Customer Minutes Lost (SHEPD) average per customer
Customer Minutes Lost (SEPD) average per customer
Customer Interruptions (SHEPD) per 100 customers
Customer Interruptions (SEPD) per 100 customers

March  
2023

March  
2022

382.4
4,720
421.0
36.1
59
46
60
44

351.8
4,054
364.8
37.6
57
42
56
42

Operational delivery 
In December 2022, Ofgem published its 
Final Determinations for the RIIO-ED2 price 
control outlining its response to SSEN’s 
Business Plan ‘Powering Communities  
to Net Zero’. SSEN Distribution accepted 
Ofgem’s Final Determination in March  
and will continue to work closely with the 
regulator to ensure the price control has 
the agility and flexibility required to keep 
pace with net zero requirements. The price 
control began in April 2023 and will run 
until March 2028. 

Major capital investment
The new price control period will see the 
acceleration of SSEN Distribution’s major 
capital investment programme across  
both its networks, delivering significant 
improvements for customers and 
supporting future earnings through RAV 
growth. This builds on continued capital 
delivery in the final year of RIIO-ED1, where 
SSEN Distribution invested £421m, bringing 
the total investment since the beginning of 
the price control to £2.7bn.

Customer interruptions and  
incentive score
Under the RIIO regulatory regime and  
the Interruptions Incentive Scheme (IIS), 
SSEN Distribution is incentivised on its 
performance against the loss of electricity 
supply through the recording of Customer 
Interruptions (CI) and Customer Minutes 
Lost (CML), which includes both planned 
and unplanned supply interruptions. These 
incentives will typically be collected two 
years after they are earned. 

The SHEPD CI rate increased from 56  
in 2021/22 to 60 in 2022/23, with CML 
increasing from 57 to 59. Whilst performance 
in response to unplanned network faults 
improved in comparison to 2021/22, 
reflecting investment in automation and 
operational response, a rise in planned 
interruptions to facilitate new connections 
has impacted IIS performance. In SEPD,  
the CI rate increased to 44 up from 42 the 
previous year and CMLs also increased to  
46 from 42 the previous year. Adverse 
weather which did not qualify as exceptional 
under IIS provisions and a major transmission 
fault affecting 55,000 customers were also 
contributory factors in performance for  
the period.

In 2022/23 the SSEN Distribution network 
was affected by two extreme weather 
events, an ice storm in Shetland in 
December 2022 and Storm Otto in February 
2023. Power restoration efforts during both 
weather events were swift and effective  
as reflected in a motion in the Scottish 
Parliament praising SSEN Distribution’s 
‘exceptional response’ to Storm Otto,  
citing improvements in restoration, 
communications and customer service.

In response to the security of supply 
concerns across GB and possibility of 
emergency disconnections, Distribution 
was the first Distribution Network Operator 
(DNO) to develop an emergency planning 
portal for customers and conducted 
engagement with over 2,500 stakeholders 
to help ensure preparedness and 
community resilience.

Who SSEN Distribution 
serves 
Over 3.9m homes and businesses 
and generators and service providers 
that are, or want to be, connected  
to its distribution networks and 
customers in its operating areas. 

How it supports SSE’s strategy
It provides timely connection  
of local renewables and the co-
ordinated delivery of investment  
and flexible solutions to alleviate 
network constraints and enable 
further electrification. 

How it is remunerated
Through economically regulated 
returns recovered from customers 
and connecting parties. Additional 
earnings come through efficient 
delivery of investment and 
performance-related incentives.

 “RIIO-ED2 is a critical milestone 
in the journey to net zero. We 
have a pivotal role to play in 
strengthening our network 
and increasing our resilience, 
whilst future-proofing our 
system to enable the greater 
uptake of low-carbon 
technologies to allow our 
customers to meet their  
net zero goals.”

Chris Burchell
Managing Director,  
SSEN Distribution

Improving customer satisfaction 
SSEN Distribution’s Broad Measure 
performance has again improved in 22/23 
achieving a total incentive return of £4.4m 
and continuing the upward trend which  
has been supported by a comprehensive 
improvement plan for each Broad Measure 
category. In 2022/23 SSEN Distribution was 
the most improved DNO for Customer 
Satisfaction, with the speed of improvement 
being five times that of the industry average.

In 2022/23 SSEN Distribution received its 
highest ever league table position in the 
Stakeholder Engagement and Customer 
Vulnerability (SECV) standings, resulting  
in an estimated revenue of £1.5m. Support 
for customers in vulnerable situations also 
increased with registrations to SSEN’s 
Priority Services Register rising by 11% 
compared to the previous financial year 
through targeted communications and 
partnerships. In addition, over 14,500 
households were supported by fuel poverty 
and energy efficiency measures, an 
increase of almost 70% on 2021/22.

In March 2023, SSEN published its Fair 
Energy Future report, and in doing so 
became the first DNO to publish a 
consumer-led just transition action plan 
aimed at securing a fair and inclusive net 
zero transition for all.

For financial performance commentary 
please refer to the Financial Review. 

Growth opportunities 
Delivering in the new RIIO-ED2 price 
control period
SSEN Distribution’s RIIO-ED2 Business Plan, 
which was co-created with stakeholders,  
is a core component of SSE Group’s NZAP 
Plus. The Final Determination from Ofgem 
provides SSEN Distribution with a proposed 
total base expenditure of £3.6bn, an uplift 
of over 22% on the equivalent period in 
RIIO-ED1, including potential additional 
investment opportunities of up to £0.7bn 
over the period through uncertainty 
mechanisms and reopeners.

Accelerating connections
With the transition to net zero gathering 
pace, SSEN Distribution is seeing a 
significant rise in the uptake of low-carbon 
technologies, particularly EV charge points, 
heat pumps, and battery storage. The 
business has seen a 75% uplift in the 
number of electric vehicle charge points 
connected compared to last year.

The SEPD network is experiencing rapid 
growth in both generation and demand 
requests, with significant large load 
requests coming from data centres and 
contracted batteries doubling over the  
past year. In SHEPD, generation demand 
has tripled from 3.7GW to 9.5GW over the 
past 18 months. 

Empowering local investment  
and growing flexibility
Project LEO, SSEN Distribution’s industry-
leading project established to replicate the 
future energy system and test flexibility 
services at the ‘grid edge’, has concluded. 

Insights are now being used to facilitate 
extensive engagement with local 
authorities and stakeholders to support 
local net zero planning. This includes 
collaborative work with the Isle of Wight 
Council and local generators to produce  
a first-of-its-kind local net zero island 
study, which has identified core network 
development needed to unlock renewables 
and meet future demands. This provides a 
robust case to unlock further investment 
through uncertainty mechanisms early in 
the price control. 

SSEN Distribution is also increasing 
tendering its flexibility services in areas 
where localised high demand can be offset 
to extend overall network capacity. SSEN’s 
RIIO-ED2 Distribution System Operator 
Strategy targets delivery of 5GW in flexible 
services and 3.7GW of flexible connections 
by 2028. Overall, SSEN will invest around 
£70m in DSO capabilities in the five-year 
period, enabling greater consumer  
take-up of low-carbon technologies  
while delivering an estimated £460m of 
benefits through deferred reinforcement 
and avoided capital expenditure.

Building a workforce for the future
During the RIIO-ED2 price control period, 
SSEN Distribution will increase its 
workforce materially as it delivers the 
infrastructure required for net zero, safely, 
efficiently and in line with customers’ 
expectations. In the last year alone, its 
graduate intake increased by 180% and 
trainee engineers by 90%, with specific 
pipelines for digital skills, alignment to  
and a focus on recruiting for difference, 
including neurodiversity.

98

SSE plc  Annual Report 2023

SSE plc  Annual Report 2023

99

Financial StatementsStrategic ReportDirectors’ ReportOperating Review continued

SSE Renewables
SSE Renewables develops and generates zero carbon electricity at scale from wind farms  
and provides clean flexible power from its hydro schemes. The business comprises existing 
operational assets and those under development in onshore wind, offshore wind, flexible hydro 
electricity, run-of-river hydro electricity, pumped storage, as well as solar and battery technology 
co-located on existing UK and new international markets. In April 2023, the standalone Solar and 
Battery business, that had previously reported alongside SSE Distributed Energy, was integrated 
into SSE Renewables to optimise technological, planning and development synergies.

Who SSE Renewables serves
Electricity customers across markets 
in GB, Ireland and abroad who are 
increasingly seeking lower-carbon 
sources of energy.

How it supports SSE’s strategy
SSE Renewables is driving the net zero 
transition through the development, 
financing, construction and operation 
of world-class renewables. 

How it is remunerated
Through the wholesale electricity 
market, ancillary services market, 
Capacity Market, Balancing 
Mechanism revenue from hydro 
output, power purchase agreements, 
and government support schemes 
for renewable energy.

 “We are working to keeping 
global warming to a 1.5°C 
pathway through the 
development, construction 
and operation of renewables. 
We are currently building  
more offshore wind energy 
than any other company  
in the world and we have 
ambitions to do more, 
delivering our diverse pipeline 
of over 11GW across wind, 
hydro, solar and batteries.”

Stephen Wheeler
Managing Director,  
SSE Renewables

100

SSE plc  Annual Report 2023

Operational delivery 
SSE Renewables’ operational offshore  
wind installed capacity is 487MW with its 
onshore wind and hydroelectric installed 
capacity at 1,969MW and 1,459MW 
respectively. SSE Renewables is currently 
leading the construction of more offshore 
wind than any other company in the world. 
Whilst availability across all technologies 
has remained high, the lower-than-
expected wind and rainfall observed  
over the last three years continued in  
the last financial year, resulting in lower 
than normal production.

SSE Renewables’ hydro assets play an 
increasingly critical role in delivering 
cost-effective, low-carbon flexibility to  
the system, providing additional diversified 
revenue streams. Following a very dry 
summer, autumn rain was above average 
followed by drier than average conditions 
over the winter months resulting in output 
for the year being behind plan. Plant 
availability, however, was very strong  
and following an intensive period of 
summer maintenance outages, which  
were delivered to plan, winter plant 
availability was exceptional with the fully 
flexible plant and the pumped storage  
asset at Foyers performing particularly well. 

SSE Renewables is actively progressing plans 
to enhance assets across its operational 
hydro fleet, including the addition of 
pumping capacity, generation capacity 
increases and grid services capabilities.

SSE Renewables is the leading owner, 
operator and developer of onshore  
wind farms across the UK and Ireland. 
Operational onshore wind fleet availability 
was high throughout the year. Volumes 
finished at 93% of plan at year end with 
lower than forecast wind resource in Q4 
impacting volumes.

While the end of the financial year saw 
lower wind resource than anticipated, 
autumn and winter saw an improved 
performance with Beatrice and Greater 
Gabbard offshore wind farms achieving 
91% of plan overall, reducing to 73% when 
including Seagreen and the impact of its 
construction delay. There are now 50 
turbines generating at Seagreen producing 
significant volumes and a new-build  
Vestas operational service vessel has  
been mobilised to site. 

For financial performance commentary 
please refer to the Financial Review. 

Construction programme
All three phases of the world’s largest 
offshore wind farm at Dogger Bank (each 
1,200MW, SSE share 40%) continue to 
progress. Onshore works are continuing on 
all three phases, with the three convertor 
stations at various stages of construction 
and the onshore HVDC cables already 
installed on Dogger Bank A and B. The 
operation and maintenance base at Port  
of Tyne is complete and was officially 
opened in March. 

Offshore work is well under way for Dogger 
Bank A with successful installation of the 
first monopiles and transition pieces and 
the 175km offshore export cable. In April, 
Dogger Bank A reached another milestone 
with the installation of the world’s first 
unmanned HVDC offshore substation, 
making it the first project in the UK to use 
this technology to transmit the electricity 
produced back to shore, ensuring that the 
electricity is transmitted efficiently over 
long distances while minimising losses. 

Dogger Bank A is still expecting to achieve 
first power during Summer 2023, assuming 
normal weather. However, due to delays to 

SSE Renewables key performance indicators

SSE Renewables
Renewables adjusted operating profit – £m
Renewables reported operating (loss) – £m
Renewables adjusted investment and capital expenditure  

before acquisitions – £m
Generation capacity – MW
Onshore wind capacity (GB) – MW
Onshore wind capacity (NI) – MW
Onshore wind capacity (ROI) – MW
Total onshore wind capacity – MW 
Offshore wind capacity (GB) – MW
Conventional hydro capacity (GB) – MW
Pumped storage capacity (GB) – MW
Total renewable generation capacity (inc. pumped storage) – MW
Contracted capacity
Generation output – GWh
Onshore wind output (GB) – GWh
Onshore wind output (NI) – GWh
Onshore wind output (ROI) – GWh
Total onshore wind output – GWh
Offshore wind output (GB) – GWh
Conventional hydro output (GB) – GWh
Pumped storage output (GB) – GWh
Total renewable generation (inc. pumped storage) – GWh

March  
2023

March  
2022

580.0
446.3

568.1
427.8

837.5

811.0

1,285
117
567
1,969
487
1,159
300
3,915
2,787

2,770
286
1,357
4,413
1,846
3,037
301
9,597

1,285
122
567
1,974
487
1,159
300
3,920
2,792

2,502
264
1,196
3,962
1,430
3,107
227
8,726

9,423

Total renewable generation (also inc. constrained off) – GWh

10,159

Note 1: Capacity and output based on 100% of wholly owned sites and share of joint ventures.
Note 2: Contracted capacity includes sites with a CfD, eligible for ROCs, or contracted under REFIT.
Note 3:  Onshore wind output excludes 456GWh of constrained off generation in FY2022/23 and 469GWh  

in FY2021/22; Offshore wind output excludes 106GWh constrained off generation in FY2022/23  
and 228GWh in FY2021/22.

Note 4:  Biomass capacity of 15MW and output of 68GWh in FY2022/23 and 73GWh FY2021/22 is excluded, 

with the associated operating profit or loss reported within Distributed Energy.

Note 5:  Onshore NI and contracted capacity reduced by 5MW in the period following the sale of Bessy Bell I  

in July 2022.

the manufacturing of nacelles for the  
GE Haliade X turbine, the commercial 
operations date for Dogger Bank A has been 
pushed back by a few months to Q3 2024. 
The project is working with GE to assess 
whether impacts on Dogger Bank B and C 
are likely, as well as options to mitigate.

In hydro, phase one of the Tummel  
Bridge power station refurbishment was 
completed on schedule. The two existing 
‘camelback’ turbines and accompanying 
machinery were removed in preparation  
for the installation of two new, bespoke 
turbines in Q2 2023.

On Seagreen 1 (1,075MW, SSE share 49%), 
which will be Scotland’s largest and the 
world’s deepest fixed-bottom offshore wind 
farm once operational, installation of all 114 
foundations (‘jackets’) was completed in April 
2023 including the world’s deepest jacket at 
a depth of 58.6m. With 84 turbines installed 
and 53 turbines exporting power to the grid 
as of 18 April 2023, the project continues  
to make significant progress towards its 
commercial operations date during the 
summer of 2023.

Onshore, construction is progressing well 
on Viking (443MW) in Shetland with turbine 
installation under way and all turbines 
expected to be up by the end of 2023. 
Viking is expected to be fully operational  
by Autumn 2024. 

In Ireland, Lenalea wind farm (30MW,  
SSE share 50%) construction is progressing 
and it is due to be completed by the end of 
2023. Following a final investment decision 
in August, Yellow River (101MW) started 
construction at the beginning of November 
2022 and will proceed on a merchant basis.

Growth opportunities – 
Domestic 
SSE Renewables’ core markets of the UK 
and Ireland continue to offer considerable 
growth opportunities.

In March, the UK Government opened the 
application window for Allocation Round 5 
(AR5). SSE Renewables projects Seagreen 
1A Strathy South, Bhlaraidh Extension, 
Aberarder and Viking are all eligible to  
bid for the auction, with results expected 
by September 2023. However, the low 
administrative strike price (caps) in the 
auction, particularly for offshore wind,  
do not reflect the cost increases faced  
by projects. As a result, SSE Renewables  
will not be entering Seagreen 1A into  
the auction. It will continue to seek an 
alternative route to market to progress  
this project.

Located in the North Sea, in the outer  
Firth of Forth, Berwick Bank wind farm has 
the potential to deliver 4.1GW of installed 
capacity, making it one of the largest 
offshore opportunities in the world.  

A consent application was submitted  
to the Scottish Government in December 
2022. The first connection date is in 2027 
and the full project could be complete 
around the end of the decade. 

Ossian offshore wind farm, owned by  
the SSE Renewables (3.6GW, share 40%), 
Marubeni Corporation and Copenhagen 
Infrastructure Partners (CIP) consortium,  
is one of the largest floating offshore wind 
projects in development worldwide and 
could play a key role in meeting the UK 
Government’s floating wind targets.  
The project continues to progress through 
the early stages of development with the 
Environmental Impact Assessment Scoping 
Report for the Ossian Array submitted to 
the Scottish Government in March 2023.

North Falls offshore wind farm (up to 
504MW, SSE Renewables share 50%), an 
extension to Greater Gabbard off the east 
coast of England, continues to progress 
through development ahead of planning 
submission next year. North Falls could  
be operational by 2031, depending on the 
grid connection solution. 

In February, SSE Renewables announced 
early scoping work to explore options for 
developing a fourth phase of Dogger Bank 
wind farm. There are two options being 
explored for the energy generated: a  
grid connection and/or green hydrogen 
production. The project’s progression 
remains subject to agreement with the 
Crown Estate.

In March 2023, SSE Renewables’ 
Gordonbush Hydrogen project was 
shortlisted for funding from the UK 
Government’s Net Zero Hydrogen Fund.

SSE Renewables recently announced 
additional plans to adapt its existing 
conventional 152.5MW Sloy hydro power 
plant with pumping capabilities. Subject  
to final design, the converted Sloy scheme 
could be capable of delivering up to 
25GWh of long-duration electricity storage 
capacity, providing vital reserve capacity for 
an increasingly renewables-led energy 
system as well as critical energy security 
back-up.

In March, SSE Renewables confirmed a 
£100m commitment to further develop 
plans for the Coire Glas pumped hydro 
storage project (c. 1,300MW). The project, 
which received planning consent from the 
Scottish Government in 2020, would more 
than double Britain’s total current electricity 
storage capacity. Subject to a favourable 
revenue stabilisation mechanism for long 
duration electricity storage, Coire Glas 
could reach a final investment decision by 
the end of 2024 with the objective of being 
fully constructed and commissioned by 
2031 and therefore play a significant role  
in the UK Government’s 2035 target for a 
decarbonised power system. 

SSE plc  Annual Report 2023

101

Financial StatementsStrategic ReportDirectors’ ReportOperating Review continued
SSE Renewables continued

SSE Renewables remains committed to 
delivering Arklow Bank Wind Park 2 (up to 
800MW), despite being unsuccessful in 
Ireland’s first Offshore Renewable Energy 
Support Scheme (ORESS) auction in May 
2023. It will proceed to submit a planning 
application later this year to Ireland’s 
planning board, An Bord Pleanála, whilst it 
explores future ORESS contracts and other 
routes to market.

The Irish Government has confirmed a new 
target of 20GW of offshore wind by 2040 
with at least four ORESS auctions starting 
next year with ‘plan-led’ designated zones 
identified by the Government based on  
grid capacity.

Building on its existing Irish offshore 
development portfolio (Setanta (1,000MW) 
and Celtic Sea Array (1,200MW), SSE 
Renewables has submitted an application 
for an investigative foreshore licence for 
surveys of the seabed for a possible new 
1GW offshore wind farm in the Atlantic 
Ocean off the coast of Tarbert, Co. Kerry.

In January, SSE Renewables announced 
plans for its first solar and battery 
installation, co-located at its existing 
operational wind farm in Co. Wexford, 
Ireland. The planning application for the 
project, a 21MW solar photovoltaic (PV) 
array and a 10MW/2hr battery energy 
storage system, will be submitted in the 
coming months. 

Growth opportunities – 
International 
Europe
SSE Renewables is progressing its Southern 
Europe development portfolio with at least 
three projects (totalling c.100MW) aiming  
for a final investment decision this year. The 
first two projects (in France and Spain) are 
targeting construction commencing in 
Summer 2023, with at least one further 
project targeting a final investment decision 
later in the financial year.

SSE Renewables remains focused  
on offshore wind in Northern Europe, 
despite missing out on the Dutch  
and Polish tender processes. In the 
Netherlands, SSE Renewables is now 
focused on the upcoming Ijmuiden Ver 
zone tenders (2 x 2GW), with bids now 
expected in Q1 2024 following finalisation 
of the sites and tender process by the Dutch 
authorities later this year. SSE Renewables 
has partnered with APG, acting on behalf of 
Dutch pension fund ABP (the Netherlands’ 
largest), for the tenders. And in Poland, the 
business continues to look at offshore 
partnering opportunities.

102

SSE plc  Annual Report 2023

Asia-Pacific
SSE Renewables continues to pursue 
offshore wind development activities in 
Japan through its joint venture SSE Pacifico 
(80% stake). It is assessing participation in 
the upcoming Round 2 auction whilst also 
targeting future auctions. The Japanese 
Government has announced its intention  
to open up its Exclusive Economic Zone  
to potential future floating wind projects.
SSE Renewables has formed a 50/50 joint 
venture with Equis to bid for a feasibility 
licence for an offshore wind farm project  
in Australia’s first Federal Government 

declared offshore wind zone of Gippsland, 
in waters off the coast of Victoria. The 
outcome of the bid is expected by the  
end of 2023.

North America
SSE Renewables views the United States  
as an attractive growth market, particularly 
following the introduction of the Inflation 
Reduction Act. It continues to actively 
explore US market entry opportunities 
across onshore and offshore wind and 
adjacent technologies.

SSE Renewables project pipeline

Project

In construction
Dogger Bank A
Dogger Bank B
Dogger Bank C
Seagreen 1
Viking
Yellow River
Lenalea
Littleton
Salisbury
Ferrybridge

Total in construction – GW

Late-stage development
Seagreen 1A
Bhlaraidh Extension
Strathy South
Other GB & Ireland
Spanish projects
France, Italy and Greece projects
Coire Glas
ByPass
Monk Fryston
Tawnaghmore 

Total late-stage development – GW

Early-stage development
Berwick Bank
Ossian (ScotWind lease)
Arklow Bank 2
North Falls
Cloiche
Other GB & Ireland 
Spanish projects
France, Italy and Greece projects
Fiddler’s Ferry
Staythorpe

Total early-stage development – GW

Total secured pipeline – GW

Other future prospects
Dogger Bank D 
Setanta (Braymore Point)
Celtic Sea Array
Tarbert
Japanese projects
Other GB
Other Ireland
Spanish projects
France, Italy and Greece projects
Other GB Hydro
Other Solar
Other Battery

Total future prospects

Location

Technology

Capacity  

SSE Share  

(MW)

(MW)

GB
GB
GB
GB
GB
Ireland
Ireland
GB
GB
GB

Offshore wind
Offshore wind
Offshore wind
Offshore wind 
Onshore wind
Onshore wind
Onshore wind
Solar
Battery
Battery

Offshore wind
GB
Onshore wind
GB
GB
Onshore wind
GB & Ire Onshore wind
Onshore wind1
Spain
Onshore wind1
Various
Pumped storage
GB
Solar
GB
Battery
GB
Battery
GB

Offshore wind
GB
Offshore wind
GB
Offshore wind
Ireland
Offshore wind
GB
Onshore wind
GB
GB & Ire Onshore wind
Onshore wind1
Spain
Onshore wind1
Various
Battery
GB
Battery
GB

GB
Ireland
ROI
Ireland
Japan
GB
Ire
Spain
Various
GB
GB
GB

Offshore wind
Offshore wind
Offshore wind
Offshore wind
Offshore wind
Onshore wind
Onshore wind
Onshore wind1
Onshore wind1
Hydro
Solar
Battery

1,200
1,200
1,200
1,075
443
101
30
30
50
150

500
99
208
–
281
125
1,300
50
320
100

4,100
3,600
800
504
125
–
808
1,190
150
350

1,320
1,000
1,200
1,000
~6,000
–
–
~1,750
~700
75
~400
~900

480
480
480
527
443
101
15
30
50
150

2.8GW

245
99
208
137
291
125
1,300
50
320
100

2.9GW

4,100
1,440
800
252
125
311
808
1,190
150
350

9.5GW

15.1GW

660
1,000
1,200
1,000
~4,800
~550
~200
~1,750
~700
75
~400
~900

>13,000

Notes: All capacities are subject to change as projects refined. Table reflects ownership and development 
status as at May 2023. Late-stage is consented in GB and grid or land security elsewhere, early-stage has land 
rights in GB and some security over planning or land elsewhere. Future prospects are named sites where 
non-exclusive development activity is under way. Additional solar and battery storage projects reflects Solar 
and Battery team now forming part of SSE Renewables.
Note 1: Includes solar hybridisation.

SSE Thermal
SSE Thermal owns and operates conventional flexible thermal 
generation in GB and Ireland, and around 40% of GB’s 
conventional underground gas storage capacity. These assets 
provide much-needed system flexibility. SSE Thermal is actively 
developing options to progressively decarbonise its portfolio, 
most notably in carbon capture and storage and hydrogen 
technologies, with biofuel as a bridge into hydrogen.

Operational delivery 
In a year of record performance, SSE 
Thermal’s fleet delivered strong availability 
In the GB market, which increased in the 
second half. The impact of unplanned 
outages, most notably at Great Island, 
more than offset by strong operational 
availability across the portfolio. This 
enabled the fleet to use its inherent 
flexibility to sell output to the market  
and contract forward ahead of delivery, 
capturing value through forward spark 
spreads. The fleet has also been able to 
optimise in response to market conditions, 
particularly during periods of low wind. 
Robust asset management allowed the 
fleet to meet availability expectations  
and capture market value through a  
volatile period, despite outages at Medway, 
Marchwood and Great Island. Managing 
availability responsibly is and continues  
to be a key focus for SSE Thermal, both 
within year and when taking a view of 
future system needs. 

In March 2023, Keadby 2, Europe’s most 
efficient CCGT, entered commercial 
operation following a full commissioning 
phase which started in October 2021. 
Keadby 2 includes a first-of-a-kind turbine 
that displaces older, more carbon intensive 
plant on the system. Before entering 
commercial operation, Keadby 2 had been 
generating intermittently across the year, 
capturing early value. Keadby 2’s 15-year 
Capacity Market agreement is due to 
commence in October 2023 and all 
milestones to secure this agreement  
have been completed.

Who SSE Thermal serves 
Electricity suppliers, traders and 
other generators through the  
energy market; the national grid,  
and ultimately electricity customers.

How it supports SSE’s strategy
SSE Thermal is providing critical 
flexibility to offset renewables 
variability as the energy system 
transitions to net zero. The strategic 
importance of its Gas Storage assets 
has been highlighted by recent world 
events and the increasing focus on 
national energy self-sufficiency. 

How it is remunerated
The wholesale energy market, 
Capacity Market and ancillary services 
market provide the core revenue 
streams. The fleet also responds to 
forward market volatility and within 
day demand, providing flexible 
generation and storage.

 “The performance of our 
flexible generation and gas 
storage assets this past year 
underlines the value that SSE 
Thermal can create for the 
Group, the GB energy system 
and society more broadly.  
We will continue to optimise 
these assets while progressing 
with new, lower-carbon 
opportunities that will  
help smooth the transition  
to net zero.”

Catherine Raw
Managing Director,  
SSE Thermal

Following an agreement in June, SSE 
Thermal, alongside Equinor as 50/50 
partner, completed the acquisition of the 
Triton Power portfolio on 1 September in 
a £341m transaction, providing additional 
flexibility and decarbonisation options.  
The portfolio includes the 1.2GW Saltend 
power station in the Humber along with 
two smaller plants, Indian Queens power 
station, a 140MW OCGT in Cornwall, and 
Deeside power station in North Wales, a 
decommissioned CCGT which provides 
carbon-free inertia to the system. While  
the Triton portfolio delivered value on  
an unhedged basis immediately after 
acquisition, a hedging strategy has since 
been implemented to reduce ongoing 
merchant exposure.

In July, SSE Thermal completed the sale of 
the closed and decommissioned Fiddlers 
Ferry power station. 

In March, in line with requirements under 
the Industrial Emissions Directive, SSE 
Thermal announced the closure of Tarbert 
oil-fired power station in Ireland by the end 
of December 2023. Great Island CCGT and 
Rhode and Tawnaghmore peaking plant 
continue to play an important role in a tight 
system, where increased dispatchable 
capacity is required to meet system needs.

For financial performance commentary 
please refer to the Financial Review. 

Growth opportunities 
Developing decarbonised alternatives  
to the existing CCGT fleet will be vital to 
deliver SSE’s goal to cut carbon intensity by 
80% by 2030 and achieve its science-based 
carbon reduction targets, aligned with a 
1.5°C global warming scenario. 

In GB, SSE Thermal is developing projects 
that include carbon capture and storage 
(CCS) and hydrogen; technologies that  
will be critical to the transition to net zero, 
enabling enhanced renewables deployment 
by balancing the system. CCS and 
hydrogen remain at the heart of the UK 
Government’s plans. In the past year,  
the UK Government has committed to 

SSE plc  Annual Report 2023

103

Financial StatementsStrategic ReportDirectors’ ReportOperating Review continued
SSE Thermal continued

SSE Thermal key performance indicators

SSE Thermal
Thermal adjusted operating profit – £m
Thermal reported operating profit – £m
Thermal adjusted investment and capital expenditure, before 

acquisitions – £m

Generation capacity – MW
Gas- and oil-fired generation capacity (GB) – MW
Gas- and oil-fired generation capacity (ROI) – MW
Total thermal generation capacity – MW
Generation output – GWh
Gas- and oil-fired output (GB) – GWh
Gas- and oil-fired output (ROI) – GWh

Total thermal generation – GWh

March  
2023

March  
2022

1,031.9
1,089.5

300.4
624.2

153.2

123.4

5,538
1,292
6,830

3,975
1,292
5,267

16,781
1,532

11,303
2,962

18,313

14,265

Note 1:  Capacity is wholly owned and share of joint ventures, and reflects Transmission Entry Capacity; March 

2023 capacity reflects share of Triton Power portfolio with acquisition completed 1 September 2022.
Note 2:  Output is based on SSE 100% share of wholly owned sites and 100% share of Marchwood PPAs due  

to the contractual arrangement. In September 2021 SSE’s offtake agreement for 100% of output from 
its Seabank CCGT JV expired, with output following that date only recognised to the extent of its 50% 
equity share.

Note 3:  Output in GB in year to March 2023 excludes 1,184GWh of pre-commissioning output from Keadby 2 

CCGT which commissioned 15 March 2023.

SSE Thermal capacity contract awards
The following agreements have been awarded through competitive auctions:

Station

Medway (GB)
Keadby (GB)

Keadby 2 (GB)
Peterhead (GB)
Seabank (GB)
Marchwood (GB)
Saltend (GB)
Indian Queens (GB)

Slough Multifuel (GB)
Burghfield (GB)
Chickerell (GB)
Great Island (Ire) 

Rhode (Ire)

Tawnaghmore (Ire)
Tarbert (Ire)

Asset type

CCGT
CCGT

CCGT
CCGT
CCGT
CCGT
CCGT
OCGT
Energy from 
Waste
OCGT
OCGT
CCGT
Gas/oil 
peaker
Gas/oil 
peaker
Oil

Station 
capacity

735MW
755MW

893MW
1,180MW 
1,234MW
920MW
1,200MW
140MW

50MW
45MW
45MW
464MW

SSE share  
of contract

Capacity obligation

100%
100%

100%
100%
50%
100%
50%
50%

50%
100%
100%
100%

To September 2027
To September 2027
16 years commencing 
October 2022
To September 2027
To September 2027
To September 2027
To September 2027
To September 2027
15 years commencing 
October 2024
To September 2027
To September 2027
To September 2027

104MW

100%

To September 2027

104MW
620MW

100%
100%

Tarbert (Ire)

Biofuel

300MW

100%

Platin (Ire)

Biofuel

150MW

100%

To September 2027
To September 2023 
10 years commencing 
October 2026
10 years commencing 
October 2026

Capacity contracts are based on de-rating factors issued by the delivery body for each contract year, 
therefore will not directly match SSE’s published station capacity.
Capacities stated reflect Transmission Entry Capacity.
Marchwood (SSE equity share 50%) tolling arrangement means SSE receives 100% of economic benefit  
from capacity contract.
Keadby 1 has capacity obligation in 2023/24, 2025/26 and 2026/27 but none in 2024/25.
Medway has capacity obligation in 2023/24 and 2026/27 but none in 2024/25 and 2025/26.
Keadby 2 16 year obligation comprised of a T-1 and a 15 year contract.

deliver hydrogen transport and storage 
business models by 2025 to support its 
10GW hydrogen production ambition,  
it has indicated that it will consult on the 
potential for hydrogen-to-power market 
interventions later in 2023 and issued  
a call for evidence on future support  
for power-CCS projects. 

Aldbrough Hydrogen Pathfinder, SSE 
Thermal’s hydrogen value chain proof- 
of-concept project, was shortlisted to 
progress to a due diligence phase after 
submitting a bid for funding and Hydrogen 
Production Business Model support 
through the Net Zero Hydrogen Fund. 
Aldbrough Hydrogen Pathfinder seeks  
to unite hydrogen production, hydrogen 
storage and a 100% hydrogen-fired 
open-cycle gas turbine (OCGT) on one  
site by the middle of the 2020s. This project 
will enable and inform the scaling up of 
SSE’s, the wider Humber, and the UK’s 
hydrogen ambitions and help de-risk 
further hydrogen investment. With the  
role of small-scale peaking plant expected 
to increase, this integrated concept also 
delivers expertise and experience in 
low-carbon OCGTs.

SSE is continuing to develop options  
for hydrogen blending into Keadby 2,  
with pre-FEED activity under way. Option 
assessment and scoping activity for a 
further 100% hydrogen-fired CCGT at 
Keadby 3 also continues. Pre-FEED activity 
is also under way for Aldbrough Hydrogen 
Storage. The Triton Power portfolio adds  
to this hydrogen pipeline, with plans to 
blend up to 30% low-carbon hydrogen  
by 2027.

In December Keadby 3 Carbon Capture 
Power Station became the first power-CCS 
project to secure planning consent in the 
UK. Alongside the contract awarded in 
June for the completion of FEED (Front End 
Engineering Design), this demonstrates the 
project’s advanced development. In March 
the UK Government announced the first 
carbon capture projects to be supported  
by government-backed contracts – this 
included projects located in Teesside and 
the northwest of England. As a Humber-
based project, Keadby 3 has not progressed 
to the final stage of negotiations for a 
Dispatchable Power Agreement. The UK 
Government has instead identified the 
Humber as a region to be supported 
through subsequent phases of its cluster 
sequencing process by 2030 at the latest. 
There are opportunities for Keadby 3 to 
access CO2 storage in either the Endurance 
store (a Track-1 CO2 transport and storage 
system) or Viking (identified as a minded-to 
Track-2 CO2 transport and storage system 

by UK Government). Next steps on cluster 
sequencing are expected later in 2023,  
with work progressing to complete FEED 
for Keadby 3.

The UK Government also set out further 
detail for Track-2 clusters. Acorn was 
identified as a ‘minded-to’ Track-2 CO2 
transport and storage system, alongside 
Viking, for deployment by 2030. Acorn 
would provide CO2 storage for Peterhead 
Carbon Capture Power Station. Further 
expressions of interest for Track-2 clusters 
are being accepted by the UK Government 
ahead of next steps being communicated 
later in 2023. Peterhead Carbon Capture 
Power Station is continuing to develop with 
a planning application submitted in March 
2022 and announcement of the award of  
a FEED contract in July. It remains well-
placed to participate in future Dispatchable 
Power Agreement allocation processes.

SSE Thermal is seeking opportunities to 
expand its GB low-carbon pipeline. It 
continues to explore the decarbonisation 
of the Medway site through hydrogen  
or CCS. It has identified a potential new 
location for low-carbon power generation 
in northwest England, where CCS and 

hydrogen operations are being developed, 
well-located relative to the HyNet cluster.  
It is also investigating options to use 
alternative fuels, such as hydrogen 
derivatives. Construction activity for  
Slough Multifuel remains on track to 
complete in summer 2024.

In Ireland, SSE Thermal is advancing 
projects using sustainable biofuel as a 
lower carbon alternative to fossil-fuels  
and as a bridge to hydrogen. In March it 
provisionally secured 10-year Capacity 
Market agreements for two new low-
carbon power stations to commence  
in 2026/27 delivery year:
•  260MW of de-rated electricity 

generation at Tarbert (€129,000/MW)
•  140MW de-rated electricity generation 

at Platin (€177,000/MW)

The proposed low-carbon units at Tarbert 
in Co. Kerry and Platin in Co. Meath would 
help to protect security of supply and 
provide flexible backup to Ireland’s growing 
renewables sector. The proposed units will 
initially run on Hydrotreated Vegetable Oil 
(HVO), which is produced by processing 
waste oils to create a fossil-free alternative 
to diesel in accordance with EU sustainability 

standards. This would provide a bridge to a 
hydrogen future with both units having  
the potential to convert to the fuel. As with 
Aldbrough Hydrogen Pathfinder, these 
projects reflect the expected role peaking 
generation will play in the system.

Low-carbon projects in Ireland are 
progressing alongside activity to deliver  
a Temporary Emergency Generation  
unit, at the request of the Irish authorities. 
Following legislation and a site selection 
process undertaken by EirGrid, approved  
by the Commission for the Regulation  
of Utilities, the Tarbert site was selected  
to host 150MW of generation capacity,  
to run on distillate oil. It will operate as an 
emergency plant with a maximum running 
time of 500 hours per annum. Under the 
Irish Government’s emergency generation 
legislation, this capacity is to cease 
operations as soon as the temporary 
electricity emergency has been addressed, 
and no later than March 2028. The unit 
would only be utilised when it is clear that 
market-sourced generation will not be 
sufficient to meet system needs.

Gas Storage
Operational delivery 
SSE Gas Storage performed strongly, 
navigating highly volatile gas markets and 
optimising assets to help ensure security  
of gas supply for the UK whilst providing 
important liquidity to the market. These 
assets are a significant risk management 
tool to the portfolio by offering short-
notice flexibility to mitigate exposures from 
wind speeds and demand variability. 

SSE’s gas storage assets have made a 
substantial contribution this year, with high 
withdrawals and the technical ability to 
cycle quickly in response to market signals. 
Over the past three years the equivalent of 
two caverns of storage have been added 
through studies into maximum and 
minimum operating pressures. Aldbrough 
Caverns 6 and 9 were successfully returned 
to service ahead of winter 2022/23, adding 
further capacity. As a result of an increase 
in future market revenues forecast from 
these types of assets, the historical 
impairments have been almost fully 
reversed on Aldbrough at the year-end.

For financial performance commentary 
please refer to the Financial Review.

SSE Gas Storage key performance indicators

Gas Storage
Gas Storage adjusted operating profit – £m
Gas Storage reported operating profit – £m
Gas storage adjusted investment and capital expenditure – £m
Gas storage level at period end – mTh 
Gas storage level at period end – %

March  
2023

March  
2022

212.5
249.2
6.3
123
65

30.7
125.4
2.1
1
1

Growth opportunities
Underlining the clear societal value these 
assets provide, the UK Government’s 
Powering Up Britain Energy Security Plan, 
published in March, highlighted that gas 
storage had operated successfully over the 
winter helping to meet demand caused by 
cold weather spells. The UK Government 
will consider the future role that storage 
can play in the longer term, considering  
the need to align with future plans for 
hydrogen and CO2 storage. SSE Thermal 
remains committed to working with UK 
Government departments and Ofgem  
to ensure the critical role of UK storage is 
properly valued, and low-carbon options 
can be delivered in tandem.

Plans to develop an innovative hydrogen 
storage project at Aldbrough with Equinor, 
announced in July 2021, are progressing. 
Following the commitment in the British 
Energy Security Strategy to deliver 
hydrogen transport and storage business 
models by 2025, the UK Government 
published a consultation on this at the  
end of August 2022. This consultation 
notes the importance of storage as  
a ‘system balancer’ and envisages 
underground hydrogen storage becoming 
important to the functioning of the 
hydrogen economy by the end of the 
decade. As described in the previous 
section, Aldbrough Hydrogen Pathfinder 
has progressed to due diligence following  
a bid into the Net Zero Hydrogen Fund. 

104

SSE plc  Annual Report 2023

SSE plc  Annual Report 2023

105

Financial StatementsStrategic ReportDirectors’ ReportOperating Review continued

Energy Customer Solutions
SSE Business Energy in GB (non-domestic) and SSE Airtricity on the island of Ireland (domestic 
and non-domestic) provide a shopfront and route to market for SSE’s generation, renewable 
green products and low-carbon energy solutions. Across Great Britain and Ireland, focus 
remains on supporting customers to reduce energy consumption, modernise systems and 
expand the green energy product offering to ensure the business grows its position as a trusted 
partner to customers on their net zero journey.

Who Energy Customer 
Solutions serves 
700,000 domestic and business 
customers in the all-island Ireland 
energy supply market, and around 
469,000 non-domestic customers  
in GB.

How it supports SSE’s strategy
By responding to the climate 
emergency through the provision of 
green energy solutions to customers 
who are increasingly focused on the 
transition to net zero.

How it is remunerated
By competing for customers and 
direct billing to them and third party 
intermediaries (in GB) and through 
state-supported schemes (in ROI).

 “In response to the cost 
inflation associated with 
events of the past year, SSE’s 
customer businesses have 
focused on managing risk  
to ensure the best possible 
outcomes for our customers, 
supporting those that are 
vulnerable and working  
with governments on 
assistance packages.”

Nikki Flanders
Managing Director,  
Energy Customer Solutions

SSE Business Energy key performance indicators

SSE Business Energy
Business Energy adjusted and reported operating profit/(loss) – £m
Electricity sold – GWh
Gas sold – mtherms
Aged debt (60 days past due) – £m
Bad debt expense – £m
Energy customers’ accounts – m

March  
2023

March  
2022

17.9
12,108
200
167
108
0.43

(21.5)
12,645
218
79.3
18.5
0.47

SSE Airtricity key performance indicators

SSE Airtricity
Airtricity adjusted operating profit – £m
Airtricity reported operating profit – £m
Aged debt (60 days past due) – £m
Bad debt expense – £m
Airtricity electricity sold – GWh
Airtricity gas sold – mtherms
All Ireland energy market customers (Ire) – m

March  
2023

March  
2022

5.6
5.2
11.0
7.8
5,795
193
0.74

60.4
60.4
7.3
4.6
5,219
177
0.70

SSE Business Energy
Operational delivery
The primary focus of the last year has been 
on delivering support to customers during 
a period of extreme market instability. This 
included implementing government bill 
supports for customers at an administrative 
cost of £2m that the business absorbed. 

Targeted support for customers included 
reducing contract lengths to help manage 
customers’ exposure to high prices and 
providing flexible repayment options for 
customers struggling to pay. Under the UK 
Government’s Energy Bill Relief Scheme, 
Business Energy applied customer 
discounts to the value of £721m in the year 
and was compensated for the reduction  
in wholesale gas and electricity unit prices 
that was passed on. In other support 
measures, in October 2022, the business 
voluntarily implemented a disconnection 
ban for businesses (with a cumulative debt 
of £5m) where end-users were either 
vulnerable or living in a residential setting 
aligned to a non-domestic contract. 

Additional supports included the decision 
not to pass on £12m of non-commodity 
costs to some customers with flexible 
contract terms.

Business Energy has continued to make 
progress on our Smart programme in 
2022/23 installing more smart meters in 
proportion to our market share. Focus 
remains on driving Smart adoption 
throughout 2023/24, building on our 
engaging smart propositions and incentives 
to encourage adoption and helping 
customers to manage and reduce demand.

The business launched a suite of new and 
enhanced digital offerings in the period to 
improve the customer journey, including  
a small business sustainability content hub, 
providing help to customers with net zero 
guidance, and a free and easy-to-use 
carbon footprint calculator. 

For financial performance commentary 
please refer to the Financial Review. 

Growth opportunities 
Business Energy will continue to focus on 
giving customers increased choice and 
flexibility to improve their green credentials 
and help with their paths to net zero. This 
includes extending its product range and 
giving customers greater transparency  
over the provenance of their renewable 
energy supply. 

microgeneration solar offering via our joint 
venture with Activ8 Solar Energies. Through 
its pioneering Generation Green Home 
Upgrade home retrofit proposition the 
business completed 1,500 solar installs, 
supplied over 300 batteries and retrofitted 
650 homes this financial year, representing 
an estimated carbon saving of 8.9GWh. 

Partnerships with RTÉ’s DIYSOS, increasing 
our support for the women’s game through 
partnership with the Football Association of 
Ireland, and funding LGBT Ireland’s advice 
helpline are examples of Airtricity’s values 
and active community support.

For additional financial performance 
commentary please refer to the  
Financial Review.

Growth opportunities 
SSE Airtricity has laid solid foundations and 
led the way in proposition innovation to 
more easily enable customers to reduce 
carbon emissions and energy usage. It has 
ambitions plans for energy services across 
the island of Ireland, aiming to deliver 
45,000 home retrofits by 2030 and 
expanding the offering into the (ROI)  
B2B and NI markets. 

SSE Airtricity
Operational delivery
The primary focus of 2022/23 has been on 
supporting customers, resulting in the 
establishment of the most comprehensive 
customer support fund of any supplier in 
Ireland, up to the value of €25m. Measures 
included a €2.5m donation made to 
non-profit organisation EnergyCloud, 
which promotes system efficiency, utilising 
surplus renewable energy to supply 
fuel-poor households. Airtricity also 
applied discounts to the value of £116m  
in the year to customers under the UK 
Government’s Energy Bill Relief Scheme. 
Furthermore, as referenced in the Group 
Financial Review, SSE Airtricity honoured  
its commitment not to make a profit in the 
year in recognition of the cost-of-living 
crisis. Residual profits of €8.6m were 
distributed to domestic customers in full, 
with accounts credited after the year-end 
in April 2023. The cost of the rebate will be 
reflected in financial results for 2023/24.

The business continued to enhance service 
offerings as customer engagement levels 
tripled year-on-year at their peak. The 
introduction of enhanced digital service 
capabilities such as Live Chat resulted in a 
greater than 90% reduction in customer 
wait times below peak levels.

During the period SSE Airtricity continued 
to evolve product offerings to support 
demand reduction including the launch of 
a market-leading premium 

106

SSE plc  Annual Report 2023

SSE plc  Annual Report 2023

107

Financial StatementsStrategic ReportDirectors’ ReportOperating Review continued

SSE Distributed Energy
Distributed Energy brings low-carbon energy solutions to business-to-business markets – 
including major regional and partnership opportunities. With private wires, heat networks, 
behind-the-meter solar and battery, EV charging and competitive networks all part of the  
UK’s net zero plans it is well positioned for future growth. As mentioned on previous pages, 
grid-scale Solar and Battery will report under the SSE Renewables segment from 1 April 2023,  
but progress in 2022/23 is outlined below.

Who SSE Distributed Energy 
serves
For the public sector and commercial 
markets in GB and Ireland. It provides 
smart digital solutions for assets 
deployed and for businesses, 
buildings, and cities. 

How it supports SSE’s strategy
Distributed energy, solar and battery 
storage assets have an increasingly 
important role to play in the GB 
energy system as electrification 
accelerates and generation is 
increasingly led by intermittent  
wind output. They also provide 
valuable diversity and optionality  
to the SSE portfolio.

How it is remunerated
By competing for customers and 
direct billing to them and third party 
intermediaries (in GB) and through 
state-supported schemes (in ROI).

 “Enterprise continues to identify 
and grow new ventures that 
complement SSE’s core 
portfolio both to public sector 
and commercial markets. The 
success of Solar and Battery  
is proof of our key role for SSE 
Group in incubating new areas 
of growth that will help drive 
net zero.”

Neil Kirkby
Managing Director,  
SSE Enterprise 

SSE Distributed Energy key performance indicators

SSE Distributed Energy
SSE Distributed Energy adjusted operating (loss) – £m
SSE Distributed Energy reported operating (loss) – £m
SSE Heat Network customer accounts
Biomass, heat network and other capacity – MW1
Biomass, heat network and other output – GWh

March  
2023

March  
2022

(27.4)
33.5
11,431
26
96

(10.9)
(29.2)
11,291
33
104

1  Capacity in March 2023 reflects sale of 8MW Chippenham gas-fired power station and changes to 

capacity installed on heat networks.

Operational delivery
SSE’s Distributed Energy team has opened 
its first EV charging hub in Glasgow with 
plans to roll out a further 300 such hubs 
across the UK and Ireland. It has also 
launched its ‘Enhance’ technology platform 
which schedules, dispatches, and controls 
flexible assets to facilitate trading or Grid 
balancing actions.

SSE announced significant milestones in  
its solar and battery storage business in the 
reporting period which now has a 1.2GW 
solar and battery pipeline secured and a 
further 1.3GW of other prospective sites 
under development. These milestones 
include breaking ground in September  
at its first 50MW battery storage project  
at Salisbury with construction starting this 
summer at a 30MW solar farm at Littleton  
in Worcestershire. Construction of a  
new 150MW battery storage project at 
Ferrybridge in Yorkshire is also getting 
under way with the assets expected to  
be fully operational in late 2024.

For financial performance commentary 
please refer to the Financial Review.

Growth opportunities 
Distributed Energy has significant growth 
opportunities including supporting 
gigafactories and landmark redevelopment 
projects like Teesside. It is also developing 
heat network technologies including a  
new £25m low-carbon district heating and 
electricity scheme in Aire Valley, Leeds. 

Following its acquisition of the Imperial 
Park private wire network in Wales; 
Distributed Energy will continue to explore 
opportunities to help businesses cut 
carbon and costs as well as supporting  
the transition to net zero at a local level.

Transferring the Solar and Battery business 
to SSE Renewables allows it to scale up and 
develop opportunities both domestically 
and internationally, as well as take on 
co-location projects. Solar is a cost-
effective low-carbon technology and  
the UK Government has reaffirmed its 
commitment to its 70GW target by 2035; 
whilst battery storage is a key part of the 
net zero jigsaw with its ability to rapidly 
store and discharge energy when needed 
most by the grid.

Energy Portfolio Management (EPM)
Energy Portfolio Management (EPM) trades commodities for SSE’s market-based Business Units, 
securing value on behalf of SSE’s asset portfolios in wholesale energy markets and managing 
volatility through risk managed trading of energy-related commodities for SSE’s market-based 
Business Units. SSE trades the principal commodities to which its asset portfolios are exposed, 
as well as the spreads between two or more commodity prices (e.g. spark spreads): power 
(baseload and other products); gas; and carbon (emissions allowances). Each commodity  
has different risk and liquidity characteristics, which impacts the quantum of hedging possible  
(see also SSE’s hedging Position in the Financial Review).

EPM key performance indicators

EPM
EPM adjusted operating profit/(loss) – £m
EPM reported operating (loss)/profit – £m

Operational delivery
EPM navigated continued energy market 
volatility, with winter 2022/23 seeing a 
reduction in volatility. EPM ensures the SSE 
portfolio was hedged in accordance with 
the Group’s approach to hedging and then 
optimised through prompt periods. The 
value EPM secured for SSE’s asset portfolio 
continues to be reported against individual 
Business Units.

For financial performance commentary 
please refer to the Financial Review.

March  
2023

March  
2022

80.4
(2,626.0)

(16.8)
2,083.6

Growth opportunities 
Transformation of the EPM Business Unit 
continues with further recruitment and 
changes in systems and processes.  
Focus has been on core delivery in the 
exceptional market environment, alongside 
developments in market modelling, 
assurance, data governance and analytics, 
and wind balancing. 

European trading continues in small 
volumes with the intention to increase this 
through 23/24. 

Energy Economics, SSE’s long-term price 
forecasting and market analysis team, 
moved into EPM at the end of the financial 
year providing significant synergies and 
enhanced opportunities to share 
knowledge across the teams. 

Who EPM serves 
SSE’s individual Business Units and 
the SSE Group.

How it supports SSE’s strategy
The work EPM does is key to 
managing risk associated with the 
operations behind SSE’s Net Zero 
Acceleration Programme. It trades 
the principal commodities to which 
SSE’s asset portfolios are exposed,  
as well as the spreads between two  
or more commodity prices (e.g. spark 
spreads); power (baseload and other 
products); gas; and carbon (emissions 
allowances). Each commodity  
has different risk and liquidity 
characteristics, which impacts  
the quantum of hedging possible. 

How it is remunerated
It receives fees for providing energy 
trading services to the constituent 
parts of the SSE group.

 “The core strengths of the  
EPM team in prompt and  
curve trading have served us 
well in navigating the market 
turbulence of the past year.  
We have an eye to the future, 
reinforcing our existing 
expertise while rapidly growing 
our capabilities in advanced 
data analytics and international 
markets to support the Group’s 
growth ambitions.”

Gordon Bell
Managing Director,  
Energy Portfolio Management

108

SSE plc  Annual Report 2023

SSE plc  Annual Report 2023

109

Financial StatementsStrategic ReportDirectors’ ReportIn this section

Chair’s introduction 

Governance at a glance 

Board at a glance 

Board of Directors 

Group Executive Committee 

 Our corporate governance 

Considered decision-making 

Setting strategy 

Guiding strategic progress 

Governing SSE for long-term success 

Understanding shareholder views 

Empowering the employee voice 

Focusing on culture 

Defining Board responsibilities 

Assessing Board performance 

Nomination Committee Report 

Audit Committee Report 

Energy Markets Risk Committee Report 

 Safety, Sustainability, Health and  
Environment Advisory Committee Report 

Remuneration Committee Report 

– Remuneration Committee Chair’s statement 

– Remuneration at a glance 

– Annual report on remuneration 

– Directors’ Remuneration Policy – a summary 

Other statutory information 

Statement of Directors’ responsibilities in respect  
of the Annual Report and the Financial Statements 

112

114

115

116

121

122

124

125

126

130

132

134

137

139

140

142

150

160

162

166

166

168

170

185

188

191

Directors’  
Report

Good governance and a strong corporate culture are  
the foundations of SSE’s purpose, vision and strategy.  
The Board gives close consideration to the views of all 
stakeholders in its decision making and understands the 
importance of clear disclosure of this, and other material 
issues, in reporting how its work supports the long-term 
success of the Company.

110

SSE plc  Annual Report 2023

SSE plc  Annual Report 2023

111

Financial StatementsStrategic ReportDirectors’ ReportChair’s introduction

Leading 
for the 
long 
term.

The ultimate measure of effective and  
responsible corporate governance is how  
it stands up in periods of challenge. SSE  
was tested in 2022/23 by unprecedented  
volatility, and the Board supported decisions  
and actions that considered the issues of 
affordability, security, sustainability and fairness. 

Supported by the clarity of our purpose and 
a strong Net Zero Acceleration Programme 
(NZAP) the objectives of work in the year 
was clear; to provide sharp focus to the 
strategic agenda, engage constructively  
on a fair policy framework for its delivery, 
and ensure SSE is positioned to deliver  
for its stakeholders in the long term. This 
encompasses our responsibility, as a Board, 
to understand and represent stakeholder 
views and material issues arising from the 
current economic backdrop.

Leading the correct response
Through the strategic agenda, we have 
overseen and positively challenged the 
pace and progress of large capital projects, 
continuing to assess whether the NZAP 
pursues the right actions in the changing 
external context. Our strategy days in 
Summer 2022 supported in-depth analysis 
of how the environment has evolved since 
November 2021, and throughout the year 
the clear targets we set have been tracked 
through dialogue with senior leadership, 
strategic deep dives, and the introduction 
of an NZAP dashboard. This covers 
pipelines, project construction and options 
for further growth. The confidence we have 
in our growth strategy and the value it will 
create is reflected in the NZAP Plus plans 
announced in May 2023. More details are 
available on page 125 . 

Significant progress has been made in  
the year. We sold a minority stake in SSEN 
Transmission, and have a clear path for SSEN 
Distribution to make increased investment 
under the RIIO-ED2 price control. SSE 
Renewables progressed flagship projects 
and continues to pursue opportunities at 
home and internationally. SSE Thermal 
enhanced the CCS and hydrogen potential 
of its portfolio, supported by the partnership 
acquisition of Triton Power for which we 
updated our Net Zero Transition Plan. Energy 
Customer Solutions remains dynamic in its 
response to cost of living and customer 
support, and we are providing flexibility for 
the future through distributed energy, solar 
and battery technologies. More on Board 
strategy work is on pages 125 to 129 .

Managing sector impacts 
The risks presented through inflationary 
pressure, volatile commodity prices, 
increased competition and the totemic 
issue of climate change are subject to 
defined governance through standing 
Board and Committee work.

On capital investment, we have reviewed 
decision-making criteria at regular intervals 
to ensure opportunities are appraised in 
line with our view of acceptable returns,  
an input which is complemented by Audit 
Committee feedback on our funding and 
treasury policy. 

Our approach to hedging has provided a 
baseline to manage portfolio exposures, 
and we have reviewed the governance and 
risk metrics overseen by the Energy Markets 
Risk Committee (EMRC) to ensure controls 
remain appropriate in the current climate. 

Specific updates have allowed Board  
and Remuneration Committee input on 
employee cost of living support and SSE’s 
overall employee value proposition, to 
ensure actions are considered holistically 
and support those most deeply impacted. 

Climate change and a just transition to  
net zero sit at the core of SSE’s strategy,  
and focus continues to be provided to  
our science-based targets, supporting 
sustainability strategies and transparent 
reporting of our social, environmental and 
economic impacts. Accordingly, separate 
Sustainability and Net Zero Transition 
Reports accompany this Annual Report. 

Validating our actions 
Our analysis of the operating context is  
not conducted in isolation, and we value 
additional perspectives to foster unbiased 
discussion and challenge our view of the 
long term. Methods to gather insights have 
included stakeholder soundings of our 
strategy, guest speaker sessions, and 
internally facilitated deep dives. Given the 
speed of change on both a national and 
international level, a vast array of topics has 
been covered through external sessions, 
including the political and economic 
outlook, policy developments, and the 
geo-political context. 

On behalf of the Board, I confirm the 
continued value we place on conversations 
with shareholders, which take place through 
investor meetings and events, and questions 
across the year and around the AGM. We 
hosted two additional initiatives in 2022/23, 
an ESG seminar focused on our Net Zero 
Transition Report, and a two-day session in 
Inverness which provided the opportunity  
to meet management teams and visit key 
sites. Our engagement approach in 2023/24 
will continue to support understanding of 
shareholder opinion and we will respond to 
the feedback we receive. For the 2023 AGM 
we again offer inclusive participation through 
a hybrid meeting and we encourage virtual 
participation if you cannot attend in person. 

Our people and safety
Our people and their safety are paramount, 
and I reiterate how saddened we were by 
the death of Liam Macdonald, a contractor 
working on Shetland in June 2022. The 
Board and Safety, Sustainability, Health  
and Environment Advisory Committee 
(SSHEAC) apply sharp focus to our safety 
performance and continue to monitor the 

level of rigour and support provided. With  
a rise in contractor hours worked across 
large capital projects a central Contractor 
Safety Team is now also in place. 

We look forward to working with Barry,  
who brings depth of financial and energy 
expertise having been actively involved in 
SSE’s strategic growth.

This was the first year, since Covid-19, 
where the Board conducted a full schedule 
of site visits. Virtual large-scale engagement 
complements this approach, and I am 
extremely pleased it was a record year  
for employee participation across SSE  
with in-person and virtual events attended 
more than 40,000 times. Collectively  
we have been able to reach 32 locations 
across the UK and Ireland, with over 3,500 
employees participating in the post-AGM 
engagement sessions alone.

Dame Sue Bruce established the direct link 
between the Board and employee voice 
through the Non-Executive Director for 
Employee Engagement role, and I would 
like to extend my thanks to Sue for the 
thoughtful agenda she passes on to Lady 
Elish Angiolini to lead. We know colleagues 
value discussing topics of importance  
with senior leaders and we will support 
continued and open conversations. 

Engagement is supported by the Cultural 
Dashboard we review twice a year. This  
has again matured and through purposeful 
design it prompts thinking of the individual 
strands which contribute to, or have the 
potential to influence, our culture. More  
on employee listening and culture is on 
pages 134 to 138 .

Assessing performance 
In 2021/22 the external Board evaluation 
was conducted by Lintstock, following  
two consecutive internal processes in the 
preceding years. To provide a measured 
assessment of progress, we re-engaged 
Lintstock to complete follow-up reviews in 
2022/23 and 2023/24, for which the format 
will reflect that of our internal evaluation 
approach. I am pleased the 2022/23 report 
confirmed our effective operation, and that 
additional actions have been identified for 
our plan of Board work. More on the 
evaluation is on pages 140 to 141 .

Balanced leadership
In April 2023, we announced the retirement 
of Gregor Alexander and his stepping down 
from the Board on 1 December 2023, after 
what will be 21 years as Finance Director. 
Gregor has been with SSE since its inception, 
joining Scottish Hydro-Electric in 1990, and 
has been instrumental to the transformation 
of the Group. His financial leadership and 
counsel are evident in the strong position in 
which he leaves SSE. Following an external 
recruitment process, Barry O’Regan, current 
Finance Director, SSE Renewables, will 
succeed him as Chief Financial Officer.  

As reported previously, and in line with 
succession plans, Dame Sue Bruce stepped 
down from the Board on 31 March 2023 and 
Peter Lynas will not seek re-election at the 
2023 AGM. We extend our thanks for the 
commitment and experience they will have 
provided to the Board over the last nine 
years, and Melanie Smith, John Bason and 
Lady Elish Angiolini bring their own depth of 
expertise to the Board roles they assume 
following these non-Executive changes. 

Standing Nomination Committee work,  
in conjunction with 2021/22 evaluation 
findings, sees one new addition to the 
Board, with the appointment of Maarten 
Wetselaar as a non-Executive Director from 
1 September 2023. Maarten is a leader in 
the energy transition and I look forward to 
welcoming him when he joins.

Inclusion and diversity are priority areas for 
the Board and Nomination Committee, and 
we commit to reporting transparently on 
progress. After the above Board changes, 
membership will comprise 42% women; this 
is above our 40% ambition and we continue 
to work within the enduring policy aim of 
gender parity. In line with the FCA Listing 
Rule, we explain that the roles of Chair, 
Senior Independent Director, Chief Executive 
and Finance Director are all held by men. 

Within senior leadership, we are pleased 
with the improvement in gender diversity 
compared to 31 March 2022 but there  
is more work to do. The reset of our 
internal ambitions in 2022 sets a minimum 
standard, not an endpoint, and we continue 
work to understand the levers for change. 
We further welcome the Parker Review’s 
recommendation for voluntary ethnicity 
targets at the same level and will ascertain 
a challenging yet credible position to work 
towards for 2027. More on Nomination 
Committee work is on pages 142 to 149 .

I hope you find the Directors’ Report which 
follows a transparent and engaging 
account of work across 2022/23. 

Sir John Manzoni
Chair, SSE plc 
23 May 2023

112

SSE plc  Annual Report 2023

SSE plc  Annual Report 2023

113

Financial StatementsStrategic ReportDirectors’ ReportGovernance at a glance 

Board at a glance 

Key activities in 2022/23

Appraised strategic 
delivery

Overseeing NZAP progress and 
approving the NZAP Plus 
pages 125 to 129 

Assessed external 
context 

Conducting deep dives and external 
speaker sessions 
page 125 

Fully-funded capital investment plan 

Knowledge sessions held 

£18bn

19

Enhanced shareholder 
dialogue 

Amplified employee 
listening

Continuing the Chair’s shareholder 
roadshow as a standing event 
pages 132 to 133 

Participating in diverse events across 
all areas of the Group 
pages 134 to 136 

Number of Chair roadshow meetings 

Board-employee engagements 

20

58

Progressed Board 
succession 

Considered Board 
diversity 

Approving the appointment of a new 
non-Executive Director and Finance 
Director succession plans
pages 144 to 145 

Confirming the difference across 
Board membership including gender, 
ethnicity and broader characteristics 
pages 148 to 149 

Number of Board members 

Female Board membership

12

42%

114

SSE plc  Annual Report 2023

UK Corporate  
Governance Code 

The Board continues to assess  
its approach to corporate 
governance through application  
of the FRC’s UK Corporate 
Governance Code (the Code)  
and reports against the 2018  
Code for the year ended 31 March 
2023. A copy can be found at  
www.frc.org.uk .

For 2022/23, the Board confirms 
compliance against the Code 
Provisions. The assessment of 
independence which supported the 
time limited extension to the tenure 
of Dame Sue Bruce and Peter Lynas 
is set out on page 146 .

The spirit of the Code continues to 
be upheld through the work of the 
Board and its Committees, which 
includes application of the Code’s 
Principles. The below confirms 
where disclosures to evidence  
this approach are located, and 
cross-references are used where 
supporting information is located 
outside of the Directors’ Report.

Board Leadership and  
Company Purpose 

See pages 122 to 138 

Division of Responsibilities

See page 139 

Composition, Succession and 
Evaluation 

See pages 140 to 149 

Audit, Risk and Internal Control

See pages 150 to 165 

Remuneration 

See pages 166 to 187 

Planned Director changes

•  Dame Sue Bruce stepped down from the Board on 31 March 2023.
•  Peter Lynas steps down from the Board on 20 July 2023.
•  Maarten Wetselaar joins the Board on 1 September 2023.
•  Gregor Alexander to be succeeded by Barry O’Regan on 1 December 2023.

Board composition

Board gender balance (as at 23 May 2023)

Rolling three-year female representation

42% 

female membership

43%

female

Women

Men

42%

5

58%

7

30%

37%

43%

31 March 
2021

31 March 
2022

31 March 
2023

Board independence (as at 23 May 2023)

Board ethnicity (as at 23 May 2023)

73% 

independent

Independent non-
Executive Directors 

Executive Directors  

3

Non-Executive 
Chair   

1

1

ethnic minority background

8

White British 

11

Māori  1

9
y
e
a
r
s

Average non-Executive Director tenure 
(as at 23 May 2023)

3.98 

years

Sir John 
Manzoni

Lady Elish
Angiolini

John Bason

Debbie Crosbie

Tony Cocker

Peter Lynas

Helen Mahy

Melanie Smith

Dame Angela 
Strank

0

1

2

3

4

5

6

7

8

9

Skills to support long-term success 
The below skills matrix sets out the expertise the non-Executive Directors have assimilated outside of their SSE Board role. The collective 
position is enhanced by the innate differences in approach and thinking styles, which results from the diverse background and experience 
of each individual as set out in the biographies on pages 116 to 120 .

Sir
John 
Manzoni

Lady
Elish 
Angiolini

John 
Bason

Tony 
Cocker

Debbie 
Crosbie

Tenure (years)

Experience of operating context and disruptive trends

Energy sector, energy regulation and energy 
markets 
Government and public policy
Clean energy, renewables and climate science
Global business, scale and complexity 
Digital and data 
Stakeholders and social impact

Skills to challenge and set a sustainable strategy

Large capital project management 
Financing, economics and capital markets
Partnering, M&A and transactions
Risk management
Consumer insight

Responsible leadership of a large organisation

Corporate governance and leadership
Culture, safe working and people development 

2

















1

<1





























5

















1













Peter 
Lynas

8













Helen 
Mahy

Melanie 
Smith

Dame
Angela 
Strank

7














4














3

















SSE plc  Annual Report 2023

115

Financial StatementsStrategic ReportDirectors’ Report 
Board of Directors

C H A I R

E X E C U T I V E 

D I R E C T O R S

I N D E P E N D E N T 

N O N - E X E C U T I V E 

D I R E C T O R S

Sir John Manzoni 
Chair

NC

ER

SHE

RC

Alistair Phillips-Davies
Chief Executive

Gregor Alexander 
Finance Director

ER

Martin Pibworth 
Chief Commercial Officer

Tony Cocker 
Senior Independent Director 

ER

SHE

NC

AC

ER

SHE

Date of appointment

Date of appointment

Date of appointment

Date of appointment

Date of appointment

Non-Executive Director since September 2020  
and Chair from April 2021

Executive Director since January 2002 and  
Chief Executive from July 2013

Executive Director and Finance Director  
since October 2002

Executive Director since September 2017  
and Chief Commercial Officer from  
November 2020

Non-Executive Director since May 2018 and Senior 
Independent Director from October 2020

Board tenure

2 years

Board tenure

21 years

Board tenure

20 years

Board tenure

5 years

Board tenure

5 years

Career and experience 

Career and experience 

Career and experience 

Career and experience 

Career and experience 

Sir John has wide-ranging experience across the 
energy industry and both the private and public 
sectors. Through an executive career at BP which 
spanned 24 years, he held a number of senior roles 
including Chief Executive, Refining and Marketing 
in which he was a Main Board member. This was 
followed by President and Chief Executive Officer 
at Talisman Energy Inc before a move to UK 
Government where he spent six years as Chief 
Executive of the Civil Service and Permanent 
Secretary of the Cabinet Office. He has previously 
been a non-Executive Director of SABMiller plc 
and Chair of Leyshon Energy Limited. 

Alistair joined SSE in 1997 and possesses extensive 
knowledge of the Group, having held senior roles 
across multiple business areas. Prior to joining the 
Board in 2002 as Energy Supply Director, Alistair 
was Director of Corporate Finance and Business 
Development. In 2010, he became Generation  
and Supply Director, before his appointment  
as Deputy Chief Executive in 2012 then Chief 
Executive in 2013. Alistair is a fellow of the  
Energy Institute and a Chartered Accountant. 

Gregor joined SSE in 1990 and has been Finance 
Director on the Board since 2002. Prior to being 
appointed as Finance Director, Gregor worked  
in senior finance roles and led specialist teams 
including as Group Treasurer and Tax Manager. 
Gregor has also served on the Boards of SSE’s 
networks businesses over a number of years.  
He is a Chartered Accountant and member  
of the Accounting for Sustainability (A4S) CFO 
Leadership Network. 

Skills and attributes which support strategy  
and long-term success

Skills and attributes which support strategy  
and long-term success

Skills and attributes which support strategy  
and long-term success

•  Dynamic and engaging leadership style  
with diverse perspectives gained across 
multiple sectors, organisational settings  
and geographies, which complement the 
responsibilities of SSE Chair.

•  Experienced in the governance of large-scale 
business operations, leading reform and the 
management of complex projects to drive 
commercial performance, skills key to the 
fulfilment of SSE’s vision and purpose. 

•  Strong communicator with insight into  
the management and development of 
stakeholder relations aligned with SSE’s 
approach to decision-making. 

•  Working knowledge of energy regulation, 

government and policy considerations which 
underpin the success of a net zero transition.

•  Brings sharp focus to people leadership, 
succession planning and inclusion and 
diversity. 

•  Sound executive leadership and a considered 
approach to strategy; evidenced through 
continued delivery under the Group operating 
model, Net Zero Acceleration Programme, 
and sustainability plans and targets.

•  Broad knowledge of the energy markets in 

Great Britain and Ireland and across Europe, 
which informs views of long-term direction. 

•  Proactive approach to understanding 

stakeholder priorities including the impact of 
the energy crisis, SSE’s societal response to 
net zero and the pace, focus and investment 
needed to deliver a clean, secure and 
cost-effective energy system. 

•  Detailed understanding of policy, politics,  
and regulation, enabling constructive 
engagement in these areas.

•  Focused on people development to support 
culture and capabilities for future growth.

•  Extensive knowledge of financial markets as 

leader of SSE’s financial strategy, including  
the approach to sustainable financing and 
long-term performance, and the link between 
financial, social and environmental factors. 
•  Experienced in directing significant corporate 
projects and major transactions, including 
SSE’s approach to investments, divestments 
and partnering to create strategic value. 
•  Oversees governance in the management  
of Group risks including those emerging  
from the net zero transition and external 
economic environment, with a focus on 
capital investment, resilient supply chains, 
project delivery and digital. 

•  Deep appreciation of shareholder views  
and ESG matters including the continued 
commitment to lead on fair tax, fair work  
and sharing economic value through of SSE’s 
2030 Goals. 

Martin joined SSE in 1998 as an energy trader, 
which was followed by a series of commercial 
roles before becoming Managing Director, Energy 
Portfolio Management, and a member of SSE’s 
then Management Board in 2012. In 2014, he was 
appointed Managing Director, Wholesale, and a 
member of SSE’s Group Executive Committee.  
In 2017 he joined the Board as Group Energy 
Director, a role which was expanded to Group 
Energy and Commercial Director in November 
2020. This role was re-titled Chief Commercial 
Officer in March 2022. 

Tony possesses detailed knowledge of the energy 
sector through a 20-year career with E.ON SE and 
Powergen plc, encompassing responsibility for: 
thermal generation; onshore and offshore wind 
(including Scroby Sands and the London Array, 
the world’s largest offshore wind farm when 
built); commodity trading and risk management; 
and retail. Latterly, he held the position of CEO 
and Chair of E.ON UK plc, comprising the main 
businesses in the UK. Previous roles include CEO 
of E.ON Energy Trading SE and Managing Director 
of E.ON UK Energy Wholesale. He has served on 
the Board of Energy UK.

Skills and attributes which support strategy  
and long-term success

Skills and attributes which support strategy  
and long-term success

•  Literacy in complex energy and commodity 
markets which is supported by technical  
and operational expertise.

•  Extensive CEO and MD experience across 

renewables, generation, commodity portfolio 
management and energy trading. 

•  End-to-end experience in large capital 

•  Wide-ranging technical and operational 

projects including joint venture engagement 
and governance, which has been applied  
in the development of SSE’s diverse and 
flexible generation portfolio, including the 
renewables pipeline. 

•  Commercially minded in seeking future 

growth within SSE’s market-based businesses, 
including internationally, having supported 
key capital recycling opportunities and 
transactions to refine SSE’s business mix and 
secure optimum value from investments. 
•  Understanding of change management and 
sources of commercial risk, having overseen 
SSE’s monitoring and response to recent 
market volatility. 

insight, surrounding energy infrastructure  
and assets including the delivery of major 
thermal and renewable energy projects. 

•  UK and European energy industry and 

non-Executive experience enhances Board 
understanding of trends relevant to SSE’s 
operations and of utilities regulation. 
•  A balanced sounding board with additive 
experience in strategic consultancy and 
energy and utility stakeholder management. 

Key external appointments and changes 

Key external appointments and changes 

Key external appointments and changes 

Key external appointments and changes 

Key external appointments and changes 

•  Non-Executive Director of Diageo. 
•  Chair of the Atomic Weapons Establishment. 
•  Non-Executive Director of KBR Inc. 

•  Chair of SSEN Distribution Board from  

•  Chair of SSEN Transmission Board from 

•  Member of Energy UK Board. 

April 2023. 

•  Non-Executive Director of Anglian Water 
Services Limited from November 2022.
•  Member of the Scottish Energy Advisory 

Board.

•  Member of the UK Government’s Hydrogen 

Advisory Council.

October 2022.

•  Director of Neos Networks Limited from 

February 2023.

•  Stepped down as non-Executive Director  
of Stagecoach Group plc in June 2022.

•  Chair of Infinis Energy Management Limited.
•  Visiting Professor at Aston University.
•  Chair of Future Biogas Limited from March 

2023. 

Key

Committee membership 

NC    Nomination Committee

AC    Audit Committee

ER    Energy Markets Risk Committee

SHE    Safety, Sustainability, Health and Environment 

Advisory Committee

RC    Remuneration Committee

   Committee Chair

External appointments

The Board considered and approved 
the additional external commitments 
taken on by Alistair Phillips-Davies, 
Tony Cocker, Debbie Crosbie, Helen 
Mahy and Melanie Smith during the 
period, confirming there would be  
no impact on the time commitment 
required for their respective roles. 
For the non-Executive Directors,  
an additional assessment of 
independence and objectivity  
was conducted, with no concerns 
identified. The resultant position  
is believed to be consistent with 
recognised proxy advisor guidelines.

116

SSE plc  Annual Report 2023

SSE plc  Annual Report 2023

117

Financial StatementsStrategic ReportDirectors’ Report 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Board of Directors continued

I N D E P E N D E N T 

N O N - E X E C U T I V E 

D I R E C T O R S

Lady Elish Angiolini QC
Non-Executive Director

John Bason 
Non-Executive Director 

Debbie Crosbie
Non-Executive Director

Peter Lynas 
Non-Executive Director

Helen Mahy CBE 
Non-Executive Director

NC

SHE

RC

NC

AC

RC

NC

AC

ER

NC

AC

RC

NC

AC

SHE

Melanie Smith CBE 
Non-Executive Director

NC

ER

RC  

Date of appointment

Date of appointment

Date of appointment

Date of appointment

Date of appointment

Date of appointment

Non-Executive Director since September 2021

Non-Executive Director since June 2022

Non-Executive Director since September 2021

Non-Executive Director since July 2014

Non-Executive Director since March 2016

Non-Executive Director since January 2019

Board tenure

1 year

Board tenure

Under 1 year

Board tenure

1 year

Board tenure

8 years

Board tenure

7 years

Board tenure

4 years

Career and experience 

Career and experience 

Career and experience 

Career and experience 

Career and experience 

Career and experience 

Lady Elish has an extensive public sector legal 
career, serving as Lord Advocate of Scotland  
from 2006 to 2011, across two government 
administrations, having previously been Solicitor 
General for Scotland. Since then, she has carried 
out independent public inquiries and reviews  
for the UK and Scottish Governments and held 
positions in academia, serving as Principal of  
St Hugh’s College Oxford since 2012. She is also  
a Pro-Vice Chancellor of Oxford University and 
previous Chancellor of the University of West of 
Scotland. She is Chair of the Board of Trustees for 
the legal action non-governmental group Reprieve 
and a patron of several charities.

John brings significant listed company and recent 
and relevant financial and international experience 
through a career in global businesses. He joined 
Associated British Foods plc (ABF) as Finance 
Director in 1999 and held this position until 
stepping down in April 2023. Whilst in post, ABF’s 
diverse food, ingredients and retail businesses 
employed 128,000 people and operated in 53 
countries across Europe, Asia, the Americas, 
Australia and Africa. Prior to this, John was  
Finance Director of the international distribution 
and services group Bunzl plc. Non-Executive 
experience includes Senior Independent Director 
and Audit Committee Chair of Compass Group 
PLC. John is a Chartered Accountant. 

Debbie brings over 25 years of experience in 
financial services leadership and became the  
first female Chief Executive of Nationwide  
Building Society in 2022. Prior to this appointment, 
Debbie served as CEO of TSB from May 2019 and 
was previously an Executive Director and Chief 
Operating Officer of Clydesdale Bank, where  
she led preparations for its successful demerger 
from National Australia Bank and subsequent IPO. 
Debbie is a fellow of the Chartered Institute of 
Bankers and a member of the Glasgow Economic 
Leadership Board and the Strathclyde University 
Business School Advisory Board.

Peter has over 30 years of business experience 
spanning all areas of finance. He retired from the 
role of Group Finance Director of BAE Systems plc 
in March 2020, prior to which he was Director, 
Financial Control, Reporting and Treasury. His early 
career involved roles within GEC Marconi, where 
he was appointed Finance Director of Marconi 
Electronic Systems before the completion  
of the British Aerospace/Marconi merger.  
He is a Fellow of the Chartered Association  
of Certified Accountants. 

Helen is a former Company Secretary and General 
Counsel of National Grid plc. She is an experienced 
non-Executive Director with previous directorships 
at Bonheur ASA, Aga Rangemaster plc, Stagecoach 
Group plc, SVG Capital plc, Chair of MedicX Fund 
Limited, Deputy Chair and Senior Independent 
Director of Primary Health Properties PLC, and 
Chair of The Renewables Infrastructure Group 
Limited. She was a member of the Parker Review 
steering committee into the Ethnic Diversity of  
UK Boards. She is a patron of the Social Mobility 
Business Partnership, Co-chair of the Employers 
Social Mobility Alliance and Chair of the Global 
Media Campaign to end FGM. 

Melanie has over 20 years of strategy and 
transformation experience. Most recently, she  
built the Ocado Retail joint venture – the world’s 
largest pureplay online grocer and the UK’s fastest 
growing grocer, of which she was CEO until 2022. 
Prior to this she was Strategy Director for Marks & 
Spencer with responsibility for group strategy, M&S 
Bank and M&S Services. Earlier roles include Global 
Strategy and Marketing Director at Bupa, Chief 
Operating Officer at TalkTalk and a Partner in 
McKinsey’s Consumer practice.

Skills and attributes which support strategy and 
long-term success

Skills and attributes which support strategy and 
long-term success

Skills and attributes which support strategy and 
long-term success

Skills and attributes which support strategy and 
long-term success

Skills and attributes which support strategy and 
long-term success

Skills and attributes which support strategy and 
long-term success

•  Possesses significant understanding of 
Scottish governance and has practical 
experience of working with the UK and 
Scottish governments through involvement  
in independent public reviews, whilst 
maintaining no political affiliation.
•  Strong ambassadorial skills developed 

through an international stakeholder network 
in judicial, governmental, diplomatic, and 
academic fields. 

•  Exercises a strong sense of social purpose 
and adds depth of perspective to Board 
considerations, including as an advocate  
for employee views in the Boardroom; 
reinforcing SSE’s approach to wider  
value creation. 

•  Extensive leadership experience and 

•  Extensive experience of the implementation 

international perspective, gained from global 
companies and complex operations, which 
will be invaluable to SSE’s growth and entry 
into new markets.

•  A proven track record in developing financial 
and commercial strategy, including M&A, 
corporate transactions and large capital 
projects, which complements SSE’s Net  
Zero Acceleration Programme Plus, and 
supports appointment to the role of Audit 
Committee Chair from 21 July 2023.

•  Understanding of the listed company context 
with practical experience of investor relations 
and ESG strategy, placing upmost importance 
on the role of sustainability.

of strategy, including execution of far-
reaching transformation projects within  
large consumer-facing organisation,  
and the critical role of digital and data. 

•  Understanding of capital allocation, 

optimisation, and investment appraisal 
frameworks central to SSE’s growth plans. 

•  Responsible for efficient and effective 

operations in high profile organisations  
in a heavily regulated sector, requiring a 
compliance-driven approach and proficiency 
in IT and cyber security, risk management and 
internal controls. 

•  Business leader with expert understanding  
of the wider organisational responsibilities  
to employees and society. 

•  Brings recent and relevant financial 
experience to the Board and strong  
direction to the Audit Committee, as Chair  
of which, he drives focus on the risk and 
control environment including Group 
resilience, cyber security and the ethics  
and compliance culture. 
International business perspective and  
an applied understanding of long-term 
project management and delivery, including 
investment appraisal, contracting and supply 
chain experience. 

• 

•  Up-to-date investor relations experience 
through his executive career at BAE and 
pensions insight having been Chair of the 
trustee Board of a major UK scheme.

•  Long-standing energy and regulatory 

expertise, including understanding of the 
legal, compliance, governance and risk 
frameworks in which SSE’s businesses operate 
and a decade of experience overseeing 
renewables infrastructure investment. 
Insight into a broad range of investor and 
stakeholder perspectives and trends from 
cross-sectoral, international and external 
Board interests that enable wider discussion 
and debate. 

• 

•  Advocate of a strong safety and employee 
wellbeing culture, extensive knowledge of 
sustainability, and applies a wide focus to 
social equity including social mobility and 
inclusion and diversity. 

•  Highly qualified to appraise strategy 
development and execution, having  
advised and led growth, brand and business 
transformation in the consumer and retail 
sectors worldwide. 

•  Deep commercial and digital experience 

across multiple goods and services categories, 
including insurance, telco and energy that 
furthers Board understanding of the customer.

•  Has a people centric style and wide-ranging 
experience in a global context including a 
strong cultural appreciation. 

•  An entrepreneurial organisational leader, 
actively engaging with stakeholder views  
to create high performing organisations.

Key external appointments and changes 

Key external appointments and changes 

Key external appointments and changes 

Key external appointments and changes 

Key external appointments and changes 

Key external appointments and changes 

•  Pro-Vice Chancellor of the University  

•  Non-Executive Director of Bloomsbury 

•  Chief Executive of Nationwide Building 

•  Senior Independent Director of First Group plc. 

•  Non-Executive Director of Gowling WLG  

of Oxford.

Publishing Plc.

Society. 

•  Principal of St Hugh’s College Oxford.
•  Chair of the Sarah Everard Inquiry.
•  Chair of Board of Trustees of Reprieve.
•  Stepped down as Chair of the Discipline 

•  Chair of the charity FareShare.
•  Primark Strategic Advisory Board Chair from 

•  Member of the Glasgow Economic 

Leadership Board.

April 2023.

•  Member of the Business School Advisory 

•  Stepped down as Finance Director of 

Board of Strathclyde University.

Board of ICAS in March 2023.

Associated British Foods plc in April 2023. 

•  Member of the FCA Practitioner Panel  

from June 2022. 

•  Director of UK Finance from May 2023.

(UK) LLP.

•  Non-Executive Director of NextEnergy Solar 

Fund from April 2023.

•  Advisory Board member of Manaia.
•  Trustee of Sadler’s Wells.
•  Founder of Mokaraka Trust. 
•  Trustee of Somerset House from  

•  Stepped down as Chair of The Renewables 

December 2022.

Infrastructure Group Limited in October 2022. 

•  Stepped down as CEO of Ocado Retail 

•  Stepped down as Commissioner for The 

Limited in August 2022.

Equality and Human Rights Commission in 
March 2023. 

118

SSE plc  Annual Report 2023

SSE plc  Annual Report 2023

119

Financial StatementsStrategic ReportDirectors’ Report 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Board of Directors continued

I N D E P E N D E N T 

N O N - E X E C U T I V E 

D I R E C T O R S

C O M P A N Y 

S E C R E T A R Y

Dame Angela Strank DBE 
Non-Executive Director

Sally Fairbairn
Company Secretary and Director of Investor 
Relations

NC

SHE

RC

Date of appointment

Date of appointment

Non-Executive Director since May 2020

Company Secretary and Director of Investor 
Relations since December 2014

Board tenure

3 years

Career and experience 

Career and experience 

Sally joined SSE in 1997 as a chartered accountant 
working in the Corporate Finance team. Through 
this role, which included responsibility for 
long-term financial modelling of the SSE Group, 
she developed knowledge of the SSE’s diverse 
operations and the UK energy industry. In 2007, 
Sally became Director of Investor Relations and 
Analysis allowing her to develop extensive 
experience of the shareholder and financial analyst 
community, and through associated engagement, 
has detailed understanding of investor views.  
Sally was appointed to the joint role of Company 
Secretary and Director of Investor Relations in 
December 2014.

Dame Angela brings depth of executive experience 
from a long-standing international career in the 
energy sector, which included 38 years’ service at 
BP. Prior to retirement in December 2020, she was 
a member of BP’s Executive Management team as 
BP Group Chief Scientist and Head of Downstream 
Technology. This followed international business 
and technical leadership positions spanning R&D, 
engineering, digital, product development and 
innovation, business development, finance and 
renewable energy. Angela is a Fellow of the Royal 
Society, the Royal Academy of Engineers, and the 
UK Energy Institute. She was awarded a DBE for 
long-standing services to the energy industry and 
pioneering STEM careers, especially for women.

Skills and attributes which support strategy and 
long-term success

•  Expert understanding of the current and 

future role of technology and science within 
the broader energy and manufacturing 
industries, including the impact of disruptive 
trends and resultant transformation. 

•  Knowledge of leading and collaborating on  
a large scale and with international outlook, 
having worked extensively in culturally diverse 
environments including the Middle East, 
Europe, the Far East, Africa and America.

•  Corporate social responsibility and 

sustainability experience through active 
involvement in climate science research,  
the energy transition, reputation and safety 
management, pioneering women in STEM 
careers, and as a champion of inclusion  
and diversity; having chaired the Corporate 
Sustainability Committee, and Safety,  
Ethics and Sustainability Committee in  
two FTSE 100 companies.

Key external appointments and changes 

•  Non-Executive Director of Rolls Royce plc. 
•  Non-Executive Director of Mondi plc. 

Group Executive Committee

Alistair Phillips-Davies
Chief Executive

Gregor Alexander 
Finance Director 

Martin Pibworth
Chief Commercial Officer

Chris Burchell 
MD, SSEN Distribution

Rob McDonald 
MD, SSEN Transmission

Chris has been MD, SSEN Distribution 
since November 2020, following an 
extensive career in transport where 
he held several MD and Group level 
operational and commercial 
leadership positions, including with 
Arriva, The Go-Ahead Group and 
Railtrack. Chris also brings wider 
sector experience having been a 
non-Executive Director with OFWAT 
and as Chair of the Rail Delivery 
Group trade body. 

Rob has been MD, SSEN Transmission 
since January 2019, having joined 
SSE in 1997 and holding a number  
of senior roles within the Group 
Regulation function. Prior to his 
current position, he was MD, 
Corporate and Business Services 
covering Legal, Regulation, 
Compliance, Safety and Large  
Capital Projects Services across SSE. 

Sam Peacock 
MD, Corporate Affairs, Regulation 
and Strategy

Sam joined the Group Executive 
Committee in April 2020 and leads 
SSE’s teams overseeing corporate 
strategy, government and regulatory 
affairs, communications, brand, and 
local project communications. Prior 
to joining SSE in 2011, he directed 
government affairs at Ofgem and 
worked at leading communications 
agency Edelman, as well as in 
Parliament and in Government.

Catherine Raw 
MD, SSE Thermal

Catherine has been MD, SSE Thermal 
since April 2022, and brings extensive 
operational and commercial 
experience from her previous roles in 
the international mining firm Barrick 
Gold where she was both Chief 
Operating Officer for North America 
and Chief Financial Officer. Prior  
to this, Catherine was a Managing 
Director and Fund Manager at 
BlackRock, one of the world’s largest 
fund management companies.

John Stewart
Director of HR

Liz Tanner 
General Counsel

Stephen Wheeler 
MD, SSE Renewables

John has been Director of HR since 
joining SSE in July 2009. Prior to this 
he worked in a broad range of senior 
management roles in the energy and 
water sectors and has experience of 
working in both the UK and in the US. 
He oversees all areas in relation to 
SSE’s people including talent and 
capability, training and development, 
employee engagement, and 
inclusion and diversity. 

Liz is a barrister and has been Group 
General Counsel since March 2019, 
having joined SSE in 2002 as part of 
the acquisition of Neos Networks. 
Since joining SSE, Liz has held a 
variety of legal and commercial  
roles within a number of different  
SSE Group companies and currently 
oversees the corporate functions of 
Legal, Compliance, Data Protection 
and Large Capital Project Services.

Stephen has been MD, SSE 
Renewables since January 2022 
having previously held the roles  
of MD, SSE Thermal and MD, SSE 
Ireland. Prior to SSE, he was part  
of the management team that grew 
the Airtricity renewable energy 
platform before SSE acquired it in 
2008. Before joining Airtricity, he 
spent over 10 years working with  
ABB and Siemens internationally. 

Sally Fairbairn
Company Secretary and Director  
of Investor Relations, Committee 
Secretary

Biographical details of the Executive 
Directors and Company Secretary 
and Director of Investor Relations. 

More on pages 116 to 120 

120

SSE plc  Annual Report 2023

SSE plc  Annual Report 2023

121

Financial StatementsStrategic ReportDirectors’ Report 
 
 
 
 
Our corporate governance

SSE’s Governance Framework

SSE plc Board

Nomination 
Committee

Audit Committee

Energy Markets  
Risk Committee
(EMRC)

Safety,  
Sustainability,  
Health and 
Environment  
Advisory Committee 
(SSHEAC)

Remuneration 
Committee

See pages 142 to 149 

See pages 150 to 159 

See pages 160 to 161 

See pages 162 to 165 

See pages 166 to 187 

Board Committees

75%

SSEN Transmission Board

SSEN Distribution Board

Group Executive Committee

SSEN
Transmission

SSEN
Distribution

SSE 
Renewables

SSE  
Thermal 

Group Safety, 
Health and 
Environment

Group Risk

Group Large 
Capital 
Projects

Energy 
Customer 
Solutions 

SSE  
Enterprise

Energy 
Portfolio 
Management

Group 
Disclosure

Group 
Investment

Group  
Energy  
Markets 
Exposure Risk

Business Unit Executive Committees

Group Committees

 Dedicated Boards oversee SSE’s economically regulated networks businesses in compliance with applicable regulatory licence conditions. 
SSE Energy Customer Solutions comprises SSE Airtricity and SSE Business Energy. 
SSE Enterprise comprises the business activities within SSE Distributed Energy.

B
o
a
r
d
o
v
e
r
s
i
g
h
t

M
a
n
a
g
e
m
e
n
t
a
c
c
o
u
n
t
a
b

i
l
i
t
y

Our corporate governance 
Corporate governance in SSE can be 
explained as the minimum expectations  
set by the Board surrounding standards, 
responsible conduct and controls.  
SSE’s Board-led Governance Framework 
supports this approach by mapping  
where accountability resides in line with 
delegated authorities, and as such, is a key 
part of SSE’s System of Internal Control.

The Board
The primary role of the Board is to lead SSE 
in a way that ensures its long-term success, 
whilst generating value for shareholders 
and wider stakeholders. This is a broad-
ranging duty and is directed by the 
cornerstones of SSE’s purpose and vision. 
These guiding statements are considered 
on an ongoing basis by the Board, and their 
positioning continues to underpin a strategy 
focused on clean energy infrastructure and 
energy security in the transition to net zero. 

The Board agrees and monitors SSE’s 
strategy through a continuing programme 
of work. In 2021/22, this saw approval  
and announcement of SSE’s Net Zero 
Acceleration Programme (NZAP), which 

122

SSE plc  Annual Report 2023

was further updated in May 2023 as 
explained on page 83 . Overseeing 
execution of the NZAP has been a key 
Board focus in 2022/23 and complemented 
by strategic review work to confirm its 
continued applicability as the optimum 
pathway for all stakeholders. Details of  
how SSE’s businesses and associated 
business model provide the best possible 
balance to deliver this long-term value is 
set out on pages 2 to 11 . 

The Group Executive Committee 
and Business Units
Once set by the Board, the implementation 
of strategy is the responsibility of the Group 
Executive Committee and management 
across SSE’s Business Units. Oversight  
of performance is achieved through 
structured operational and financial 
reporting from the Executive Directors  
at each Board meeting, in addition to 
presentations from each Business Unit 
across the year. These presentations 
comprise strategic updates and approvals 
in line with SSE’s Governance Framework. 
Operational and financial performance for 
2022/23 is covered across the Strategic 
Report on pages 1 to 109 .

Supporting Committees
Areas of importance to the Board and  
SSE’s operations influence the features  
of the Governance Framework, this is 
illustrated in part by the Committees which 
support the Board and the Group Executive 
Committee. The Board Committees are 
delegated a specific area of focus by  
the Board, while the Group Executive 
Committee establishes and oversees the 
Committees needed at Group and Business 
Unit level to achieve strategic delivery. 
Clarity surrounding the responsibilities  
of each Committee is ensured through 
approved Terms of Reference. 

Monitoring of delegated matters is 
supported by formal reporting channels. 
For Board Committees, this is a personal 
account from the non-Executive Director 
who chairs the Committee following each 
Committee meeting. On executive matters, 
the Chief Executive, Finance Director and 
Chief Commercial Officer are responsible 
for providing full updates at each Board 
meeting. These mechanisms are in addition 
to sub-Committee minutes, written reports 
and agreed KPIs to monitor financial and 
non-financial performance.

Board reserved matters 
To safeguard the areas material to the 
delivery of SSE’s purpose, vision and 
strategy, the Board retains a schedule  
of matters reserved for its decision. This 
ensures the necessary framework and 
resources are in place for the Group to 
meet its stated objectives and covers the 
below areas. Examples of how the Board 
has considered these matters are set out  
on pages 125 to 131 .

Strategy and performance
•  Approval and review of commercial 
strategy, business development and 
long-term strategic options.

•  Oversight of performance in line with 
approved strategy and objectives.
•  Review and approval of priorities 

surrounding SSE’s principal sustainability 
impacts, including climate change.
•  Major transactions and any material 
extension or closure of operations. 

Financial management 
•  Approval of annual operating and  

capital expenditure budgets.

•  Approval of dividend policy and key 

financial communications. 

•  Changes in SSE’s capital structure. 

Risk and control
•  Ensuring sound systems of internal 
control and risk management.

•  Oversight of emerging and principal 

risks. 

People and culture
•  Approach to people, succession,  

and inclusion and diversity.

•  Agreement and monitoring of a healthy 
corporate culture including SSE’s values 
and framework of cultural controls. 

Governance
•  Changes to Board and Board 

Committee structure, size and 
composition. 

•  Approval of shareholder 

communications. 

•  Confirmation of stakeholder approach.
•  Approval of Board-level corporate 

governance matters.

Regulation
•  Approval of the electricity distribution 
and transmission price control reviews 
proposed by Ofgem.

Board Charter
The Schedule of Reserved Matters is one of 
a collection of documents which make up 
SSE’s Board Charter. The contents of the 
Board Charter govern Board operations 
and pertinent Group-wide matters and  
is subject to annual Board review and 
approval. The Board Charter contains:

•  SSE plc’s Articles of Association.*
•  Board’s Schedule of Reserved Matters.*
•  SSE’s guide to good business ethics.*
•  SSE’s Guide to Governance.
•  Board Committee Terms of Reference.*
•  Non-Audit Services Policy.*
•  Procedure for Taking Independent 

Advice.

•  Non-Executive Directors’ Shareholding 

Policy.

•  Board Inclusion and Diversity Policy.*
•  Responsibilities of key Board roles.*

* Documents available in full on sse.com .

Board operations
The Board, led by the Chair, seeks to 
nurture a culture in which informed and 
transparent decision-making takes place. 
This is supported by clearly defined Board 
roles and constructive dialogue within  
and outside of meetings. The division  
of responsibilities across the Board is 
explained on page 139 .

As one of the key responsibilities of the 
non-Executive Directors is to challenge and 
provide counsel, it is deemed appropriate 
that relationships can be built across SSE. 
The Board therefore has unfettered access 
to senior leadership, their teams and 

specialist functions, with individuals from 
different levels across the organisation 
invited to present at Board meetings and 
deep dive sessions. For details of employee 
engagement and knowledge development in 
2022/23 see pages 134 to 136 and 147 .

Meeting agendas are developed by the Chair, 
Chief Executive and Company Secretary. 
These are structured around a pre-agreed 
annual plan of Board business and the status 
of projects, strategic workstreams and the 
overarching operating context. Adequate 
time is allocated to support effective and 
constructive discussion, and guidance is 
available to authors and presenters of Board 
materials. An electronic meeting portal 
allows efficient navigation of papers, 
information and requests. 

Before or after every Board meeting, the 
non-Executive Directors meet without the 
Executive Directors present. This allows any 
issues surrounding meeting business to be 
raised separately from full Board discussion. 

Board meetings in 2022/23 
In the period to 31 March 2023, there  
were six scheduled meetings of the  
Board with update calls in alternate  
months to maintain coverage of key 
business developments, emerging issues 
and opportunities. Arrangements remain in 
place should a Board decision or approval 
be required outside of these times. Where 
an individual is unable to attend a meeting, 
feedback is sought in advance by the 
relevant Board or Committee Chair and 
Secretary, and a debrief offered thereafter.

Board

Nomination 
Committee1 

Audit 
Committee

EMRC SSHEAC2 

Remuneration 
Committee3

Number of meetings held 

Sir John Manzoni

Alistair Phillips-Davies 

Gregor Alexander 

Martin Pibworth 

Tony Cocker 

Lady Elish Angiolini 

John Bason4 

Dame Sue Bruce

Debbie Crosbie 

Peter Lynas 

Helen Mahy

Melanie Smith 

Dame Angela Strank 

6

6/6

6/6

6/6

6/6

6/6

6/6

5/5

6/6

6/6

6/6

6/6

6/6

6/6

8

8/8

–

–

–

8/8

7/8

5/5

7/8

8/8

7/8

8/8

8/8

7/8

4

–

–

–

–

4/4

–

3/3

–

4/4

4/4

4/4

–

–

4

4/4

–

4/4

4/4

4/4

–

–

–

4/4

–

–

4/4

–

5

3/5

–

–

5/5

5/5

5/5

–

–

–

–

5/5

–

5/5

4

4/4

–

–

–

–

4/4

–

4/4

–

4/4

–

3/4

4/4

1  Nomination Committee. Dame Sue Bruce and Dame Angela Strank were unable to attend an additional short-notice meeting due to prior engagements. Lady Elish 

Angiolini was unable to attend one meeting due to illness. Peter Lynas was unable to attend one meeting due to a prior commitment which was notified upon the 
meeting date being set. 

2  SSHEAC. Sir John Manzoni was unable to attend one meeting due to travel disruption, with the other an additional short-notice meeting which conflicted with a 

prior commitment. 

3  Remuneration Committee. Melanie Smith was unable to attend an additional short-notice meeting due to a prior commitment. 
4  John Bason joined the Board, Nomination and Audit Committee on 1 June 2022.

SSE plc  Annual Report 2023

123

Financial StatementsStrategic ReportDirectors’ Report 
 
Considered decision-making

Setting strategy

Decision-making context

Stakeholder views 

Employees

Shareholders  
and debt providers

Energy  
customers

Government  
and regulators

NGOs, communities 
and civil society

Suppliers, 
contractors and 
partners

Our purpose
To provide energy needed today, 
while building a better world of 
energy for tomorrow.

Our vision
To be a leading energy company  
in a net zero world.

Our strategy
To create value for shareholders  
and society in a sustainable way  
by developing, building, operating 
and investing in the electricity 
infrastructure and businesses 
needed in the transition to  
net zero.

Our culture 
See pages 137 to 138 .

Decision-making context 
The Board has a duty to lead by example 
and set the correct tone to ensure fair and 
responsible decision-making across SSE. 
SSE’s Governance Framework represents 
the backdrop to this, through which the 
Board confirms ambitions, parameters and 
expectations to drive long-term success. 
These expectations are further embodied 
across SSE’s purpose, vision, strategy, and 
culture, and the belief that stakeholder 
views should be considered within 
long-term plans and day-to-day operations. 

Engaging with stakeholders
The approach to stakeholder engagement 
is directed by a Board-agreed framework. 
This confirms SSE’s key stakeholder groups; 
the purpose of meaningful stakeholder 
relations; and how stakeholder views should 
be considered at Business Unit and Group 
level. These principles are explained in the 
Section 172 Statement on pages 26 to 27 .

Given the societal impact and scale of SSE’s 
business operations, breadth and depth  
of stakeholder engagement is required, to 
ensure decisions demonstrate an appropriate 
degree of stakeholder awareness. A mature 
executive and business-led stakeholder 

network supports this work, with Board 
oversight and understanding of views 
achieved through both direct Board 
engagement and reporting of below-Board 
activity. This allows the timely recognition of 
emerging stakeholder considerations, with 
the Board’s own engagement guiding the 
expectation that senior leadership and SSE’s 
Business Units take demonstrable account  
of stakeholder opinion in their decisions and 
longer-term objectives. 

Addressing stakeholder 
priorities
The response to stakeholder views across 
business plans is depicted across the 
Annual Report, with the pages that follow 
providing insight surrounding the direct 
interaction of stakeholder views with Board 
discussions and decisions in 2022/23. 

It is recognised SSE’s purpose, and the 
issues of energy security and affordability, 
the climate emergency, and the societal 
impact of net zero are of wide stakeholder 
interest. A number of engagement priorities 
based on these topics have therefore  
been identified for 2023/24 and are set  
out opposite. 

Stakeholder engagement 
priorities 
The following priorities have 
been identified by the Board  
for constructive focus and 
assessment across engagement 
work in 2023/24:

•  Progressing and evolving 
the Net Zero Acceleration 
Programme Plus to support 
stakeholder value creation.
•  Continued leadership and 
advocacy surrounding a  
just transition to net zero.
•  Playing a part in addressing 

the energy related 
consequences of the ongoing 
war in Ukraine, with long term 
energy affordability and 
energy security being key 
outputs of Group strategic 
and Business Unit plans.

Read more on SSE’s stakeholders 
and how the priorities above 
been identified through 
supporting engagement  
on pages 26 to 33 .

The Net Zero Acceleration Programme 
(NZAP), published in November 2021, set 
out SSE’s fully-funded capex plan to 2026.  
In the period since then, the NZAP has been 
the platform for investment in low-carbon 
assets and electricity infrastructure. A key 
Board focus across the year was ensuring 
the NZAP remained the correct pathway for 
SSE and that its execution was progressing 
at the correct pace. The growth ambitions 
and science-based climate targets for 
achievement by 2031 underpinning it 
provided a clear framework for decision-
making and assessment of progress. 

Reviewing external context 
The Board’s appraisal and oversight of  
SSE’s situation is supported by an agreed 
strategic agenda embedded across  
its annual plan of work. This includes 
dedicated strategy days, Business Unit-led 
strategic updates at agreed intervals across 
the year, and Board-level approvals linked 
to strategic projects. An NZAP dashboard 
setting out a holistic view of Group-wide 
progress was developed at the request  
of the Board and is reviewed three times  
a year.

Supplementing the above are strategic 
deep dives which examine specific areas  
of growth or material factors on which 
future priorities depend. To bolster the 
Board’s approach to challenge and 
understanding of stakeholder views, 
objective opinions are sought through 
soundings on strategy and by inviting 
external speakers to present views on the 
external operating environment and future 
trends. Details of deep dives and external 
engagements which took place in 2022/23 
are set out opposite.

Following consideration of SSE’s 
opportunities and recent business 
performance, as well as the external 
environment and the acceleration of the 
global green transition, in May 2023, the 
Board approved SSE’s NZAP Plus. This rolls 
forward the original NZAP by 12 months to 
2027 and upgrades the targets, ambitions 
and investment mix to reflect the enhanced 
opportunities SSE has. The Board is clear 
that the NZAP Plus is still a fully-funded 
plan, now including expected capital and 
investment of £18bn over the five year 
period to 2027. For full details of NZAP  
Plus see page 83 .

Strategic deep dives 
9 sessions held covering:
•  Pumped storage and digitalisation 
•  Transmission investment drivers
•  Distribution networks and  

net zero

•  The role of carbon capture  

and storage

•  The future for hydrogen
• 
International energy markets
•  Commodity risk metrics and 

management
•  Digital innovation
•  Sustainability and climate 

reporting

Engaging external opinion 
10 external speakers engaged 
providing diverse perspectives on:
•  UK political and economic 

outlook 

•  Domestic policy environment
•  Global politics and economics  

of the energy transition 

•  Time value of new technologies 

Board strategy days  
2022/23

Purpose

To review changes in the external environment since approval of the NZAP and understand the potential impact on 
long-term direction. Through this assessment, confirm both the risks and opportunities facing SSE and identify key  
topics which should be considered to continue to maximise shareholder and stakeholder value.

Attendees 
across 
sessions

•  The Board 
•  Group Strategy Team 
•  Group Executive Committee
•  Business Unit Leadership Teams 
•  Corporate Finance Team

Reviewing 
the external 
context 

Board debate was set against the backdrop of unprecedented market volatility driven by macro-economic and geo-
political factors, which have played a role in the energy and affordability crises across 2022/23. Within this context, the 
Board considered the short-, medium- and long-term actions required to transition to net zero by 2050 and the following 
influencing external factors material to NZAP execution: 
•  Policy and regulatory frameworks to deliver energy security and market reform for a fair and just transition to net zero.
•  Economic and inflationary pressures on project delivery, supply chains and wider stakeholder experience. 
•  The competitive environment, market share and diversification across geographies. 
•  The growth landscape and risk-adjusted returns of the existing pipeline, new projects and technologies.
•  The role of SSE’s key stakeholder relationships in NZAP delivery. 

Confirming 
strategic 
options

The continued shareholder and societal value of the NZAP and its alignment with SSE’s purpose was tested through 
assessment of the following areas: 
•  The optimum business mix to support net zero and deliver long-term value in an evolving energy sector. 
•  Progress against NZAP targets across each Business Unit and the pathways supporting growth and identification  

of further opportunities. 

•  Financial strategy incorporating the balance of capital allocation and the ways to fund accelerated growth. 
• 
•  The role of SSE’s people, the embedded organisational culture, skills and capabilities. 

Investor priorities and views surrounding strategy and NZAP ambitions.

Outcomes 
and next 
steps

The following represents the outcomes and next steps which were agreed to shape upcoming Board work:
•  Confirmation that SSE’s business mix remains optimal for it to focus on NZAP execution.
•  Approval of the strategic priorities for each Business Unit and agreement on the optimal growth areas within them.
•  Setting an ongoing programme of strategic questions and topics for consideration throughout 2022/23.

124

SSE plc  Annual Report 2023

SSE plc  Annual Report 2023

125

Financial StatementsStrategic ReportDirectors’ ReportGuiding strategic progress

SSE’s 2030 Goals

The following key developments have been the subject and result of the Board’s 
oversight of strategic progress, and form the basis of principal decisions taken  
in the year. Discussion and debate have been underpinned by the NZAP, Board 
strategy work, and SSE’s 2030 Goals, with end outcomes influenced by the 
needs of SSE’s key stakeholder groups.

Key strategic developments 

Growing renewables and system flexibility

Exploring low-carbon technologies

1.  Yellow River wind farm Final Investment Decision.
2.  Southern Europe renewables platform  

acquisition completes.

 3.  Coire Glas exploratory work confirmed.
4.  Ferrybridge battery approval. 
5.  International opportunities and bid parameters.

6.  Triton Power portfolio acquisition with Equinor.
7.  Net Zero Transition Plan updates approved. 
8.  Aldbrough hydrogen pathfinder progresses  
to due diligence in net zero hydrogen fund.
9.  Platin and Tarbet power stations in Ireland 

provisionally secure capacity agreements to  
support development. 

Accelerating transmission network capacity

Increasing investment in local networks

10. SSEN Transmission responds to Ofgem consultation 

13. SSEN Distribution responds to Ofgem RIIO-ED2 

on transmission investments required for 2030 
government targets.

11. SSEN Transmission minority stake sale completes.
12. Ofgem approves transmission investments required 

draft determinations.

14. SSEN Distribution responds to Ofgem RIIO-ED2 

final determinations.

15. SSEN Distribution accepts of Ofgem’s RIIO-ED2 

for 2030 government targets.

final determinations.

Focusing on a fair net zero transition

Advocating for all stakeholders

16. ‘Just transition: measuring progress’ published.

17. ‘Ambition to Action: A Delivery Plan for Cleaner, 

Homegrown Energy’ published.

2022

2023

JUNE

JULY

AUG

SEPT

OCT

NOV

DEC

JAN

FEB

MAR

APR

MAY

1

2

6

10

7

12

11

14

3, 4

8

15

9

16

17

13

5

NZAP Plus 

Balanced capital investment  
in fully-funded plan 

  Renewables 40%

  Thermal/other 10%

  Transmission 30%

  Distribution 20%

126

SSE plc  Annual Report 2023

By 2027

Renewables net 
capacity

>9GW

Networks net gross 
RAV CAGR

£12-14bn

By 2032

Science-based 
targets aligned  
to 1.5°C 

Adjusted EPS CAGR

Net debt/EBITDA 

13-16%

3.5-4.0x

Cut carbon  
intensity by 80%

Increase renewable  
energy output fivefold

Enable low-carbon  
generation and demand

Champion a fair and  
just energy transition

Growing renewables  
and system flexibility

Exploring low-carbon  
technologies

What did the Board review: 1,2,3,4,5
The Board has appraised growth opportunities in  
Great Britain, Ireland and internationally to support  
SSE Renewables’ development pipeline. The strategic 
drivers remain the deployment of end-to-end large 
capital project expertise to address global net zero 
ambitions and enhance portfolio diversity. At home, as 
generation is increasingly led by intermittent wind output, 
the Board confirmed its view of the important role of 
pumped hydro storage and installed battery capacity to 
provide system flexibility and integrate renewable energy.

Section 172 and stakeholder factors
•  Delivering long-term energy affordability. 

Developing and building indigenous renewable energy 
and storage is part of the solution to long-term security 
of supply and affordability.

•  Futureproofing market design. Project decisions and 
bid parameters have been based on an assessment of 
risk-return profiles within current policy frameworks.  
A key focus has been constructive engagement with 
policy makers to ensure the energy system promotes 
investment in net zero-linked projects, whilst delivering 
societal benefit and a fair return for investors. 
•  Safeguarding supply chains. A Board review 

considered procurement and commercial activity  
and engagement, to support supply chain capacity  
and capability for new and future projects. In addition 
to the impact of inflation, commodity exposure, 
material scarcity, and the potential sustainability  
risks of new technologies.

Next steps and future opportunities
•  Exporting expertise. Continuing to apply financial 

discipline to international expansion, building diversity, 
and leveraging SSE’s approach to partnering across 
complementary geographies which align with SSE’s 
culture and values.

•  Promoting system flexibility. Advancing the case  

for policy and market design frameworks that support 
investment in long-duration pumped storage hydro 
technologies which is vital in the transition to net zero. 

What did the Board review: 6,7,8,9
The long-term decarbonisation of the UK power system 
relies on a pipeline of viable low-carbon projects which can 
support security of supply and grid stability. The Board has 
confirmed the platform industrial low-carbon clusters can 
provide for these projects, and underpinned by the principles 
of a just transition to net zero, reviewed opportunities to 
repurpose existing thermal generation sites and partner on 
the new technologies needed to drive change.

Section 172 and stakeholder factors
•  Security of supply for society. Low-carbon thermal 
generation is the flexible back-up to a predominantly 
renewables energy system. The Board commits to 
deploying SSE’s capabilities and partnership expertise to 
deliver these new technologies, which allow employees 
to transfer existing skills to transition to net zero.
•  Reducing environmental impact. SSE has a Board-
approved target to achieve net zero emissions across 
scope 1 and 2 emissions by 2040 at the latest (subject  
to security of supply requirements) and for remaining 
scope 3 emissions by 2050 at the latest. This long-term 
ambition is supported by a series of interim targets 
approved by the Science Based Targets Initiative (SBTi) 
and aligned to a 1.5°C pathway. 

•  Stakeholder expectations. The Triton acquisition 
considered ESG investor views and the long-term 
priority to decarbonise the sites on which the assets 
were situated. Transparency surrounding the impact  
of this decision was ensured through updates to SSE’s 
Net Zero Transition Plan, to confirm the approach  
to managing and reporting on the GHG emissions 
associated with investments.

Next steps and future opportunities
•  Advancing low-carbon thermal. New low-carbon 

flexible generation – using CCS and hydrogen 
technology – is key to reducing emissions and 
transitioning away from unabated gas generation.
•  Supporting local economies. Ongoing engagement 
with local communities will support the creation of 
low-carbon economies in areas impacted by the 
decline of carbon intensive activity. The objective is  
to deliver local benefit and strengthen stakeholder 
relations through open dialogue.

Link to 2030 Goals

Link to NZAP Plus
•  Capital expenditure  

and investment

•  Net installed  

renewable capacity

Link to 2030 Goals

Link to NZAP Plus
•  Capital expenditure  

and investment
•  Net low-carbon  
flexible capacity

SSE plc  Annual Report 2023

127

Financial StatementsStrategic ReportDirectors’ Report 
 
 
 
 
Guiding strategic progress continued

SSE’s 2030 Goals

Cut carbon  
intensity by 80%

Increase renewable  
energy output fivefold

Enable low-carbon  
generation and demand

Champion a fair and  
just energy transition

Accelerating transmission 
network capacity

Increasing investment  
in local networks

Focusing on a fair  
net zero transition

Advocating for 
all stakeholders

What did the Board review: 10,11,12
SSEN Transmission is delivering its Business Plan under 
the RIIO-T2 price control period. The Board has reviewed 
performance against the plan and provided financial 
approvals for projects within its certain view. To support 
growth, the sale of a 25% minority stake in the business 
was approved in November 2022. This was followed  
by confirmation from Ofgem, within its network-wide 
Accelerated Strategic Transmission Investment (ASTI) 
framework, of eight additional investments within SSEN 
Transmission’s network area required to meet the 
Government’s 2030 ambitions. 

Section 172 and stakeholder factors
•  Unlocking value. The stake sale was assessed against 

SSE’s strategic partnership criteria and Ontario 
Teachers’ were deemed to be a strong fit for a minority 
shareholder in SSEN Transmission. The sale parameters 
were confirmed to have no detrimental impact on 
stakeholders, and the proceeds directly supported the 
NZAP and now the NZAP Plus, through net zero-
enabling investment in SSEN Transmission and a 
rebalancing of capex across SSE’s Business Units.

•  Framework for growth. The priorities raised through 
SSEN Transmission’s response to the proposed ASTI 
framework, aligned with the Board’s view of certainty 
over the need for transmission network capacity for 
2030 and informed engagement with stakeholders to 
enable success, including the supply chain. 

•  Powered by people. Updates were considered on 
workforce planning, focusing on critical talent and 
targeted programmes for diversity, pipelines, and 
training and development which supporting the  
pace of required expansion. 

Next steps and future opportunities
•  A network for net zero. Delivery of a price control 

business plan that protects customers’ interests and 
supports the building of national critical infrastructure 
remains a priority.

•  Supply chain management. Ongoing engagement 

with supply chain partners to ensure resource  
capacity and material availability meets SSEN 
Transmission’s needs as it reinforces the network  
in the North of Scotland. 

Link to 2030 Goals

Link to NZAP Plus
•  Capital expenditure  

and investment
•  Net networks RAV
•  Net debt/EBITDA 
consistent with 
investment grade  
rating

128

SSE plc  Annual Report 2023

What did the Board review: 13,14,15
SSEN Distribution’s Business Plan for the RIIO-ED2 price 
control period sets out the investment and targeted 
improvements for the 3.9m customers in communities 
across its network. Following initial submission of  
the Business Plan in November 2022, the Board has 
remained updated on the structured dialogue between 
SSEN Distribution and Ofgem across the determination 
process, which led to final settlement in March 2023. 

Section 172 and stakeholder factors
•  Supported by stakeholders. SSEN’s RIIO-ED2  
Business Plan, co-created through extensive 
stakeholder engagement, remains committed to 
significant improvements in reliability, resilience,  
and services for customers, alongside acceleration  
of investment in local network infrastructure and 
flexible systems to power communities to net zero.

•  Fair outcomes. Considering each stage of SSEN 

Distribution’s finalisation of the Business Plan with 
Ofgem, the Board reviewed the commitment to 
increase investment and commensurate benefits  
for end-users. 

•  Supporting communities. Following the storms  
of winter 2021/22, the Board assessed findings  
from comprehensive reviews which considered  
the business’s response to the exceptional weather 
events and impact on customers. This informed  
the view of system reliability covered by RIIO-ED2 
proposals and saw endorsement of next steps to  
shape future approach. 

Next steps and future opportunities
•  Minority stake sale. While the November 2021  
NZAP assumed a 25% minority stake in the SSEN 
Distribution business, SSE consistently reviews strategic 
options and direction and the NZAP Plus plan now 
reflects retaining 100% of the business. A significant 
strengthening of SSE’s balance sheet and an upgraded 
NZAP Plus investment plan are the main factors 
contributing to the Board assessment that continuing 
to hold 100% of SSEN Distribution is the right strategy 
at this time.

•  A focus on service. Ongoing monitoring of delivery  

of the RIIO-ED2 Business Plan, with focus on 
effectiveness of the system reliability measures  
within it.

Link to 2030 Goals

Link to NZAP Plus
•  Capital expenditure  

and investment
•  Net networks RAV
•  Net debt/EBITDA 
consistent with 
investment grade 
rating

What did the Board review: 16
With SSE’s strategy focused on low-carbon investments,  
the Board is concerned to ensure that the interdependencies 
of climate action are understood and, where appropriate, 
managed carefully. Ensuring a fair transition to net zero for 
working people, consumers and communities is outlined in 
SSE’s Just Transition Strategy, published in 2020. In March 
2023, the Board reviewed progress against that strategy and 
had oversight of the publication of a first-of-a-kind progress 
report. The Board also considered the priorities for action in 
the year ahead, including an enhanced focus on attracting 
former high-carbon workers into SSE.

Section 172 and stakeholder factors
•  Embedding stakeholder dialogue. SSE’s principles  
for a just transition to net zero are underpinned by a 
commitment to high quality multi-stakeholder dialogue. 
SSE’s Board was represented at an event in London in  
April 2023 to launch the report, ‘Just transition: measuring 
progress’ which provided an opportunity to bring together 
stakeholders including employees, trade union partners, 
suppliers, investors, and NGOs, amongst many others. 
•  Understanding stakeholder views. Employees and 

their trade union representatives are concerned that SSE 
delivers opportunities for the existing workforce as it 
continues to transition away from high carbon activity. 
Investors are keen to be able to track SSE’s progress and 
hold it to account. Environmental NGOs want to be certain 
there is no watering down of climate commitments, and 
human rights advocates are focused on protecting the 
rights of working people in SSE’s supply chains. 

Next steps and future opportunities
•  Supporting people and communities. In the year 

ahead, SSE will further develop interventions to attract and 
support former high carbon workers, particularly those 
from the oil and gas industry. The transition to smart 
electricity grids at a local level, provides opportunities to 
deliver benefits to consumers and actions will be taken to 
ensure the benefits reach as wide a population as possible.

•  Reporting on progress. Achieving, and balancing the 
multitude of social expectations in the transition to net 
zero will be supported by maximum transparency. In 
addition to continuous stakeholder engagement, SSE  
has committed to provide a biannual dedicated Just 
Transition Report, alongside its usual annual disclosures.

Link to 2030 Goals

Link to NZAP Plus
•  Capital expenditure 
and investment

•  Net installed  

renewable capacity

•  Net networks RAV
•  Net low-carbon  
flexible capacity

What did the Board review: 17
Progress towards net zero requires constructive dialogue 
with policy makers. In May 2023, the Board reviewed  
‘From Ambition to Action: A Delivery Plan for Cleaner, 
Homegrown Energy’; a resource to help frame political 
engagement over the course of the year as political parties 
develop their own manifestos ahead of an upcoming 
General Election. In doing so, it considered the policies 
which SSE advocates should be adopted, to deliver 
investment in clean energy infrastructure and achieve 
cross-party ambitions on decarbonisation, energy security 
and the green economy. All of which are aligned to and 
consistent with SSE’s NZAP Plus and 2030 Goals.

Section 172 and stakeholder factors
•  Championing progress. With political attention  

turning towards a likely General Election in 2024 political 
stakeholders will be increasingly focused on setting out 
the policy platform which they will present to the 
electorate. These will ultimately come together in the 
party manifestos which are published prior to the election. 

•  Supporting net zero policy. All political parties have 
made significant commitments to decarbonise the 
power sector; increase deployment of renewables; and 
boost investment in homegrown energy infrastructure. 

•  Stakeholder-led advocacy. The SSE manifesto is 

tailored to the priorities of our stakeholders and is designed 
to set out tangible policies which could be adopted to help 
the parties achieve their publicly stated-targets. 

•  Maintaining neutrality. As with all of SSE’s 

engagement, the document will be politically neutral 
and applicable across the parties; focusing on areas 
where there is broad social consensus on the direction 
of travel for the energy sector. 

Next steps and future opportunities
•  Framework for progressive engagement. SSE’s 

Ambition to Action document will form the basis of policy 
engagement from its launch in May 2023, through to the 
General Election. Bi-lateral, party neutral engagement 
with key stakeholders will be conducted throughout a 
programme of events including at Party Conferences. 
•  Setting a long-term framework. SSE will periodically 

refresh Ambition to Action to ensure that it has longevity 
and relevance over this period; including adding public 
polling data to demonstrate levels of support amongst 
the electorate for the positions included. 

Link to 2030 Goals

Link to NZAP Plus
•  Capital expenditure  

and investment

•  Net installed  

renewable capacity

•  Net networks RAV
•  Net low-carbon  
flexible capacity

SSE plc  Annual Report 2023

129

Financial StatementsStrategic ReportDirectors’ Report 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Governing SSE for long-term success

Supporting work on long-term strategic direction, Board agendas have focused on matters to 
ensure effective performance and governance of SSE. These topics are diverse and draw on the 
Board’s Schedule of Reserved Matters, SSE’s culture and values, and the operating context.

Governance

Risk and internal control 

People and culture

Role of the Board
To promote responsible leadership based  
on transparency and a dynamic approach  
to corporate governance.

Role of the Board
To set the approach to risk management 
and oversee an effective system of  
internal controls. 

Role of the Board
To understand employee views and set the 
cultural tone underpinning a fair workplace 
and ethical business practice.

Shareholder communications 
•  Approved the contents of 2022/23 

Risks, viability and internal controls 
•  Reviewed and approved the 

Supporting employees
•  Challenged the approach to  

Strategy and performance

Role of the Board
To set conditions for the delivery of 
strategy and creation of stakeholder value, 
and oversee SSE’s response to the external 
environment.

Business Unit performance and operating 
context 
•  Monitored large capital project progress 
and operational performance through 
standing updates from the Executive 
Directors at every meeting and Business 
Unit Leadership Team presentations 
across the year.

•  Assessed the impact of energy market 
volatility on SSE’s portfolio through 
monthly updates on price movements, 
endorsing EMRC recommendations in 
relation to hedging and internal 
governance to manage commodity  
and credit requirements and exposures. 

•  Followed developments in the policy 
and political landscape, advocating 
unwavering focus on net zero and the 
transition pathway through constructive 
stakeholder engagement, receiving 
standing feedback from the Executive 
Directors and Corporate Affairs teams 
on business-led activities. Including, 
amongst other matters, consideration  
of the Energy Generator Levy as it was 
being developed.

•  Noted measures being taken to  

address the affordability agenda for 
domestic customers in Ireland centred 
on progressive options to support the 
most vulnerable and help with delivering 
sustainable solutions, including the 
return of profits to customers. For more 
detail see page 107 . 

•  Monitored business compliance 

performance in line with applicable 
legislative and regulatory frameworks 
and received updates on relevant 
inquiries. 

Setting and reviewing strategy 
More on pages 125 to 129 

Safety, health and environment (SHE)
•  Maintained strong focus on performance 
through review of SHE metrics and targets 
– across a broad range of measures –  
at the start of every Board meeting.
•  Continues to oversee the response  

to the fatality at Viking wind farm with 
support from the SSHEAC.

•  Received updates on SHE strategy  
and plans aligned to Business Unit 
specific risks including the hazards of  
a significant rise in contractor hours 
across large capital projects and actions 
to drive SSE’s safety culture. 

•  Considered mental health and wellbeing 
support for those impacted by the fatality 
at Viking wind farm; for service advisors 
delivering SSE’s customer cost of living 
response; and for all employees against 
the challenging economic backdrop. 

Sustainability 
•  Endorsed work to address agreed 

sustainability priorities and the progressive 
evolution of SSE’s reporting on material 
environmental, social and governance 
(ESG) issues, including work to meet TCFD 
recommendations on scenario analysis 
and initiating a double materiality review. 

•  Approved actions for 2022/23 with a 
focus on: engaging in the debate on 
proportionate standardisation of 
sustainability disclosure; pioneering just 
transition work; and embedding tailored 
sustainability assessments and action 
plans within each large capital project. 
•  Considered risk mitigations to address the 
zero-tolerance policy for human rights 
abuse in operations and supply chains; 
approving updates to SSE’s Human Rights 
and Modern Slavery Statement.

•  Re-affirmed the governance pathways 
for ESG topics which form the basis of 
external benchmarks and indices, and 
SSE’s year-on-year ratings performance.

•  Supported continued participation in 
the global conversation on collective 
climate action at COP27 in Egypt in 
which senior leadership participated. 

SSHEAC Report 
More on pages 162 to 165 

130

SSE plc  Annual Report 2023

Financial management

Role of the Board
To assess financial performance and set the 
parameters which define SSE’s financial and 
investment strategy. 

Financial performance 
•  Assessed financial performance and  

the impact of unusually volatile market 
conditions on a wider than normal range 
of potential financial outcomes.

•  Monitored variances against budget,  

and reviewed the latest financial forecast 
against analyst consensus and market 
guidance, approving updated EPS 
guidance as required.

•  Approved and recommended half and 
full-year dividends of 29.0p and 67.7p. 

Capital investment 
•  Tracked capital expenditure through 

monthly financial updates and the NZAP 
dashboard, reviewing project spend, 
emerging risks and opportunities.
•  Monitored the economic backdrop – 
characterised by financial market 
volatility and inflation – reviewing and 
updating accepted project returns at 
regular intervals to ensure a prudent 
approach to investment appraisal.

Financial planning and funding 
•  Approved the 2023/24 budget which 
reflected strategic progress and job 
creation under the NZAP, including 
more certainty in SSE Networks 
business plans and delivery of new 
capacity in the form of Keadby 2 and 
on- and off-shore wind projects. 

•  Reviewed the long-term financial model 
following updates to assumptions and 
outputs, in line with strategic progress 
and changes in SSE’s external operating 
context, including more certainty  
about the need for electricity networks 
investment, the impact of inflation,  
and long-term energy price forecasts.

•  Reviewed funding requirements as 
overseen by the Audit Committee, 
considering maturing debt, financial 
headroom and market conditions to 
ensure good liquidity, a strong balance 
sheet and capacity for future growth. 
•  Considered the annual ratings review 
process and an enduring investment 
grade credit rating.

•  Confirmed the governance of SSE’s 

pension schemes with a specific update 
covering the contingency planning in 
place to reduce any potential impact  
of gilt-driven volatility. 

trading statements, Half-year Results, 
the Annual Report and Accounts, and 
supporting regulatory announcements; 
considering feedback from the Audit 
Committee on significant judgements, 
the fair, balanced and understandable 
assessment, and the going concern  
basis of preparation. 

•  Approved the notice and business of the 
Annual General Meeting 2023 including 
the continued say on climate through 
SSE’s Net Zero Transition Report,  
and endorsed plans for shareholder 
participation through pre-meeting 
engagement and a continued hybrid 
meeting format. 

Board and Board Committees
•  Monitored Nomination Committee  

work on Board composition, succession 
planning and wider capability; approving 
the appointment of Maarten Wetselaar 
from 1 September 2023, updates to 
Board Committee membership, and  
the succession plans for the Finance 
Director and Company Secretary.

•  Re-affirmed SSE’s Board Inclusion and 
Diversity Policy and noted external 
developments and views in relation  
to actions and progress – from the  
FTSE Women Leaders Review, the 
Parker Review and investors – reviewing 
SSE’s position in conjunction with the 
Nomination Committee and Group HR.
•  Reviewed the findings and actions from 
the Board performance evaluation.
•  Monitored and approved SSE’s conflicts 

of interest register, confirming the 
continued independence of each 
non-Executive Director.

External developments
•  Reviewed current and future governance 
and reporting developments, considering 
FRC thematic reviews; the Government’s 
response to its consultation on corporate 
governance and audit reform; live 
workstreams relating to sustainability, 
climate, and transition plan reporting; 
and reporting against the FCA’s inclusion 
and diversity Listing Rule.

methodology and findings of the  
Group Principal Risk review and 
emerging risk assessment supporting 
SSE’s Risk Appetite Statement and  
other risk disclosures. 

•  Confirmed the output of the assessment 
which forms the basis of SSE’s Viability 
Statement. 

•  Confirmed the ongoing effectiveness  
of SSE’s System of Internal Control.

•  Endorsed SSE’s data privacy programme 
as a contributor to the sustainability 
agenda, reviewing GDPR metrics, 
milestones and international 
implementation.

•  Complementing the work of the Audit 
Committee, evaluated cyber risk and 
information security, spanning: the threat 
environment and notable external attacks 
in line with geo-political tensions, the 
maturity of SSE’s controls and capabilities 
to detect and respond, the effectiveness 
of training in ongoing assurance, and key 
risks and plans to support NZAP growth.

Risk-informed decision making 
More on pages 68 to 77 

System of Internal Controlaaa a 
More on page 159 

addressing recognised cost of living 
issues to ensure solutions were targeting 
those most affected; overseeing an 
interim salary increase and an amplified 
communications programme 
highlighting existing benefits to  
assist with financial wellbeing.

•  Discussed the strategy surrounding 
post-pandemic working practices 
including locational flexibility to match 
employees’ needs and offering hybrid 
working practices where possible; 
stressing the importance of employee 
consultation on lessons learned and 
maintaining engagement with SSE’s 
culture especially for new recruits. 

Doing the right thing 
•  Conducted a biannual review of the 

performance of SSE’s whistleblowing 
arrangements considering employee 
confidence in the process, 
benchmarking of performance and 
post-Covid 19 trends, the origin of 
cases, and the ease at which reports  
can be made alongside protections  
for those that speak-up; effectiveness 
was confirmed alongside a dynamic 
continuous improvement programme. 

Empowering the employee voice  
and Focusing on culture 
More on pages 134 to 138 

Climate change 

Role of the Board
To ensure decisions are sustainable  
in the long-term and the approach to 
climate change is addressed through 
work on strategy, operations and risk.

Supporting Board work
SSE’s purpose, vision and strategy are 
fully aligned with net zero. The physical 
and transitional risks, and opportunities 
associated with climate change, are 
therefore not a singular agenda item. 
They are embedded across all areas  
of Board work with long-term 
considerations couched in the  
possible pathways to net zero. 

This includes assessment of policy 
frameworks; the operation of energy 
markets; the impact of climate change 
on weather; the role of innovation and 
technology within SSE’s asset base; 
changes to customer behaviour; and 
investor views of SSE’s business model 
and growth. 

In turn, the framework set by the Board 
based on its view of climate-related 
issues, includes strategic targets, 
business goals, the approved budget, 
net zero consistent investment criteria, 
risk management parameters including 
SSE’s Risk Appetite, and SSE’s approach 
to stakeholder engagement. 

SSE plc  Annual Report 2023

131

Financial StatementsStrategic ReportDirectors’ ReportUnderstanding shareholder views

Gathering views
The Board engages with a range of equity 
and debt investors to help inform strategic 
decision making, communicate SSE’s 
sustainable business plans, and report  
on environmental, social and governance 
(ESG) and financial performance. 

Engagement by the executive team is  
led by the Chief Executive and Finance 
Director, with participation from the Chief 
Commercial Officer and other members  
of the Group Executive Committee, 
focusing on operations, and financial and 
sustainability performance in executing 
SSE’s strategy. Engagement by the Chair 
leads on corporate governance, strategy 
development, people and wide-ranging 
ESG matters. 

Open and regular dialogue remains  
the foundation to the Board’s approach, 
with managed communication channels  
in place for all to use (see page 345 ). 
Notwithstanding, the Board, executive 
management and the Investor Relations 
team proactively engage with investors 
through an annual programme of activity; 
and ongoing communication with analysts, 
proxy advisors, ESG ratings agencies and 
financial ratings agencies helps improve 
disclosure and allows stakeholders to  
better assess SSE’s performance.

Institutional investors
Collectively, in 2022/23, the Board  
engaged directly with institutional investors 
representing over 45% of issued share 
capital. The programme of engagement – 
which encompassed 182 one-to-one 
sessions with investors – was mainly 
focused across three periods of roadshows: 
immediately following the preliminary 
Full-year Results announcement; in 
advance of the Annual General Meeting; 
and immediately following the Half-year 
Results announcement.

Members of the Executive Team met 
physically with investors in the United 
Kingdom, France, Germany, Switzerland, 
and Australia during the year, and virtually 
met with investors from other locations 
such as North America and Asia. This 
complemented a number of physical  
and virtual investor events which covered 
specific focus areas as set out below  
and opposite. The Chair also continued 
proactive and open dialogue with investors 
on priorities and views of corporate 
governance, meeting physically with many 
of SSE’s largest shareholders in advance  
of the Annual General Meeting.

Supplementing one-to-one engagement, 
the Executive Directors attended 15 industry 
conferences, mainly physical, and held 29, 
mainly virtual, group meetings which were 
attended by a number of shareholders and 
prospective investors.

Retail shareholders
To allow management of an individual’s 
shareholding, SSE’s recently refreshed 
investor website houses all regulatory news 
announcements and published financial 
and non-financial reports. The Investor 
Relations team and the Company 
Secretariat, with support from SSE’s 
Registrar, engage directly with retail 
shareholders in response to private 
shareholding queries. 

Annual General Meeting (AGM)
The Board encourages shareholders to 
participate in the AGM – through casting 
votes and raising questions on the business 
of the meeting. A hybrid meeting format 
allows full remote participation for those 
who cannot attend in person, and answers 
to questions and the results of the meeting 
are published on sse.com  as soon as 
practicable after the event. In 2022, all 
resolutions were passed with in excess  
of 81.90% votes cast in favour. 

Debt investors 
Engagement with solicited credit ratings 
agencies, being Standard & Poors’ and 
Moody’s, takes place throughout the 
course of the year, with increased dialogue 
ahead of the annual ratings review process 
and in line with Company related news 
flows. Regular dialogue is also maintained 
between key relationship banks and debt 
investors with SSE’s Treasury team and the 
Finance Director.

Engagement in action
Shareholders and debt providers

Showcasing SSE’s Transmission 
and Renewables businesses 

In September 2022, an in-person event was 
hosted by the Finance Director in Inverness, 
for sell-side analysts and large institutional 
shareholders to delve deeper into SSE’s 
Transmission and Renewables businesses. 
Each area was discussed on separate days 
and sessions facilitated by presentations 
from the senior managers leading on 
strategic execution within the respective 
Business Units. 

These materials, and supporting 
discussions which were made available  
on sse.com  shortly after the event, 
demonstrated the value of each business’s 

assets and the available investment 
opportunities. To provide additional 
context, site visits to Blackhillock HVDC 
converter station, Glendoe hydroelectric 
scheme and Stronelairg wind farm formed 
part of the agenda.

The event was met with highly positive 
feedback, with attendees confirming the 
presentations were educational; the 
exposure to wider senior management 
demonstrated their expertise; and the  
site visits brought the scale and quality  
of assets to life.

Engagement in action
Shareholders and debt providers

Continued dialogue on climate 

Following the publication of SSE’s Net Zero 
Transition Plan, and in support of the first 
annual shareholder vote on its Net Zero 
Transition Report (proposed at the 2022 
AGM), the Chair hosted a climate-focused 
investor event with SSE’s Chief Commercial 
Officer and Chief Sustainability Officer in 
June 2022. This online event set out SSE’s 
progress in relation to its agreed climate 
targets – covering climate-related 
strategies, plans and performance –  
as well as touching on SSE’s work on  
the just transition. 

This engagement was set against the 
backdrop of how SSE strives to balance 
social, environmental and economic 
impacts whilst enhancing value for 
stakeholders. To allow questions and 
feedback on SSE’s approach a Q&A session 
followed the presentations. Following the 
session, stakeholders confirmed improved 
understanding of SSE’s decarbonisation 
plans and Just Transition Strategy; and  
the resolution to receive SSE’s Net Zero 
Transition Report received 98.9% of votes 
cast in favour at the AGM.

Sharing and interpreting 
feedback
The Board receives monthly updates on 
investor and financial market sentiment, 
providing insight into recent share price 
movements; a briefing on recent sell-side 
analyst commentary; and key monthly 
movements in the share register. This is 
covered through a combination of written 
reports and verbal feedback from meetings 
which have taken place. 

The feedback provided by shareholders 
during and after Full-year and Half-year 
Results Roadshows is communicated 
directly to the full Board in a biannual 
shareholder feedback paper including 
updates from SSE’s brokers. The Board, 
through the SSHEAC, receives a full annual 
review of SSE’s performance in investor-led 
ESG reviews and ratings in addition to, 
through the Finance Director, updates on 
credit ratings agency reviews. Key matters 

Shareholder engagement activity 2022/23

46

raised by shareholders during the period, 
which were considered across Board 
deliberations are set out on page 29 . 

34

34

14

   Number of 
shareholder 
meetings

21

20

6

6

14

8

8

APR 22 MAY 22

JUN 22

JUL 22

AUG 22

SEP 22

OCT 22  NOV 22 

DEC 22

JAN 23

FEB 23

MAR 23

Full-year  
2021/22 
results

AGM 
governance

Half-year 
2022/23 
results

132

SSE plc  Annual Report 2023

SSE plc  Annual Report 2023

133

Financial StatementsStrategic ReportDirectors’ ReportThe scale at which virtual sessions can  
be offered amplifies understanding of 
employee views and material issues. 

Engagement 
highlights

Sites visited 

32

Board-led virtual engagement 
sessions 

13

Non-Executive Director for 
Employee Engagement 
sessions 

13

Total employee attendance at 
Board calls 

23,835

Largest audience size 

3,781

All-employee survey 
engagement score 2022/23 

84%

Empowering the employee voice

How the Board engages

The two-way dialogue between the  
Board and employees is facilitated by a 
combination of engagement methods. 
These are set out in full below and include 
face-to-face discussions at meetings, site 
visits, and attendance at employee events. 
With 2022/23 being the first year in which 
in-person engagements could fully resume, 
the Board-employee programme travelled 
to 32 sites encompassing all of SSE’s 
Business Units and a number of corporate 
functions. 

Virtual engagement platforms, which 
evolved during the pandemic, have 
remained a key part of the engagement 
strategy providing simultaneous access to  
a diverse audience of roles and locations. 

The adoption of a diverse range of listening 
channels continues to support the principle 
that everyone in SSE should have a voice  
and is consistent with employee feedback 
surrounding the benefit of multiple platforms 
through which to raise areas of interest or 
concern. In turn, it supports the Board in 
gathering a fair and representative view of 
the issues which are important to employees 
and builds an appreciation of how these may 
differ by geography, business area, role, and 
individual circumstances.

Board listening approach

Engagement audience and purpose

All-employees
•  Offers Board 

perspectives which can 
otherwise be missed 
from business-led 
communications.

•  Provides the Board with 
insight of employee 
opinion on life at SSE 
and key areas of interest 
or concern.

People leaders
•  Provides the opportunity 
to replay key messages 
which the Board has 
heard through listening 
channels. 

•  Supports and challenges 
management actions  
in response. 

Senior leadership
•  Creates a platform for 
two-way interaction 
between the Board  
and senior leaders who 
lead SSE’s teams. 
•  Allows the Board to  

offer views and personal 
external perspectives.

Engagement format and value created

Director-employee 
sessions
Provides employees  
with access to the Board 
with direct two-way 
interaction supporting 
detailed discussion of 
specific topics.

Leadership and business 
roadshows and 
conferences
Provides an opportunity to 
exchange views on SSE’s 
strategy and both Group-
wide and business-specific 
priorities, supporting wider 
engagement and awareness 
including the contribution 
and impact made by 
employees. 

Focus groups
Allows interaction across 
diverse geographies  
and cross-sections of 
employees, and being 
smaller in size, provides  
the opportunity to seek out 
added context surrounding 
employee sentiment 
through true conversation. 
The impact can be fast and 
influence decisions which 
may affect employees.

All-employee surveys
Exists as a long-standing 
tool with a mature strategy 
that attracts a strong 
response rate. The results 
are viewed as representative 
of the majority of employee 
voices and shape the 
cultural agenda, ensuring 
that employee sentiment  
is considered in all key 
decision making.

Site visits 
Allows non-Executive 
Directors to travel  
across SSE and feel and 
understand employees’ 
experience of the 
operational environment. 
These visits can be followed 
by informal roundtables  
to allow deeper two-way 
dialogue on matters of 
importance.

Digital channels and 
written communications
Reinforces matters of 
importance and embeds 
the tone through the 
Board’s written reflections. 
This can include 
observations and takeaways 
from other engagement 
activities to allow a  
wider reach.

Q&A with Lady Elish Angiolini
What are your reflections on the value  
of direct Board-employee engagement  
in SSE?
Engagement is very valuable to the Board 
as it builds trust, collaboration and aligns 
the Board and employee approach. I can 
see how the Board seeks diverse feedback 
from employees delivering on strategy,  
and it’s essential that direct engagement 
continues as a core activity. 

Where do you see opportunities  
for 2023/24? 
I’ve been able to speak with many 
colleagues across SSE and have been 
impressed with the dedicated team  
spirit and commitment to SSE’s purpose.  
A willingness to share views has given  
me a good understanding of employee 
experiences in SSE and I look forward  
to exploring priorities in conversations  
to come.

Since joining the Board in 2021,  
what insight have you gained into  
the employee experience in SSE? 
This is a period of record growth and we 
must continue investing in face-to-face 
and virtual engagements to understand 
how employees and SSE’s culture are 
responding. We should also build on 
relationships with employee-led groups  
like the ‘Belonging in SSE’ communities, 
who are strong advocates of the  
employee voice. 

What skills and perspective would  
you like to bring to conversations  
in the year? 
I have an inquisitive nature and like to  
listen to all views to encourage honest and 
frank discussion, which will help highlight 
areas for me to bring to the Board. I’ve  
also been involved with organisations 
undergoing intense periods of change  
and this will support my understanding  
of employee sentiment.

Engagement in action
Employees 

Engaging on net zero

The AGM virtual Q&A session was open 
to all employees and attended by more 
than 3,500 people from across Great 
Britain and Ireland. Directors addressed 
queries on a wide range of issues and of 
the attendees who provided feedback 
on the event, 90% said they valued 
hearing from the Board and 85% found 
the session helped them to connect 
their roles to the Group’s net zero-
aligned strategy.

The successful delivery of SSE’s strategy 
is dependent on employees feeling 
engaged with the Group’s purpose.  
A key objective over 2022/23 was 
therefore connecting people’s roles  
with net zero and feeling engaged with 
senior leaders. Full Board attendance  
at the Annual General Meeting (AGM) 
2022 was seen as an opportunity to 
deliver this. 

The event was used for both in-person 
and virtual interaction, with members  
of the Board taking part in a roundtable 
discussion with colleagues from a  
range of businesses, geographies and 
demographics, alongside leads from  
the ‘Belonging in SSE’ communities.  
The employee group sought advice, 
opinions and feedback on topics 
including flexible working patterns,  
the challenges faced by neuro-diverse 
colleagues, mental health awareness 
and career progression. 

Non-Executive Director for 
Employee Engagement
The Nomination Committee oversees  
the recommended appointment of the 
Non-Executive Director for Employee 
Engagement, which Lady Elish Angiolini 
assumed from 1 April 2023 in a handover 
from Dame Sue Bruce. In considering the 
successor to the role, the Nomination 
Committee noted Elish’s rich experience  
in assimilating and interpreting views and 
translating findings into a required course 
of action. These skills support the core 
purpose of the employee-Board link and 
the desire to operate in an empathetic and 
thoughtful way.

The creation of the role remains a natural 
and progressive step in the evolution of 
SSE’s employee voice strategy, providing  
an enhanced and more interactive 
understanding of employee sentiment. 

Each year, the programme of work for  
the Non-Executive Director for Employee 
Engagement is structured and supported  
in collaboration with SSE’s Head of 
Employee Engagement. The success  
of the role is measured in action, whereby 
the employee voice is consistently 
represented in meetings attended by the 
Non-Executive Director for Employee 
Engagement, allowing the views and 
opinions of colleagues to feature and 
contribute to discussions and decisions 
being made. 

134

SSE plc  Annual Report 2023

SSE plc  Annual Report 2023

135

Financial StatementsStrategic ReportDirectors’ ReportEmpowering the employee voice continued

Focusing on culture

Board response to employee views 

Discussions with employees have been broad ranging in 2022/23 and cognisant of the energy crisis, net zero, cost of living and employee 
well-being. Through the full suite of listening and engagement channels, the below confirms how the Board has responded to material 
issues raised by employees across the year. These are set out under key themes which are checked through SSE’s all-employee survey to 
ensure they are reflective of employee priorities and to assess progress and improvement. 

Key themes

Active Board engagement

Inclusion and diversity 

Why the Board engaged
The Board champions SSE’s 
inclusion and diversity approach, 
and seeks insight surrounding  
the effectiveness of plans and 
initiatives in order to continually 
further progress.

•  Melanie Smith hosted an all-employee Q&A during Race Equality Week and encouraged the 
sharing of diversity information, to support actions that focus on making SSE more inclusive. 

•  The Chair and Non-Executive Director for Employee Engagement participated in a session 

with the ‘Belonging in SSE’ community leads, and heard views on lived experiences, 
challenges, aspirations and priorities for the Board. Key takeaways were shared more widely 
using internal communications and would continue to inform Board policy development. 
•  The Board sponsored events including Perthshire Pride which was attended by employees,  

the Chief Commercial Officer and the Non-Executive Director for Employee Engagement; and 
the Finance Director participated in the ‘It Takes All Kinds of Minds’ international conference 
which was aligned with Neurodiversity Focus Week across SSE internal channels. 

Strategy, net zero and 
climate change 

Why the Board engaged
The Board acts in response to 
all-employee survey and call 
feedback, which cited a want  
to engage further with senior 
leaders on SSE’s strategy and  
the drive to net zero. 

Digital strategy 

Why the Board engaged
The Board understands the 
development in the digital space  
is a key area and seeks views on 
challenges, opportunities, progress 
and making employees part  
of digital initiatives and change. 

Great place to work and 
ways of working

Why the Board engaged
The Board seeks views of employee 
needs in order to drive culture and 
meet expectations surrounding 
working practices and wider 
support; areas which continue to 
evolve post-pandemic and in the 
current cost of living context. 

•  Tony Cocker and Melanie Smith were involved in Leadership Roadshows and SSE’s Leadership 
Conference with the Executive Directors, to cover topics including strategy, execution and 
growth, people and wellbeing. 

•  The Board oversaw activities to embed SSE’s Just Transition Strategy, with an externally-
available video featuring key stakeholders and just transition themes, launched internally 
through an all-employee virtual session. 

•  The Chief Executive and Helen Mahy visited the Arklow Bank wind farm phase 2 development 
site and project team, with key takeaways being environmental and stakeholder consultation, 
and community engagement. 

•  Over 800 SSE leaders joined the Chief Executive, the Chair and Debbie Crosbie for a call 

exploring the Leadership Blueprint and their pivotal role in delivering SSE’s strategy and Net 
Zero Acceleration Programme.

•  Melanie Smith spent time with the Digital Team on strategic progress, with views shared with 
the Board thereafter, around skills to keep pace with developments in energy technology.
•  An all-employee call hosted by the Chief Executive shared progress towards SSE’s digital 

ambitions and provided a forum for employee questions and views.

•  A virtual meeting between the Non-Executive Director for Employee Engagement and  

the Information Security and Privacy Group discussed cyber security priorities for SSE and 
employees, and led to Dame Sue Bruce sponsoring the Cyber Security Month which brought 
additional focus to this area. 

•  The Chief Commercial Officer held an all-employee session to explore engagement survey 
results and covered well-being, reward and recognition, strategy and communication of key 
messages, reaching an audience of over 3,000 employees.

•  Prompted by an employee request, a session in Glasgow with the Non-Executive Director  

for Employee Engagement explored the post-pandemic return to the office, with employees 
sharing experiences and views on hybrid working. 

•  The Non-Executive Director for Employee Engagement and Lady Elish Angiolini attended  

a welcome event to meet SSE’s newest intake of graduates which considered career 
development and navigation. 

•  A session was held with representatives from Business Energy and the Non-Executive Director 
for Employee Engagement, to discuss all-employee survey results and actions to address 
focus areas identified through the survey. 

136

SSE plc  Annual Report 2023

A healthy corporate culture is one in which SSE has a purpose, values and strategy that are 
respected by its stakeholders, and an operating environment that is inclusive, diverse, supportive 
and engaging; that encourages employees to make a positive difference for stakeholders; in 
which values guide responsible decisions and actions; and in which attitudes and behaviours 
are consistent with high standards of conduct and doing the right thing.

Aligning with purpose,  
vision and strategy 
Company culture has internal and external 
influence, guiding interactions within SSE 
and directing decisions with stakeholder 
impact. This context is reflected within  
the above Board-approved definition of a 
healthy corporate culture, which supports 
purpose, vision, strategy and long-term 
success, by setting a baseline against which 
cultural guidance can be developed and 
cultural indicators tested.

Setting the tone 
A healthy corporate culture is a shared 
deliverable, which starts with the Board 
setting the correct tone. This is supported 
through approval of SSE’s values, and their 
translation into accepted attitudes and 
behaviours within SSE’s Group Policies and 
an employee guide ‘Doing the Right Thing; 
SSE’s guide to good business ethics’, all of 
which are supported by mandatory training 
for everyone in SSE. 

Leading by example is through the Board’s 
own conduct and communication to 

employees of key Board activity. Senior 
leaders across SSE have the same 
responsibility to lead, embed and oversee 
cultural standards.

Culture is embedded at Board-level by:
•  SSE’s Governance Framework and 
practices (see pages 122 to 124 ).
•  Board decision-making (see pages 125 

to 131 ).

•  People matters, appointments and 

succession planning (see Nomination 
Committee Report ).

•  SSE’s risk, controls and compliance 

approach (see Audit Committee and 
EMRC Reports and page 68 ).

•  Focus on safety, sustainability, health 
and the environment (see SSHEAC 
Report ).

•  Attitudes towards reward and 

remuneration (see Remuneration 
Committee Report ). 

Monitoring and measuring 
The Board uses multiple sources to assess 
the strength of culture and understand how 
it manifests across employee sentiment, 

observed behaviours and trends. These can 
be described as a combination of the below 
reported metrics, standing reports and 
listening channels.
•  Feedback from Board-employee 

engagement and Non-Executive Director 
for Employee Engagement insights. 

•  Employee survey results.
•  Twice yearly Cultural Dashboard review.
•  Monthly people updates from the Chief 
Executive covering key developments 
and employee sentiment. 

•  Monthly compliance reporting from  

the Finance Director. 

•  Monthly safety and wellbeing data. 
•  Whistleblowing performance reports. 

The Cultural Dashboard (see page 138 ) 
remains a health check, comprising data 
from Group HR and Group Compliance.  
A key section aligns employee survey data 
with people metrics and KPIs under cultural 
strands. This allows the Board to consider 
where there are deviations between what  
is being heard and underlying behaviours. 
During 2022/23, the Board retaining 
oversight of ongoing culture-related 
workstreams through its wider agenda.

Engagement in action
Employees

Understanding operational culture 

Over 2022/23 the Board have visited a 
wide range of locations and business 
areas, providing direct access to 
operations and ensuring front-line 
employees could share their experiences 
with the Board. These visits further 
enhanced understanding of the cultural 
tone and sentiment across Business Units. 

Renewables. Visits by the Chair,  
John Bason, Dame Angela Strank and 
Tony Cocker covered Coire Glas site 
investigation works, Stronelairg wind 
farm, and Foyers and Glendoe power 
stations over a two-day period, gaining 
insight into the challenges and progress 
in current and future renewables 
operations from employees. The Chair 
visited Dogger Bank wind farm HVDC 

station and engaged with partner and 
contractor representatives on project 
scope, approach and progress, and as 
part of his induction John Bason visited 
Montrose harbour, the site associated 
with the Seagreen offshore wind farm, to 
gain a deeper insight into the industry. 

Thermal. Helen Mahy visited the  
Thermal engineering hub in Leeds to 
meet and discuss areas important to the 
Team including inclusion and diversity, 
development and mentoring, the results 
of the all-employee survey and technical 
developments including Carbon Capture 
and Storage. 

Networks. In advance of a Board 
meeting, engagement took place with 
employees working on flexible energy trials 
at the innovation project, Local Energy 
Oxfordshire (LEO). Insight was gathered 
surrounding the technical, commercial, 
social and regulatory challenges and the 
potential for a community-based approach 
to local flexibility. 

Energy Customer Solutions. Lady Elish 
Angiolini visited the team in Belfast to learn 
more about improvements to the customer 
experience and compliance, and heard 
examples of the challenges experienced  
by customers in vulnerable circumstances 
and how colleagues support each other 
when dealing with hardship and difficult 
customer scenarios. 

SSE plc  Annual Report 2023

137

Financial StatementsStrategic ReportDirectors’ ReportFocusing on culture continued

Defining Board responsibilities 

Measuring culture through our dashboard 

Our culture is shaped and determined by the way we…

Through the Board Charter, the Board approves the clear division of responsibilities between the Chair and Chief Executive and sets  
out what is expected of the non-Executive Directors, recognising the defined roles of Senior Independent Director and Non-Executive 
Director for Employee Engagement. The below confirms the split of executive and non-Executive accountabilities which support the 
integrity of the Board’s operations.

Attract and  
retain people

Work 
together

Look after  
each other

See  
ourselves

Make  
decisions

Manage 
performance

Lead from  
the top

Executive

Non-Executive

Reflected in employee sentiment surrounding the core themes and actions SSE is taking in each area...

Employee 
engagement 

Inclusion  

Safety  

Our  
strategy 

Doing the  
right thing 

84% ▲

85% ▲

93% ▲

83% ▼

85% ▲

My  
manager 

76% 

Senior  
leaders 

66% ▲

Life at SSE

My Team

Wellbeing

73% 
Supported by key people metrics and KPIs…

76% ▲

85% 

▲ ▼ 

 Movement relative to internal 2021 trend benchmark.

10.5% ▲ 
Employee 
turnover.

4,401 ▲ 
vacancies 
filled. 

83% 
 of 
employees able 
to work flexibly.

8 ▲  
‘Belonging  
in SSE’ 
communities 
with over 2,000 
active members. 

255 ▲ 
Safe Days. 

6.9 ▲ 
Sick days  
per head. 

Just over 1 in 5 
SSE colleagues 
have made the 
transition from 
high to low- 
carbon roles*. 

95.5% ▲ 
Certification 
across mandatory 
eLearning 
courses. 

1,992 
Leaders engaged 
with the 
Leadership 
Blueprint Plans*.

50 ▲ 
employee 
contacts on 
Speak Up 
platforms. 

58 ▲  
Board-led 
employee 
engagements, 
including 
13 Non-Executive 
Director for 
Employee 
Engagement 
sessions.

▲ ▼ 

 Movement relative to 2021/22. 

Continually supported by cultural action plans and Board support in 2022/23…

In response to 
employee views 
and engagement, 
oversaw 
enhanced Family 
Leave entitlement 
for pregnancy 
loss, fertility 
treatment and 
partner’s leave. 

Amplified direct 
engagement  
with employees 
on the topic  
of inclusion  
and diversity  
(see page 136 ).

SSHEAC safety 
and wellbeing site 
visits continue  
to be conducted 
(see page 165 ). 

Reviewed  
safety, health  
and wellbeing 
performance at 
the start of every 
Board meeting.

Received  
updates on the 
formation of a 
new Contractor 
Safety Team. 

Oversees 
ongoing delivery 
of the Net Zero 
Acceleration 
Programme  
and 2030 Goals 
(see pages 125  
to 129 ).

Directly 
supported 
employee 
communications 
on strategy  
(see page 136 ).

Continued focus 
on front line 
communications 
(see page 137 ).

Reviewed SSE’s 
whistleblowing 
arrangements 
and performance  
(see page 131 ).

Board support  
for SSE’s cyber 
security month. 

Direct Board 
engagement  
with leaders to 
provide feedback 
and direction  
(see page 136 ). 

Board’s approach 
to understanding 
and assessing 
strength of 
culture (see  
page 137 ). 

Continues  
to sponsor  
a leadership 
review which 
confirmed  
a strong, 
collaborative 
organisational 
environment with 
trust and support.

Board presence 
across SSE’s full 
engagement 
approach  
(see pages 134 to 
136 ).

Provided 
continued 
oversight of 
critical skills 
investment, 
performance 
initiatives and 
development  
of employee 
proposition  
(see pages 146  
to 147 ). 

Oversight of top 
leaver reasons; 
SSE’s employer 
brand; and 
activity which 
communicates 
SSE’s proposition 
to external 
candidates.

* New measure.

See also culture on the Board agenda on page 28 .
Embedding a healthy business culture on page 59 .

138

SSE plc  Annual Report 2023

Chief Executive
•  Proposing and directing the delivery of Board-agreed strategy 

through leadership of the Group Executive Committee.
•  Ensuring SSE’s decisions and actions have long-term focus, 
through management, implementation and progression of 
sustainability interventions, which support strategy and address 
material impacts including climate change. 

•  Communicating and providing feedback on the implementation 
and impact of Board-agreed policies on behaviours and culture, 
ensuring SSE operates in line with its values. 

Chair
•  Leading the effective operation and governance of the Board.
•  Ensuring decision-making has long-term focus, and SSE’s 
approach to sustainability, including climate change, is 
addressed through strategic, operational and risk considerations.

•  Setting agendas to support balanced decision-making. 
•  Demonstrating objective judgement and applying sufficient 

challenge to proposals.

•  Ensuring effective Board relations and a culture that supports 

constructive debate.

•  Assuming responsibility for the overall performance of SSE’s 
Business Units and leading the functions of: HR; Corporate 
Affairs, Regulation and Strategy; and Sustainability.

•  Engaging with major shareholders and key stakeholders to 
ensure the Board understands and considers their views. 
•  Overseeing the annual Board evaluation and identifying 

•  Engaging with SSE’s six key stakeholder groups and leading  

required actions.

on related activity at EU, International and UK level.

•  Setting the cultural tone and leading initiatives to assess culture.

Finance Director
•  Deputising for the Chief Executive.
•  Proposing policy and actions to support sound financial 

management and leading on M&A transactions. 

•  Leading the functions of: Finance; Procurement and Logistics; 
Group Risk and Audit; IT and Cyber Security; Investor Relations 
and Company Secretarial; and the General Counsel areas of 
responsibility.

•  Overseeing relationships with the investment community.
•  Engaging with SSE’s six key stakeholder groups and leading  

on related activity in Scotland.

Senior Independent Director1
•  Providing a sounding board for the Chair.
•  Leading the Chair’s performance evaluation.
•  Serving as an intermediary to other Directors when necessary.
•  Being available to all stakeholders if they have concerns 

requiring resolution.

Independent non-Executive Directors
•  Challenging and assisting in the development of strategy.
•  Reviewing and measuring the performance of management.
•  Providing independent insight and support based on relevant 

experience.

Chief Commercial Officer
•  Supporting the work of the Chief Executive and Finance 

Director.

•  Leading SSE Renewables, SSE Thermal, Energy Portfolio 

Management, Energy Customer Solutions and SSE Enterprise  
at Board level.

•  Reviewing financial information and ensuring the System of 

Internal Control and Risk Management Framework are effective.
•  Reviewing succession plans for the Board and senior leadership.
•  Monitoring actions to support inclusion and diversity.
•  Engaging with key stakeholders and reporting to the Board  

on perspectives.

•  Driving growth and commercial market risk activities for  
all of SSE’s non-networks businesses at Group level.

•  Setting executive remuneration policy.
•  Serving on, or chairing, various Committees of the Board.

•  Leading executive relations with trade unions. 
•  Engaging with SSE’s six key stakeholder groups and leading  

on related activity in Ireland and Northern Ireland.

Company Secretary

•  Safeguarding compliance with Board procedures and providing 

support to the Chair.

•  Ensuring the Board has high quality information, adequate time 

and appropriate resources.

•  Advising the Board on corporate governance developments.
•  Considering Board effectiveness in conjunction with the Chair.
•  Facilitating the Directors’ induction programmes and assisting 

with professional development.

•  Providing advice, services and support to all Directors when 

required.

Non-Executive Director for Employee Engagement 1
•  Providing an employee voice in the Boardroom.
•  Developing, implementing and reporting on employee 

engagement initiatives. 

•  Representing the Board and its decision-making in discussions 

with employees. 

•  Engaging with officers of trade unions and internal trade unions 

representatives on strategic issues affecting the workforce.

1  The responsibilities of Senior Independent Director and Non-Executive 
Director for Employee Engagement apply in addition to those of non-
Executive Director.

SSE plc  Annual Report 2023

139

Financial StatementsStrategic ReportDirectors’ Report 
 
 
Assessing Board performance

Annual Board evaluation

The Board monitors and improves 
performance by reflecting on the 
continuing effectiveness of its activities,  
the quality of its decisions and by 
considering the individual and collective 
contribution made by each Board member. 
This is assessed annually through the  
Board evaluation process. 

The 2022/23 Board and Board Committee 
evaluations were facilitated by Lintstock  
Ltd (Lintstock). This followed Lintstock 
conducting the 2021/22 external Board  
and Board Committee performance 
reviews, with their services re-engaged  
for a further two years to provide efficient 
and consistent oversight of the actions  
and themes identified. 

The methodology of the 2022/23 follow-
up reviews were aligned with that of an 
internal evaluation and structured to allow 
identification of new focus areas. Besides 
the provision of the Board and Board 
Committee evaluation work, there was no 
other contractual connection between SSE 
or the individual Directors and Lintstock. 

Progress against 2021/22 evaluation findings

Opportunities for refinement

Update on actions

Optimising oversight  
of strategic execution 

The Board reviewed proposals for monitoring progress on strategic execution and agreed updates  
to further optimise Board oversight. These centred on the preparation and presentation of certain 
strategic reports, including the NZAP dashboard, which has been reviewed in the year.

Alignment on  
people matters

Leveraging  
external voices

A revised framework for constructive challenge and monitoring of people matters is in place, with  
it agreed to enhance Board knowledge of SSE’s leadership teams through increased face-to-face 
engagement. Details of work on talent, and inclusion and diversity, is on pages 134 to 136 .

The findings supported the view that the management team was highly expert and proficient in  
the suite of technical matters which fall under its remit. There was an opportunity for the Board  
to complement this, through the use of third-party or external expertise on particular topics. 
Accordingly, Board deep dives have been conducted and several external speakers engaged to 
provide a diverse perspective on certain subjects (see page 125 ).

Stage 1 
Re-engaging 
Lintstock 

Stage 2
Design of  
the evaluation

Stage 3 
Review  
methodology

Stage 4 
Findings  
and actions

Following a selection 
process, and in compliance 
with the UK Corporate 
Governance Code, 
Lintstock were engaged  
to perform an external 
review of the Board and  
its Committees in 2021/22. 
After seeking the opinion  
of the Board, the Chair  
with assistance from the 
Company Secretary and 
Director of Investor 
Relations, re-engaged 
Lintstock to facilitate  
the Board evaluations in 
2022/23 and 2023/24, as it 
was deemed efficient and 
appropriate in the cycle of 
continuous improvement. 

Considering the findings  
of the 2021/22 external 
Board performance review, 
it was agreed the review  
of the Board and its 
Committees in 2022/23  
be conducted by Lintstock 
in the same format as an 
internal evaluation. This 
centred on the use of a 
detailed questionnaire,  
to be completed by  
the Board, Committee 
members, and secretaries. 

The questionnaire was 
issued, and to achieve a 
comprehensive suite of 
feedback, questions were 
structured around agreed 
topics, comprising: 
•  Board dynamics; 
•  Board composition; 
•  Board support; 
•  management and focus 

of meetings; 

•  stakeholder oversight;
•  strategic oversight; 
•  risk management and 
internal control; and 
•  succession planning  
and people oversight.

Based on the information 
and views garnered from 
the review responses, 
Lintstock produced  
the Board and Board 
Committee evaluation 
reports for review. The 
finalised report of findings 
was provided to the Board 
and actions agreed.

2022/23 Board evaluation process

Board composition 

2022/23 Board evaluation findings
The findings of the Board evaluation  
were positive, with progress thought to 
have been achieved across a number  
of evaluation areas. Areas which scored 
well, relative to an external benchmark, 
included: the clarity of strategic purpose; 
the relationship between the non-
Executive Directors and Chief Executive; 
oversight of strategic implementation; 

the contribution to the development of 
strategy; and Board support through the 
Company Secretary and training. 

The findings further affirmed strong Board 
composition, with discussions cognisant of 
the attributes which should be considered  
in future appointments, alongside how 
these should be balanced and prioritised 
within succession plans. 

Whilst the findings were positive and 
confirmed the Board to be operating 
effectively, there remained as with all 
balanced process, opportunities for 
improvement and refinement. 

Opportunities for refinement

Commentary and actions

Enhancing contact with  
SSE’s culture, senior teams, 
Business Units, and strategic 
context

It was acknowledged ongoing activities were enhancing the Board’s appreciation of these areas, 
notwithstanding, increased structure and planning would maximise the impact of this work. 
Actions agreed by the Board:
•  A Board planner for visits and existing pre-Board meeting sessions has been circulated to ensure 

Continued consideration  
of people issues

these be utilised to good effect. 

•  A biannual review of competitor strategies is to take place and continue on an ongoing basis. 
•  Deep dives will be arranged on specific topics such as ESG, technology and influences on 

long-term energy prices. 

The Board was supportive of progress in this area, noting that positive results would take time to  
be visible within the organisation. As such, there were a number of practices the Board wished to 
continue and develop further. 
Actions agreed by the Board:
•  To maintain a focus on diversity progress, targets and reporting will continue as a biannual item at 

the Nomination Committee (see pages 148 to 149 ).

•  To facilitate Board oversight and provide support on capacity to deliver strategy and growth, the 

Nomination Committee should continue to consider activities to build capability (see page 146 ).

•  There should be a continued focus on succession at an Executive Director and senior leadership 
level. In fulfilment of this, the Board will attend talent dinners biannually; succession plan updates 
will continue at the Nomination Committee; and in line with standing practice non-Executive 
Directors can attend management conferences and talent invited to present at Board meetings. 

The Board identified ongoing management of Board succession, and ensuring a smooth transition in 
roles, as priority areas of focus, given a number of changes to Board membership. The findings also 
supported the view it would be beneficial for greater geographic representation across its composition. 
Actions agreed by the Board:
• 

In light of the above, in 2022/23, the succession plan for Finance Director was approved, and a 
non-Executive Director search was undertaken which saw the appointment of Maarten Wetselaar 
(see pages 144 to 145 ).

Board Committees
The evaluation of Board Committee 
performance found that each Committee 
remained effective in providing Board 
support. Specific findings and the 
agreement of actions was overseen by 
each Committee Chair, with consideration 
of the overall findings for the Board. 

Progress will continue to be monitored  
by each Committee, with details set out in 
the Reports across pages 142 to 187 . 

Individual Director performance
Individual Director performance and 
contribution was assessed through 
one-to-one meetings with the Chair. 
These sessions allowed reflection on 
personal development and discussion of 
matters relevant to Boardroom culture and 
process. The findings, in combination with 

individual skills (see page 115 ), the  
time commitment, and independence 
assessments (see pages 143 and 146 ) 
confirmed that each Director continues  
to contribute positively. 

Chair performance 
The performance of the Chair was 
evaluated by the Senior Independent 
Director, based on: feedback gathered  
by an external facilitator; a thorough 
discussion with non-Executive and 
Executive Directors; and individual input 
from non-Executive and Executive 
Directors and selected senior managers.

The output of this performance review 
confirmed that Sir John Manzoni continues 
to be a effective and energetic Chair. He 
leads ambitious and constructive challenge, 
and appropriate support of the Executive 

Directors. He has a high degree of visibility 
and availability, is inclusive, and always 
looking to hear views while putting his  
own experience to appropriate use.  
He leads and conducts the Board well,  
both in the formal Board meetings and 
through regular interactions outside the 
Boardroom. He engages actively with 
colleagues at all levels and has continued 
to engage constructively with investors on 
strategy, governance, and ESG.

The priority focus areas for the Chair in  
the coming year, were agreed and aligned 
with those identified through the evaluation 
process for the Board as a whole. It was 
confirmed that he devoted sufficient time  
to the role, and in all respects met the 
requirements of the Code.

140

SSE plc  Annual Report 2023

SSE plc  Annual Report 2023

141

Financial StatementsStrategic ReportDirectors’ Report 
Nomination Committee Report

Role of the Committee
The Nomination Committee provides 
dedicated focus to the following 
people-led matters.

• 

•  Board leadership. Identifies  
the skills, knowledge and 
experience required for the 
effective leadership and long-term 
success of SSE, managing the 
balance of competencies through 
succession planning, knowledge 
development and recruitment. 
•  Board Committees. Monitors the 
size, structure and composition  
of the Board’s Committees to 
ensure the appropriate Board 
support now, and going forward.

•  Talent pipeline. Monitors the 
senior leadership pipeline and 
initiatives to develop internal 
capability, engaging in leadership 
programmes and updates on 
external recruitment.

Inclusion and diversity. Under  
the Board’s Policy, considers the 
perspectives and attributes across 
the Board and senior leadership, 
confirming ambitions and work to 
drive progress, reviewing overall 
support for Group-wide inclusion 
and diversity strategy. 

The Committee’s Terms of Reference 
are available on sse.com . 

Key activities in 2022/23
•  Reviewed Board composition. 
•  Recommended the succession 

plan for both the Finance Director 
and Company Secretary. 

•  Recommended the appointment 
of a new non-Executive Director. 
•  Assessed inclusion and diversity 

performance.

Dear Shareholder,
The execution of orderly succession  
plans to support the strength of the Board 
has been a significant Committee focus, 
and underpinned by assessment of the 
Board’s skills, knowledge, and tenure, in  
the context of SSE’s long-term growth and 
operating environment. The skills matrix  
on page 115  confirms the attributes we 
identify as key in the Board’s leadership role.

The external evaluation in 2021/22, cited an 
opportunity to monitor Board membership 
as SSE progressed its Net Zero Acceleration 
Programme, and this was explored in the 
candidate specification for a new non-
Executive Director. We are delighted the 
resultant search sees Maarten Wetselaar 
join the Board on 1 September 2023. 
Maarten’s appointment enhances existing 
international and renewables infrastructure 
capabilities, and brings a global outlook 
and career of energy leadership expertise 
to the Board. He will become a member of 
the Nomination, Audit, and Energy Markets 
Risk Committees upon appointment.

The Board has continued to benefit from 
the long-standing experience of the 
Executive Directors, and regularly reviews 
the internal pipeline and external talent  
pool to confirm optionality for any change. 
In 2022/23, we progressed the succession 
plan for the Finance Director, Gregor 
Alexander, with external support from  
Korn Ferry. This was a robust process,  

142

SSE plc  Annual Report 2023

with defined parameters, and from a 
shortlist comprising both internal and 
external candidates, Barry O’Regan, Finance 
Director, SSE Renewables, was identified as 
the strongest fit for the role. This objective 
outcome confirms the strength of internal 
talent development, and we will focus on  
an effective transition for 1 December 2023. 
Gregor has been instrumental in shaping 
SSE’s investment case and delivering our 
financial objectives over his 21 years in post, 
and we look forward to working with Barry 
in his role as Chief Financial Officer on the 
opportunities that lie ahead. More on the 
above processes and detail of how diversity 
was considered in Board recruitment during 
the year is on pages 144 to 145 . 

In another change, Sally Fairbairn, our 
Company Secretary and Director of 
Investor Relations also signalled her 
intention to retire, which was supported  
by the recommendation in May 2023 that 
Liz Tanner become General Counsel and 
Company Secretary from 1 August 2023.

We thanked Dame Sue Bruce for her 
dedication, as she stepped down after just 
over nine years’ service on 31 March 2023. 
And on 20 July 2023, we will see Peter Lynas 
complete his final term as a non-Executive 
Director. A number of changes in Board 
roles, set out in the 2022 Annual Report  
and on page 146 , take place as a result. 
Melanie Smith is now Remuneration 
Committee Chair and Lady Elish Angiolini 

Membership and attendance
The membership of the Committee 
comprises the non-Executive Directors  
and the Chair of the Board, who is also 
Chair of the Committee. The Company 
Secretary is Secretary, and where 
appropriate, the Executive Directors are 
invited to attend meetings. Biographical 
details of the Committee members can  
be found on pages 116 to 120 . The 
Committee met eight times in 2022/23 
with attendance on page 123 .

Board leadership
Composition and succession
The composition of the Board is informed  
by plans for orderly succession across Board 
and Committee roles. This is supported by 
regular assessment of the skills, experience 
and diversity the Board needs, in line with 
strategy and changes in SSE’s operating 
context. The backdrop to these discussions 
comprises the full breadth of Board work  
set out across the Directors’ Report, and the 
elements of Board composition and diversity 
set out on page 115 . 

Resulting from the above, and in line with 
work to support SSE’s Net Zero Programme, 
an independent non-Executive Director 
recruitment process was initiated in the  
year. Following a robust search, this saw the 
recommendation that Maarten Wetselaar 
join the Board from 1 September 2023. 

This was followed in April 2023, with the 
announcement that Gregor Alexander 
would be stepping down from the Board 
on 1 December 2023, at which time he  
will have served as Finance Director for  
21 years. In support of a comprehensive 
process, internal succession plans and the 
results of an external search, were subject 
to interview and selection with support 
from an independent recruitment firm.  
The resultant recommendation, which  
was approved by the Board, will see Barry 
O’Regan, current Finance Director, SSE 
Renewables, become Chief Financial 
Officer on 1 December 2023. 

Details of the work which supported each  
of the above appointments is set out on 
pages 144 to 145 . 

As reported in 2021/22, John Bason joined 
the Board as Audit Committee Chair 
designate on 1 June 2022. At which time  
he became a member of the Nomination 
Committee and Audit Committee. 

Following their respective nine year terms, 
Peter Lynas steps down from the Board on 
20 July 2023 and Dame Sue Bruce stepped 
down on 31 March 2023. The succession 
plan for their key Board roles is confirmed  
on page 146 .

Sally Fairbairn, Company Secretary and 
Director of Investor Relations will also step 
down from the role following notification 
of her retirement. The Committee 
subsequently recommended the split of  
her responsibilities, with Liz Tanner, SSE’s 
current General Counsel also to become 
Company Secretary in support of this 
change. This transition will take effect from 
1 August 2023. The position of Director of 
Investor Relations will become a separate 
role within the Investor Relations Team.

Time commitment 
The expected time commitment of the Chair 
and non-Executive Directors is agreed and 
set out in writing in a Letter of Appointment. 
This is issued following confirmation of an 
individual’s capacity to take on the role and 
involves an assessment of existing external 
commitments and demands on time.  
Any changes, such as additional external 
appointments which could impair the ability 
to meet the above, can only be accepted 
following approval of the Board. The 
acceptance of an external appointment by 
an Executive Director also remains subject  
to prior Board consent. Approved changes 
across 2022/23 are set out on page 117 . 

Committee evaluation

The annual review of Committee performance was facilitated by Lintstock (see pages 140 to 141 ) and the outputs considered by 
the full Committee. This confirmed the Committee’s continued effective operation and agreement of actions for 2023/24.

Evaluation confirmed

•  A robust process supports the review of Board composition and capabilities and has resulted 

in effective succession planning across non-Executive roles. 

•  Work on senior leadership pipelines with Group HR has strengthened and enabled deeper 

discussion surrounding talent and capability.

•  A clear rhythm of work has been established to review the impact of inclusion and diversity 

strategy at all levels, creating a platform to drive progress.

Actions for 2023/24

•  Board composition. Focus should be maintained on the collective and individual skills of  

the Board, in the context of tenure and SSE’s long-term growth, with support for transitions 
in membership.

•  Executive succession and talent pipeline. Positive challenge should continue surrounding 
the depth and breadth of succession plans for senior leadership, alongside work on internal 
and external talent pools.
Inclusion and diversity. The amplification of the inclusion and diversity agenda should  
be supported; assessing progress and identifying where targeted action is needed to  
deliver change. 

• 

SSE plc  Annual Report 2023

143

Non-Executive Director for Employee 
Engagement. Both Melanie and Lady Elish 
bring their own expertise to these positions.

In our annual review of Board Committee 
membership, and in advance of the change 
in Audit Committee Chair, we agreed  
John Bason would join the Remuneration 
Committee from May 2023, retaining the 
practice that the Audit Committee Chair 
provide a consistent view of Group 
performance across relevant Board forums.

Inclusion and diversity remains a core  
area of work, framed by the Board Inclusion 
and Diversity Policy and the internal 
ambitions which represent a commitment 
to progress. The diversity of the Board is on 
page 115 , with membership comprising 
42% women and one Director from an 
ethnic minority background. This will 
remain the position after the changes 
described above. Across membership, 
difference is enhanced through diverse 
perspectives and backgrounds and we  
seek to ensure this extends to Board 
Committees and Chair roles. Per the FCA’s 
Listing Rule, we explain the positions of 
Chair, Senior Independent Director, Chief 
Executive and Finance Director are held by 
men. This will continue to be considered 
within our agenda, with regard for our 
policy and stakeholder views.

Discussions with the Executive Directors and 
Group HR considers inclusion and diversity 
action below-Board level. Within senior 
management women’s representation is 
34.1% and we continue to work towards a 
target of 40% for 2025. An area of focus will 
be agreeing a supplementary ambition for 
ethnicity across this senior population. More 
on inclusion and diversity can be found on 
pages 148 to 149  and in the Inclusion and 
Diversity Report on sse.com .

Sir John Manzoni 
Chair of the Nomination Committee
23 May 2023

Financial StatementsStrategic ReportDirectors’ ReportNomination Committee Report continued

Board recruitment  
and succession process

Stage 1 
Confirm  
objective of 
the process 
and role 
specification. 

Stage 2 
Engage  
an external 
recruitment  
firm and set out 
process. 

Stage 3
Assess  
how the 
specification 
can be met 
through  
a longlist.

Stage 4 
Review  
technical  
and cultural  
fit to agree  
a shortlist. 

Stage 5 
Identify the 
preferred 
candidate to 
recommend  
to the Board. 

Embedding inclusivity
SSE’s Board Inclusion and Diversity Policy sets out actions to promote 
diverse appointments and inclusive recruitment processes. This includes 
using gender neutral language to ensure role specifications are accessible  
to a wide range of candidates and engaging those who are signatories to  
the enhanced voluntary code of conduct for executive search firms. As SSE 
champions a culture which embraces difference, organisational fit remains  
a key parameter in additional to technical capability. More on inclusion and 
diversity, and the Board’s policy can be found on pages 148 to 149 . 

External search firms 
Russell Reynolds supported the search for a new non-Executive Director and 
has no further connection with SSE or its Directors. Korn Ferry provided its 
executive search services, within the Finance Director succession work, 
independent of other leadership development and below-Board reward 
consultancy support for which it is engaged by SSE. 

Independent 
non-Executive 
Director 
appointment

Key search criteria
•  Large capital projects.
•  Operations, 

development,  
or construction  
of renewable energy.
International business 
and M&A.

• 

•  Engagement with  
capital markets.

Finance Director 
succession 

Key search criteria
•  Strong financial, listed 
company and investor 
credentials.
•  Experience of 

organisational scale  
and complexity. 

•  Demonstrable capital 
investment and M&A 
expertise.

•  Proficiency in managing 

debt and funding 
strategies.

Diversity of  
key board roles

For details of SSE’s 
disclosure against  
Listing Rule 9.8.6(9)  
please see page 149 .

External search diversity 

29%

of profiles 
gender 
diverse

12%

of profiles 
ethnically 
diverse

15

nationalities 
represented

Supporting overall Board diversity
Maarten Wetselaar brings distinct and additive international energy leadership and 
related perspectives to the Board. Both from his current role as Chief Executive of 
CEPSA, the Spanish multinational oil, gas, and diversified energy company, and 26 years 
at Shell, where he played a pivotal role in establishing its renewables business activity. 
His breadth and depth of experience across conventional and new energy projects 
enhance existing Board knowledge and will reinforce positive challenge. In addition, 
expertise across business growth and portfolio transformation, and working knowledge 
across capital and commodity markets, remain key to SSE’s growth and strategy. 

Stage 1 To enhance 
existing Board 
capabilities across 
growth in new  
markets and emerging 
international options,  
an objective search for  
a new non-Executive 
Director was agreed  
by the Committee.

Stage 2 Russell Reynolds 
was engaged to support 
the process and 
identified search 
categories, aligned  
to the key criteria, to 
allow consideration of 
different backgrounds 
and leadership models. 
This comprised direct 
and indirect expertise 
across the energy value 
chain to foster diversity 
of candidate profiles.

Stage 3 Maintaining as 
broad a brief as possible, 
the Committee created  
a longlist for discussion. 
An agreed sub-
Committee worked  
with the search firm to 
support engagement 
and considerations in 
respect of interest, 
bandwidth, and conflicts 
for this pool.

Stage 4 A shortlist of 
candidates was engaged 
to meet with each 
member of the sub-
Committee, and an 
update provided to  
the full Committee to 
provide comments on 
progress. The preferred 
candidate was then 
invited to meet with two 
Executive Directors. 

Stage 5  
A recommendation  
was made to appoint 
Maarten Wetselaar  
to the Board and 
Nomination, Audit,  
and Energy Markets  
Risk Committees from 
1 September 2023. This 
followed confirmation  
of independence and 
capacity to take on  
the role.

External search diversity 

47%

of profiles 
gender 
diverse

7%

of profiles 
ethnically 
diverse

6

nationalities 
represented

Supporting overall Board diversity
The appointment of Barry O’Regan represents internal succession, as he moves from 
the role of Finance Director, SSE Renewables in which he also has responsibilty for 
corporate finance across the SSE Group. Following rigorous assessment, he was 
confirmed to bring the individual and technical attributes required of Chief Financial 
Officer and deemed a highly capable successor possessing substantive financial and 
energy sector experience from a 20-year career. He brings his own strengths to the 
financial leadership and growth of SSE, having been integral to the reshaping of the 
Group and overseeing many of SSE’s large capital investments, in addition to leading 
teams and working across financial control, corporate finance and M&A, treasury, 
reporting and operational finance. 

Stage 1 The Committee 
initiated work to assess 
and develop existing 
succession plans for the 
role of Finance Director. 
This was led by a 
non-Executive sub-
Committee, with 
involvement from the 
Chief Executive and 
Director of HR. 

Stage 2 Korn Ferry was 
appointed to initiate  
a prospective scan of 
external pools against  
an agreed role 
specification. Different 
search streams were 
engaged to support 
identification of a depth 
and breadth of profiles 
and allow prioritisation 
of the key search criteria.

Stage 3 A longlist was 
compiled, and potential 
candidate fit measured 
against the key criteria. 
Existing internal 
succession plans were 
graded in the same  
way and presented to 
the sub-Committee 
alongside this work.  
At the request of the 
sub-Committee, Korn 
Ferry engaged with 
interested candidates.

Stage 4 The Chief 
Executive and Director 
of HR, refined a shortlist 
of internal and external 
options for sub-
Committee discussion. 
Each member of  
the sub-Committee  
met high-potential 
candidates, with the 
Chief Commercial 
Officer engaged in the 
final stages. All non-
Executive Directors were 
invited to meet with the 
sub-Committee’s 
preferred candidate.

Stage 5 It was 
recommended to the 
Board to enact the 
succession plan for 
Finance Director in line 
with confirmation of 
Gregor Alexander’s 
intention to retire. This 
recommended that Barry 
O’Regan be appointed 
Chief Financial Officer 
from 1 December 2023, 
with a phased transfer of 
responsibility for IT and 
General Counsel teams 
to the Chief Executive, 
and for Procurement to 
the Chief Commercial 
Officer. 

144

SSE plc  Annual Report 2023

SSE plc  Annual Report 2023

145

Financial StatementsStrategic ReportDirectors’ ReportNomination Committee Report continued

Director re-appointment
All non-Executive Directors undertake a 
fixed term of three years subject to annual 
re-election by shareholders. The fixed  
term can be extended, and consistent with 
best practice, does not exceed nine years 
subject to defined circumstances as 
identified by the Committee. 

Extensions recommended in the period 
were a second three-year term for Dame 
Angela Strank, and a time-limited extension, 
from 1 July 2023 to the conclusion of the 
AGM on 20 July 2023, in the tenure of Peter 
Lynas. The latter was to facilitate an orderly 
handover in the role of Audit Committee 
Chair. In line with standing practice, each 
decision was supported by the continuing 
independence, experience, and contribution 
that each Director brings to both Board and 
Committee work. 

Conflicts of interest and independence
Each Director has a duty to disclose  
any actual or potential conflict of  
interest situations, as defined by law, for 
consideration and approval if appropriate by 
the Board. This requirement is supported by 
an annual authorisation process, in which 
the Committee reviews SSE’s Conflicts of 
Interest Register, and seeks confirmation 
from each Director of any changes or 
updates to their position. 

This process informs the simultaneous 
assessment of a non-Executive Director’s 
independence, as following the absence  
of any conflict, the Committee reflects 
upon the outcome of each individual 
Director’s performance evaluation (see 
page 141 ) and the circumstances set 
out in the Code which could compromise 
an individual’s position.

Following review in 2022/23, and to the 
exclusion of the interested Director in each 
case, the Committee recommended, and 
Board confirmed: updates to the Conflicts 
of Interest Register; the continuing 
independence and objective judgement  
of each non-Executive Director; and the 
overall independence of the Board in line 
with the recommendations of the Code.

Additional safeguards to support Director 
independence continue through:
•  Meetings between the Chair and the 
non-Executive Directors, individually 
and collectively, without the Executive 
Directors present.

•  Separate and clearly defined roles for 

the Chair, as head of the Board, and the 
Chief Executive, as head of executive 
management (see page 139 ). This 
division of responsibility is supported  
by a degree of contact outside of  
Board meetings to ensure an effective 
ongoing dialogue and channel for  
the timely escalation of external or 
internal developments.

Director induction 

All Directors receive a comprehensive 
induction programme. This is tailored 
through discussion with the Chair 
and the Company Secretary and 
considers existing expertise and  
any prospective Board or Board 
Committee roles. 

The agreed plan for John Bason 
comprised a balance of knowledge-
based sessions with internal 
functions and external advisors,  
in addition to site visits across 
locations to provide exposure  
to SSE’s businesses and working 
environments. Delivery has been  
in phases with information material 
to the non-Executive Director role 
provided in the early stages. 

An induction programme for Maarten 
Wetselaar and Barry O’Regan will be 
agreed upon joining the Board.

John Bason induction programme

Areas covered

Sessions by

SSE’s purpose, strategy, operating 
context, and business model 

Financial performance and  
strategy, funding, assurance,  
and investment community 

Energy sector and trends, SSE’s energy 
portfolio and long-term energy markets

Chief Executive 
Group Strategy 
MD of each Business Unit

Finance Director 
Senior Finance leaders
External Auditor
Investor Relations
SSE’s Brokers

Chief Commercial Officer 

Net zero transition, sustainability,  
and stakeholder engagement

Chief Sustainability Officer
Group Corporate Affairs

Safety, health and the environment,  
and SSE’s people and culture

Corporate governance and  
Board operations 

Legal and regulatory views of the external 
environment and SSE’s risk profile

Director of HR 
Group Safety, Health and 
Environment Manager

Company Secretary and  
Director of Investor Relations

General Counsel 
SSE’s Legal Advisors
Director of Regulation
Group Chief Information Officer

Knowledge and training
Any Director can request further information 
to support their individual duties or 
collective Board role. The arrangements are 
overseen by the Company Secretary and 
can be internally or externally facilitated, 
with sessions typically originating from 
technical Board discussions, an identified 
training opportunity, or area of general 
interest relating to SSE. Outside of monthly 
agenda time, the Board schedule included 
nine strategic deep dives in 2022/23 in 
addition to several external speaker sessions 
– which were often structured to precede 
Board discussion at meetings. Further details 
of the topics covered are on page 125 . 

Through SSE’s mandatory training 
programme, all Directors are requested  
to refresh their understanding of current 
obligations and recent developments in 
areas pertinent to their role. These modules 
address, among other matters: Directors’ 
Duties; competition law; anti-money 
laundering and financial sanctions; data 
protection; and inclusion and diversity.  
In 2022/23, a cyber security session was 
offered to all Board members covering  
the threat landscape; cyber awareness  
and defence; and actions to support SSE’s 
security culture. 

To remain abreast of, and connected to, 
broader societal trends, expectations and 
issues, the Directors are encouraged to 
participate in seminars and events hosted 
by external organisations. Discussion  
with peers, other sectors, and individuals  
in different professional and personal 
situations, is viewed as an opportunity  
to develop broader perspectives and 
insights, which can translate into different 
thinking styles and new debate within 
Board discussions. 

Board Committees and key roles
Board Committee composition and the 
appointment of key Board roles is designed 
around the following principles: to ensure 
alignment between skills and specific 
Committee responsibilities; to prevent 
undue reliance on the capacity of any 
Director; and to comply with recognised 
guidance including the Code. Annually,  
the Board considers the composition of  
its Committees to assess the allocation  
of skills and how the diversity of the  
Board is carried through, by extension,  
to its supporting forums. At 23 May  
2023, each Committee has at least  
40% female membership across non-
Executive positions. 

Changes can be recommended to support 
succession plans, in line with new Board 
appointments, or in response to the annual 
review described above. In 2022/23, the 
Board approved the following membership 
recommendations. 

On investing in broader talent and capability, 
updates are provided on critical skills 
investment and performance improvement, 
which are centred on an agreed set of 
leadership capabilities and competencies 
required for SSE’s long-term growth. 

In the context of SSE’s Net Zero 
Acceleration Programme, emphasis has 
been placed on commercial expertise, 
project delivery, digital, data, and the 
international context, with these endorsed 
as key development areas for structured 
training interventions. The Committee has 
also had input from external partners on 
how talent is benchmarking externally, and 
on a specific focused initiative to encourage 
more gender diversity into senior leadership 
talent pipelines.

The Committee also continued to receive 
updates on the progress of the Leadership 
Development Review which has been 
providing leadership teams with feedback 
about how they align with SSE’s Leadership 
Blueprint and Enterprise Leadership Model. 
In providing Board-level support to the 
Leadership Blueprint, Debbie Crosbie 
participated in a virtual session with leaders, 
to explore the refreshed framework and 
behaviours which define leadership within 
SSE’s culture. 

To provide direct exposure to the talent 
pool and allow reciprocal sharing of 
experiences, members of the Committee 
engage in core talent programmes,  
with the diversity across training cohorts 
monitored to encourage and progress 
difference. Additional engagement  
with future leaders is facilitated through 
presentations at meetings, business-led 
sessions, and attendance at conferences. 
The open two-way dialogue between the 
Directors and all levels of the organisation 
is a key tool for observing and informally 
coaching emerging talent. 

The previously agreed succession plan, for 
the Board roles held by Dame Sue Bruce, 
saw Melanie Smith assume the role of 
Remuneration Committee Chair, and Lady 
Elish Angiolini become SSE’s non-Executive 
Director for Employee Engagement, both 
with effect from 1 April 2023. The views  
of the Committee which led to the above 
recommendations are set out on page 149 
of the Annual Report 2022 . 

Supporting his appointment as Audit 
Committee Chair designate, John Bason 
takes on the role of Audit Committee Chair 
on 21 July 2023. This follows Peter Lynas 
stepping down from the Board on 20 July 
2023. John also joins the Remuneration 
Committee in advance of this date on 
22 May 2023. 

Talent capability and 
development 
Succession for senior leadership roles,  
and strategy to support talent development 
by building capability for the future, is 
overseen by the Committee with support 
from Group HR, with formal updates 
considered at least twice a year. 

On succession, at least annually, the 
Committee reviews the existing internal 
pipeline of candidates for immediate and 
medium- to longer-term movement into 
key leadership and functional roles. This  
is subject to routine challenge to ensure 
understanding of the breadth of internal 
potential and experience represented by 
external talent pools. 

In 2022/23 the Committee received updates 
on Board, Group Executive Committee  
and Business Unit Executive Committee 
succession options, which included a review 
of timing of readiness, and consideration of 
new talent and succession capability that 
had been recruited into SSE. The Committee 
also received updates on the targeted 
development activity that is taking place 
across the population, and engaged in  
a number of discussions with external 
providers to understand the impact of  
these key initiatives.

146

SSE plc  Annual Report 2023

SSE plc  Annual Report 2023

147

Financial StatementsStrategic ReportDirectors’ ReportNomination Committee Report continued

Senior leadership ambitions 
Below Board-level, the Committee 
provides specific focus to the diversity  
of SSE’s senior leadership and pipelines, 
including the recommendations of external 
initiatives and shareholder views. To identify 
the levers for progress, close work has 
continued with the Executive Directors  
and Group HR to develop clear action  
plans which are underpinned by stretching 
ambitions. More detail on these ambitions 
and progress can be found on page 60 .

Consistent with next steps agreed through 
2021/22 external Board evaluation, and a 
commitment to providing counsel on SSE’s 
approach, the Nomination Committee has 
conducted biannual reviews of diversity 
strategy and scorecards, covering:
•  accelerating progress across ambitions; 
•  empowering inclusive leadership  
and fluency across inclusion and 
diversity topics; 

•  assessing the effectiveness and 

continuous improvement of existing 
processes; and 

•  actively listening to the employee voice. 

With strong support for the enhanced  
and increased frequency of contact with 
the executive teams, actions were reset 
through the 2022/23 Board evaluation  
for further work across the coming year. 

Following the recommendation of the 
Parker Review for FTSE 350 companies to 
set targets for ethnic minority representation 
across senior management teams. Focus 
will be provided to improving diversity data 
disclosure to allow a credible target to be 
set. This will be reported on in the Annual 
Report 2023.

Board engagement on inclusion  
and diversity
In addition to desktop work, Committee 
members have proactively engaged with 
SSE’s employee-led ’Belonging in SSE’ 
communities and responded to requests for 
Board-level views on inclusion and diversity 
issues. More detail on these activities can be 
found on pages 134 to 136 .

Inclusion and diversity
SSE’s Group-wide inclusion and  
diversity strategy is explained across  
pages 60 to 62  and in SSE’s Inclusion  
and Diversity Report 2023  available on 
sse.com . 

Role of the Committee 
The role of the Nomination Committee  
in relation to inclusion and diversity starts 
with an assessment of difference across  
the composition of the Board and its 
Committees. At senior leadership-level,  
it sets expectations to nurture an inclusive 
culture so that diversity is embraced; 
confirming inclusion and diversity plans 
and ambitions and seeking assurance 
surrounding progress. This is enabled 
through work with Group HR to review  
the impact of initiatives which are in place. 
The Committee monitors decisions across 
the above areas with cognisance for the 
Group-wide approach. 

Board policy
The Board operates under a standalone 
inclusion and diversity policy which can  
be found on sse.com . Its objective is to 
set a Board-led culture which is inclusive  
to all views, perspectives and experiences, 
and which fosters diversity as a norm. 
Across Board membership, the policy  
drives balance and alignment with SSE’s 
purpose, strategy and values, through 
agreed principles and targets which reflect  
the measures the Board will take when 
considering its membership and that of its 
Committees. The Nomination Committee 
reviews this policy, including targets and 
progress, at least annually, with diversity 
permeating all areas of Committee work.

In setting principles and targets, the 
Nomination Committee, and Board, 
acknowledge the external expectations  
of stakeholders and the opportunities  
to drive change through succession 
planning. The FTSE Women Leaders 
Review and Parker Review are reflected 
within Board ambitions. 

An overarching priority for the Nomination 
Committee is that succession plans remain 
refreshed, and provide options to support  
an orderly transition should a Board vacancy 
arise in the short-, medium- and long-term. 
These succession plans were mobilised in 
the year to support the handover in role of 
Finance Director.

More on SSE’s Board Inclusion and Diversity 
Policy is set out opposite. 

Board inclusion  
and diversity
Board Policy

How the policy links to strategy
People are at the heart of the 
transformational change needed  
to achieve net zero, and SSE believes 
innovative solutions to climate  
change require diverse perspectives, 
different experiences, and new skills. 
The principles of equality, fairness, 
inclusion and diversity must be at  
the heart of everything it does.

Policy principles
• 

Identify Board and Committee  
needs and the balance of diversity 
characteristics.  
See page 143 .

•  Adopt a formal and inclusive Board 

recruitment process.

•  Engage firms who are signatories  
to the enhanced code of conduct 
and discuss ambitions for diverse 
candidate lists.

•  Recruit on an objective and  

shared understanding of merit.  
See page 144 to 145 .

•  Nurture an inclusive Board and 

Committee culture. 

•  Oversee work to develop a diverse 

talent pipeline.

•  Be aware of stakeholder 

expectations and challenge targets 
in wider strategy.  
See pages 137, 147 and 148 .

Policy targets
•  An ultimate goal of enduring gender 
parity, whereby the Board commits 
to female representation of not less 
than 40%, with the aim to maintain 
as close to 50% male and female 
representation as possible on a 
rolling basis.

  Target met. 42% women on the 

Board at 23 May 2023. 42.8% rolling 
three-year female representation at 
31 March 2023.

•  Consider female representation 
across the roles of Chair, Senior 
Independent Director, Chief 
Executive and Finance Director.

See explanation opposite.

•  The Board should have at least  
one Director from an ethnic  
minority background.

  Target met. 1 ethnic minority 
represented across Board 
membership.

Explanation against LR 9.8.6(9)
As at the Company’s chosen reference 
date, 31 March 2023, and in line with FCA 
Listing Rule 9.8.6(9), SSE confirms it has 
met the targets for at least 40% female 
membership on the Board and for one 
Director to be from an ethnic minority 
background. It has not met the target  
for one of the positions of Chair, Senior 
Independent Director, Chief Executive or 
Finance Director to be held by a woman. 
The reasons for this are set out below. 

Executive Directors
The roles of Chief Executive and Finance 
Director have been held by Alistair 
Phillips-Davies and Gregor Alexander for 9 
and 20 years respectively. These positions 
support the long-term strategic delivery  
of the SSE Group and remain subject to 
considered succession planning to ensure 
this strength of leadership continues. 

The announcement in April 2023, that 
Barry O’Regan would succeed Gregor 
Alexander in the role of Chief Financial 
Officer from December 2023, was the 
result of a rigorous external process  
and objective assessment of internal 

succession plans. Assisted by purposeful 
design, diversity was considered at each 
stage and details of the recommendation 
made by the Nomination Committee is set 
out on page 145 . The overriding priority 
across all Board appointments remains 
identification of the strongest candidate 
for the role, based on clear search criteria 
and the need for an orderly transition. 

Further detail of the challenge applied  
by the Nomination Committee on the 
continued development of a diverse 
internal pipeline, and the work to oversee 
external benchmarking to ensure SSE has 
the diversity and capabilities needed for 
future growth, is set out on page 147 . 

Chair and Senior Independent Director 
SSE’s Chair, Sir John Manzoni, has held  
the position since April 2021 following 
appointment to the Board in September 
2020. This resulted from a robust and 
inclusive appointment process and  
details of how diversity was challenged  
at each stage can be found in the  
Annual Report 2021 .

SSE’s Senior Independent Director,  
Tony Cocker, has held the position since 
October 2020 following appointment  
to the Board in May 2018. Tony was 
appointed in line with the internal 
succession plan for the role and  
continues to effectively support the  
Board and Chair in this position.

Full details of the skills and attributes 
which support each of the above 
appointments can be found in the 
individual Director biographies set  
out on pages 116 to 120 . 

Work continues to ensure that gender  
and ethnicity, alongside broader diversity 
characteristics are present across the 
Board and targeted action would be taken 
should the overall diversity of membership 
be deemed insufficient at any time.

In support of transparent disclosure, SSE 
will continue to report on its progress in 
the Annual Report in advance of the FTSE 
Women Leaders target date of December 
2025, and welcomes feedback and 
engagement from shareholders and  
wider stakeholders on this topic.

Data under LR 9.8.6(10)
In line with LR 9.8.6(10), as at the reference date of 31 March 2023, the composition of the Board and Executive Management was  
as follows.

Gender (sex)

Man

Woman

Ethnic background

Number  
of Board 
members

Percentage  
of the Board

Number of  
senior positions on the Board  
(CEO, CFO, SID and Chair)

Number  
in Executive  
Management1

Percentage  
of Executive 
Management1

7

6

54%

46%

4

0

8

3

73%

27%

Number  
of Board  
members

Percentage  
of the Board

Number of  
senior positions on the Board  
(CEO, CFO, SID and Chair)

Number  
in Executive  
Management1

Percentage  
of Executive 
Management1

White British or other White
(including minority-white groups)

Mixed/Multiple Ethnic Groups

Asian/Asian British

Black/African/Caribbean/Black British

Other ethnic group,  
including Arab

Not specified/ prefer not to say

12

92%

–

–

–

1

–

–

–

–

8%

–

4

–

–

–

–

–

11

100%

–

–

–

–

–

1  Per the definition within the Listing Rules, executive management within SSE is the Group Executive Committee including the Company Secretary.

Gender is captured as sex for all employees at the onboarding stage and held on the Company’s secure people data system,  
Harmony. SSE has 100% completion of sex data and that is what is used when reporting the gender diversity of the Board and 
executive management. Recognising that for some, gender identity can differ from that assigned at birth, all employees are offered  
the opportunity to volunteer their gender identity directly within Harmony, or by completing a diversity data form that is electronically 
uploaded onto the system. Ethnicity data is also provided voluntarily and can be offered in the same was as gender identity. SSE has 
100% voluntary completion of ethnicity data at Board and executive management level. All diversity data reporting is done securely 
and in a way that protects anonymity so that no one person can be identifiable. All information is strictly confidential in accordance 
with SSE’s Privacy Notice in line with the UK and ROI General Data Protection Regulations (UK GDPR and GDPR 2018 and DPA 2018). 

148

SSE plc  Annual Report 2023

SSE plc  Annual Report 2023

149

Financial StatementsStrategic ReportDirectors’ Report 
Audit Committee Report

Role of the Committee
Financial reporting
•  Review the integrity of the interim 
and annual Financial Statements.

•  Review the appropriateness of 

accounting policies and practices.

•  Review the significant financial 
judgements and estimates 
considered in relation to the 
Financial Statements, including 
how each was addressed.

•  Review the content of the Annual 
Report and Accounts and advise 
the Board on whether taken as  
a whole, it is fair, balanced and 
understandable.

External audit
•  Review and monitor the objectivity 
and independence of the External 
Auditor, and oversee the policy  
on the provision of Non-Audit 
Services. 

•  Review and monitor the 

effectiveness of the external  
audit process and the ongoing 
relationship with the External 
Auditor.

•  Review and make 

recommendations to the  
Board on the tendering of the 
external audit contract, and the 
appointment, remuneration  
and terms of engagement  
of the External Auditor.

Internal audit
•  Review and approve the  

Internal Audit Plan and monitor  
its implementation.

•  Review and monitor the 

effectiveness of the Internal Audit 
function, including the adequacy of 
the overall Internal Audit resource. 

Internal control and risk 
management
•  Review and monitor the 

effectiveness of the management 
of risk and overall System of 
Internal Control.

•  Review the framework and analysis 
to support both the Going Concern 
and the long-term Viability 
Statement.

The Committee’s Terms of Reference 
were reviewed during the year, and are 
available on sse.com . 

Key activities in 2022/23
The key areas of focus in the year 
included:
•  Ensuring the business performance 

is fairly presented in financial 
reporting.

•  Assessing the output of an external 
quality assessment of the Internal 
Audit function carried out by PwC.
•  Overseeing the project to enhance 
the internal control framework for 
financial reporting.

•  Orderly transition of Audit 

Committee Chair.

•  Consideration of accounting for 

new matters in the year including 
the Energy Bill Relief Scheme and 
the Electricity Generator Levy.

Dear Shareholder,
On behalf of the Board, I am pleased  
to present the Audit Committee Report 
which is intended to provide shareholders 
with an understanding of the work we  
have done to provide assurance on the 
integrity of the Annual Report and Financial 
Statements for the year ended 31 March 
2023, together with the effectiveness of  
the Group’s risk management and internal 
controls framework in a year of exceptional 
market volatility.

The process which the Group adopted in 
relation to identification and quantification 
of its climate-related risks and opportunities, 
together with the governance processes 
established to oversee and approve the 
associated reporting, were considered  
by the Audit Committee. The approach 
adopted this year builds on the strong 

150

SSE plc  Annual Report 2023

foundations that were established last  
year and I am pleased to report that SSE  
is now fully compliant with the TCFD 
recommendations and recommended 
disclosures. SSE believes there is an 
opportunity to further enhance its 
reporting in this area and will actively  
seek feedback from shareholders and 
stakeholders on best practice.

During the year, the Committee  
engaged PwC to carry out a detailed 
External Quality Assessment (EQA) of the 
Internal Audit function. The findings and 
key recommendations were presented to 
the Committee in February 2023. Overall, 
the Internal Audit function was found to be 
well established and highly valued across 
the organisation. A summary of the scope, 

Committee membership
The composition of the Committee is 
compliant with the Code and currently 
comprises five independent non-Executive 
Directors as Committee members. Peter 
Lynas has chaired the Committee since 
2014 and is considered by the Board  
to have recent and relevant financial 
experience. He was Group Finance Director 
of BAE Systems plc until 31 March 2020  
and is a Fellow of the Chartered Association 
of Certified Accountants. Peter Lynas will 
stand down after the AGM on 20 July 2023 
and John Bason, who joined the Board on 
1 June 2022, and became a member of the 
Audit Committee on appointment will take 
over the role as Chair. John Bason was 
Group Finance Director of Associated 
British Foods plc until 28 April 2023 and  
is a member of the Institute of Chartered 
Accountants in England and Wales. Both 
John Bason and Debbie Crosbie are also 
considered by the Board to have recent and 
relevant financial experience. The Board 
considers that the Audit Committee as a 
whole has competence relevant to the 
sector, with two members having had 
significant executive roles in the energy 
sector, and all members possessing an 
appropriate level of experience in corporate 
financial matters. Biographical details of the 
Audit Committee members can be found on 
pages 116 to 120  and details of meeting 
attendance are set out on page 123 . 

Gregor Alexander, who joined SSE at its 
inception in 1998 and has been Finance 
Director since 2002, will step down from  
the Board on 1 December 2023. Following a 
competitive recruitment process supported 
by an external executive search firm, Barry 
O’Regan will be appointed as Chief Financial 
Officer and as an Executive Director of SSE 
plc with effect from 1 December 2023. 

Barry trained as a chartered accountant 
with PwC in Dublin before joining Airtricity 
in 2005, and subsequently the SSE Group  
in 2008. With nearly 20 years’ experience 
working in the energy sector, Barry has  
a wealth of knowledge across financial 
control, corporate finance and M&A, 
treasury, reporting and operational finance. 
He is currently Finance Director of SSE 
Renewables as well as having responsibility 
for corporate finance across the whole  
of SSE.

Meetings 
The Committee has a structured forward-
looking planner to reflect the Group’s 
annual financial reporting cycle. The 
planner informs the business considered  
at each meeting and is regularly reviewed 
and updated to reflect areas identified for 
additional focus. Much of the work of the 
Committee is necessarily targeted around 

the key areas of financial reporting, external 
audit, internal audit, internal control and 
risk management. The practice of effective 
governance and quality reporting underpin 
all aspects of the work of the Committee. 
The Committee met on four occasions 
during the year and has met once since  
the end of the financial year. Before each 
meeting, the Committee Chair meets with 
the Finance Director and External Auditor 
to ensure there is a shared understanding 
of the key issues to be discussed. Committee 
meetings are held in advance of Board 
meetings to facilitate an effective and 
timely reporting process. The Committee 
Chair provides a report to the Board 
following each meeting. 

Meetings are routinely attended by: the 
Chair of the Board; the Finance Director; 
the Director of Group Risk and Audit; 
Partners from the External Auditor; and  
the Deputy Company Secretary (who  
is Secretary to the Committee). Senior 
finance and business managers are invited 
to attend certain meetings to enable the 
Committee to gain a deeper level of  
insight on particular items of business. The 
Committee meets with the External Auditor 
privately at least twice each year in line with 
the financial reporting calendar and also 
with the Director of Group Risk and Audit. 

Annual financial reporting cycle

e r

b

Septe m

N

o

v

e

m

b

e

r

External
audit 
planning

Half-year 
Results

Audit 
Committee

Full-year 
Results

M

a

y

External 
Audit 
control 
testing

F e b ruary

These engagements provide an additional 
opportunity for open dialogue and feedback 
without management being present.

In addition to the scheduled meetings,  
the Committee Chair meets separately  
with the Finance Director, Director of 
Group Risk and Audit, External Auditor  
and Committee Secretary to ensure the 
work of the Committee is focused on key 
and emerging issues. 

Committee evaluation

The actions identified from the 2021/22 evaluation relating to Audit Committee 
Chair transition and developing the approach to risk management have made good 
progress in the year, and will continue to feature on the Committee agenda in the 
year ahead. The annual review of Committee performance in 2022/23 was facilitated 
by Lintstock (see pages 140 to 141 ), with the output considered and follow-up 
actions agreed by the Committee. The evaluation confirmed the effective operation 
of the Committee, and the Board endorsed the view that the Audit Committee 
continued to effectively discharge its responsibilities. 

Evaluation 
confirmed

•  Meetings were well managed and effectively chaired.
•  The relationships between the Audit Committee and the Finance 
Director, Director of Risk and Audit and other members of senior 
management were open and honest and benefitted from a high 
degree of constructive challenge.

•  The key accounting judgements were given an appropriate 

degree of focus and challenge.

Actions to 
progress 
during 
2023/24

•  Support to the new Audit Committee Chair.
•  Arrange briefings to gain an external perspective on how  
other organisations are dealing with matters such as risk  
and audit reform.

•  Focus in further developing the approach to risk management 

and integrated assurance, underpinned by the Audit and 
Assurance Policy.

•  Continue to oversee the project to enhance the internal controls 
over financial reporting, including the developments to enhance 
the level of automation, process and standards.

approach and key findings are covered  
in more detail in the report that follows.
The Committee continued to receive 
regular updates on the status of the BEIS 
consultation on ‘Restoring Trust in Audit  
and Corporate Governance’. Whilst  
there remains areas of uncertainty in the 
measures to be implemented, SSE has 
made significant progress in developing  
the internal control framework for financial 
reporting. At each Committee meeting,  
an update on progress is provided by the 
project team covering legislative and 
regulatory developments, progress on 
implementation and validation of Finance 
and IT controls, and the change programme 
to support the organisation adopt the new 
framework from 1 April 2024. These regular 
briefings allow the Committee to ensure 
that necessary preparations are being 
considered and progressed in line with  
or ahead of regulatory change.

On 16 December 2022, I received a  
letter from the FRC following their review 
of the SSE’s 2022 Annual Report and 
Accounts. The FRC stated that there were 
‘no questions or queries’ in relation to those 
Annual Report and Accounts1. The FRC did 
highlight certain matters which SSE were 
invited to consider in relation to preparation 
of the 2023 Annual Report and Accounts, 
and these matters have been dealt within 
our approach to disclosure this year.

After 9 years as Audit Committee Chair,  
I will be standing down following the AGM 
in 2023. Over the last year, I have worked 
with my successor, John Bason, to ensure  
a smooth and orderly transition. I hope  
you find this report informative and take 
assurance from the work undertaken by  
the Committee during the year.

Peter Lynas 
Chair of the Audit Committee
23 May 2023

1 

In line with FRC requirements, the letter provides no assurance that the Annual Report and Accounts are 
correct in all material respects. The FRC’s role is not to verify the information provided but to consider 
compliance with reporting requirements.

SSE plc  Annual Report 2023

151

Financial StatementsStrategic ReportDirectors’ ReportAudit Committee Report continued

Focus of Audit Committee business over the year

Actions

Outcomes

September November

February May

Financial Reporting 

Reviewed the financial statements prepared  
for the half and full year, and challenged 
management on the appropriateness of the 
accounting in relation to the significant financial 
judgements, estimates, exceptional items and 
basis of preparation as a going concern. Received 
a report from the External Auditor covering the 
accounting, financial control and audit issues 
identified during the half-year review and 
full-year audit.

Assessed the appropriateness and presentation 
of APMs to enable comparability with other 
companies.

Reviewed a report on the Group’s tax position 
covering adjusted underlying tax rate, areas  
of potential tax exposure and provisioning  
and Fair Tax Mark accreditation.

Reviewed and challenged the scenarios aligned 
to the Group Principal risks to stress test the 
viability assessment proposed by management 
and reasons why a four-year assessment period 
was appropriate.

Reviewed the impact of climate change  
on disclosure, including the assurance 
arrangements relating to the TCFD and  
other ESG-related disclosures. 

Reviewed whether the company’s position  
and prospects as presented in the 31 March 
2023 annual report and financial statements 
were considered to be a fair, balanced and 
understandable assessment of the company’s 
position and prospects.

External Audit

The Committee challenged management  
on a number of its judgements and sought 
detailed explanations including the opinion  
of the External Auditor. The Committee made  
a recommendation to the Board in support of 
approving the financial statements, the going 
concern statement, and letter of representation 
issued to the External Auditor.

The Committee concurred with management’s 
approach that the APMs as defined were 
appropriate and enabled comparability with  
other companies.

The Committee supported judgements around 
the Energy Bill Relief Scheme and recognition of 
the Electricity Generator Levy. The Committee 
were satisfied with the enhanced disclosures 
made in support of the Fair Tax Mark accreditation. 

The Committee were satisfied that the viability 
assessment process was robust and that the 
length of the period was appropriate, and 
adequately disclosed.

The Committee reviewed the impact of the 
accelerated NZAP programme on financial risks, 
judgements and disclosures. The Committee 
challenged the consistency in key assumptions 
and concluded that the impact of climate change 
had been adequately addressed, and that the 
assurance processes supporting the narrative 
reporting for TCFD and other ESG-related 
disclosures were satisfactory. 

The Committee sought confirmation that the  
Fair, Balanced and Understandable assurance 
framework had been adhered to and made  
an affirmative recommendation to the Board.

Reviewed and challenged the proposed  
external audit strategy for 2022/23, including  
the audit approach, significant risks and areas  
of audit focus, scope and level of materiality. 

The Committee monitored progress made by  
the external audit team against the agreed plan, 
and approved refinements to the audit strategy  
in line with business developments.

Reviewed the effectiveness of the External 
Auditor to ensure the independence, objectivity, 
quality, rigour and challenge of the audit  
process is maintained.

Reviewed the non-audit services and related 
fees provided by the external auditor for 
2022/23 and the policy on non-audit services 
provided by the auditor for 2022/23.

Negotiated and agreed the statutory audit fee 
for 2022/23.

Reviewed the findings from the External 
Auditor’s controls report.

The Committee concluded that the external 
auditor and audit process was effective and a 
recommendation was made to the Board on the 
reappointment of EY as the auditor for the year 
ending 31 March 2024 at the forthcoming AGM.

The Committee approved the non-audit  
services and related fees provided by the  
External Auditor for 2022/23 and made a 
recommendation to the Board to adopt an 
updated Non-Audit Services Policy to address  
the application of pre-concurrence on non-audit 
services as required by the International Ethics 
Standards Board for Accountants.

The Committee approved the fee for the 2022/23 
audit, including an adjustment to reflect changes 
to the scope arising from developments in the year.

The Committee challenged management  
to resolve non-material issues relating to the 
internal controls. The Committee concluded that 
the overall control environment was effective.

•

•

•

•

•

•

•

•

Cross 
reference

Pages 
154 to 
156 

Pages 
194 to 
201 

Pages 
237 to 
239 

•

•

•

•

•

•

•

•

•

• Page 71 


•

•

•

•

•

•

Pages 
42 to 
45 

Pages 
154 
and 
191 

Page 
156 

Page 
156 

Page 
157 

Page 
157 

Page 
156 

Outcomes

September November

February May

Cross 
reference

Actions

Internal Audit

Received updates on the work undertaken  
by Internal Audit, including audit resource, 
progress with the 2022/23 Internal Audit  
Plan, significant findings and audit actions.

Reviewed and challenged the integrated 
assurance planning approach and the Internal 
Audit Plan for 2023/24, in addition to the areas 
of focus included in the rolling three-year 
Internal Audit Plan.

Reviewed and challenged the output of the 
external quality assessment of the Internal Audit 
function which had been delivered by PwC. 

Internal control and risk management

Received an update on the work undertaken  
by Group Compliance, including resource  
and progress with the compliance review 
programme and resulting actions. 

Received an update on the status of audit 
reform, including progress with the project  
to further strengthen and embed the financial 
control framework.

The Committee monitored the implementation 
of the 2022/23 Internal Audit Plan and confirmed 
they were satisfied with progress. The Committee 
reviewed findings and audit actions and 
challenged management to ensure remedial 
actions were delivered in a timely manner.

The Committee approved the Internal Audit Plan 
for 2023/24 and the rolling three-year Internal 
Audit Plan focus areas.

The Committee confirmed the effectiveness  
of the Internal Audit function.

The Committee monitored the implementation 
of the 2022/23 Compliance Programme and 
confirmed they were satisfied with progress and 
that findings and actions were being closed-out 
by management in a timely manner.

The Committee reviewed progress against the 
project plan at each meeting, and were satisfied 
that the necessary preparations were being 
progressed in line with or ahead of regulatory 
change.

Received an update on Cyber Risk and 
Information Security covering both  
Information and Operational Technology.

The Committee monitored progress in maturing 
the level of cyber security across the organisation 
and provided feedback to the Board.

Received a report on the qualifying companies 
in the Group required to publish reports on  
their payment practices, policies and payments.

The Committee challenged management on 
compliance with the Prompt Payment Code  
and sought assurance that further improvement 
plans were in place.

Reviewed Treasury operations, including  
the funding plan, liquidity, going concern, 
hedging and credit ratings.

In line with the authority delegated by the  
Board, the Committee approved a range of 
funding and treasury related transactions.

Received an update on the programme to 
enhance the approach to risk management.

The Committee approved the work-plan to 
implement an expanded risk management 
framework across the organisation.

Received an update on the governance 
arrangements to oversee the risk relating  
to anti-financial crime including fraud, bribery 
and corruption.

The Committee monitored the implementation 
and integration of the anti-financial crime 
governance arrangements against the expanded 
international foot-print.

Reviewed the effectiveness of the System of 
Internal Control, including risk management.

The Committee reviewed and challenged 
management on the assurance frameworks  
to assess the effectiveness of the System of 
Internal Control. The Committee made a 
recommendation to the Board that the System  
of Internal Control continued to be effective.

•

•

•

•

•

•

•

•

•

Governance

Reviewed the approach to all the governance 
related activity carried out during the year to 
support the work of the Committee, including 
the forward plans of agenda items and areas  
of focus for 2022/23.

Reviewed the Committee Terms of Reference.

The Committee were satisfied with the scope  
and coverage of the governance related activity 
relevant to the work of the Committee and 
approved the forward plan of Agenda items.

•

•

The Committee made a recommendation to  
the Board to re-approve the Terms of Reference.

Reviewed the content of the 2022/23 Audit 
Committee Report and Principal Risk related 
disclosures.

The Committee approved the 2022/23 Audit 
Committee and Principal Risk related disclosures 
for inclusion in the 2023 Annual Report.

Reviewed a report on the disclosure of 
information to the External Auditor.

The Committee were satisfied that the disclosure 
arrangements were appropriate.

•

•

•

•

•

•

•

•

•

•

Page 
158 

•

•

•

•

Page 
158 

Page 
159 

Page 
137 

Pages 
150 
and 
158 

–

–

Pages 
89 to 
92 

Page  
68 

-

•

Page 
158 

Page 
151 

Page 
150 

Pages 
150 to 
159 

Page 
190 

•

•

152

SSE plc  Annual Report 2023

SSE plc  Annual Report 2023

153

Financial StatementsStrategic ReportDirectors’ ReportFair, balanced and 
understandable  
assurance framework
The assurance framework used in  
the preparation of the 2023 Annual 
Report and Accounts to assist the 
Directors in the discharge of their 
requirement to state that, taken  
as a whole, it is fair, balanced  
and understandable and provides  
the information necessary for 
shareholders to assess the 
Company’s performance, business 
model and strategy is as follows:

•  a verification process dealing  

with the factual content;
•  comprehensive reviews 

undertaken independently  
by senior management to 
consider messaging and balance;

•  comprehensive reviews 

undertaken by the Company’s 
Brokers to ensure consistency  
and balance;

•  reporting by the External Auditor 
of any material inconsistencies; 
and

•  comprehensive review by  

the Directors and the senior 
management team during the 
drafting process to ensure that  
the key messages being followed 
in the annual report were aligned 
with the company’s performance 
and strategy and that the narrative 
sections of the annual report  
were consistent with the  
financial statements.

The Committee and Board received 
confirmation from management that 
the assurance framework had been 
adhered to for the preparation of  
the 2023 Annual Report.

Audit Committee Report continued

Financial reporting
The Annual Report and Accounts seek  
to provide the information necessary to 
enable an assessment of SSE’s position and 
performance, business model and strategy. 
The Finance team worked closely with the 
External Auditor to ensure SSE provides the 
required level of disclosure, including the 
appropriateness of alternative performance 
measures (APMs) and their consistency with 
IFRS financial information. In preparing the 
Financial Statements for 2023 there are 
several areas requiring the exercise of 
judgement or a high degree of estimation. 
This section outlines the significant areas  
of judgement that have been considered by 
the Committee – through discussion and 
detailed reporting by both management 
and the External Auditor – to ensure 
appropriate rigour has been applied. Other 
key accounting judgements and areas  
of estimation uncertainty applied in the 
preparation of the Financial Statements for 
2023 are provided in notes 4.2 and 4.3 .

The Independent Auditor’s Report on  
pages 326 to 336  sets out the audit 
approach to Key Audit Matters. In addition, 
EY drew other audit matters to the attention 
of the Audit Committee. These areas of 
audit focus include: customer debtor 
recoverability; going concern; accounting 
for Renewables‘ acquisition of the Siemens 
Gamesa platform and the Thermal 
acquisition of a 50% stake in Triton Power; 
recoverability of Ovo loan note; goodwill 
valuation for Renewables acquisitions in 
Europe and Japan; Seagreen Contract for 
Difference; Generation own use volume 
breach; change in Renewables cash 
generating units; taxation judgements; 
exceptional items and APMs; accounting 
for the sale of a 25% stake in SSEN 
Transmission; climate considerations; and 
decommissioning provisions. In addition, 
the current volatility in the energy sector 
has led to a number of new matters that 
require consideration by management,  
and through the audit, including: Electricity 
Generator Levy (EGL); and the accounting 
for Government Support Schemes.

Significant financial judgements  
and estimates
In the process of applying the Group’s 
accounting policies, management 
necessarily makes judgements and 
estimates that have a significant effect  
on the amounts recognised in the  
Financial Statements. Throughout the  
year, management presents its up-to-date 
view of the key accounting issues and its 
resulting judgements to the Committee. 

In consultation with the External Auditor, 
the Committee reviewed the significant 
financial judgement areas and identified 

154

SSE plc  Annual Report 2023

five specific areas for 2022/23. The 
accounting for the Group’s disposal 
programme, which was completed in  
the prior financial year, was no longer 
considered by the Committee to be a 
significant financial judgement. 

The Group’s most significant financial 
judgement areas, some of which are  
also areas of estimation uncertainty,  
are explained on page 155 . For each  
of these areas the Committee considered  
the key facts and judgements outlined by 
management, and requested the External 
Auditor to provide a professional view on 
whether the judgements were appropriate. 
The Committee specifically discussed with 
the External Auditor how management’s 
judgement and assertions were challenged 
and how professional scepticism was 
demonstrated during their audit of  
these areas. This also included the 
adequacy of the disclosures within  
the Financial Statements.

In the year ahead, the Committee will 
continue to respond to energy market 
reform and will consider any new and 
emerging judgements and estimates.

Going Concern and  
Viability Statement
The Committee reviewed the information  
to support the assessment and disclosure  
of the Going Concern Statement prior to 
Board approval (see A6.3  Accompanying 
Information to the Financial Statements). 
Given the cash surplus of £0.9bn at 31 March 
2023; the committed borrowing facilities of 
£3.5bn maintained by the Group with £3.4bn 
of these facilities undrawn at 31 March 2023; 
the current commercial paper market 
conditions, with £0.9bn outstanding at 
31 March 2023; and the assumption the 
Group will be able to refinance maturing 
debt, the Directors have concluded that both 
the Group and SSE plc as Parent Company 
have sufficient headroom to continue as a 
going concern. In coming to this conclusion, 
the Directors have considered sensitivities  
on future cashflow projections. In the very 
unlikely event of not being able to access  
the revolving credit facility or otherwise 
refinance as may be required, the Group’s 
options include deferring uncommitted 
capex, delaying or deferring dividend 
payments and implementing further cost 
reductions. The Financial Statements are 
therefore prepared on a going concern basis.

The Committee agreed the parameters  
and reviewed the supporting report for the 
Board’s assessment of the prospects of the 
Company which is covered in the Viability 
Statement on page 71 . 

Significant financial judgements and  
estimates for the year ended 31 March 2023

Retirement benefit obligations (Estimation uncertainty) 

The assumptions in relation to the cost of providing post-retirement 
benefits during the period are based on the Group’s best estimates  
and are set after consultation with qualified actuaries. While these 
assumptions are believed to be appropriate, a change in these 
assumptions would impact the level of the retirement benefit obligation 
recorded and the cost to the Group of administering the schemes.

How those were addressed by the Audit Committee

The assets and liabilities of the Group’s defined benefit retirement schemes 
are regularly reviewed. Advice is taken from independent actuaries on the 
IAS 19R valuation of the schemes. The Committee was updated on the 
schemes’ valuation and considered the findings of the External Auditor  
in relation to the scheme’s key assumptions relative to market practice. 
Following this review, the Committee supported the judgements made. 
Further details of the calculation basis and key assumptions used, the 
resulting movements in obligations and the sensitivity of key assumptions 
to the obligation is disclosed at note 23 .

Impairment testing and valuation of certain non-current assets (Financial judgement and estimation uncertainty)

The Group reviews the carrying amounts of its goodwill, other 
intangible assets and specific property, plant, equipment and 
investment assets to determine whether any impairment or reversal  
of impairment of the carrying value of those assets requires to be 
recorded. As well as its goodwill balances, the specific assets under 
review in the year ended 31 March 2023 are intangible development 
assets and specific property, plant and equipment assets related to  
gas storage and thermal power generation. In addition, the Group 
performed an impairment review over the carrying value of its equity 
investments in Neos Networks Limited and Triton Power Holdings 
Limited. In conducting its reviews, the Group makes judgements and 
estimates in considering both the level of cash generating unit (CGU)  
at which common assets such as goodwill are assessed against, as well 
as the estimates and assumptions behind the calculation of recoverable 
amount of the respective assets or CGUs. Changes to the estimates 
and assumptions arising from factors such as regulation and legislation 
changes (including the Electricity Generator Levy and climate change 
related regulation), power, gas, carbon and other commodity prices, 
volatility of gas prices, plant running regimes and load factors, discount 
rates and other inputs could impact the assessed recoverable value  
of assets and CGUs and consequently impact the Group’s income 
statement and balance sheet.

An annual valuation/impairment exercise is carried out, and the basis and 
outcome of this review is presented to the Committee by management 
and includes a description of the assumptions applied in deriving the 
recoverable values. The Committee reviewed and challenged the 
assumptions and projections presented in the management paper and 
considered the detailed reporting from, and findings by, the External 
Auditor. Further detail of the calculation basis and key assumptions used 
in the impairment review, the resulting impairment charges and reversals, 
and the sensitivity of this assessment to key assumptions is disclosed at 
note 15 . Detail on the accounting policies applied is included in the 
Accompanying Information section A1 . Following this review, the 
Committee supported the recommendation to recognise impairment 
reversals in the financial year of £63.5m in relation to gas storage assets 
and the Great Island CCGT. During the year the Group acquired a  
50% stake in Triton Power and due to significant movements in short 
term-power prices recognised a bargain purchase gain in its Interim 
Reporting to 30 September 2022. During the second half of the year, 
the Group had realised a significant proportion of the short term benefit, 
which resulted in an impairment in the second half of the financial  
year. Over the whole year the Group recorded net impairment and 
remeasurement of operating derivatives (net of tax) of £21.1m. In 
addition, the Committee considered the significant judgement and 
related disclosure, and supported the recommendation to recognise 
impairments of £37.9m in relation to its retailed interest in Neos 
Networks Limited. 

Revenue recognition – customers unbilled supply of energy (Financial judgement and estimation uncertainty)

Revenue from energy supply activities undertaken by the Business 
Energy and Airtricity businesses includes an estimate of the value  
of electricity or gas supplied to customers between the date of the  
last meter reading and the year end. This estimation comprises both 
billed revenue (disclosed as trade receivables) and unbilled revenue 
(disclosed as accrued income) and is calculated based on applying  
the tariffs and contract rates applicable to customers against estimated 
customer consumption and taking account of various factors including 
usage patterns, weather trends and externally notified aggregated 
volumes supplied to customers from national settlements bodies. 
During the year both of the Group’s Supply businesses have 
administered government backed customer support schemes, where 
the Group provides discounts to customers based on estimated usage 
and recovers amounts from government based on actual customer 
usage. The administration of these support schemes has increased the 
complexity and level of estimation uncertainty of the Group’s unbilled 
calculations. The most material support scheme administered by the 
Group in the year was the Energy Bills Relief Scheme (‘EBRS’) within  
the GB Business Energy business (which is recorded as other income). 
The accounting policy for customer support schemes and the balances 
claimed from government is explained at A1.2 . A change in the 
assumptions underpinning the calculation would have an impact  
on the amount of other income recognised in any given period.

This estimation is subject to a process which compares calculated 
unbilled volumes to a theoretical ‘perfect billing’ benchmark measure of 
unbilled volumes (in GWh and millions of therms) derived from historical 
weather-adjusted consumption patterns and aggregated metering data 
used in industry reconciliation processes. Furthermore, actual meter 
readings and billings continue to be compared to unbilled estimates 
between the balance sheet date and the finalisation of the Financial 
Statements. The estimation of the government receivable included 
within the Group’s unbilled revenue accrual is based on claimed and 
unclaimed values based on the same customer consumption detail  
and derived from consideration of tariffs applied to customers, metered 
and estimated volumes and other factors. The EBRS claims submitted by 
SSE will be audited by the Department of Energy Security and Net Zero 
and are subject to volumetric risk as estimated consumption data is 
replaced by actual metered data over the 14 month electricity industry 
reconciliation period. The value of outstanding EBRS claims included 
within the Group’s unbilled accrual at 31 March 2023 was £253m,  
which includes a risk provision of £15.1m related to amounts where the 
Group has provided the discount to the customer but has assessed that  
it will be unable to recover the amount from the government during the 
open claim window. Given the non-routine process, the number and  
the extent of differing inputs and the requirement of management to 
apply judgement noted above, the estimated revenue is considered a 
significant estimate made by management in preparing the financial 
statements. A change in the assumptions underpinning the unbilled 
calculation would have an impact on the amount of revenue recognised 
in any given period. The Committee reviewed the practical process 
issues and assumptions applied in determining the estimation 
uncertainty and considered the findings of the External Auditor. 
Following this review, the Committee considered the significant 
judgement and related disclosure, and supported the estimate for  
revenue recognition from energy supply activities. Further details of  
the sensitivity associated with this judgement is disclosed at note 18 .

SSE plc  Annual Report 2023

155

Financial StatementsStrategic ReportDirectors’ ReportAudit Committee Report continued

Significant financial judgements and  
estimates for the year ended 31 March 2023

How those were addressed by the Audit Committee

Impact of climate change and transition to net zero (Financial judgement and estimation uncertainty)

Climate change, the transition to net zero and the Task Force on 
Climate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD) have been considered  
in the preparation of these financial statements. The Group has a 
clearly articulated Net Zero Acceleration Plus Programme set out on 
pages 16 to 17  to lead in the UK’s transition to net zero and aligns  
its investment plans and business activities to that strategy. These plans 
are supported by the Group’s Green Bond framework under which the 
fifth green bond was issued in July 2022 (see note 21 ). The proceeds 
of the fifth green bond were allocated to fund Renewables’ wind 
projects. The impact of future climate change regulation could have  
a material impact on the currently reported amounts of the Group’s 
assets and liabilities. In preparing these financial statements, the 
following climate change related risks have been considered:
•  Valuation of property, plant and equipment, and impairment 

assessment of goodwill;

•  Valuations of decommissioning provisions;
•  Defined Benefit scheme assets; and
•  Going concern and viability statement.

Climate change continues to be a key focus. The Committee  
reviewed and challenged the implications of climate and the Net Zero 
Acceleration Plus Programme for significant accounting judgements  
and ensured that the disclosures were reflective. The process which  
the Group adopted in relation to identification and quantification of its 
climate-related risks and opportunities is explained at pages 36 to 51  
along with the governance processes established to oversee and 
approve the associated reporting. The Audit Committee reviewed the 
approach adopted by the TCFD Steering Group in relation to this matter 
and was also briefed by the External Auditor on the audit requirements 
associated with the adoption of the TCFD including the need for 
consistency of disclosure throughout the Annual Report and the 
technical basis for those disclosures. Following presentation of the 
proposed disclosures and the report of the External Auditor on SSE’s 
approach, the Committee approved the basis of reporting and the 
related financial judgement disclosures included throughout the 
financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2023. Further details of 
the sensitivity associated with this judgement is disclosed at note 4.1 .

Valuation of other receivables (Financial judgement and estimation uncertainty)

The Group holds a £100m loan note due from Ovo Energy Limited 
following the disposal of SSE Energy Services on 15 January 2020. The 
loan is repayable in full by 31 December 2029, carries interest at 13.25% 
and is presented cumulative of accrued interest payments, discounted 
at 13.25%. At 31 March 2023, the carrying value (net of expected credit 
loss provision of £1.5m (2022: £1.8m) is £149.5m (2022: £131.0m). The 
Group has assessed recoverability of the loan note receivable and has 
recognised a provision for expected credit loss in accordance with the 
requirements of IFRS 9. Due to previous energy supplier failures and 
recent market volatility, the Group’s assessment of the recoverability  
of the loan note is considered a significant financial judgement.

The Committee considered the steps applied by management in making 
its assessment of the significant financial judgements associated with the 
Ovo loan note. Management has assessed the recoverability of the loan 
based on publicly available and recent financial information, including 
Government support schemes and discussions with Ovo Energy Limited 
management. The External Auditor explained the work carried out to 
corroborate and challenge the position taken by management. While  
the carrying value is considered to be appropriate, changes in economic 
conditions could lead to a change in the expected credit loss incurred by 
the Group in future periods.

External audit 
External Auditor
Following a competitive tender process,  
EY were appointed by shareholders as  
SSE’s External Auditor for the financial  
year commencing 1 April 2019. EY were 
re-appointed by shareholders at the 2022 
AGM and have continued to serve as SSE’s 
External Auditor. Hywel Ball is the Senior 
Advisory Partner and Annie Graham is the 
Lead Audit Partner with responsibility for 
signing the SSE plc Audit Opinion on behalf 
of EY. Annie Graham leads the engagement 
team and has been in post since EY were 
appointed and will be required to rotate 
after five years. 

EY presented the strategy and scope of the 
audit for 2022/23 at the Committee meeting 
held in September 2022, highlighting key 
areas of audit focus (included within the 
Auditor’s Report on pages 326 to 336 ).  
EY reported against their audit scope at 
subsequent Committee meetings, providing 
an opportunity for the Committee to 
monitor progress and raise questions,  
and challenge both EY and management.  
EY shared an independent perspective on 
certain aspects of the Group’s financial 
control and IT systems arising from its work, 
and reported findings to the Committee in 
February 2023.

• 

• 

• 

156

SSE plc  Annual Report 2023

During the course of the year, EY shared 
insights and feedback with management, 
and held debriefs to refine the planned 
audit approach for the financial year ended 
31 March 2023.

External Auditor and audit  
process effectiveness
An important part of the Committee’s  
work consists of overseeing the Group’s 
relationship with the External Auditor to 
ensure the independence, quality, rigour 
and challenge of the external audit process 
is maintained. The Committee reviews the 
effectiveness of the audit throughout the 
year taking into account:
• 

the detailed audit strategy for the year 
and coverage of the highlighted risks, 
scope, and level of fees for the audit;
the quality, knowledge and expertise  
of the engagement team;
insight around the key accounting and 
audit judgements and the competence 
with which the External Auditor has 
applied constructive challenge and 
professional scepticism in dealing  
with management; and
the outcome of the review of 
effectiveness of the External Auditor  
and audit process discussed on  
page 157 .

Independence and objectivity 
In addition to the annual review of 
effectiveness, the Committee considered 
the independence and objectivity of the 
External Auditor through: a combination of 
assurances provided by the External Auditor 
on the safeguards in place to maintain 
independence; oversight of the Non-Audit 
Services Policy and fees paid; and oversight 
of SSE’s policy on employing former 
auditors. The External Auditor confirmed 
that all its partners and staff complied with 
their ethics and independence policies  
and procedures including that none of its 
employees working on the audit hold any 
shares in SSE plc.

External Auditor fees 
The Committee considered the audit fee 
proposal for the year to 31 March 2023 at 
its meeting in September 2022. The factors 
driving the increase in the level of fees over 
the last three years were discussed with the 
External Auditor. The impact of increasing 
regulatory requirements, changes in the 
business and composition of the Group 
and the level of complexity requiring an 
increased proportion of specialist resource 
were amongst some of the factors taken 
into consideration by the Committee when 
agreeing fair commercial arrangements 
with the External Auditor. Audit fees in the 
current year include scope changes and 

Effectiveness of External Audit

Feedback to inform the review of the effectiveness of External Audit

External Auditor
Assurance from the 
External Auditor 
covering independence 
(relationships, services 
and related threats  
and safeguards) and 
the matters raised  
in the FRC’s Annual 
Quality Review 
inspection reports  
and remedial actions 
taken (if any).

Management
Assess output from 
a survey of those 
subject to the external 
audit process.

Assurance on the 
disclosure process  
for the provision  
of information to  
the auditors.

Audit Process
Assess delivery of 
the audit strategy  
and Independent 
Auditors’ Report.

Assess output from 
survey of Audit 
Partners on the 
external audit process.

Assurance on the 
operation of audit 
quality process at 
audit firm.

Audit Committee
Assess output  
from annual Audit 
Committee evaluation.

Assess output from 
survey of Audit 
Committee members, 
regular attendees  
and Group Finance.

Outcome
Following consideration of all elements of the audit effectiveness review process, in addition to taking account of the 
engagement and communication between the Audit Committee, management and External Auditor, the Committee 
confirmed it was satisfied that the external audit process provided by EY had been delivered effectively. The Committee 
concluded that EY had demonstrated a depth of knowledge, as well as an appreciation of complex issues, whilst providing 
constructive, independent and objective challenge to management. The Committee requested that debrief sessions be 
held between the External Auditor and the finance management teams across the organisation to consider any areas to 
enhance the audit process control environment going forward.

External Auditor Fees

1
2
/
0
2
0
2

2
2
/
1
2
0
2

3
2
/
2
2
0
2

£2.5m

£0.2m

£2.7m

£3.8m

£0.1m

£3.9m

£3.9m

£0.1m

£4.0m

  Audit and Audit-Related Services 

  Non-Audit Services

overruns of £0.4m related to the prior  
year audit. Assurance and Tax service fees 
incurred in the year were £0.5m (2022: 
£0.5m). Non-Audit Services amounted to 
£0.1m and principally related to regulatory 
accounts and returns required by Ofgem 
and comfort letters in connection with 
funding and debt issuance. The Committee 
was satisfied that the work was best 
handled by the External Auditor because  
of its knowledge of the Group and the 
services provided did not give rise to threats 
to independence. All Non-Audit Services 
were approved in accordance with the 
Non-Audit Services Policy and adhere  
to the FRC Ethical Standard. Fees paid to  
EY during the year are made in note 6   
to the Financial Statements. 

Non-Audit Services Policy
The Committee oversees the Non-Audit 
Services Policy which governs the process 
for approving certain Non-Audit Services 
provided by the External Auditor. The Policy 
was updated by the Committee during  
the year to ensure that it remained fit for 
purpose and aligned to the application  
of pre-concurrence on non-audit services 
as required by the International Ethics 
Standards Board for Accountants. In 
addition, SSE is required to cap the level of 
non-audit fees paid to its External Auditor 
at 70% of the average audit fees paid in the 
previous three consecutive financial years. 

Services provided by the External Auditor 
are split into two categories for the 
purposes of approval:
•  Audit-Related Services. These services 
are largely carried out by members of 
the audit engagement team. The work 
involved is closely related to the work 
performed in the audit and the threats 
to auditor independence are ‘clearly 
insignificant’. Such engagements are 
routinely pre-approved by the Audit 
Committee as part of their approval  
of the total annual audit fee. Before 
engaging in any other work of this  
type, approval is required from the  
Audit Committee.

•  Non-Audit Services. These are services 
other than ‘Audit-Related Services’  
for which the External Auditor is an 
appropriate provider. The threats to 
independence arising from such 
services are not necessarily ‘clearly 
insignificant’ and the Committee and 
External Auditor must consider the 
threats to independence and whether 
any safeguards should be applied. In  
the absence of any apparent threat to 
auditor independence, approval for the 
provision of any Non-Audit Service must 
be obtained from the Audit Committee.

SSE plc  Annual Report 2023

157

Financial StatementsStrategic ReportDirectors’ ReportAudit Committee Report continued

Re-appointment of the External Auditor
The external audit contract will be put out  
to tender at least every 10 years and will be 
conducted by no later than 2029 in line with 
prevailing best practice. The Committee 
confirms ongoing compliance with the 
Statutory Audit Services for Large Companies 
Market Investigation (Mandatory Use of 
Competitive Tender Processes and Audit 
Committee Responsibilities) Order 2014. 

The Committee concluded that it is satisfied 
with the objectivity and independence of the 
External Auditor, and that the effectiveness 
of the external audit process delivered by 
EY was robust. The Committee proposed 
to the Board that it seeks shareholder 
approval for the re-appointment of EY as 
the External Auditor for the financial year 
ending 31 March 2024.

Internal audit
Role of Internal Audit
Internal Audit plays an important role in 
helping the organisation deliver its vision 
and objectives by providing independent 
and objective assurance to management, 
the Committee and Board on the 
effectiveness of SSE’s risk management 
activities, internal controls and corporate 
governance framework. Internal Audit, led 
by the Director of Group Risk and Audit, 
reports to the Committee and functionally 
to the Finance Director. The purpose, scope 
and authority of Internal Audit is defined 
within its charter which is approved 
annually by the Committee. 

In fulfilling its role, Internal Audit seeks  
to add value by encouraging continual 
improvement in the effectiveness of 
business planning, operations and systems, 
promoting wherever possible enhancements 
to internal control processes, and seeking 
to embed ‘best practice’ throughout the 
SSE Group. 

At each Committee meeting, an update  
on Internal Audit is provided covering  
an overview of the work undertaken in  
the period, actions arising from audits 
conducted, the tracking of remedial 
actions, and progress against the Internal 
Audit Plan. The Committee routinely meets 
independently with the Director of Group 
Risk and Audit to discuss the results of the 
audits performed and any additional insights 
obtained on the risk management and 
control environment across the organisation.

Internal Audit Plan
The Internal Audit Plan is structured to  
align with SSE’s operating model, risk 
profile, control environment and assurance 
arrangements. The Internal Audit Plan  
is split between a one-year plan and a 
three-year strategy setting out the broader 
areas of Internal Audit focus, together with 
the vision and resource for the function. 
External providers may be engaged to 
support delivery of the Internal Audit  
plan where specific skills and expertise 
require to be co-sourced. An integrated 
assurance mapping and planning process  
is undertaken to ensure that Internal  
Audit work is appropriately aligned to,  
and coordinated with, the activities of  
other relevant assurance providers across  
the Group. 

Internal Audit effectiveness
The Committee keeps under review  
and assesses the independence and 
effectiveness of Internal Audit. This year, 
the Committee engaged PwC to carry  
out a detailed External Quality Assessment 
(EQA) of the Internal Audit function. The 
process, approach and recommendations 
were presented and discussed by the 
Committee at its meeting in February  
2023, and an overview is set out below. 

Internal control and  
risk management
Internal control
The Board has delegated to the Committee 
responsibility for reviewing the effectiveness 
of SSE’s System of Internal Control. This 
covers all material controls including 
financial, operational and compliance 
controls, in addition to the financial 
reporting process. Internal control and  
risk management in relation to SSE’s energy 
market related exposures are overseen  
by the Energy Markets Risk Committee  
and further information can be found on 
pages 160 to 161 .

During the year, the Committee received  
an update at each meeting from the project 
team established to assess and strengthen 
the financial reporting control environment 
in anticipation or ahead of regulatory reform 
in the UK. In addition, the Committee 
received a presentation from KPMG with  
a status update on their engagement to 
support the project. The timing of the 
implementation legislation remains unclear, 
however, management has continued to 
monitor regulatory developments and 
provide regular updates to the Committee.

To assist the Committee’s review of the 
System of Internal Control, the different 
elements are evaluated by relevant key 
stakeholders. These evaluations are then 
holistically assessed by the Finance Director 
and a letter is provided to the Committee 
summarising the work conducted in the  
year to improve the control environment and 
making a recommendation on the overall 
effectiveness of the System of Internal 
Control. In addition, when undertaking the 
review of the effectiveness of the System of 
Internal Control, the Committee considers 
the assurance evaluations undertaken 
annually by the Managing Directors of  
each of SSE’s seven Business Units. These 
assurance evaluations consider each 
framework of the system of internal control 
from a Business Unit perspective and include 
any planned improvements to enhance 
controls. These improvements are tracked, 
with updates reported to the executive-level 
Group Risk Committee on a regular basis.

Risk management
The Group’s Risk Management Framework 
is designed to manage rather than eliminate 
the risk of failure to achieve business 
objectives. It can only therefore provide 
reasonable and not absolute assurance 
against material misstatement or loss.

In addition to the ongoing review of 
emerging risks, the Board carried out a 
robust assessment of the Principal Risks 
facing the Group, being those that have  
the potential to threaten its business model, 
future performance, solvency or liquidity. 
Further details of the Group Principal Risks 
are set out on pages 68 to 77  and also in 
the Group Risk Report.

Internal control and risk  
management effectiveness
Following the Committee’s review and 
recommendation, the Board agreed that 
SSE’s System of Internal Control (including 
risk management) continues to be 
effective. This was in accordance with the 
requirements of the FRC Guidance on Risk 
Management, Internal Control and related 
Financial and Business Reporting. The 
Board also confirms that no significant 
failings or weaknesses have been identified 
during the financial year. Processes are in 
place to ensure that necessary action is 
taken, and progress is monitored where 
areas for improvement are identified.

Effectiveness of Internal Audit

Process
Assessed against:
•  The Chartered Institute of Internal 
Auditors’ (CIIA) Code of Ethics and 
International Standards for the 
Professional Practice of Internal 
Auditing, including the Internal 
Audit Code issued in January 2020;

•  PwC’s Five Principles of Internal 
Audit Excellence Framework; and
•  A benchmark peer group of 8-10 
relevant Internal Audit functions.

Approach
Work included:
• 

Interviews with 16 key 
stakeholders, including: Audit 
Committee Chair; non-Executive 
Directors; Executive Directors; and 
Managing Directors across the 
business divisions;

•  Meetings with five Internal Audit 

team members;

•  Review of survey sent to all 

members of the Internal Audit 
Team;

•  Review of Internal Audit’s structure 
and remit, audit approach and 
resource; and

•  Review of Internal Audit 

Recommendations
Findings included:
•  Develop the approach and 

methodology to derive more  
data driven analysis and insights;

•  Enhance executive and Audit 

Committee reporting to provide 
more insight;

•  Continue to develop the approach 
to innovation through areas such 
as digital capability and adopting 
agile delivery methods;

•  Develop further the strategic 

resourcing model to accommodate 
SSE’s international footprint as well 
as leveraging internal and external 
co-sourcing; and

documentation over the preceding 
12 months across the areas of 
planning, auditing and reporting.

•  Enhancing the approach to 
monitoring and driving 
performance and productivity. 

Outcome
Overall, the Internal Audit function was found to be well established and valued across the organisation. The Committee 
recognised the progress made during the year and confirmed it was satisfied with the overall performance and effectiveness of 
the Internal Audit function. The findings identified by the EQA will be taken forward and progress reviewed by the Committee.

System of Internal Control

The elements that make up the System of Internal Control are: 

•  Governance Framework. Designed to 
ensure focus on the key components  
of high quality and effective decision 
making – clarity, accountability, 
transparency and efficiency. For further 
details please see page 122  of the 
Directors’ Report. 

•  Strategic Framework. This includes 
SSE’s Purpose, Strategy, Goals and 
Values, as well as the focus of its business 
model and forms the basis for all activity 
within the Risk Management Framework. 

For further details please see pages 8 to 
23  of the Strategic Report. 

•  Risk Management Framework. This 

framework supports each Business Unit 
in managing its risks and helps to ensure 
that the Board can meet its obligations. 
The framework is underpinned by the 
fundamental principle that everyone at 
SSE is responsible for the management 
of risk.

•  Assurance Framework. An integrated 
programme of audit and assurance 

activity that is independent of the day- 
to-day operations of the Business Units 
and corporate functions. It is made up of 
Internal Audit, Group Compliance, Large 
Capital Projects Services and Group 
Safety, Health and Environment

•  Standards and Quality Framework.  
Sets out the expected standards and 
guidelines to be followed in the delivery 
of the Group’s core purpose.

Governance 
Framework

Strategic 
Framework

Risk Management  
Framework

Assurance 
Framework

Standards and  
Quality  Framework

Board and  
Board Committees

Group Executive 
Committee and  
Executive sub-
Committees

Business Unit Executive 
Committees and 
Corporate Support 
Functions

Group Risk Management 
and Internal Control Policy

Review of the  
Effectiveness of the  
System of  
Internal Control

External Audit 

Internal Audit

Group Policies

Principal Risk  
Self-Assessment

 Risk Appetite Statement

 Viability Assessment

 Key Risk Indicators

Group Compliance

Group Safety, Health  
and Environment

Large Capital  
Projects Services

Governance 
Manuals

Strategic  
Objectives

Financial 
Objective

Sustainability  
Goals

Business Unit Principal Risk 
Self-Assessment

Assurance Evaluation

 Risk Blueprint

Business 
Assurance

Business Unit, Policies, 
Procedures, Processes  
and Systems

158

SSE plc  Annual Report 2023

SSE plc  Annual Report 2023

159

Financial StatementsStrategic ReportDirectors’ ReportEnergy Markets Risk Committee Report

Role of the Committee
The Committee oversees SSE’s 
energy markets risk exposures by:

• 

•  Monitoring and supervising  
SSE’s hedging approach; 

•  Assessing any potential emerging 
energy market issues and risks; 
and

•  Reviewing SSE’s internal control 

and risk management in this area.

In doing so, it assists the Board  
in the effective discharge of its 
responsibilities in relation to risk 
management and internal control  
in this area.

The Committee’s Terms of Reference 
are available on sse.com . 

Key activities in 2022/23
•  Oversaw arrangements and 

recommended actions in relation 
to SSE’s approach to managing 
portfolio exposures during a year 
of high prices and significant 
market volatility.

•  Reviewed and recommended 

changes to the risk and controls 
monitoring metrics, ensuring 
continued effective oversight of 
operational effectiveness against 
the backdrop of high prices and 
significant market volatility. 

Dear Shareholder,
I am pleased to introduce the Energy 
Markets Risk Committee (EMRC) Report  
for 31 March 2023. This report details  
the role we play throughout the year  
to oversee SSE’s energy markets risk 
exposures and ensure an effective system 
of risk management controls and related 
processes relevant to energy market risks. 

We have continued to play a key role in 
overseeing the governance arrangements  
in relation to SSE’s approach to managing 
portfolio exposures during a year of high 
prices and significant market volatility. At 
each meeting, we examine and discuss 
reports of these exposures, consider any 
proposals from the Executive Team, and 
recommend any changes to SSE’s hedging 
approach to the Board as required. In 
addition, the EMRC reviews and endorses 
the hedging approach statement which is 
updated for material changes and published 
as part of SSE’s interim and preliminary 
results statements.  SSE’s latest hedging 
approach statement (as at 31 March 2023)  
is also set out on page 86  of this Annual 
Report. The EMRC will continue to monitor 
and oversee these exposures and, should 
circumstances lead to any change in 
approach being required, these will  
be fully discussed, challenged, and 
appropriately reported.

As a committee, we believe that SSE has 
been served well by its prudent approach  
to hedging and has continued to manage 
successfully the changing credit and 
collateral requirements. To this end, we also 
reviewed the governance controls and risk 

160

SSE plc  Annual Report 2023

metrics overseen by us to ensure they 
remained appropriate in the current climate, 
and recommended to the Board changes  
to ensure operational effectiveness and  
that the correct oversight and reporting  
are in place. 

The EMRC is assisted in its role by the 
following two Group-level committees: 
•  Group Energy Markets Exposure 

Committee which meets monthly  
and provides a forum for SSE’s senior 
management to discuss and consider 
energy market risks and exposures. 

•  For the Customers Business Unit, 

Demand Management Committee (DMC) 
which meets monthly. The DMC was 
originally created to monitor the impact 
of the coronavirus pandemic on the 
Business Unit’s demand profile but 
continues in operation to monitor 
demand in relation to market volatility.

The minutes of these committees are 
provided to the EMRC for review and 
comment.

In line with standing practice, the annual 
Board evaluation is an assessment of our 
performance as a committee. I am pleased 
this concluded that we operate effectively 
and that the Board takes assurance from the 
quality of our work. Furthermore, the EMRC 
members are seen to bring a wide range 
and depth of recent and relevant experience 
across various industries, which will be 
bolstered further by Maarten Wetselaar, 
who will join the EMRC on 1 September 
2023, with extensive knowledge from his 
career in the energy industry.

During 2023/24, as SSE continues to  
grow internationally, the EMRC will remain 
focused on providing effective oversight  
in relation to the Group energy markets  
risk exposures. We will also focus on the 
impact, management, and mitigation of 
relevant macroeconomic and geopolitical 
events. This will include:
• 

the continued impact of the prolonged 
conflict between Ukraine and Russia  
on energy markets;

•  commodity prices and volatility and 

inflationary pressures; and 

•  changes to regulatory requirements.

I would like to thank the members  
of the Committee for their continued 
commitment throughout the year, the  
open discussions that take place at our 
meetings, and the contribution they  
all provide in support of our work.

Tony Cocker
Chair of the EMRC
23 May 2023

Committee membership  
and attendance
Four non-Executive Directors and  
two Executive Directors make up the 
composition of the EMRC. Full details  
of membership and meeting attendance 
are set out on page 123 . The Chief 
Executive and the Managing Director  
of Energy Portfolio Management also 
routinely attend meetings, with an Assistant 
Company Secretary acting as Secretary to 
the EMRC. To assist the EMRC in carrying 
out its responsibilities, relevant senior 
managers can be invited to attend to 
present certain items of business and 
provide additional levels of insight. 

The EMRC membership is approved by the 
Board following recommendation of the 
Nomination Committee. No changes were 
made to the EMRC membership during 
the year. Maarten Wetselaar, who joins  
the Board on 1 September 2023, will join 
the EMRC. Maarten’s experience from his 
career in the energy industry will further 
ensure that the EMRC has the sufficient 
skills and expertise to discharge its duties. 

The composition of the EMRC further 
facilitates the sharing of relevant 
experience held by the non-Executive 
Directors. As EMRC Chair, Tony Cocker 
brings extensive knowledge from his career 
in the energy industry. Debbie Crosbie, 
Melanie Smith and Sir John Manzoni, 

SSE approach to hedging

SSE has an established approach to 
hedging through which it generally  
seeks to reduce its broad exposure to 
commodity price variation in relation  
to electricity generation and supply at 
least 12 months in advance of delivery.  
As market conditions change, SSE may 
be required to vary its hedging approach 
to take account of any resultant new or 

additional exposures. SSE will continue  
to provide a summary of its current 
hedging approach, including details  
of any changes in the period, within its 
Half and Full-year Results Statements. 
Details of SSE’s latest hedging approach 
and hedging position are set out on  
page 86 .

provide invaluable insights and a wealth  
of knowledge from various senior roles in 
the private and public sectors. Biographical 
information of the EMRC members’ 
backgrounds and experience is contained 
on pages 116 to 120 .

Committee evaluation
The EMRC performance was assessed as 
part of the annual Board evaluation (see 
pages 140 to 141 ). The results of the 
evaluation indicated that the EMRC is 
operating effectively, and that it continues  
to provide an appropriate level of challenge 
and oversight of the areas within its remit.  
No specific actions were identified.

Meetings and focus areas  
in 2022/23
The EMRC held four meetings during the 
year and reported to the Board on its work 
following each meeting. Each meeting 

agenda is informed by a forward plan of 
business, which is designed to ensure that 
the EMRC carries out its responsibilities in 
line with its Terms of Reference. In addition, 
outside the cycle of scheduled meetings,  
the EMRC Chair meets with the Chief 
Commercial Officer, Managing Director  
of Energy Portfolio Management,  
and the Committee Secretary to ensure  
that key and emerging issues are brought  
to the EMRC’s attention as appropriate.

The EMRC will continue to develop and 
regularly review the Committee’s forward 
plan of business to accommodate any 
emerging issues and risks to the Group 
concerning energy markets.

The table below sets out details of the key 
focus areas and actions taken by the EMRC 
in the year.

Key EMRC focus areas in 2022/23
Areas of focus

Actions taken

Overseeing SSE’s  
hedging approach 

•  As part of a quarterly report on Energy Markets Risk, monitored:

 – hedging arrangements;
 – risk control metrics;
 – Energy Portfolio Management’s counterparty credit risk exposures; and
 – the liquidity of energy markets.

Energy Markets  
Risks

Internal Control  
and Risk  
Management  
relating to Energy 
Market Exposures

•  Reviewed and endorsed the hedging approach and position on 31 March 2023 included in the Full-year 

Results Statement and Annual Report 2023.

•  Received reports throughout the year on emerging energy market issues and risks (for example in relation  

to volatile gas markets due to the ongoing conflict between Russia and Ukraine) and recommended relevant 
matters to the Board on changes to risk management arrangements in line with SSE’s hedging approach.

•  Considered a report on key energy market risks, risk appetites and risk management controls and governance.
•  Received reports on reviews of GB and ROI energy markets.
•  Received a report on SSE’s Trading Approach in relation to the UK Emissions Trading Scheme.
•  Received reports throughout the year on SSE’s strategy to support entry to international markets for the asset 

businesses by providing route to market and optimisation services.

•  Considered a report on the key risks and controls arising from operations within Energy Portfolio Management.
•  Reviewed the Energy Portfolio Management MD Letter of Assurance.
•  Received an in-depth review of risk control metrics provided internally.
•  Received quarterly reports from Internal Audit and details of resulting action plans related to the Energy 

Portfolio Management business. 

•  Reviewed minutes from the Group-level Demand Management Committee which provided updates on 

activities as a result of alterations to customer demand profile due to market volatility.

•  Reviewed minutes from the Group-level Energy Markets Risk Committee which provides executive level 

oversight of SSE’s energy market exposures and their associated management.

Governance  
and other

•  Considered the output of the EMRC performance evaluation.
•  Approved the narrative of the 2023 EMRC Report.
•  Regularly reviewed the forward business planner.

SSE plc  Annual Report 2023

161

Financial StatementsStrategic ReportDirectors’ ReportSafety, Sustainability, Health and Environment 
Advisory Committee Report

Role of the Committee
•  Supports and advises the Board  
on matters relating to safety, 
sustainability, health and the 
environment.

•  Provides a leadership forum  

for non-Executive Directors to  
work with senior management and 
shape policy, targets and strategy 
to improve safety, sustainability, 
health, and environmental 
performance.

•  Reviews the effectiveness of  

SSE’s strategy, initiatives, training 
and targets in relation to safety, 
sustainability, health, and the 
environment.

•  Reviews the implementation  

of SSE’s Group Policies relating  
to safety, sustainability, health  
and wellbeing, the environment, 
and climate change.
•  Monitors the resource,  

competence and commitment  
in the management of safety, 
sustainability, health, and 
environmental issues to ensure 
continuous improvement.

•  Maintains access to a range of both 
internal and external stakeholder 
perspectives to better achieve the 
creation of shared value for society.

•  Supports SSE’s commitment to 

being a sustainable company that 
makes a positive contribution to the 
communities in which it operates.
•  Actively ensures the maintenance 
of a healthy corporate culture in 
respect of safety, sustainability, 
health and environmental matters 
based on a combination of values, 
attitudes and behaviours.

The Committee’s Terms of Reference 
are available on sse.com . 

Key activities in 2022/23
•  Considered safety performance 

and targets

•  Enhanced oversight of employee 

wellbeing initiatives

•  Continued visits across sites
•  Reviewed an ESG gap analysis  
and materiality assessment 

Dear Shareholder
I am pleased to present the Safety, 
Sustainability, Health and Environment 
Advisory Committee (SSHEAC) Report  
for 2022/23; a difficult year which saw the 
very sad fatality of one of our contractor’s 
employees at Viking wind farm. This 
incident made us re-think, re-energise and 
be more determined than ever to deliver  
on our Safety Family approach with robust 
support for our employees.

This report explains the work of the 
SSHEAC during the year, alongside the 
progress that has been made in relation  
to safety, sustainability, health and 
wellbeing, and the environment. A more 
in-depth review of these areas, can be 
found on pages 34 to 67  and in SSE’s 
Sustainability Report 2023  which is 
available on sse.com .

Our Safety Family is an important and 
distinctive part of SSE’s culture. Through 
continuous development, we are looking  
to strike the balance between adding more 
energy to SSE’s approach whilst reinforcing 
our existing Safety Family language  
and principles for our employees and 

contractors. Our commitment – that we all 
get home safe – is the top priority for us.

The Committee has reviewed continued 
efforts to enhance employees’ health and 
wellbeing in the year. A focus has been 
targeting areas in which we can make a 
difference and ensuring it is easy for people 
to access the help they need. In addition  
to the employee benefits already offered, 
last autumn saw the launch of SSE’s Health 
Hub and ‘We Care’ for employees, which 
offer fast access to different health and 
wellbeing services. Whilst we have made 
great progress in this area in the last few 
years, there remain areas we would like to 
continue to develop.

We recognise that SSE is part of the  
natural world and want to support the 
conservation, restoration and sustainable 
use of the world’s land and water 
resources; and promote the integration  
of amenity, ecosystem and biodiversity 
improvement into business activities.  
As noted in the report that follows, SSE’s 
Business Units signed up to achieve no  
net loss in biodiversity by 2023 and net gain 
in biodiversity by 2025 on onshore large 

162

SSE plc  Annual Report 2023

capital projects. We maintain focus on 
developing SSE’s Environment Strategy, 
strengthening our local SHE communities 
and sharing SSE’s 2022+ SHE vision ‘making 
it easier to do the right thing’.

Following on from last year, SSE’s 
Sustainability Team presented two 
significant pieces of work: an ESG gap 
analysis and a materiality assessment. The 
ESG gap analysis supported identification 
of where improvements can and should  
be made, not only in ESG disclosures,  
but in practices and performance as well. 
The in-depth materiality assessment 
reconfirmed the most salient sustainability 
issues to both the Company and its 
stakeholders, identifying areas of 
opportunity to develop. 

An increased number of Committee site 
visits were conducted in 2022/23, supporting 
oversight of SSE’s safety culture in operation. 
Positive impressions were reported back to 
the SSHEAC alongside opportunities to 
enhance working environments.

On behalf of the SSHEAC, I would like to 
thank all employees and those that work 
with SSE for their sustained effort, hard 
work and commitment. I hope you find  
the report a useful explanation of our work 
and of SHE performance during the year.

Helen Mahy CBE 
Chair of the SSHEAC 
23 May 2023

Membership
The membership of the SSHEAC comprises 
four non-Executive Directors; the Chair of 
the Board; the Chief Commercial Officer; 
the Chief Sustainability Officer; the 
Managing Director, SSEN Distribution; the 
Managing Director, SSE Distributed Energy; 
and the Safety, Health and Environment 
Director. An Assistant Company Secretary is 
Secretary to the Committee and the Chief 
Executive routinely attends meetings. The 
Committee invites operational managers 
and specialists to attend certain meetings 
to gain a deeper level of insight on 
particular items of business. Biographical 
details of the non-Executive members can 
be found on pages 116 to 120 . 

Meetings and focus in 2022/23
The SSHEAC met five times in 2022/23  
and details of non-Executive meeting 
attendance are set out on page 123 . 

One meeting provided specific 
consideration to an ESG gap analysis to 
allow identification of additional areas  
of focus (see page 165 ). With this being  
a new piece of work for the Committee,  
Sir John Manzoni received a separate 
briefing outside of the meeting, due to 
being unable to attend the short-notice 
session because of a prior commitment.

Working closely with the Group Safety, 
Health and Environment Committee which 
reports to the Group Executive Committee, 
the SSHEAC has an annual work plan to 
review SHE performance at Group-level 
and in each of SSE’s seven business areas. 
The Committee considers a wide range of 
SHE performance and governance issues as 
it shapes SSE’s SHE strategy. This year it has 
had a specific focus on contractor safety 
and health and wellbeing, recognising  
the performance challenges of contract 
partners and the need to take care of 
colleagues’ health and wellbeing in 
challenging times.

Other matters which the SSHEAC focused 
on were: 
•  SHE engagement and culture
•  SHE risks
•  Fatigue management 
•  Climate adaptation and resilience
•  ESG performance
•  Sign-off of the plan for SSE’s 
Sustainability Report 2023 . 

SHE strategy 
The SSHEAC reviewed the safety, health 
and wellbeing, and environmental 
strategies, priorities and plans for 2023/24, 
underpinned by the SHE Risk Matrix and 
SHE Assurance Plan. It is recognised that 
the work being undertaken by contractors, 
on SSE’s large capital projects can 
represent a higher-risk environment than 

Committee evaluation

The actions identified from the evaluation of the SSHEAC in 2021/22 as reported on 
last year were monitored through to completion. 

The annual review of Committee performance was facilitated by Lintstock (see  
pages 140 to 141 ) and the outputs considered by the full Committee. This saw 
confirmation by the Board of the Committee’s continued effective operation and 
agreement by the Committee of a number of actions for progression across 2023/24.

Evaluation 
themes

•  Good coverage of the key aspects of safety, sustainability and 
environmental issues. Continue to define SSE’s Environment 
Strategy and monitor environmental performance.

•  Good recognition of the steps taken to improve SSE’s Health offer 

to colleagues.

•  The SSHEAC’s contribution has supported and encouraged the 

ambition and direction taken on safety, sustainability, health and 
environmental matters.

Actions for 
2023/24

•  Safety. Communication with contractors is a top priority.
•  Meetings. Lengthen meetings and continue to undertake deep 

dives on specific topics.

•  Environment. Continue to define SSE’s Environment Strategy and 

monitor environmental performance. Continue to promote 
interactions with 3rd parties NGOs and regulators.

•  Sustainability. Teachings on specific sustainability topics.

normal operations. For this reason, SSE is 
focusing on building strong relationships 
with contract partners to align behind a 
common goal to get everyone home safe. 

figure for 2020/21 has been restated to 
align with the current definition of a Safe 
Day within SSE and the removal of Minor 
Environmental Incidents from the measure. 

SSE’s SHE Team also looked at SSE’s business 
continuity and crisis management approach 
and set out a strategy for operational 
resilience and an accompanying three-year 
plan. Across 2022/23, organised campaigns 
supported SHE strategy implementation and 
communication, with a digital enablement 
project helping to develop more insights into 
SHE performance reporting. 

Maintaining SSE’s Safety Family approach  
in the face of growth, new joiners and an 
increased contractor workload is high 
priority, and efforts to reinforce existing 
Safety Family language and update the 
tools already in place will remain key. 

SHE performance
Safety
The SSHEAC oversees safety performance 
using a number of different measures. 
SSE uses the concept of ‘Safe Days’ to 
monitor and track its safety progress and 
performance. On a ‘Safe Day’, for SSE or 
contractors, there are no minor, serious,  
or major safety incidents; serious or major 
environmental incidents; or any incident 
with high potential for harm to people or 
the environment. 255 Safe Days were 
achieved during 2022/23, compared to  
276 in the previous year. The comparative 

In addition to Safe Days, SSE continues  
to measure safety performance using  
the rolling Total Recordable Injury Rate  
(TRIR) for employees and contractors.  
This measure is used for benchmarking and 
trend analysis, and in 2022/23, it increased to 
0.19 per 100,000 hours worked, compared 
to 0.17 in the previous year. This increase 
reflects a significant surge in investment  
and construction, and the associated rise  
in contractor hours worked. There will be  
a separate target TRIR for 2023/24 for SSE  
of 0.11, and contractors of 0.31, which, 
considering the increased activities and 
workload within all Business Units, will  
be a challenging task, but is believed to  
be achievable.

To enhance the safety of colleagues, 
immersive training programmes are  
being established at various locations in  
the UK. This involves deep immersion in  
an interactive environment that simulates 
real-world scenarios. The programme will 
be tailored to SSE’s needs and attempts  
to change employees’ perspective when 
working onsite. This will equip new  
starters as well as other colleagues  
with tools to support the overall goal  
of getting home safe.

SSE plc  Annual Report 2023

163

Financial StatementsStrategic ReportDirectors’ ReportWhat would make it easier for 
people to do the right thing?
Covid-19 has presented some real 
challenges for SSE’s sites. At the time  
of this visit, some controls at Peterhead 
were still in place to protect the control 
room operators from Covid-19, such as 
all visitors to the control room wearing 
masks. The site induction was also 
completed online to ensure the process 
was efficient and safe. 

Safety, Sustainability, Health and Environment Advisory Committee Report continued

Contractor safety
With the very sad news of the  
fatality of one of SSE’s contractor’s 
employees, and contractor incidents 
and contractor TRIR being higher than 
SSE’s, the Committee discussed how 
SSE can provide more rigour and 
support, especially as the level of  
SSE’s delivery through contract 
partners will increase.

SSE has formed a new central 
Contractor Safety Team supported by 
dedicated Contractor SHE Managers 
and Assurance Auditors to improve 
contractor safety performance. In 
SSE’s plan for the next financial year, 
key actions have been captured in  
the following three categories: 1. 
Collaborate – how SSE aligns all 
parties to deliver; 2. Support – how to 
provide direct support; and 3. Check 
– conduct a comprehensive audit 
across all businesses and directly  
with contract partners to identify and 
address any issues systematically.

SSE has been working to continually 
improve SHE Specification for 
contractors and provide guidance  
for project management teams. In 
addition to the Contractor Safety 
Community, local SHE Communities 
are embedded across all SSE Business 
Units and the Committee saw good 
examples of their work on different 
sites during visits.

Health and wellbeing
The SSHEAC has encouraged and endorsed 
a significant focus on health and wellbeing 
across SSE over 2022/23. The Committee 
reviewed employee absence data and trends 
to ensure that common reasons for absence 
and wellbeing in the workplace were 
considered and understood. Following this, 
a new Health Hub was developed to allow 
easy access to employee support services.  
A new feature of the Health Hub was the 
launch of the ’We Care’ health app. Through 
this free of charge service, employees and 
their immediate families can access 24/7  
GP consultations and other health related 
advice. A programme in partnership with the 
British Heart Foundation on cardiovascular 
assessments was also introduced and will 
continue into 2023/24.

In addition, in response to employee 
listening, a series of webinars has also 
broached sensitive subjects such as suicide, 
menopause and more, setting the wellbeing 
objectives and values to build a strategy  
that adapts to business needs. Initiatives to 
support employees’ physical and mental 
health continue to be provided through 
Nuffield, SSE’s Employee Assistance 
Programme and Thrive.

Environment
SSE’s Environment Strategy is underpinned 
by an ethos of compliance. It provides a 
pathway to engage internal and external 
stakeholders by holding SSE accountable 
for performance against targets and 
indicators as a measurement of success. 
Following a review of the environmental 
vision, a set of targets were agreed for 
2022/23. Further details of these targets 
and performance against them in the  
year can be found in SSE’s Sustainability 
Report 2023  and on pages 53 to 55 . 

The operational focus of SSE’s Environmental 
Strategy is across three priority pillars:  
1. Environmental Management and 
Governance; 2. Responsible Consumption 
and Production; and 3. Natural Environment. 

In 2022/23, the total number of 
environmental incidents as a result of SSE’s 
activities totaled 109 compared to 84 the 
previous year, the majority of which were 
minor. SSE’s 2021/22 total environmental 
incident measure has been restated, 
attributed to: enhanced governance  
checks that have increased the accuracy of 
reporting; and implementing a new SEARS 
system which has helped in improving the 
visibility of incidents and ensuring their 
correct categorisation. This improved 
reporting has also supported enhanced 
oversight of environmental performance. 

Following relatively stable performance 
over the past three years, there was a  
slight increase in serious environmental 
incidents in 2022/23, increasing to 31 from 
24 the previous year. Of these incidents  
SSE saw an increase in the number of 
silt-related issues associated with the scale 
up of construction activities, offset by a 
reduction in the number and scale of fluid 
filled cable leaks of its assets. In order to 
address these issues and take into account 
the increased project activity, SSE has put  
in place deep dives in four areas: silt, fluid 
filled cables, SF6 and waste.

The number of environmental permit 
breaches increased to nine in 2022/23  
from seven the previous year, the majority 
of which were self-reported to the relevant 
environmental agencies. All incidents were 
dealt with quickly when identified.

Engagement in action
Suppliers, contractors and partners 

Partnering for safety and wellbeing

SSE’s current growth phase, and the 
resulting increase in contractor hours 
worked, has sharpened focus on keeping 
the employees of our partners safe. 

An example of this in action is an initiative 
within SSE Thermal to introduce on-site 
paramedics on large capital projects.

In partnership with SSE’s principal 
contractors, it was decided paramedics 
should not just treat injuries but should 
also put a strong emphasis on prevention 
and awareness when it comes to safety, 
health and wellbeing. 

By creating a positive safety culture, they 
are responsible for tasks such as setting 
up medical facilities, treatment and 

wellness rooms, offering defibrillator and 
CPR training, administering medication 
and providing mental first aid services.
This approach has already been put  
into action treating potential incidents 
across sites. A recent survey of SSE 
Thermal colleagues showed that  
on-site paramedics were one of the top 
three factors helping to create a positive 
Safety, Health and Environment culture 
on location.

Engagement in action
Employees 

Visit to Peterhead

Mark Patterson, the Safety, Health and 
Environment Director, and Helen Mahy, 
Chair of the SSHEAC, visited Peterhead 
Power Station in September 2022 to gain 
insight into SSE’s Safety Family language 
in action. Below is a summary of the 
takeaways from the visit.

If it’s not safe, we don’t do it
The station’s team demonstrated 
openess, a deep sense of trust, and  
were supportive of each other and the 
environment. Safety was embedded 
across plant processes and Safety Family 
language was evident across discussions.

We take pride in our work  
and our environment
The overall impression was that the 
station team are making good strides 
towards building a positive SHE culture 
and ensuring an engaged team.

We take care of ourselves  
and each other
Overall housekeeping and station 
planning, control and permit work  
was positive and well ordered. 
Communication between operational 
teams, including apprentices, was  
strong and responsive. 

We plan, scan and adapt 
There was a clear focus on building 
capability and skills across the existing 
team and getting the station in a position 
to support any future developments.  
It was positive to see new employees 
joining the station from other industries 
such as oil and gas. 

Sustainability and ESG focus
Significant progress was made across the 
most material areas of sustainability in 
2022/23, with the SSHEAC reviewing SSE’s 
performance in key investor environment, 
social and governance (ESG) ratings, and 
the results of an ESG gap analysis of SSE’s 
performance in two key ratings, approving 
areas for development and improvement in 
the next financial year. The Committee also 
approved the undertaking of a sustainability 
materiality assessment, with the objective 
of confirming the ESG issues most material 
to SSE. The focus areas from the materiality 
assessment and the ESG gap analysis align 
with the UN Sustainable Development 
Goals that SSE has previously identified  
as being material, and around which it  
has based its sustainability approach. The 
recommendations from the two exercises 
informed next steps, for example, at a 
multi-stakeholder event in April 2023,  
a first-of-a-kind, disclosure report was 
published and designed to establish a 
framework for measuring and disclosing 
progress against SSE’s 20 Just Transition 
Principles to SSE’s stakeholders.

In terms of SSE’s approach to the disclosure 
of its sustainability impacts, the aim is  
to bring about continuous improvement 
in both the quality and quantity of 
information disclosed. The objective for  
the Sustainability Report 2023  is to 
provide clarity around SSE’s most material 
sustainability issues, including those which 
represent key areas of opportunity for the 
business, reinforcing SSE’s sustainability 

hierarchy. SSE will use the Sustainability 
Report 2023  to communicate enhanced 
disclosures recommended by our materiality 
assessment and ESG gap analysis.

More information can be found on  
pages 34 to 67  and in the Sustainability 
Report  which is available at sse.com/
sustainability .

Site visits 
The SSHEAC completes an annual 
programme of site visits with the main 
objective of providing support to, and 
engaging with, colleagues working on 
different sites. Physical visits resumed in 
2022/23, with Committee members looking 
at different sites in late summer and early 
autumn. Locations visited included Reading, 
Slough, Peterhead, Ridgeway (Oxford), 
Perth Training School, Chalvey, Canal Street 
in Willesden, SSE’s joint venture Activ8, 
Leanamore wind farm, Galway wind park 
and Tarbert power station. 

The feedback from visits was encouraging 
with teams working hard to have positive 
impacts on the environment and local 
communities and ensuring that a thorough 
safety briefing is in place. A report of the 
visit to Peterhead is provided above. 

A structured approach to site visits ensures 
that feedback is collected and acted upon. 
This is facilitated by a dedicated feedback 
template which is completed following 
each site visit. The site visits agreed for 
2023/24 will be reported on next year. 

164

SSE plc  Annual Report 2023

SSE plc  Annual Report 2023

165

Financial StatementsStrategic ReportDirectors’ ReportRemuneration Committee Report

Role of the Committee
•  Determines and agrees SSE’s 
broad policy for executive 
remuneration and reviews the 
ongoing appropriateness and 
relevance of the policy.
•  Ensures remuneration is 

appropriate, enhances personal 
performance and rewards 
individual contributions towards 
the success of SSE.

•  Ensures directors’ remuneration 

policy is transparent, takes 
account of SSE’s risk appetite and 
aligns to SSE’s long-term goals.
•  Designs and determines measures 

and targets for variable pay 
including LTIPs for Executives  
and approves payouts.

•  Determines policy and scope of 
pension arrangements, service 
agreements, share ownership  
and share retention policies, 
termination payments and 
compensation commitments.
•  Gives due regard to relevant legal 

requirements and corporate 
governance guidelines.

•  Reports on executive 

remuneration through the 
Directors’ Remuneration Report 
and puts forward for shareholder 
approval annually at the AGM.

The Terms of Reference for  
the Committee are available  
on sse.com 

Dear Shareholder,
This is my first annual statement as Chair of 
SSE’s Remuneration Committee, of which I 
have been a member since January 2020. 
On behalf of the Board, my thanks go to 
Dame Sue Bruce for her extraordinary 
contribution both as a member of the 
Committee from December 2017 and  
as its Chair from May 2018. 

The Directors’ Remuneration Report sets 
out the detail and rationale for Directors’ 
remuneration and covers: 
•  Linking remuneration to strategy
•  Delivery and performance
 – 2022/23 AIP outcomes
 – Vesting of 2020 PSP award
 – Wider workforce pay
 – Salary changes
•  Changes to the Board
•  Pension arrangements

Linking remuneration to strategy 
The current Directors’ Remuneration Policy 
was approved at the July 2022 Annual 
General Meeting with over 91% support. 
Sue Bruce led an extensive consultation 
exercise with our largest shareholders and 
the Remuneration Committee is extremely 
grateful for their support. The policy is built 
on a set of enduring core reward principles: 

1.  Sustainability: reinforcing SSE’s 

commitment to being a responsible 
employer.

2.  Simplicity: maximising transparency  
and avoiding unnecessary complexity.

3.  Stewardship: encouraging and fairly 

rewarding good decision-making for  
the long term. 

166

SSE plc  Annual Report 2023

4.  Stakeholders: reflecting SSE’s strategic 
goal of creating value for shareholders 
and society.

Our approach to pay is designed to support 
SSE’s purpose to provide energy needed 
today while building a better world of 
energy for tomorrow. The performance 
measures and targets on which the Annual 
Incentive Plan (AIP) and the longer-term 
performance share awards are directly 
linked to execution of SSE’s strategy – the 
Net Zero Acceleration Programme (NZAP). 

Sustainability is at the heart of SSE’s strategy. 
Progress is measured by science-based 
business goals for 2030 that align with four 
specific UN Sustainable Development 
Goals. Progress against these goals,  
which are detailed on page 183 , was 
linked last year to the vesting of awards 
made under the Performance Share Plan 
(PSP). Shareholders also approved new 
‘strategic’ measures which assesses 
progress towards the successful delivery  
of the NZAP. This means that 30% of the 
shares awarded under the new PSP are 
linked to sustainability, either directly 
through sustainability measures or through 
strategic measures by virtue of SSE’s  
NZAP. The in-year focus on sustainability 
continues through measures which have a 
weighting of 40% within the 2023/24 AIP, 
with 10% assessed against sustainability 
indices and 30% relating to operational 
performance linked to the NZAP.

Our remuneration policy is structured  
to ensure that we have enough flexibility  
to attract world-class talent. This is 
particularly important as SSE is increasingly 
exposed to new markets and technologies.

Delivery and performance 
Our operating model and portfolio remain 
highly complementary and balanced.  
Our efficient operation of flexible thermal 
generation and gas storage assets (see 
page 78 ) contributed in a large part, to 
strong 2022/23 financial performance. We 
have historically tolerated weaker thermal 
returns given our long-term belief that the 
underlying value of thermal flexibility would 
be key to transitioning to net zero. That 
value was accentuated by the extreme 
levels of market volatility we saw this year. 

Strategic delivery in the year was strong, 
with critical milestones delivered in  
SSE’s flagship large capital projects  
(see page 18 ). In light of 2022/23 
performance, our financial strength and  
the available opportunity set, we have 
upgraded our plans and growth targets  
to the NZAP Plus, details on page 16 . 

2022/23 AIP outcomes
The AIP is determined against a broad  
range of financial, operational, personal  
and sustainability performance targets 
collectively designed to reflect financial  
and non-financial business performance 
each year. The measures were reviewed  
last year to support the delivery of the NZAP 
and longer-term goals. Changes included 
strengthening the cashflow measure, the 
introduction of operational measures and 
the addition of new sustainability metrics. 

Performance in the year has been strong. 
Financial measures exceeded target levels, 
and good progress has been made in 
respect of operational performance related 
to the NZAP. Performance against external 
sustainability indices, a new measure for 
2022/23, has also been strong with upper 
quintile ranking achieved across all indices. 
A summary of the detailed AIP scorecard is 
shown on pages 172 to 173 .

Each year, the Committee considers 
whether there are appropriate reasons to 
apply discretion to the AIP outturn. The 
Committee was deeply saddened by  
the death of Liam Macdonald, a young 
contractor working on Shetland, in June 

2022. As a result, it used discretion to 
reduce the outturn of the AIP.

The outturn for the 2022/23 AIP is 88%  
of the maximum following the use of 
downward discretion.

Vesting of 2020 PSP award 
The PSP awards granted in June 2020 are 
due to vest following the 2022/23 financial 
year, subject to financial, operational, and 
value-creation performance conditions 
measured over the three-year performance 
period ending 31 March 2023.

The Remuneration Committee objectively 
assessed the vesting outcome against  
the performance measures and targets. 
This resulted in an outturn of 76% of the 
maximum award. The Committee then 
reviewed the quality of the overall 
performance and the number of shares 
awarded in 2020 in comparison with the 
number of shares awarded in 2019 and  
in 2018. The number of shares under  
award in 2020 was 85% of the number of 
shares awarded in 2019. The Remuneration 
Committee was satisfied that the Executive 
Directors have not benefited merely as a 
result of share price volatility. It agreed that 
the vesting outcome for these awards was 
appropriate and no discretion was required. 
More details on the performance measures, 
the targets, and the performance outturns 
are set out on page 174 .

Wider workforce pay
In setting pay policy and agreeing  
pay outcomes for Executive Directors,  
the Committee is mindful of the pay 
arrangements of the wider workforce. 
Throughout the year, a number of initiatives 
were introduced as part of SSE’s improved 
Employee Value Proposition including the 
introduction of a new skills-based pay 
system involving considerable investment, 
increases to salary ranges and car 
allowances, enhancements to ‘family 
friendly’ policies and the introduction  
of additional health benefits.

In recognition of SSE’s 2021/22 performance 
employees below senior management  
level were offered a £500 one-off payment 
in May 2022. Later in response to the 
worsening cost of living crisis part of the 
annual salary increase was paid early in 
October 2022 to help people through  
the winter with the balance of CPI paid at 
yearend. Further details on the Employee 
Value Proposition and support offered to 
employees in response to the cost of living 
crisis can be found in the case study on  
page 179 . 

Salary changes
In reviewing the base salaries of Executive 
Directors, the Committee considered  
SSE’s strong performance and shareholder 
returns, and NZAP progress. We also 
considered the increases granted to the 

wider employee population which were 
linked to CPI expected to be in the region 
of 8%.

SSE’s market capitalisation is in the FTSE 
20-50 upper quartile (excluding financial 
services). SSE total pay potential is below 
the median for this benchmark set. SSE’s 
market capitalisation is within the range  
of the median of the FTSE 50 (excluding 
financial services) and total pay potential 
compared to this group is in the lower 
quartile. As SSE scales and becomes  
more international, the Committee will 
increasingly keep a watching brief on pay 
trends and pay levels across the FTSE 50. 

The Committee decided that the increase 
for each of the Executive Directors from 
1 April 2023 should be 5% of salary.

Changes to the Board
Gregor Alexander – SSE announced  
on 21 April 2023 that Gregor Alexander, 
who has served as Finance Director since 
2002, would step down from the Board  
on 1 December 2023 and retire from SSE  
at the end of March 2024. Gregor will 
continue in his current positions as Chair of 
SSE Transmission’s Board and as a Director 
on the Board of Neos Networks Limited, 
SSE’s joint venture with Infracapital 
Partners. The Remuneration Committee 
without hesitation exercised its discretion 
to treat Gregor Alexander as a ‘good leaver’ 
in respect of his retirement, taking in to 
account his long and distinguished service. 
He will continue to be paid in the usual way 
until he steps down from the Board. He will 
be eligible for a time pro-rated bonus in 
respect of his service in the financial year 
2023/24. One third of his bonus will be 
deferred into shares in the usual way. He 
will not receive an award in 2023 under  
the PSP. His outstanding share awards 
under the PSP will be time pro-rated to 
reflect the elapsed time between the start 
of the performance period and the date of 
cessation of employment, and the awards 
will vest in accordance with the usual 
timetable. He will be required to retain  
a shareholding for at least two years 
following the date of cessation of 
employment in accordance with the 
Directors’ Remuneration Policy.

Barry O’Regan – It was announced on 
21 April 2023 that Barry would take up the 
appointment of Chief Financial Officer 
from 1 December 2023. Barry will join the 
Board on the same date. As his home base 
will remain in Ireland, he will be paid a Euro 
base salary of the equivalent of £600,000  
a year. It is planned that the base salary  
will increase by 8.3% to the equivalent of 
£650,000 with effect from 1 April 2024 and 
to the Euro equivalent of £700,000 (an 
increase of 7.7% of salary) with effect from 
1 April 2025. The Committee believes that 
the planned phased increases set out are 
appropriate to achieve a competitive total 

pay position and will be subject to review  
at each point to ensure they reflect Barry’s 
development in the role. His maximum 
bonus under the AIP will be 130% of salary 
and his annual award under the PSP will be 
225% of salary. It is expected that an award 
will be made under the PSP on 1 April 2024. 
He will be required over time to build up a 
shareholding to the value of 225% of salary 
and to retain this holding for two years  
after he leaves employment with SSE. His 
existing incentive arrangements, including 
in-flight share awards, will continue to run 
on their original terms.

Pension arrangements
The Directors’ Remuneration Policy is clear 
that any individual appointed to the Board 
will receive pension arrangements which 
are aligned, in terms of annual percentage 
contribution, to those of the majority of  
SSE employees.

During the year, the Committee considered 
the pension allowance of 15% of salary 
payable to the Chief Commercial Officer, 
Martin Pibworth, with effect from 1 January 
2023 in the light of the UK Corporate 
Governance Code, the views of many 
investors and representative bodies  
on the alignment of executive pension 
arrangements with those for all employees. 
It has made no further changes to Martin’s 
pension allowance of 15%, which is in  
line with the average employer cost for 
employees with similar service.

As Chief Financial Officer, Barry O’Regan 
will receive a cash allowance in lieu of 
contribution to his pension equivalent  
to 12% of salary aligned to the policy for 
new appointments and the contribution for 
the majority of employees in the UK and 
Ireland irrespective of length of service.

The defined benefit arrangements for the 
Chief Executive and the Finance Director 
reflect their long service with the business 
and, in terms of the benefits provided, are 
in line with the arrangements for other 
employees recruited at the same time. 

Summary
The Remuneration Committee plans to 
continue to apply SSE’s core principles of 
transparency of decision-making and clarity 
of reporting and to be fully cognisant of the 
perspectives of SSE’s stakeholder groups. I 
very much welcome any comments on the 
2022 Directors’ Remuneration Report or on 
any remuneration matters. I can be reached 
via Sally Fairbairn at sally.fairbairn@sse.com.

Melanie Smith CBE
Chair of the Remuneration Committee
23 May 2023

SSE plc  Annual Report 2023

167

Financial StatementsStrategic ReportDirectors’ ReportRemuneration at a glance

Directors’ Remuneration Policy in 2023/24
The illustration below shows how SSE intends to operate its Directors’ Remuneration Policy in 2023/24. 

Incentive Plan Performance in 2022/23

Element

Max

2023/24

2024/25

2025/26

2026/27

2027/28

2028/29

Annual Incentive Plan

Performance Share Plan

Share ownership requirement

Base Salary

Benefits

Pension

Short-term Incentive

Long-term Incentive

Set with 
reference to  
pay increases 
for the wider 
employee base 

Market 
competitive

Salary paid

Benefits paid

Final salary and 
top up/pension 
allowance

Pension 
accrual/ 
allowance paid1

Fixed pay

Salary

Benefits

Pension

Variable  
pay –  
at risk

Annual 
Incentive Plan 
(AIP)

Performance 
Share Plan (PSP)

Additional 
governance

Share 
ownership 
requirement

Recovery and 
withholding

CEO 150%  
of salary.  
FD and CCO 
130% of salary 
67% cash/33% 
deferred shares

CEO 250%  
of salary.  
FD and CCO 
225% of salary 
2-year holding 
period

250% of salary 
for CEO and 
225% of salary 
for FD and CCO

All incentives

Performance 
period 

AIP cash paid

AIP deferred 
share awards 
granted

Vesting period

Awards vest

PSP awards 
granted

Performance/vesting  
period

PSP awards 
vest

Holding period Holding  

period ends

Malus and clawback: material misstatement or restatement of accounts; misconduct which results in  
a materially adverse financial effect; serious reputational damage including material environmental or 
safety issue, or material operational or business failing; factual error in calculating payment/vesting; 
serious misconduct; corporate failure; material risk failure; material detriment to stakeholders or to 
company’s market reputation; unreasonable failure to protect stakeholders’ interests

Post-
employment

Career shares 
(up to 2022)

The holding requirement for career shares is until two years after cessation of employment. From 
2022, PSP awards and deferred bonus shares will all count towards the two-year post cessation policy.

1  The Finance Director ceases to accrue further pension at age 60 in April 2023 and will receive no cash allowance in lieu.

Strategic performance
Executive Directors’ remuneration is strongly linked to strategic performance. Some of SSE’s strategic performance measures are 
detailed below, with an indication of how they link to remuneration. SSE has delivered against its dividend target and performed well 
against a range of financial and non-financial measures. Full details of SSE’s financial and non-financial KPIs can be seen on pages 24 
and 25 .

Adjusted Earnings Per Share 

Cashflow (net debt/EBITDA) 

Dividend Per Share 

166.0p

AIP and PSP
(2021/22 – 94.8p)

2.7

AIP
(2021/22 – 4.3)

96.7p

PSP
(2021/22 – 85.7p)

Total Shareholder Return 
(FTSE 100)

Total Shareholder Return 
(MSCI)

Total Recordable 
Injury Rate 

Rank 24

of 95 PSP
(2021/22 – Rank 13 of 95)

Rank 7

0.19

of 24 PSP
(2021/22 – Rank 6 of 23)

per 100,000 hours worked AIP
(2021/22 – 0.17)

100%

88%

100%

76%

30%

30%

20%

20%

30%

24%

10%

9%

10%

10%

20%

20%

20%

19%

20%

20%

20%

20%

10%

7%

Cashﬂow

Personal Operational

Sustainability

Total 
(% of 
maximum1)

TSR v 
FTSE100

TSR v 
MSCI

EPS 
growth

DPS 
growth

Customer

Total 
(% of 
maximum)

Adjusted 
EPS

   Maximum
   Actual

1  The overall total for AIP at 88% includes the Remuneration Committee’s use of downward discretion. See page 174 . 

How pay links to the wider workforce at SSE

Executive Directors
(3 employees)

Group Executive 
Committee 
(8 employees)

Senior Management
(120 employees)

Wider workforce
(12,000 employees)

A range of voluntary 
benefits in line with 
the wider workforce 
plus contractual  
car and private 
medical benefits.

Base salary is 
typically set  
with reference  
to the market, 
performance and 
wider workforce 
considerations.

Annual increases are 
typically in line with 
or less than those for 
the wider employee 
population.

A range of voluntary 
benefits are available 
to all employees, such 
as a cycle to work 
scheme, a holiday 
purchase scheme, 
health benefits, and 
enhanced maternity, 
paternity and 
adoption leave.

Base salary levels  
are subject to 
negotiation with 
recognised trade 
unions and/or are  
set in line with 
market requirements.

Annual increases  
are either subject  
to negotiation  
or individual 
performance. 

The above applies to employees across the UK and ROI where practically possible.

All employees  
are members of a 
defined contribution 
pension scheme,  
or one of our legacy 
defined benefit 
pension schemes, 
unless they have 
opted out. 

The arrangements 
are diverse and  
the employer cost 
typically ranges from 
4.5% to 32.5% of 
salary when both 
defined contribution 
and defined benefit 
schemes are taken 
into account.

Annual Incentive  
Plan linked directly  
to business 
performance –  
50% financial,  
50% non-financial. 
33% of the total  
award is deferred  
into shares for  
three years.

Annual Incentive  
Plan considering 
performance of the 
Group (directly linked 
to the above), the 
business area and  
the individual. 25%  
of the total award is 
deferred as shares  
for three years.

All personal contract 
employees will 
participate in the 
Annual Incentive  
Plan (as above).  
100% of the award  
is paid in cash.

The Performance 
Share Plan is a  
share award with 
performance  
linked to strategic 
performance 
measures.

The Leadership  
Share Plan is also 
linked to strategic 
performance 
measures over the 
longer-term and 
those with direct 
impact on strategic 
output are eligible.

All employees may 
participate in the 
Share Incentive  
Plan (SSE matches 
three shares for  
every three bought)  
and the Sharesave 
(SAYE) plan.

168

SSE plc  Annual Report 2023

SSE plc  Annual Report 2023

169

Financial StatementsStrategic ReportDirectors’ ReportAnnual report on remuneration

1. Single total figure of remuneration (audited)
The table below shows the single total figure of remuneration for each Executive Director for the financial year ending 31 March 2023 
relative to the previous year.

Fixed Pay

Base Salary1
Benefits2
Pension3

Total Fixed Pay

Variable Pay

AIP4
PSP5

Total Variable Pay

Total

Alistair Phillips-Davies

Gregor Alexander

Martin Pibworth

Total6

2022/23 
£000s

2021/22
£000s

2022/23 
£000s

2021/22
£000s

2022/23 
£000s

2021/22
£000s

2022/23 
£000s

2021/22
£000s

952 
27 
367 

1,346 

1,256 
2,025 

3,281 

4,627 

924 
26 
413 

1,363 

1,150 
2,142 

3,292 

4,655 

736 
24 
260 

1,020 

841 
1,369 

2,210 

3,230 

714 
23 
303 

1,040 

771 
1,449 

2,220 

3,260 

655 
18 
127 

800 

750 
1,025 

1,775 

2,575 

636 
18 
159 

813 

678 
1,084 

1,762 

2,343 
69 
754 

3,166 

2,847 
4,419 

7,266 

2,274 
67 
875 

3,216 

2,599 
4,675 

7,274 

2,575 

10,432 

10,490 

1  SSE offers all employees a range of voluntary benefits some of which operate under a salary sacrifice arrangement. The salaries shown above are reported before 

any such adjustments are made. 

2  Benefits relate to company car, Share Incentive Plan company contributions and medical benefits. These benefits are non-pensionable. 
3  The pension values for Alistair Phillips-Davies and Gregor Alexander represent the increase in capital value of pension accrued over one-year times a multiple  

of 20 (net of CPI and Directors’ contributions) in line with statutory reporting requirements. 
4  The AIP figures above show the value of the award including the portion deferred as shares. 
5  The PSP figures for 2021/22 have been readjusted in line with statutory reporting requirements, following last year’s report to show the actual value upon vesting. 

The estimated value shown in the table for 2022/23 is based on the average share price in the three months to 31 March 2023 of £17.26, as required by the 
reporting regulations. The value generated through share price appreciation is £849,657 (full details shown on page 175 ). The award remains subject to service 
until May 2023 and so the prior year comparative will be restated in next year’s report to show the actual value on vesting, as is required by the regulations. 

6  Directors have not received any other items in the nature of remuneration other than as disclosed in the table.

Rationale for 2022/23 single total figure of remuneration
There has been very little year-on-year change in the single total figure of remuneration with just a 0.5% reduction. For the Executive 
Directors, total remuneration has either stayed the same or reduced by up to 0.9%. There have however, been changes in the individual 
elements of pay. Executive Directors received a base salary increase lower than the wider workforce and AIP outcomes were increased 
following a year of strong financial, operational and strategic performance. The single total figures reflect the Committee’s decision to 
exercise discretion in relation to the AIP outturn. PSP outcomes also increased however, share price appreciation reduced from 52% in  
2022 to 24% over the three years to the end of March 2023. 

Values for pensions have all reduced during the year. Martin Pibworth’s pension allowance was subject to a phased reduction to bring it 
in to line with the wider employee population from 1 January 2023. Alistair Phillips-Davies and Gregor Alexander participate in defined 
benefit pension arrangements and there has been a reduction in the pension service cost which is a function of the valuation regulations 
rather than any change in approach.

The Remuneration Committee is satisfied that the single total figure of remuneration for each Executive Director is appropriate.

Base salary
In line with the average base salary increase for the wider employee population, Executive Directors’ salaries were increased on 1 April 
2022 by 3% from £923,924 to £951,642 for the Chief Executive, from £714,117 to £735,541 for the Finance Director and from £636,300  
to £655,389 for the Chief Commercial Officer. 

Benefits
Benefits are provided at an appropriate level taking into account market practice at similarly sized companies and the level of benefits 
provided for other employees in the Company. Core benefits include car allowance, private medical insurance and health screening.  
The Executive Directors also participate in the Company’s all-employee share schemes on the same terms as other employees.

Pension
The Chief Executive and Finance Director are members of the Southern Electric Pension Scheme and the Scottish Hydro Electric Pension 
Scheme respectively, and their plan membership predates their Board appointments. They participate in the same defined benefit pension 
arrangements that were available to all employees recruited at that time. The schemes were closed in 1999 and the service costs are 32.5% 
of salary. These are both funded final salary pension schemes and the terms of these schemes apply equally to all members. The Executive 
Directors’ service contracts provide for a possible maximum pension of two thirds final salary from the age of 60. 

In relation to Executive Directors who are subject to the scheme-specific salary cap (which mirrors the provisions of the previous HMRC cap 
arrangements) the Company provides top-up (unfunded) arrangements which are designed to provide an equivalent pension on retirement 
from the age of 60 to that which they would have earned had they not been subject to the salary cap. From 1 April 2017 pensionable 
earnings increases were capped at RPI +1%. These are legacy arrangements and will not be used for any new external appointments.

170

SSE plc  Annual Report 2023

The Chief Executive and Finance Director, in common with all other employees who joined at the same time (26 and 32 years ago 
respectively), have the following pension provisions relating to leaving the Company:
• 
• 

for retirement through ill-health an unreduced pension based on service to expected retirement is paid; 
in the event of any reorganisation or redundancy an unreduced accrued pension is paid to a member who is aged 50 or above,  
with at least five years’ service or, for a member who has not yet reached that age, it will be payable with effect from 50; 

•  and from the age of 55, a scheme member is entitled to leave the Company and receive a pension, reduced for early payment,  

unless the Company gives consent and funds this pension on an unreduced basis.

Dependent on the circumstances surrounding the departure of the Executive Director and financial health of the Company at the time, 
the Committee’s policy is to give consideration to a cash commutation of the unfunded unapproved retirement benefit (UURB) pension 
at the time of leaving. Any cash commutation will limit SSE’s liability, taking into account valuations provided by independent actuarial 
advisors, and will be calculated on what was judged to be a cost neutral basis to SSE.

The Finance Director will stop accruing pension under the scheme with effect from his 60th birthday in April 2023.

The Chief Commercial Officer, who has been with SSE since 1998, was already in receipt of a pension allowance of 30% of salary prior to  
his appointment as an Executive Director. While the arrangement was consistent with the approach used for all other members who have 
elected to receive a cash allowance in lieu of accruing future pension benefits, the Committee agreed that his future pension arrangements 
would be aligned with the level of contributions available to the wider workforce at 15% of salary on a phased basis over five years. Following 
confirmation of his expanded role from 1 November 2020, it was agreed that the phased reduction would be accelerated by two years. From 
1 January 2023, his pension allowance has been in line with the employer contribution for the majority of SSE’s employees, taking into 
account length of service, at 15% of salary.

The table below details pension accrued for each of the Executive Directors as at 31 March 2023 and 2022.

Alistair Phillips-Davies
Gregor Alexander
Martin Pibworth1

Accrued 
pension as at 
31 March 2023
£000s 

Accrued  
pension as at 
31 March 2022
£000s

549
490
0

513
461
0

1  Martin Pibworth received an allowance in lieu of a pension contribution of 20% of salary between 1 April and 31 December 2022, and 15% from 1 January 2023.

Annual Incentive Plan and Performance Share Plan 
In setting targets and assessing performance, the Committee followed the process below for both the AIP and PSP:

1.   Set performance 
measures aligned 
with strategy

2.   Set stretching 

3.   Assess performance 

4.   Take account of 

5.   Apply discretion  

performance targets

against targets

wider environment 
and stakeholders

if required

2022/23 Annual Incentive Plan
1. Set performance measures aligned with strategy
AIP requires broad performance across financial metrics (Adjusted EPS and Cashflow) and strategic metrics (Personal, Operational and 
Sustainability). The performance measures and their weightings are shown below.

Financial 
(50%)

Adjusted 
EPS
(30%)

Cashflow
(20%)

Personal 
(10%)

Individual 
Objectives
(10%)

Operational 
(30%)

Sustainability
(10%)

People

Renewables

Distribution

Transmission

Thermal

Customer

Other Growth & Transactions

Moody’s

Sustainalytics

S&P Global

2. Set stretching performance targets
The financial performance targets were set at the start of the financial year taking into account internal financial plans, external consensus 
where it exists and the expected impact of identified opportunities and threats to the business in the context of wider economic conditions. 
The performance target range is set on a realistic basis but requires true outperformance for Executive Directors to achieve the maximum. 
The Remuneration Committee has a history of setting challenging targets, evidenced by the average AIP payout of 60% since 2013/14 as 
shown on page 178 .

The Committee had originally intended to use four ESG ratings agencies as the basis for assessing performance in relation to Sustainability 
(as set out in the 2022 Annual Report). However, the provision of detailed comparative data for the MSCI ESG rating was not possible in 
2022/23, and therefore, average performance over three indices rather than four has been used. SSE’s performance against the MSCI ESG 
rating was in the upper quintile and as such, the Committee is satisfied that this issue has not made a material difference to the outturn of 
this performance measure. 

SSE plc  Annual Report 2023

171

Financial StatementsStrategic ReportDirectors’ Report 
Annual report on remuneration continued

3. Assess performance against targets
The table below shows how performance measures are linked to strategy and how performance was ultimately delivered.

AIP

Adjusted EPS

Cashflow 

Personal

Operational

Sustainability

Total

Link to strategy

Simple 
Stewardship 
Stakeholders

Simple 
Sustainable 
Stakeholders

Simple 
Sustainable 
Stewardship 
Stakeholders

Simple 
Sustainable 
Stewardship 
Stakeholders

Simple 
Sustainable 
Stewardship 
Stakeholders

Performance measure

Rationale

Weighting

Threshold

Max

Outcome

Performance

Outturn (% of max 
incentive)

Underlying 
measure of 
financial 
performance and 
strategic KPIs

Net debt/EBITDA  To reflect those 
activities which  
go beyond the 
responsibilities  
of the role

Operational goals 
relating to people, 
the businesses  
and other growth 
and transactions

Three external 
ratings agencies – 
Moody’s, 
Sustainalytics,  
and S&P Global

30%

114p

132p

166.0p

100%

30%

20%

5.0

4.5

2.7

100%

20%

10%

30%

See scoring 
framework below

See scoring 
framework below

10%

Median

Upper quintile

See next section

90%

9%

79%

24%

100%

10%

93%

The Personal and Operational goals will be assessed using the scoring framework as follows:

Score

Illustrative performance assessment

Illustrative outturn as % of maximum1

1

2

3

4

5

Below threshold

Threshold performance

Majority of goals at target

Substantial majority of goals at or above target

All goals at or above target

Zero

20%

40%

70%

100%

1  The Remuneration Committee can decide to award an outturn between levels if warranted.

The tables below and on the following pages provide detail on each of the non-financial measures and the assessment of performance 
against each one.

High-level 
measure

Personal  
10%

Detailed measure Factors to be assessed

Summary performance

Culture and the SSESET, 
Financial, People Development, 
Succession, Stakeholder 
Management, Strategy  
and Growth.

Chief 
Executive

Finance 
Director

Chief 
Commercial 
Officer

Overall, a strong year of performance. 
Financial performance exceeded targets. 
Delivered an updated and enhanced NZAP 
Plus strategy. Successful disposal of a 25% 
stake in the SSEN Transmission business. 
Acquisition of Triton Power and a Southern 
European onshore development platform 
from SGRE. Pipeline progress in solar and 
battery. Key appointments made during the 
year. Seagreen has faced some challenges 
and increased contractor hours have had  
an impact on safety.

Assessment 
(score 1-5)

Outcome 
(% of max)

4+

4+

4+

90%

90%

90%

High-level 
measure

Operations
30%

Detailed measure Factors to be assessed

Summary performance

People

Health and Safety performance 
as measured by Total Recordable 
Injury Ratio (TRIR); recruitment 
plans and inclusion and diversity 
as measured by time to hire, 
filling of vacancies and the 
percentage increase in gender 
diversity across SSE.

TRIR increased at 0.19 driven by contractor 
safety performance. Gender Pay Gap 
decreased. Female leadership increased. 
4,400 vacancies filled (1,300 more than  
in 2021/22). Time to hire remains steady at  
48 days. Simplified Board I&D scorecard 
introduced. Progress has been made  
across all diversity groups.

Assessment 
(score 1-5)

Outcome 
(% of max)

4+

83%

Renewables 

Cost per MW hour, plant 
availability, progress on 
renewables pipeline.

Distribution

Progress against ED2 business 
plan; incentive income against 
agreed target.

Transmission Contract awards achieved 

against agreed plan; delivery of 
outputs and approval of projects 
that maintain a trajectory of RAV 
greater than £6bn by 2026.

Production down by c.15% on plan due to 
weather. Plant availability at highest levels 
across onshore sites and improvements 
across offshore. 4GW of secured pipeline 
added. Total pipeline is now >20GW. 2nd  
in the balancing market.

Good progress against ED2 business plan. 
SHEPD and SEPD both performing well 
following change activity. SSEN Distribution 
the most improved DNO of the year. Some 
good performance against incentive measures.

All T2 outputs are on track to be met.  
Delivery of outputs are expected to 
outperform despite challenging market 
conditions. Trajectory of RAV expected  
to be >£6bn.

3+

65%

3+

65%

4+

90%

Thermal 

Balancing market performance.

Rank 1 generator in the balancing market.

5

100%

Customer 

Finish above median in the 
Citizen’s Advice non-domestic 
supplier league table. 

Ranking in Citizen’s Advice league around 
upper quartile performance level. Airtricity 
ranked 3rd out of 7 in annual CX survey but 
showed largest year-on-year improvement.

Other  
Growth and 
Transactions

Progress building pipeline across 
business areas including solar, 
storage, hydrogen, and other 
priority business development 
areas; progress made on financial 
sell down of T&D businesses.

Solar and battery pipeline increased to  
2GW+ incl 22 long-term/greenfield projects 
up to 500MW each. Progress in Distributed 
Energy. Delivery of first EV hub in Glasgow. 
Transmission stake sale complete. Decision  
to retain 100% of Distribution at this time. 

3+

65%

4+

85%

Total 

79%

High-level 
measure

Sustainability
10%

Detailed measure Factors taken into account in index scoring

Moody’s ESG 
rating 
(formerly V.E.)

Environment; Human Resources; Human Rights; Community Involvement; 
Business Behaviour; Corporate Governance. 
Peer group: Electric & Gas Utilities

Sustainalytics 
sustainability 
index

Carbon – own operations; Emissions, Effluents and Waste; Resource Use; 
Land Use and Biodiversity; Business Ethics; Corporate Governance; 
Product Governance; Community Relations; Human Capital; Occupational 
Health and Safety.
Peer group: Electric Utilities

Assessment

Upper quintile 
(Sep 2022)

Upper quintile
(Nov 2022)

S&P Global 
sustainability 
index

27 different categories which cover all of the above and also additional 
issues such as Policy Influence, Information and Cyber Security, Talent 
Attraction and Retention, Stakeholder Engagement, and Climate Strategy.
Peer group: ELC Electric Utilities

Upper quintile
(Oct 2022)

Outcome 
(% of max)

Average performance across three assessments

85th percentile 
(upper quintile)

100%

172

SSE plc  Annual Report 2023

SSE plc  Annual Report 2023

173

Financial StatementsStrategic ReportDirectors’ ReportAnnual report on remuneration continued

4. Take account of wider environment
The Remuneration Committee believes that the range of measures used in the AIP ensures that performance is assessed using a balanced 
approach, without undue focus on a single metric which could be achieved at the expense of wider initiatives. AIP outturns for the wider 
employee population were also taken into account by the Committee.

5. Apply discretion if required 
Consideration is given to performance outcomes in light of SSE’s performance in the round and against our pay principles. The Committee 
is clear that no matter their role, getting everyone who works for SSE home safe at the end of each day remains our priority. That focus is all 
the keener following the tragic death of Liam Macdonald, a young contractor working on Shetland, in June 2022. More information on this 
including SSE’s wider safety performance and response to this tragedy can be found on page 162  onwards.

While safety performance is measured in the formulaic assessment of AIP, the Committee also considered the extent to which a 
discretionary adjustment should be applied. After careful consideration, the Committee decided to reduce the award outturn to 88%. 
The discount is greater than the impact of reducing to zero any bonus under the people (and safety) element of the AIP.

AIP earned for each of the Executive Directors is shown in the table below. The total award is made up of 67% cash and 33% which is 
deferred into shares and vests after three years.

Alistair Phillips-Davies
Gregor Alexander
Martin Pibworth 

1  Both the cash and deferred element are subject to clawback provisions.

Maximum
(% of salary)

150%
130%
130%

AIP earned1

1,256,167
841,459
749,765

AIP cash

AIP deferred

841,632
563,777
502,343

414,535
277,681
247,422

2020 – 2023 Performance Share Plan
1. Set performance measures aligned with strategy
PSP performance measures are designed to encourage sustainable value creation, consistent with effective stewardship, encouraging 
good decision-making for the long term. The measures and their weightings are shown below:

Value Creation 
(40%)

Financial 
(40%)

Total Shareholder Return
relative to FTSE 100  
(20%)

Total Shareholder Return
relative to MSCI Europe Index 
(20%)

Adjusted EPS growth 
(20%)

DPS growth
(20%)

Operational 
(20%)

Customer: 
Distribution 
(10%)

Customer: 
Business  
Energy  
(10%)

2. Set stretching performance targets
The performance target ranges for PSP are set each year to ensure they are stretching and represent value creation for shareholders.

3. Assess performance against targets
The vesting of shares under the PSP is subject to the performance measures and targets shown in the table below which also details the 
actual outturn for the 2020 PSP award vesting this year.

Performance measure

PSP

TSR v FTSE 100

TSR v MSCI Europe EPS growth

DPS growth

Customer 
(Distribution)

Customer (Business 
Energy)

Total

Link to strategy

Rationale

Weighting

Threshold

Max

Outcome

Simple 
Stewardship 
Stakeholders

Relative  
measure of 
performance

Simple 
Stewardship 
Stakeholders

Relative  
measure of 
performance

Simple 
Stewardship 
Stakeholders

Underlying 
measure of 
financial 
performance

Simple 
Sustainable 
Stakeholders

Simple 
Stewardship 
Stakeholders

Simple  
Stewardship 
Stakeholders

Return on 
investment 
through 
payment of 
dividends

Meeting 
customers 
needs is at 
core of our 
business

Meeting 
customers 
needs is at core 
of our business

20%

20%

20%

50th percentile 50th percentile RPI

20%

RPI

10%

10%

Median ranking Median ranking

75th percentile 75th percentile RPI +10%

RPI +5%

Rank 24 of 95 
(above 75th 
percentile)

Rank 7 of 24 
(just below  
75th percentile)

In excess of  
RPI + 10%

RPI

Rank 1

Below  
median

Rank 1

Average rank 
4 of 16

Performance

Outturn (% of max)

100%

20%

94%

19%

100%

20%

50%

10%

0

0

68%

7%

76%

4. Take account of the wider environment
SSE’s TSR has performed at the maximum level relative to the FTSE 100 and just below upper quartile against the MSCI European Utilities 
Index, and performance in relation to Business Energy customer service ranking is also above median. EPS growth over the performance 
period has exceeded the level for maximum vesting. SSE’s dividend commitment has been met over the three-year period and therefore, 
threshold performance at RPI has been achieved.

While the PSP applies to Executive Directors only, the Committee is mindful of the outturns of the long-term incentive arrangement, the 
Leadership Share Plan (LSP), which applies to senior managers. 

5. Apply discretion if required
The Committee believes that the formulaic outcome is a fair reflection of wider performance over this three-year period, in particular the 
value created for shareholders and taking account of shareholders’ interests. 

The Committee reviewed the quality of the overall performance and the number of shares awarded in 2020 in comparison with the number 
of shares awarded in 2019 and in 2018. The number of shares under award in 2020 was 85% of the number of shares awarded in 2019. The 
Remuneration Committee was satisfied that the Executive Directors have not benefited merely as a result of share price volatility. 

The table below shows the maximum number of shares available, the dividends accrued over the three-year performance period,  
the total number of shares vesting based on the performance outturn, the estimated value of these shares, and the value of any share 
price appreciation.

Alistair Phillips-Davies
Gregor Alexander
Martin Pibworth 

Awards available 
(% of salary)

Awards available 
(number of 
shares)

200%
175%
175%

131,244
88,761
66,430

Additional 
awards in 
respect of 
accrued 
dividends

23,143
15,651
11,712

Total number of 
shares vesting

Estimated value 
of awards 
vesting1

117,334
79,353
59,388

£2,024,952
£1,369,476
£1,024,917

Share price 
appreciation2

£389,315
£263,294
£197,049

1  The estimated value of the awards vesting has been calculated on the same basis as the PSP value in the single figure table on page 170 .
2  The share price at grant was £13.94 and £17.26 on vesting.

Other remuneration disclosures
Fees paid to the Chair and the other non-Executive Directors during 2022/23 were as follows:

Non-Executive Directors

Elish Angiolini1
John Bason2
Sue Bruce3
Tony Cocker
Debbie Crosbie4
Peter Lynas
Helen Mahy
John Manzoni
Melanie Smith
Angela Strank
Total

1  Elish Angiolini joined the Board as a non-Executive Director on 1 September 2021.
2  John Bason joined the Board as a non-Executive Director on 1 June 2022.
3  Sue Bruce stepped down from the Board on 31 March 2023.
4  Debbie Crosbie joined the Board as a non-Executive Director on 1 September 2021.

Fees £000s

2022/23

2021/22

75
62
104
109
75
94
90
412
75
75
1,171

42
0
101
105
42
91
87
400
73
73
1,014

174

SSE plc  Annual Report 2023

SSE plc  Annual Report 2023

175

Financial StatementsStrategic ReportDirectors’ ReportAnnual report on remuneration continued

Share interests and share awards (audited) 
Directors’ share interests

Directors’ Long-term Incentive Plan interests
The table below details the Executive Directors’ Long-term Incentive Plan interests.

The table below shows the share interests of the Executive and non-Executive Directors at 31 March 2023.

Director

Shareholding 
requirement as a % of 
salary (Actual/% met)1

Shares owned 
outright at 
31 March 2023

Number of shares

Number of options

Interests in 
shares, awarded 
without 
performance 
conditions at 
31 March 2023 
(DBS Awards)

Interests in 
shares, awarded 
subject to 
performance 
conditions at 
31 March 2023 
(PSP Awards)

Interests in share 
options, 
awarded without 
performance 
conditions at 
31 March 2023

Interests in share 
options, 
awarded subject 
to performance 
conditions at 
31 March 2023

Gregor Alexander

717% (225%-met)

292,815

40,798

265,550

130

Elish Angiolini

John Bason

Sue Bruce

Tony Cocker

Debbie Crosbie

Peter Lynas

Helen Mahy

John Manzoni

Alistair Phillips-Davies 680% (250%-met)

Martin Pibworth

357% (225%-met)

Melanie Smith

Angela Strank

2,000

0

2,484

5,000

2,000

5,000

3,310

2,519

359,184

130,006

2,174

2,152

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

60,906

33,263

388,782

223,955

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

0

2,338

–

–

-

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

Shares owned 
outright at 
31 March 2022

248,434

2,000

–

2,484

5,000

2,000

5,000

3,310

2,437

293,747

97,525

2,100

1,669

1  The Shareholding requirement is 250% of base salary for the Chief Executive and 225% for other Executive Directors. It is expected that non-Executive Directors 

should build up a minimum shareholding of 2,000 shares. The share price at 31/03/2023 (£18.03) was used to calculate shareholding.

Directors’ Long-term Incentive Plan interests
Deferred Bonus awards granted in 2022 and PSP awards granted in 2022
The tables below shows the Deferred Bonus awards and PSP awards granted to Executive Directors in 2022.

Deferred Bonus awards granted 2022

Recipient

Gregor Alexander
Alistair Phillips-Davies
Martin Pibworth

PSP awards granted 2023

Recipient

Gregor Alexander

Date of Grant

Shares Granted

Market Value on 
date of award

22/07/2022
22/07/2022
22/07/2022

14,472
21,604
12,739

£17.2750
£17.2750
£17.2750

Face Value

£250,004
£373,209
£220,066

£843,279

Date of Grant

Shares Granted

Market Value on 
date of award

Face Value

22/07/2022

94,192

£17.2750

£1,627,167

£1,627,167

Alistair Phillips-Davies

22/07/2022

135,407

£17.2750

£2,339,156

Share Plan

Date of Award

Normal Exercise 
Period (or Vesting 
Date)

No. of Shares 
under award 
as at 1 April 
2022

Option 
Exercise 
Price

Additional 
shares 
awarded 
during the year

No. of shares 
lapsed during 
the year incl. 
dividend 
shares

No. of shares 
realised during 
the year incl. 
dividend 
shares

No. of Shares 
under award at 
31 March 2023

Gregor 
Alexander

DBP 20162
DBP 20162
DBP 20162
DBP 20162
PSP1
PSP1
PSP1
PSP1
Sharesave

28/06/2019 28/06/2022
26/06/2020 26/06/2023
06/07/2021 06/07/2024
22/07/2022 22/07/2025
28/06/2019 28/06/2022
26/06/2020 26/06/2023
06/07/2021 06/07/2024
22/07/2022 22/07/2025
24/11/2022
12/07/2019
01/10/23 

Nil Grant
12,494
13,832

103,991
88,761
82,597

1,837

901p

Sharesave

21/07/2020

– 31/03/24

130

1,107p

Alistair 
Phillips-Davies

Martin 
Pibworth

DBP 20162
DBP 20162
DBP 20162
DBP 20162
PSP1
PSP1
PSP1
PSP1
Sharesave

DBP 20162
DBP 20162
DBP 20162
DBP 20162
PSP1
PSP1
PSP1
PSP1
Sharesave

28/06/2019 28/06/2022
26/06/2020 26/06/2023
06/07/2021 06/07/2024
22/07/2022 22/07/2025
28/06/2019 28/06/2022
26/06/2020 26/06/2023
06/07/2021 06/07/2024
22/07/2022 22/07/2025
26/01/2023
12/07/2019

28/06/2019 28/06/2022
26/06/2020 26/06/2023
06/07/2021 06/07/2024
22/07/2022 22/07/2025
28/06/2019 28/06/2022
26/06/2020 26/06/2023
06/07/2021 06/07/2024
22/07/2022 22/07/2025
24/11/2022
12/07/2019
01/10/24 

Nil Grant
18,652
20,650

153,763
131,244
122,131

1,997

901p

Nil Grant
9,350
11,174

77,828
66,430
73,597

04

42,500

82,4934

1,837

04

62,842

121,9774

1,997

04

31,808

61,7384

14,4723

94,1923

21,6043

135,4073

12,7393

83,9283

998

901p

998

Sharesave

12/07/2019

– 31/03/25

1,664

901p

01/10/25 

Sharesave

13/07/2022

– 31/03/26

1,335p

674

12,494
13,832
14,472

88,761
82,597
94,192

130

0
18,652
20,650
21,604

131,244
122,131
135,407

9,350
11,174
12,739

66,430
73,597
83,928

1,664

674

Shares which are released under the DBP (Deferred Bonus Plan) 2016 and PSP Awards attract additional shares in respect of the notional reinvestment of dividends. 
In addition to the shares released under these schemes, as indicated in the table above, the following shares were realised arising from such notional reinvestment of 
dividends. Note no awards under the DBP 2016 granted to the Executive Directors in the 2019 award year: 

Gregor Alexander received 13,860 shares, Alistair Phillips-Davies received 20,495 shares and Martin Pibworth received 10,372 shares.

1  The current performance conditions applicable to awards under the PSP are described on page 183 . The 2018 awards under the PSP vested at 66%.
2  25% of annual bonus payable to Executive Directors and senior managers is satisfied as a conditional award of shares under the DBP 2016. Vesting of shares under 
the DBP 2016 is dependent on continued service over a three-year period. In view of the linkage to annual bonus. Note no awards under the DBP 2016 granted to 
the Executive Directors in the 2019 award year.

3  The market value of a share on the date on which these awards were made was 1,72750p.
4  The market value of a share on the date on which these awards were realised was 1,72750p.

Martin Pibworth

22/07/2022

83,928

£17.2750

£1,449,856

£1,449,856

£2,339,156

The closing market price of shares at 31 March 2023 was 1,803p and the range for the year was 1,428p to 1,920p. Awards granted during the year were granted under 
the PSP. The aggregate amount of gains made by the Directors on the exercise of share options and realisation of awards during the year was £4,715,794 (2022 - 
£2,506,172).

176

SSE plc  Annual Report 2023

SSE plc  Annual Report 2023

177

Financial StatementsStrategic ReportDirectors’ ReportAnnual report on remuneration continued

2. Historical remuneration disclosures
Change in Chief Executive total remuneration
The graph below shows SSE TSR performance over the last ten years relative to FTSE 100 performance.

 SSE

  FTSE 100

The table below shows the Chief Executive’s annual remuneration over the same period.

Directors

2022/23 (Alistair Phillips-Davies)

2021/22 (Alistair Phillips-Davies)

2020/21 (Alistair Phillips-Davies)

2019/20 (Alistair Phillips-Davies)

2018/19 (Alistair Phillips-Davies)

2017/18 (Alistair Phillips-Davies)

2016/17 (Alistair Phillips-Davies)

2015/16 (Alistair Phillips-Davies)

2014/15 (Alistair Phillips-Davies)

2013/14 (Alistair Phillips-Davies and Ian Marchant)4

Single total 
figure of 
remuneration1 
(£’000)

4,627

4,655

3,045 

2,418

1,639

2,693

2,917

1,696

2,311

2,546

Annual variable 
element award2
(% of maximum)

Long-term 
incentive 
vesting3 (% of 

maximum) Application of discretion

76 Downward discretion applied to AIP

66

28 Downward discretion applied to AIP

27

26 Downward discretion applied to AIP

30

46 Downward discretion applied to AIP

0

0

22

88

83

69

59

0

78

72

54

64

63

1  The single total figure of remuneration is calculated on the same basis as the ‘single total figure of remuneration’ table on page 170 .
2  The annual variable element award (AIP) is the figure shown on page 174  and reflected in the ‘single total figure of remuneration table’ on page 170 .
3  The long-term incentive (PSP) vesting is the figure shown on page 175 , and reflected in the ‘single total figure of remuneration table’ on page 170 .
4  For 2013/14, an aggregate number has been applied by combining pro-rata values for each Chief Executive based upon their time in role.

Alignment of Directors’ Remuneration Policy with pay across the wider employee population
In setting Executive Directors’ pay, a number of factors are taken into account including importantly, relativity to the wider workforce.  
For a number of years, a Chief Executive pay ratio was disclosed voluntarily. In 2018/19, the methodology was revised to meet the new 
reporting requirements. The methodology used is a hybrid approach combining Gender Pay Gap (GPG) data (see page 61 ) with 
additional elements of pay which are important components of SSE employees’ pay such as overtime, employer’s contribution to  
pension and excluding salary sacrifice arrangements. This is believed to allow the most appropriate and consistent comparison.

As shown in the table on the following page, the pay ratio has changed from 102:1 at median in 2021/22 to 97:1 in 2022/23 even though 
the Chief Executive’s remuneration has remained broadly unchanged. This is because employee remuneration at median has increased  
by almost 10% which can be attributed to a number of initiatives relating to wider employee pay during the year. A skills based pay system 
was introduced during 2021/22 for around 6,000 employees below senior management level, representing a significant investment in 
employee pay. In addition, over the course of the year steps have been taken to enhance employee terms and conditions through an 
improved Employee Value Proposition (EVP), and in response to the cost of living crisis. Further details can be found in the case study on 
the following page. Some of these initiatives will not impact on employee remuneration until next year’s reporting on the CEO pay ratio.

Year

Calculation 
Methodology

Total Remuneration

Ratio

Total Remuneration

Ratio

Total Remuneration

25th percentile

Median

75th percentile

2022/23 C
C
2021/22
C
2020/21
2019/20
C
2018/19  C

£34,881
£33,046
£32,268
£29,234
£28,611

133:1
136:1
93:1
83:1
57:1

£47,864
£43,793
£42,295
£40,908
£39,010

97:1
102:1
71:1
59:1
41:1

£65,199
£61,195
£59,454
£54,863
£54,066

Total employee earnings 
(m)1

Ratio

71:1
73:1
51:1
44:1
30:1

£543.5
£591.0
£543.1
£510.0
£495.3

1  The reduction in total employee earnings in 2022/23 is due to a reduction in the number of employees at the snapshot date used for capturing this data.

SSE is committed to being a responsible employer, and the remuneration policy is designed with fairness in mind – fairness to Executive 
Directors in recognition of the extent of their responsibilities and fairness relative to the rest of the SSE team. More information on SSE’s 
commitment to decent work and economic growth can be found within the Sustainability Report  which includes information on our 
ambition to be a global leader for the just transition to net zero, with a guarantee of fair work and commitment to paying fair tax and sharing 
economic value. 

Over the course of the year, the Remuneration Committee has had the opportunity to review the remuneration arrangements for the 
wider employee population. The impact of the cost of living crisis on employees was a key focus in the year and the Committee was 
given the opportunity to input on employee cost of living support and SSE’s overall Employee Value Proposition. 

Engagement in action
Employees

SSE’s Employee Value Proposition and response  
to the cost of living crisis

An internal working group was set up  
to tackle the challenge of improving  
SSE’s Employee Value Proposition (EVP), 
making it fit-for-purpose to support  
the growth, attraction and retention 
challenges we face on our NZAP journey. 
As the year unfolded and the cost of living 
crisis took hold, the scope of the group 
expanded to also cover additional 
support for employees in light of this.

EVP is wide-ranging and covers areas 
such as terms and conditions, culture, 
policies and employee communication. 
Some of the activity carried out during 
the year has included:
•  Salary ranges were increased by  
12% for grades covering around  
5,500 employees. 
In response to high levels of inflation 
and the cost of living crisis, an interim 
advance of the annual pay award of up 
to 5% was paid in October 2022. The 
remaining balance of year 3 of the pay 
deal was payable from 1 April 2023 
and is expected to be in the region  
of 8% of salary.

• 

•  Annual Incentive Plan (AIP) was 
extended to include the lowest  
graded personal contract employees.
•  Payment of a £500 ‘thank you’ award 
was made to all employees below 

senior management level in 
recognition of strong business 
performance.

development, attended by 7,600 
employees with over 1,000 questions 
submitted.

•  Car cash allowances were reviewed 

•  A comprehensive benefits review was 

and subsequently increased.

•  Electric vehicle business mileage rates 
were improved beyond HMRC levels 
to cushion varying fuel rates during 
the cost of living crisis.
Improvements were made to family 
friendly policies, including:
 – Introduction of Partner’s Leave –  

• 

carried out by an independent 3rd party 
and gaps were identified with a plan for 
implementation in 2023 and beyond.
•  Agreement was made to introduce  
an Employee Recognition Platform.
•  Enhanced default pension award for 
those in the Defined Contribution 
scheme was agreed. 

an additional 7 weeks’ paid leave for 
partners on top of Paternity Leave.

 – Introduction of up to 2 weeks’  
full pay for pregnancy loss or 
fertility treatment.

 – Enhancement to the statutory 

allowance of 2 days’ unpaid leave 
for partners to attend antenatal and 
adoption appointments, to paid 
leave and extended to fostering 
appointments.

 – Extension to our Gradual Return 

from Maternity and Adoption Leave 
to other types of leave for new 
parents for continuous leave of  
3 months or more.

•  Launch of ‘My SSE Week’ – a week of 
daily live Teams sessions showcasing 
existing benefits with themes around 
cost of living, wellbeing and career 

178

SSE plc  Annual Report 2023

SSE plc  Annual Report 2023

179

Financial StatementsStrategic ReportDirectors’ ReportMarch 202380100120140160180200220240260280TSR (rebased to 100)March 2013March 2014March 2015March 2017March 2016March 2018March 2021March 2022March 2020March 2019 
Annual report on remuneration continued

Annual percentage change in remuneration of the Directors
Each year, when the Remuneration Committee is considering salary increases, incentive outcomes and benefits for Executive Directors, 
it is mindful of the treatment of the wider workforce. The table below shows how Executive and non-Executive Directors’ changes in 
remuneration compares to that of the wider workforce. 

Director1

Non-Executive Directors
Sue Bruce
Tony Cocker2
Peter Lynas
Helen Mahy
John Manzoni
Melanie Smith 
Angela Strank

Executive Directors
Alistair Phillips-Davies
Gregor Alexander
Martin Pibworth

All employees

2020/21 v 2019/20

2021/22 v 2020/21

2022/23 v 2021/22

Base 
salary/fee

Benefits

Bonus

Base 
salary/fee

Benefits

Bonus

Base 
salary/fee

Benefits

Bonus

2%
13%
2%
2%

3%

3%
3%
11%

6%

1%
11%
1%
1%

1%

1%
1
11%

6%

3%
3%
3%
3%
3%
3%
3%

3%
3%
3%

3%
6%
1%

22%

16%

9%
9%
11%

6%

4%
5%
0%

3%

21%
22%
32%

51%

0
0
6%

8%

20%
22%
30%

10%

1  Elish Angiolini, Debbi Crosbie and Jason Bason are excluded from this table as they have not been in post for a full two years to make a viable comparison. 
2  Tony Cocker became the Senior Independent Director in October 2020 which accounts for the larger changes across the first two periods shown.

Relative importance of the spend on pay
The table below indicates how the earnings of Executive Directors compare with SSE’s other financial dispersals. For every £1 spent on 
Executive Directors’ earnings by SSE in 2022/23, £48 was paid in tax, £74 was spent on employee costs and £270 was spent on capital and 
investment expenditure. In addition, £92 was made in dividend payments to shareholders for every £1 spent on Executive Directors’ earnings. 

Executive Directors’ earnings 1 
Dividends to shareholders
Adjusted investment, capital and 
acquisition expenditure
Total UK taxes paid (profits, property, 
environment and employment taxes) 2
Staff costs 3

2017/18 
£m

5.3
926.1

2018/19
£m

3.6
973.0

2019/20
£m

5.1
948.5

2020/21
£m

6.8
836.4

2021/22
£m

10.4
862.3

2022/23 
£m

10.4
955.8

1,503.0

1,422.9

1,371.9

912.0

2,067.8

2,803.3

484.1
665.6

403.7
653.5

421.6
684.7

379.0
700.4

335.3
688.7

501.7
771.8

1  Calculated on the same basis as the ‘single total figure of remuneration’ table on page 170 . 
Includes corporation tax, employers’ National Insurance contributions and business rates.
2 
3  Staff costs for all employees, as per note 8.1 of the accounts, excluding Executive Directors. 

3. Governance
External appointments
Executive Directors are able to accept a non-Executive appointment outside SSE with the consent of the Board, as such appointments 
can enhance their experience and value to SSE. Any fees received are retained by the Director. Gregor Alexander was a non-Executive 
Director of Stagecoach Group plc during 2022 and received £61,000 in fees. Alistair Phillips-Davies joined the Board of Anglian Water 
Services Ltd as a non-Executive Director in November 2022 with an annual fee of £55,000.

Payments for loss of office and payments to past Directors
There were no payments for loss of office or to former Directors during the year.

Advice to the Remuneration Committee
The Chief Executive, the Director of Human Resources and Head of Reward advised the Committee on certain remuneration matters  
for the Executive Directors and senior executives although they were not present for any discussions related to their own remuneration.

The Director of Human Resources and Head of Reward advised on HR strategy and the application of HR policies across the wider 
organisation.

FIT Remuneration Consultants LLP (FIT) provided a range of information to the Committee which included market data drawn from 
published surveys, governance developments and their application to SSE, advice on remuneration disclosures and regulations and 
comparator group pay. FIT received fees of £76,391 in relation to their work for the Committee, calculated on a time and materials basis. 
FIT are founding members of, and adhere to, the Remuneration Consultants’ Group Code of Conduct. The Code defines the roles of 
consultants, including the requirement to have due regard to the organisation’s strategy, financial situation, pay philosophy, the Board’s 
statutory duties and the views of investors and other stakeholders. The Committee reviews the advisers’ performance annually to 
determine that it is satisfied with the quality, relevance, objectivity and independence of advice being provided. FIT provides no other 
services and has no other connection to SSE or individual Directors.

Freshfields LLP also provided advice on legal matters, such as share plan rules, during the year.

Evaluation
The annual review of Committee performance was facilitated by Lintstock (see pages 140 to 141 ) and the outputs considered by the 
full Committee. This confirmed the Committee’s continued effective operation and agreement of actions for 2023/24. 

Shareholder voting in 2022
On 21 July 2022, shareholders approved the Directors’ Remuneration Policy and the Annual Remuneration Report for the year ended 
31 March 2022. The results of the resolutions are shown below. 

Annual report on remuneration – shareholding voting in 2022

Directors’ Remuneration Policy – shareholder voting in 2022

   For – 97.42%
   Against – 2.58%

Total votes cast: 678,690,885
Votes withheld: 7,337,070

   For – 91.43%
   Against – 8.57%

Total votes cast: 678,277,304
Votes withheld: 7,750,651

Remuneration Committee
The Terms of Reference for the Committee were reviewed during 2022/23 and are available on SSE’s website (sse.com ). In summary, 
the Committee determines and agrees with the Board, SSE’s framework and policy for executive remuneration including setting 
remuneration for all Executive Directors, the Company Chair, the Group Executive Committee and Company Secretary. No material 
changes were made to the Terms of Reference during the year.

The members of the Committee and the meetings attended are set out on page 123 . The following agenda items were considered:

Meeting date 

Agenda items

May 2022

Market and governance update, shareholder consultation, Annual Incentive Plan, Performance Share Plan, Leadership 
Share Plan, below-Board pay, 2022 Directors’ Remuneration Report, share-plan leaver’s analysis, Remuneration 
Committee advisor’s performance, 2022-24 Remuneration Committee plan. 

November 
2022

Market and governance update, AIP and PSP mid-year performance update, below-Board pay, Executive Director 
pensions, 2022-24 Remuneration Committee plan.

March 2023 Market and governance update, AIP and PSP performance update, Executive Directors’ salaries and the Chair’s fee, 

below-Board pay, 2023 Directors’ Remuneration Report, Remuneration Committee Terms of Reference review, 2022-24 
Remuneration Committee plan, Remuneration Committee evaluation.

180

SSE plc  Annual Report 2023

SSE plc  Annual Report 2023

181

Financial StatementsStrategic ReportDirectors’ ReportAnnual report on remuneration continued

4. Implementation of the Directors’ Remuneration Policy for 2023/24
The table below sets out how the Remuneration Committee intends to operate the Remuneration Policy for the year ending 31 March 2024
.
Element of pay

Implementation for 2022/23

Comment

Base salary

Salaries will be increased by 5% with effect from 
1 April 2023, as follows:

The Committee took into account: 
•  Strong performance and progress made on  

Alistair Phillips-Davies  £951,642 to £999,224
£735,541 to £772,318
Gregor Alexander 
£655,389 to £688,158
Martin Pibworth 

Benefits

Pension

No changes proposed.

No changes proposed.

the NZAP

•  TSR for the year
•  Negotiated increase for employees linked to CPI
•  The Committee’s responsibility to stakeholders 
for ensuring total remuneration is competitive 
but not excessive

•  The flow through to other elements of pay
•  The increasingly competitive market for 

executive talent

•  Relativity against FTSE 50 peer group

In line with the wider employee population.

From 1 January 2023, the Chief Commercial 
Officer’s pension is aligned with the majority of 
employees with a similar length of service at 15%.

Annual Incentive Plan 

Performance Share Plan

No changes in quantum.
No changes proposed to performance measures 
which are shown in detail on the following page.

Current measures were revised ahead of the 
2022/23 performance year and are considered 
appropriate.

No changes in quantum.
No changes proposed to performance measures 
which are shown in detail on the following page.

Current measures were revised last year  
in advance of the 2022 PSP grant and are 
considered appropriate.

AIP – the measures for 2023/24
AIP measures for 2023/24 will remain largely unchanged. Adjusted Earnings Per Share and cash flow remain key measures for the AIP. 
Personal and operational targets are set annually and are aligned with the NZAP Plus. These will be disclosed in next year’s Directors’ 
Remuneration Report. 

Performance measure

Adjusted EPS

Cash flow

Personal/Individual1

Operational2

Sustainability

The personal and operational goals will be assessed using a scoring framework as follows:

Score

Illustrative performance assessment

Illustrative outturn as % of maximum1

1
2
3
4
5

Below threshold
Threshold performance
Majority of goals at target
Substantial majority of goals at or above target
All goals at or above target

Zero
20%
40%
70%
100%

1  The Remuneration Committee can decide to award an outturn between levels if warranted.

The measures for awards under the Performance Share Plan for 2023
PSP measures for the 2023 award will remain largely unchanged. Relative Total Shareholder Return (TSR) and EPS account for 50% and 
20% respectively of the total and the new sustainability and strategic measures 30% of the total award as follows:

Performance measure

Weighting

Threshold performance

Maximum performance

Total Shareholder  
Return relative to the 
FTSE 100

Total Shareholder  
Return relative to the 
MSCI European Utilities

Adjusted  
Earnings  
Per Share

20%

30%

20%

50th percentile
(20% outturn)

80th percentile
(100% outturn)

50th percentile
(20% outturn)

80th percentile
(100% outturn)

149p 
(20% outturn)

178p 
(100% outturn)

Strategic

15%

Sustainability

15%

See below

See below

See below

See below

The TSR performance targets were strengthened last year with 20% of that element vesting for median performance (previously 25%) 
and full vesting of that element only achieved at 80th percentile ranking (increased from 75th percentile). 

The growth targets for EPS have been set based on SSE’s plan over the next three years and represents a CAGR between 12% and 17% based 
off FY22 EPS of 94.8p. The top end of the range exceeds the Board’s expectations and is considered stretching. The Committee will assess 
the growth targets for future awards under the PSP to ensure that they remain challenging and linked to the business plan. 

Strategic measures and targets for the 2023 PSP award
The measures and targets for this element are linked to the Remuneration Committee’s assessment of SSE’s performance over the three 
years to 31 March 2025 in the three main areas of the implementation strategy which have been updated this year to reflect the NZAP Plus. 

30%

20%

10%

30%

10%

Strategic area in NZAP

Measures and targets

Weighting

Description

Net debt divided 
by EBITDA.

Underlying 
measure of 
financial 
performance and 
a strategic KPI.

Rewards actions 
which go beyond 
the normal 
responsibilities  
of the role. May  
be individual or 
team based.

Measures and targets  
are set in priority areas 
including people (safety 
and inclusion and 
diversity), renewables, 
distribution, transmission, 
thermal, customers and 
other growth and 
transactions.

SSE’s performance will be 
rated by three external 
ratings agencies –
Moody’s, Sustainalytics 
and S&P Global. 
Performance at the 
median will be deemed 
the threshold and 
performance at the  
upper quintile or above, 
the maximum.

1  Personal goals will take a holistic view of individual performance and will include measures related to safety, compliance, and regulation, stakeholder 

management, team and personal development, strategy and transformation, and financial and operational performance.

2  Examples of the operational goals include: People: Health & Safety performance as measured by Total Recordable Injury Rate (TRIR); recruitment plans and  

inclusion and diversity as measured by time to hire, filling of vacancies and the percentage increase in gender diversity across SSE. Renewables: European projects  
in construction, cost per MW hour, plant availability, progress on renewables pipeline. Distribution: incentives against agreed targets. Transmission: contract awards 
achieved against agreed plan; delivery of outputs and approval of projects that maintain a trajectory of RAV greater than £5.6bn by 2024. Thermal: balancing market 
performance. Customer: finish above median in the Citizen’s Advice non-domestic supplier league table. Other Growth & Transactions: progress building pipeline 
across business areas including solar, storage, hydrogen, and other priority business development areas; progress made on financial sell down of T & D businesses; 
progress review of Large Capital projects reported to the Board.

Renewables

8GW pipeline of net installed capacity potential and 0.5GW of international under construction by FY26.

Networks growth

Transmission and Distribution to exceed the NZAP Plus RAV growth targets of £7 and £6 billion respectively.

Energy businesses

Solar and battery installed capacity to meet 1GW by FY26.

Customer

On course to be a leading ppa player in the market by 2026.

Sustainability measures and targets for the 2023 PSP award

SSE’s UN SDG 2030 Goal

Measure and Targets 

SDG 13 Climate Action: 
Reduce scope 1 carbon intensity by 80% by 2030, compared  
to 2017/18 levels, to 61gCO2e/kWh.
SDG 7 Affordable and Clean Energy: 
Build a renewable energy portfolio that generates at least  
50TWh of renewable electricity a year by 2030.

Scope 1 carbon intensity reduction to 61gCO2e/kWh

Renewables output TWh tracked to 2026/27.
Renewables output TWh by 2030/31.

SDG 9 Industry, Innovation and Infrastructure: 
Enable at least 20GW of renewable generation and facilitate 
around 2 million EVs and 1 million heat pumps on SSEN’s 
electricity networks by 2030.

GW renewable generation capacity connected to SSEN’s electricity 
transmission network by 2026.
Low-carbon technologies connected to SSEN’s local electricity 
distribution networks by 2028.

SDG 8 Decent Work and Economic Growth: 
Be a global leader for the just transition to net zero, with  
a guarantee of fair work and commitment to paying fair tax  
and sharing economic value.

Achieve performance in the top 10% of rankings on average for 
progress on Just Transition, including in the World Benchmarking 
Alliance (WBA) and others as they emerge.

Performance against the strategic and sustainability measures and targets will be assessed using the same scoring framework shown 
above in respect of the personal and operational measures and targets for the AIP.

182

SSE plc  Annual Report 2023

SSE plc  Annual Report 2023

183

Financial StatementsStrategic ReportDirectors’ ReportAnnual report on remuneration continued

Directors’ Remuneration Policy – a summary

Chair’s and non-Executive Directors’ fees
Last year, Sir John Manzoni’s fee was increased by 3%, in line with the wider employee population, to £412,000. For 2023/24, his fee will 
be increased by 5%, in line with Executive Directors, to £432,600.

Non-Executive Directors’ fees were also increased by 3% last year in line with the wider employee population. For 2023/24, it was agreed 
that the base fee will increase by 5% to £78,610. In addition, the Board reflected on the time commitments of the various Committee 
Chairs and agreed to slightly larger increases to these fees. The fees for the Senior Independent Director, Audit Committee Chair and 
Remuneration Committee Chair will increase by 7% to £20,000. The SSHEAC Chair and Energy Markets Risk Committee Chair will 
increase to £17,000, an increase of 14%. 

The non-Executive Director for Employee Engagement’s fee will be brought into alignment with the SSHEAC and Energy Markets Risk 
Committee Chairs as the time commitment is considered to be equivalent, and will increase from £11,223 to £17,000.

Chair and non-Executive Director fee levels for 2023/24 are shown in the table below. Non-Executive Directors receive a base fee plus 
an additional fee for chairing a Committee or for performing the role of Non-Executive Director for Employee Engagement.

Fee

Chair
Base fee
Senior Independent Director
Audit Committee Chair
Remuneration Committee Chair
SSHEAC Chair
Energy Markets Risk Committee Chair
Non-Executive Director for Employee Engagement

2023/24

£432,600
£78,610
£20,000
£20,000
£20,000
£17,000
£17,000
£17,000

Introduction 
SSE’s Directors’ Remuneration Policy (the ‘Policy’) was approved with over 91% of shareholders support at the AGM on 21 July 2022. It is 
intended that the Policy will apply for a period of up to three years and will need to be re-approved at the 2025 AGM at the latest. The full 
Policy is provided in the 2022 Annual Report .

Principles
The Committee believes it is essential that our overall Remuneration Policy is strongly aligned to SSE’s purpose and strategy. It aims to 
ensure this by focusing on our core principles which are: Sustainable, Simple, Stewardship, Stakeholder-focused. In addition, we believe 
that SSE’s Directors’ Remuneration Policy, practice and engagement with employees and shareholders complies fully with the UK 
Corporate Governance Code which encourages a description of how the policy addresses the following:

Simplicity
•  Our pay arrangements include a market standard annual 
incentive and long-term share plan, each of which is  
explained in detail in our Policy. 

•  No complex or artificial structures are required to operate  

the plans.

•  We explain our approach to pay clearly and simply.

Clarity
•  Our Directors’ Remuneration Policy is designed to be 

sustainable and simple and to support and reward diligent and 
effective stewardship that is vital to the delivery of SSE’s core 
purpose of providing energy needed today while building a 
better world of energy for tomorrow, and our strategy of 
creating value for shareholders and all stakeholders. 

•  The Policy updates the previous Policy, with minimal structural 
changes so is already embedded into the business and is well 
understood by participants and shareholders alike. 

•  The Policy clearly sets out the terms under which it can be 
operated including appropriate limits in terms of quantum,  
the measures which can be used and discretions which could 
be applied if appropriate. 

•  Transparency in approach has been a cornerstone of our 
Policy. Detailed disclosure of the relevant performance 
assessments and outcomes is provided for shareholders  
to consider.

Risk
•  Appropriate limits are stipulated in the Policy and within the 

Predictability
•  The possible reward outcomes can be easily quantified,  

respective plan rules. 

and these are reviewed by the Committee. 

•  The Committee also has appropriate discretions to override 
formulaic outturns under the assessment of the variable 
incentive plans. 

•  The graphical illustrations provided in the Policy clearly show 
the potential scenarios of performance and pay outcomes 
which would result.

•  The Committee undertakes an annual risk review of the  

Policy and its operation. Identified risks are considered with 
appropriate mitigation strategies or tolerance levels agreed. 
•  Regular interaction with the Audit Committee and the SSHEA 
Committee ensures relevant risk factors are considered when 
setting or assessing performance targets. 

•  Clawback and malus provisions are in place across all incentive 
plans and the ‘triggers’ have been reviewed and strengthened.

•  Performance is reviewed regularly so there are no surprises 
when performance is assessed at the end of the period.

Proportionality
•  Variable incentive pay outcomes are clearly dependent  

Alignment to culture
•  At the heart of the Policy is a focus on the long-term 

on delivering the strategy. 

sustainability of the business. 

•  Performance is assessed on a broad basis, including a 

•  This reflects the whole business culture which is aligned to 

combination of financial, operational and sustainability which 
ensures there is no undue focus on a single metric which may 
be at the detriment of other stakeholders. 

•  The Committee also has the discretion – which it has  

used – to override formulaic outcomes if they are deemed 
inappropriate in light of the wider performance of the  
Company and considering the experience of stakeholders.

effective stewardship which creates value for all stakeholders. 

•  Our incentive plans and, in particular the approach to 

measuring performance, reflects our values which means 
doing the right thing, promoting fairness at work and paying 
our fair share.

184

SSE plc  Annual Report 2023

SSE plc  Annual Report 2023

185

Financial StatementsStrategic ReportDirectors’ ReportDirectors’ Remuneration Policy – a summary continued

Policy summary 
The Policy is summarised in the table below. There are no changes to the operation of the Policy for 2023/24 aside from changes  
in wording or presentation which are considered to be immaterial.

Performance Share Plan (PSP)

Purpose and link to strategy

Reward Executive Directors for their part in delivering the sustained success of SSE and to ensure that 
their interests are aligned with those of the shareholders.

Base Salary

Purpose and link to strategy

Operation and maximum 
opportunity 

Supports the retention and recruitment of Executive Directors of the calibre required to develop the 
Company’s strategy.

Base salary is normally reviewed annually with changes effective from 1 April. 

Salary increases will normally be capped at the typical level of increases awarded to other employees  
in the Company, although increases may be above this level in certain circumstances.

Performance measures

Broad review of performance is included in the annual review process.

Pension

Purpose and link to strategy

Pension planning is an important part of SSE’s remuneration strategy because it is consistent with the 
long-term goals of the business.

Operation and maximum 
opportunity 

For the Chief Executive and Finance Director, funded final salary and top-up unfunded arrangements up 
to the maximum two-thirds of final salary at age 60. From 1 April 2017, future pensionable pay increases 
are capped at RPI + 1%.

The Chief Commercial Officer receives a pension contribution of 15% of base salary (effective from 
1 January 2023) which reflects the wider employee population taking length of service into account.

For new appointments, employer’s pension contributions are capped at 12% of base salary in line with 
arrangements for SSE employees.

Performance measures

Not applicable.

Benefits

Purpose and link to strategy

To provide a market-competitive level of benefits for Executive Directors.

Operation and maximum 
opportunity 

Core benefits – currently include car allowance, private medical insurance and health screening.

Participation in the Company’s all-employee share plans on the same terms as UK colleagues. 
Relocation assistance if required.

Reimbursement of travel and business-related expenses incurred.

The cost will depend on the cost to the Company of providing individual items and the individual’s 
circumstances and there is no maximum benefit level.

Performance measures

Not applicable.

Annual Incentive Plan (AIP )

Purpose and link to strategy

Reward Executive Directors for achievement of performance targets linked to SSE’s strategy and core 
purpose.

Operation and maximum 
opportunity 

Maximum annual incentive opportunity is 150% of base salary for the Chief Executive and 130% of base 
salary for the Finance Director and Chief Commercial Officer.

The award will normally be delivered:
•  67% in cash; and
•  33% in deferred shares.

Subject to malus and/or claw back provisions.

Performance measures

The annual incentive is normally based on a mix of financial, operational, strategic and stakeholder 
measures reflecting the key values and priorities of the business.

A minimum of 50% of the annual incentive will be based on financial performance.

Operation and maximum 
opportunity 

Maximum value of award is 250% of base salary for the Chief Executive and 225% of base salary for the 
Finance Director and Chief Commercial Officer.

Shares are awarded which normally vest based on performance over a period of three years with an 
additional two-year post-vesting holding period during which time the Executive must retain the 
post-tax number of shares vesting under the award.

Subject to malus and/or claw back provisions.

Performance measures

Awards vest based on relative total shareholder return, financial, operational, strategic, or stakeholder-
based measures.

At least 70% of the award will be based on financial and relative total shareholder return measures. 

Share Ownership Policy

Purpose and link to strategy

Align the interests of Executive Directors with those of shareholders who invest in the Company.

Operation and maximum 
opportunity 

The Chief Executive is expected to maintain a shareholding equivalent to 250% of base salary. The 
Finance Director and Chief Commercial Officer will be expected to maintain a shareholding of 225%  
of base salary. Shareholding should be built up within a reasonable timescale.

Normally built up via shares vesting through the PSP, deferred shares from the AIP and all employee 
share schemes and Executive Directors may also choose to buy shares.

The requirement to retain shares continues after employment and Executive Directors are required  
to hold their in-employment shares for a further two years following cessation of employment.

Performance measures

Not applicable.

Chair and non-Executive Directors’ Fees

Purpose and link to strategy

Reward for undertaking the role and are sufficient to attract and retain individuals with the calibre and 
experience to contribute effectively at Board level.

Operation and maximum 
opportunity 

The aggregate level of non-Executive Director fees shall not exceed the maximum limit set out in the 
Articles of Association.

Fees are reviewed at appropriate intervals against companies of a similar size and complexity. Fees are 
set in a way that is consistent with the wider remuneration policy.

The fee structure may be made up of:
•  a basic Board fee or Chair fee;
•  an additional fee for any committee chairship or membership; and
•  an additional fee for further responsibilities e.g. Senior Independent Director, non-Executive Director 

for Employee Engagement or periods of increased activity.

Reasonable travelling and other expenses for costs incurred in the course of the non-Executive 
Directors undertaking their duties are reimbursed (including any tax due on the expenses).

It is also expected that all non-Executive Directors should build up a minimum of 2,000 shares in the 
Company.

Performance measures

There are no direct performance measures relating to Chair and non-Executive Director fees.

The full Policy also includes further information on: 
•  Performance measures and targets.
•  Committee discretion.
•  Legacy commitments.
•  Directors’ service contracts and non-Executive Directors’ letters 

of appointment.
•  Loss of office policy.

•  Recovery provisions.
•  Recruitment policy.
•  Shareholders’ views.
•  Remuneration engagement across the Group.
• 

Illustration of the Policy.

Melanie Smith CBE
Chair of the Remuneration Committee 
23 May 2023

186

SSE plc  Annual Report 2023

SSE plc  Annual Report 2023

187

Financial StatementsStrategic ReportDirectors’ ReportOther statutory information

The Directors submit their Annual Report and Accounts for SSE plc, together with the consolidated Financial Statements of the SSE 
Group of companies, for the year ended 31 March 2023.

The Strategic Report is set out on pages 1 to 109  and the Directors’ Report, which is also SSE’s corporate governance statement,  
is set out on pages 110 to 191 . The Strategic Report and the Directors’ Report together constitute the management report as  
required under Rule 4.1.8R of the Disclosure Guidance and Transparency Rules.

As permitted by section 414C (11) of Companies Act 2006 the below matters have been disclosed in the Strategic Report: 

An indication of likely future developments in the business of the Company

Particulars of important events affecting the Company since the financial year end

Greenhouse gas emissions

Energy consumption

Energy efficiency action

Employee engagement and involvement

Engagement with suppliers, customers and others in a business relationship with the Company

A summary of the principal risks facing the Company

Information required to be disclosed under Listing Rule 9.8.4R is contained on the pages detailed below.

Statement of amount of interest capitalised by the Group during the financial year

Details of any long-term incentive schemes

Page reference 

pages 1 to 109  

page 275  

page 49  

page 54 

page 54 

pages 28 and 134 to 138  

pages 30, 33 and 56 to 66  

pages 68 to 77  

Page reference 

pages 236 to 237  

pages 168 to 169  

Results and dividends 
The Group’s results and performance highlights for the year are set out on pages 24 to 25 and 78 to 94 . An interim dividend of 29.0 
pence per Ordinary Share was paid on 9 March 2023. The Directors propose a final dividend of 67.7p per Ordinary Share. Subject to 
approval at the AGM 2023, the final dividend will be paid on 21 September 2023 to shareholders on the Register of Members at close  
of business on 28 July 2023.

Board of Directors 
Director appointment and retirement 
The Company’s Directors who served during the financial year ending 31 March 2023 are provided within the attendance table on  
page 123 . The biographies of those individuals who were Directors of the Company on 23 May 2023 are on pages 116 to 120 . 
Details of Board changes are confirmed on page 115 .

The rules governing the appointment and retirement of Directors are set out in the Company’s Articles of Association, the UK Corporate 
Governance Code, the Companies Act 2006 and other related legislation.

Indemnification of Directors and insurance 
The Directors have the benefit of an indemnity provision contained in the Company’s Articles of Association. In addition, the Directors 
have been granted a qualifying third-party indemnity provision which was in force throughout the financial year and remains in force. 
Also, throughout the financial year, the Company purchased and maintained Directors’ and Officers’ liability insurance in respect of  
itself and for its Directors and Officers.

Political donations and expenditure 
SSE operates on a politically neutral basis and does not make any donations to political parties, political organisations, or independent 
election candidates. During the year, no political expenditure was incurred, and no political donations were made by the Group. 

Accounting policies, financial instruments, and risk 
Details of the Group’s accounting policies, together with details of financial instruments and risk, are provided in note 24  to the 
Financial Statements and notes A6 to A8  of the Accompanying Information. 

Research and development 
SSE is involved in a range of innovative projects and programmes which are designed to progressively transform the energy system.  
A number of these projects and programmes are referred to in the Strategic Report in pages 1 to 109 .

Employment of disabled people
SSE has a range of employment policies which clearly detail the standards, processes, expectations and responsibilities of its people and 
the organisation. These policies were in place for the duration of the year, and are designed to ensure that everyone, including those 
with existing or new disabilities and people of all backgrounds, are dealt with in an inclusive and fair way from the recruiting process on 
through their career at SSE. This include access to appropriate training, development opportunities and job progression. Further details 
of this approach can be found on pages 58 to 62 .

Shares 
Share capital 
The Company has a single share class which is divided into Ordinary Shares of 50 pence each. The issued share capital of the Company 
as of 31 March 2023, together with details of any changes during the year, is set out in note 22  to the Financial Statements. As of 
31 March 2023, the issued share capital of the Company consisted of 1,093,938,615 Ordinary Shares. This figure includes 3,602,178 
ordinary shares which are held in treasury (representing 0.33% of the Company’s issued share capital), with these shares voting and 
dividend rights automatically suspended.

The Company was authorised at the AGM 2022 to allot shares or grant rights over shares up to an aggregate nominal amount equal to
£177,945,283 (representing 355,890,566 Ordinary Shares of 50 pence each excluding Treasury Shares), representing one-third of its 
issued share capital. A renewal of this authority will be proposed at the AGM 2023.

The Company was authorised at the AGM 2022 to allot up to an aggregate nominal amount of £26,691,792 (representing 53,383,584) 
Ordinary Shares of 50 pence each and 5% of issued share capital) for cash without first offering them to existing shareholders in proportion 
to their holding. A renewal of this authority will be proposed at the AGM 2023.

Transfer of Ordinary Shares 
There are no restrictions on the transfer of Ordinary Shares in the Company other than certain restrictions which may from time-to-time 
be imposed by law. The Company is not aware of any agreements between shareholders that may result in restrictions on the transfer of 
securities and/or voting rights.

Substantial shareholdings 
At 31 March 2023, the following percentage interests in the Ordinary Share capital of the Company, had been notified under Rule 5 of the 
Disclosure Guidance and Transparency Rules, (‘DTR 5’). The Company is not aware of any changes in the interests disclosed under DTR 5 
between 31 March 2023 and 23 May 2023.

Shareholder 

Date of receipt of 
notification

Voting rights 
attached to 
shares*

Voting rights through 
financial instruments* 

Total of both in % Nature of holding

BlackRock, Inc. 

19 January 2023 60,792,041  5.62% 

15,780,780

1.63% 

7.25% 

Indirect, ADR, Securities 
Lending, CFD 

The Capital Group 
Companies, Inc. 

17 September 
2020

50,981,817  4.90.%  – 

Invesco Limited 

7 May 2014

45,775,918  4.69%  – 

Caisse de dépôt et 
placement du Québec 

7 January 2021

41,492,159  3.98%  – 

– 

– 

– 

4.90% 

Indirect, ADR 

4.69% 

3.98% 

Indirect 

Direct 

Barclays Bank Plc

1 August 2022

35,834,843 3.35% 19,978,657

1.87%

5.22%

JPMorgan Chase & Co.  19 January 2023 54,673,418 5.06% 374,155

0.14%

5.2%

Indirect, ADR, Options, 
Right to Recall (loan and 
collateral)

Indirect, Depository 
Receipt, Physically Settled 
Call Option

* At date of disclosure by relevant entity. 

Authority to purchase shares 
At the AGM 2022, the Company obtained shareholder approval to purchase up to 106,767,170 of its own Ordinary Shares (representing 
10% of its issued share capital) up until the earlier of the conclusion of the AGM 2023 and close of business on 30 September 2023.

There was one active share repurchase programme during the year in light of the SCRIP take-up of the final dividend for the year ended 
31 March 2022 exceeding 25% announced on 28 September 2022. The programme was carried out in accordance with the authority 
granted by shareholders at the Company’s Annual General Meeting on 21 July 2022 (being 106,767,170 shares), the Market Abuse 
Regulation (596/2014) and Chapter 12 of the Listing Rules. The details of the shares repurchased under the programme are set out  
below and can also be found on sse.com . All shares purchased were cancelled.

Share repurchase programme

Scrip take-up

Number of shares  

repurchased

Nominal value of  
shares purchased

Aggregate amount paid

Percentage of called-up share 
capital as at 23 May 2023 
represented by shares 
repurchased

6,904,083

£3,452,041.50

£106,927,042.11

0.63%

During the financial year, and up until 31 March 2023, the Company used 1,856,282 of the treasury shares acquired under the 2016/17 
share repurchase programme to satisfy the requirements of the all-employee Sharesave scheme.

The Directors will, again, seek renewal of their authority to purchase in the market the Company’s own shares at the AGM 2023.

188

SSE plc  Annual Report 2023

SSE plc  Annual Report 2023

189

Financial StatementsStrategic ReportDirectors’ ReportOther statutory information continued

Voting 
Each Ordinary Share of the Company carries one vote at general meetings of the Company. Any Ordinary Shares held in treasury have 
no voting rights.

A shareholder entitled to attend, speak and vote at a general meeting may exercise their right to vote in person or electronically, by proxy, 
or in relation to corporate members, by corporate representatives. To be valid, notification of the appointment of a proxy must be received 
not less than 48 hours before the general meeting at which the person named in the proxy notice proposes to vote. The Directors may in 
their discretion determine that in calculating the 48-hour period, no account be taken of any part of a day which is not a working day.

Employees who participate in the Share Incentive Plan whose shares remain in the schemes’ trust give directions to the trustees to vote 
on their behalf by way of a Form of Direction. SSE also has a Share Plan Account service with Computershare available to employees 
with shares arising from a SAYE option maturity, which are voted through the nominee. 

Annual General Meeting (AGM) 
The AGM of the Company will be held at the Perth Concert Hall, Mill Street, Perth PH1 5HZ on Thursday 20 July 2023 at 12.30pm. 
Shareholders will also be able to attend the meeting electronically via the use of an electronic platform and ask questions and vote in real 
time. Details of the full arrangements for the AGM, resolutions to be proposed, how to vote and ask questions are set out in the Notice of 
Annual General Meeting 2023 which accompanies this report for shareholders receiving hard copy documents, and which is available at 
sse.com  for those who elected to receive documents electronically. 

Articles of Association changes 
The Company’s latest Articles of Association were adopted at the 2021 AGM. Any amendments to the Articles of Association can only be 
made by a special resolution at a general meeting of shareholders.

Change of control 
The Company is party to several agreements that take effect, alter or terminate upon a change of control of the Company following a 
takeover. At 31 March 2023, change of control provisions were included in agreements for committed credit facilities, EIB debt, US Private 
Placements, Senior Bonds and Hybrid instruments. The Company is not aware of any other agreements with change of control provisions 
that are significant in terms of their potential impact to the business.

Disclosure of information to the auditor 
Each of the Directors who held office at the date of approval of this Directors’ Report confirms that, so far as each Director is aware, 
there is no relevant audit information of which the Company’s Auditors are unaware and each Director has taken all the steps that ought 
to have been taken in his or her duty as a Director to make himself or herself aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that 
the Company’s Auditors are aware of that information. 

Related party transactions 
Related party transactions are set out in note A5  of the Accompanying Information. 

Post-balance sheet events
Information relating to post balance sheet events is provided on page 275 . 

The Directors’ Report set out on pages 110 to 191  has been approved by the Board of Directors in accordance with the Companies Act 
2006. 

By order of the Board 

Sally Fairbairn 
Company Secretary, SSE plc
23 May 2023

Statement of Directors’ responsibilities in respect  
of the Annual Report and the Financial Statements

The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and the Group and parent Company Financial Statements in accordance 
with applicable law and regulations.

Company law requires the Directors to prepare Group and parent Company financial statements for each financial year. Under that  
law they are required to prepare the Group financial statements in accordance with UK-adopted international accounting standards 
(‘IFRS’), and have elected to prepare the parent Company financial statements in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted 
Accounting Practice (United Kingdom Accounting Standards and applicable law) including Financial Reporting Standard 101, ‘Reduced 
Disclosure Framework’.

Under company law the Directors must not approve the financial statements unless they are satisfied that they give a true and fair view of 
the state of affairs of the Group and parent Company and of their profit or loss for that period. In preparing each of the Group and parent 
Company financial statements, the Directors are required to:
•  select suitable accounting policies in accordance with IAS 8 Accounting Policies, Changes in Accounting Estimates and Errors and 

then apply them consistently;

•  make judgements and accounting estimates that are reasonable, relevant and reliable;
•  present information, including accounting policies, in a manner that provides relevant, reliable, comparable and understandable 

information;

•  provide additional disclosures when compliance with the specific requirements in IFRSs (and in respect of the parent Company 

financial statements, FRS 101) is insufficient to enable users to understand the impact of particular transactions, other events and 
conditions on the Group and parent Company financial position and financial performance; 
in respect of the Group financial statements, state whether UK-adopted international accounting standards have been followed, 
subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the financial statements;
in respect of the parent Company financial statements, state whether applicable UK Accounting Standards, including FRS 101, have 
been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the financial statements; 

• 

• 

•  assess the Group and parent Company’s ability to continue as a going concern, disclosing, as applicable, matters related to going 

concern; and

•  use the going concern basis of accounting unless they either intend to liquidate the Group or the parent Company, or to cease 

operations, or have no realistic alternative but to do so.

The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain the parent Company’s 
transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the parent Company and enable them to ensure 
that its financial statements comply with the Companies Act 2006. They are responsible for such internal control as they determine is 
necessary to enable the preparation of financial statements that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and 
have general responsibility for taking such steps as are reasonably open to them to safeguard the assets of the Group and to prevent and 
detect fraud and other irregularities.

Under applicable law and regulations, the Directors are also responsible for preparing a Strategic Report, Directors’ Report, Directors’ 
Remuneration Report and Corporate Governance Statement that complies with that law and those regulations.

The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the corporate and financial information included on the Company’s 
website. Legislation in the UK governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other 
jurisdictions.

Responsibility statement of the Directors in respect of the annual financial report
We confirm that to the best of our knowledge:
• 

the financial statements, prepared in accordance with UK-adopted international accounting standards give a true and fair view of the 
assets, liabilities, financial position and profit or loss of the Company and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a 
whole; and
the annual report, including the strategic report, includes a fair review of the development and performance of the business and the 
position of the issuer and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole, together with a description of the principal 
risks and uncertainties that they face.

• 

We consider the annual report and accounts, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information 
necessary for shareholders to assess the Group’s position and performance, business model and strategy.

Alistair Phillips-Davies 
Chief Executive 
23 May 2023

Gregor Alexander
Finance Director

190

SSE plc  Annual Report 2023

SSE plc  Annual Report 2023

191

Financial StatementsStrategic ReportDirectors’ Report 
 
 
Strategic Report

Directors’ Report

Financial Statements

Financial 
Statements

In this section

Alternative Performance Measures  

Consolidated income statement 

Consolidated statement  
of comprehensive income 

Consolidated balance sheet 

Consolidated statement  
of changes in equity 

Consolidated cash flow statement 

Notes to the consolidated  
financial statements 

Accompanying information 

Company balance sheet  

Company statement of changes in equity  

Notes to the Company  
financial statements  

Independent auditor’s report  

Consolidated segmental statement  

Independent auditor’s report to the Consolidated 
Segmental Statement 

Shareholder information  

Glossary 

194

203

204

205

206

208

 209

 276

314

315

316

326

337

343

345

347

192

SSE plc  Annual Report 2023

SSE plc  Annual Report 2023

193

Alternative performance measures

When assessing, discussing and measuring the Group’s financial performance, management refer to measures used for internal 
performance management. These measures are not defined or specified under International Financial Reporting Standards (‘IFRS’)  
and as such are considered to be Alternative Performance Measures (‘APMs’).

By their nature, APMs are not uniformly applied by all preparers including other participants in the Group’s industry. Accordingly, 
APMs used by the Group may not be comparable to other companies within the Group’s industry.

Purpose
APMs are used by management to aid comparison and assess historical performance against internal performance benchmarks and 
across reporting periods. These measures provide an ongoing and consistent basis to assess performance by excluding items that are 
materially non-recurring, uncontrollable or exceptional. These measures can be classified in terms of their key financial characteristics:
•  Profit measures allow management to assess and benchmark underlying business performance during the year. They are primarily 
used by operational management to measure operating profit contribution and are also used by the Board to assess performance 
against business plan. The Group has six profit measures, of which adjusted operating profit and adjusted profit before tax are the 
main focus of management through the financial year and adjusted Earnings Per Share is the main focus of management on an 
annual basis. In order to derive adjusted Earnings Per Share, the Group has defined adjusted operating profit, adjusted net finance 
costs, and adjusted current tax charge as components of the adjusted Earnings Per Share calculation. Adjusted EBITDA is used by 
management as a proxy for cash derived from ordinary operations of the Group.

•  Capital measures allow management to track and assess the progress of the Group’s significant ongoing investment in capital assets 
and projects against their investment cases, including the expected timing of their operational deployment and also to provide a 
measure of progress against the Group’s strategic Net Zero Acceleration Programme Plus objectives. 

•  Debt measures allow management to record and monitor both operating cash generation and the Group’s ongoing financing and 

liquidity position.

Changes to APMs in the year
In the year the Group has refined its profit measures for the treatment of fair value gains arising from an acquisition of a business or a 
joint venture interest, which generates an exceptional opening gain on acquisition. The rationale for including this adjustment to these 
APMs is set out in adjustment number 6.

The following section explains the key APMs applied by the Group and referred to in these statements:

Profit measures

Group APM

Adjusted EBITDA 
(earnings before 
interest, tax, 
depreciation and 
amortisation)

Purpose

Profit 
measure

Adjusted 
Operating Profit

Profit 
measure

Adjusted Profit 
Before Tax

Profit 
measure

Closest equivalent  
IFRS measure

Adjustments to reconcile to primary financial statements

Operating profit

•  Movement on operating and joint venture financing derivatives  

(‘certain re-measurements‘)

•  Exceptional items
•  Adjustments to retained Gas Production decommissioning provision
•  Share of joint ventures and associates’ interest and tax
•  Depreciation and amortisation before exceptional charges (including 

depreciation and amortisation expense on fair value uplifts)

•  Share of joint venture and associates’ depreciation and amortisation
•  Non-controlling share of operating profit
•  Non-controlling share of depreciation and amortisation
•  Release of deferred income

Operating profit

•  Movement on operating and joint venture financing derivatives  

(‘certain re-measurements’)

•  Exceptional items
•  Adjustments to retained Gas Production decommissioning provision
•  Depreciation and amortisation expense on fair value uplifts
•  Share of joint ventures and associates’ interest and tax
•  Non-controlling share of operating profit

Profit before tax

•  Movement on operating and financing derivatives  

(‘certain re-measurements’)

•  Exceptional items
•  Adjustments to retained Gas Production decommissioning provision
•  Non-controlling share of profit before tax
•  Depreciation and amortisation expense on fair value uplifts
• 
•  Share of joint ventures and associates’ tax

Interest on net pension assets/liabilities (IAS 19)

Group APM

Adjusted Net 
Finance Costs

Purpose

Profit 
measure

Closest equivalent  
IFRS measure

Net finance costs

Adjusted Current 
Tax Charge

Profit 
measure

Tax charge

Adjusted Earnings 
Per Share

Profit 
measure

Earnings Per Share

Adjustments to reconcile to primary financial statements

•  Exceptional items
•  Movement on financing derivatives
•  Share of joint ventures and associates’ interest
•  Non-controlling share of financing costs
• 

Interest on net pension assets/liabilities (IAS 19)

•  Share of joint ventures and associates’ tax
•  Non-controlling share of current tax
•  Deferred tax including share of joint ventures, associates and non-

controlling interests

•  Tax on exceptional items and certain re-measurements
•  Reclassification of tax liabilities

•  Exceptional items
•  Adjustments to retained Gas Production decommissioning provision
•  Movements on operating and financing derivatives (‘certain re-

measurements’)

•  Depreciation and amortisation expense on fair value uplifts
• 
•  Deferred tax including share of joint ventures, associates and non-

Interest on net pension assets/liabilities (IAS 19)

controlling interests

Rationale for adjustments to profit measure
1  Movement on operating and financing derivatives (‘certain re-measurements’)
This adjustment can be designated between operating and financing derivatives.

Operating derivatives are contracts where the Group’s Energy Portfolio Management (‘EPM’) function enters into forward commitments 
or options to buy or sell electricity, gas and other commodities to meet the future demand requirements of the Group’s Business Energy 
and SSE Airtricity operating units, to optimise the value of the production from SSE Renewables and Thermal generation assets or  
to conduct other trading subject to the value at risk limits set out by the Energy Markets Risk Committee. Certain of these contracts 
(predominately purchase contracts) are determined to be derivative financial instruments under IFRS 9 and as such are required to  
be recorded at their fair value. Changes in the fair value of those commodity contracts designated as IFRS 9 financial instruments are 
reflected in the income statement (as part of ‘certain re-measurements’). The Group shows the change in the fair value of these forward 
contracts separately as this mark-to-market movement is not relevant to the underlying performance of its operating segments due to 
the volatility that can arise on revaluation. The Group will recognise the underlying value of these contracts as the relevant commodity  
is delivered, which will predominantly be within the subsequent 12 to 24 months. Conversely, commodity contracts that are not financial 
instruments under IFRS 9 (predominately sales contracts) are accounted for as ‘own use’ contracts and are consequently not recorded 
until the commodity is delivered and the contract is settled. Gas inventory purchased by the Group’s Gas Storage business for secondary 
trading opportunities is also held at fair value with gains and losses on re-measurement recognised as part of ‘certain re-measurements’ 
in the income statement. Finally, the mark-to-market valuation movements on the Group’s contracts for difference contracts entered 
into by SSE Renewables that are not designated as government grants and which are measured as Level 3 fair value financial instruments 
are also included within ‘certain re-measurements’. 

Financing derivatives include all fair value and cash flow interest rate hedges, non-hedge accounted (mark-to-market) interest rate 
derivatives, cash flow foreign exchange hedges and non-hedge accounted foreign exchange contracts entered into by the Group to 
manage its banking and liquidity requirements as well as risk management relating to interest rate and foreign exchange exposures. 
Changes in the fair value of those financing derivatives are reflected in the income statement (as part of ‘certain re-measurements”).  
The Group shows the change in the fair value of these forward contracts separately as this mark-to-market movement is not relevant  
to the underlying performance of its operating segments.

The re-measurements arising from operating and financing derivatives, and the tax effects thereof, are disclosed separately to aid 
understanding of the underlying performance of the Group.

2  Exceptional items
Exceptional charges or credits, and the tax effects thereof, are considered unusual by nature or scale and of such significance that 
separate disclosure is required for the underlying performance of the Group to be properly understood. Further explanation for the 
classification of an item as exceptional is included in note 3.2.

3  Adjustments to retained Gas Production decommissioning provision
The Group retains an obligation for 60% of the decommissioning liabilities of its former Gas Production business which was disposed  
in October 2021. The revaluation adjustments relating to these decommissioning liabilities are accounted for through the Group’s 
consolidated income statement and are removed from the Group’s adjusted profit measures as the revaluation of the provision is not 
considered to be part of the Group’s core continuing operations.

194

SSE plc  Annual Report 2023

SSE plc  Annual Report 2023

195

Financial StatementsStrategic ReportDirectors’ ReportAlternative performance measures continued

Rationale for adjustments to profit measure continued
4  Share of joint ventures and associates’ interest and tax
This adjustment can be split between the Group’s share of interest and the Group’s share of tax arising from its investments in equity 
accounted joint ventures and associates. The Group is required to report profit before interest and tax (‘operating profit’) including its 
share of the profit after tax from its equity accounted joint ventures and associates. However, for internal performance management 
purposes and for consistency of treatment, SSE reports its adjusted operating profit measures before its share of the interest and/or  
tax on joint ventures and associates.

5  Share of joint ventures and associates’ depreciation and amortisation
For management purposes, the Group considers EBITDA (earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortisation) based on a 
sum-of-the-parts derived metric which includes a share of the EBITDA from equity accounted investments. While this is not equal  
to adjusted cash generated from operating activities, it is considered useful by management in assessing a proxy for such a measure, 
given the complexity of the Group structure and the range of investment structures utilised. For the purpose of calculating the ‘Net  
Debt to EBITDA’ metric referred at page 89 , ‘adjusted EBITDA’ is further refined to remove the proportion of adjusted EBITDA from 
equity-accounted joint ventures relating to off-balance sheet debt (see note 5.1(v)).

6  Depreciation and amortisation expense on fair value uplifts
The Group’s strategy includes the realisation of value (developer gains) from divestments of stakes in SSE Renewables’ offshore and 
international developments. In addition, for strategic purposes the Group may also decide to bring in equity partners to other businesses 
and assets. Where SSE’s interest in such vehicles changes from full to joint control, and the subsequent arrangement is classified as an 
equity accounted joint venture, SSE may recognise a fair value uplift on the remeasurement of its retained equity investment. Those 
non-cash accounting uplifts will be treated as exceptional gains in the year of the relevant transactions completing. Furthermore, SSE 
may acquire businesses or joint venture interests which are determined to generate an exceptional opening gain on acquisition and 
accordingly will record an accounting fair value uplift to the opening assets acquired. These uplifts create assets or adjustments to assets, 
which are depreciated or amortised over the remaining life of the underlying assets or contracts in those businesses with the charge 
being included in the Group’s depreciation and amortisation expense. The Group’s adjusted operating profit, adjusted profit before  
tax and adjusted Earnings Per Share are adjusted to exclude any additional depreciation, amortisation and impairment expense arising 
from the fair value uplifts given these charges are derived from significant one-off gains, which are treated as exceptional when initially 
recognised.

7  Release of deferred income
The Group deducts the release of deferred income in the year from its adjusted EBITDA metric as it principally relates to customer 
contributions against depreciating assets. As the metric adds back depreciation, the income is also deducted. 

8  Interest on net pension assets/liabilities (IAS 19 ‘Employee Benefits’)
The Group’s interest income relating to defined benefit pension schemes is derived from the net assets of the schemes as valued under 
IAS 19. This will mean that the credit or charge recognised in any given year will be dependent on the impact of actuarial assumptions 
such as inflation and discount rates. The Group excludes these from its adjusted profit measures due to the non-cash nature of these 
charges or credits.

9  Deferred tax
The Group adjusts for deferred tax when arriving at adjusted profit after tax, adjusted Earnings Per Share and its adjusted effective rate of 
tax. Deferred tax arises as a result of differences in accounting and tax bases that give rise to potential future accounting credits or charges. 
As the Group remains committed to its ongoing capital programme, the liabilities associated are not expected to reverse and accordingly 
the Group excludes these from its adjusted profit measures. 

10  Results attributable to non-controlling interest holders
The Group’s structure includes non-wholly owned but controlled subsidiaries which are consolidated within the financial statements of 
the Group under IFRS. The most significant of those is SSEN Transmission, a 25% stake in which was divested on 30 November 2022 (see 
note 12.2 in the financial statements for more details of that transaction). There is no impact to disclosures for prior years but in the current 
year the Group has removed the share of profit attributable to holders of non-controlling equity stakes in such businesses from the point 
when the ownership structure changed (i.e. for SSEN Transmission, with effect from 1 December 2022) from all of its profit measures,  
to report all metrics based on the share of profits items attributable to the ordinary equity holders of the Group. The adjustment has been 
applied consistently to all of the Group’s adjusted profit measures, including removing proportionate non-controlling share of operating 
profit and depreciation and amortisation from the Group’s adjusted EBITDA metric; removing the non-controlling share of operating profit 
from the Group’s adjusted operating profit metric; removing the non-controlling share of net finance costs from the Group’s adjusted net 
finance costs metric; and removing the non-controlling interest share of current tax from the Group’s adjusted current tax metric. 

196

SSE plc  Annual Report 2023

Net finance 

costs

(Loss)/profit 
before 
taxation

Attributable to 
other equity 
holders
(Loss)/profit 

attributable to 
ordinary 
shareholders

Number of 

March 2023 

Continuing 
operations

Operating 

Movement 
on 
derivatives
£m

Exceptional 
items
£m

Reported
£m

Adjustments to 
Gas Production 
decommissioning 
provision
£m 

Depreciation 
on FV uplifts
£m

Joint  
venture 
interest  
and tax
£m

Interest  
on net 
pension 
asset
£m

Deferred 
tax
£m

Share of 
profit 
attributable 
to 
non- 
controlling 
interests
£m

Adjusted
£m

(loss)/profit 

(146.3)

2,514.3

0.6

(50.5)

28.8

213.2

–

(59.3)

(201.9)

(0.2)

–

–

(70.1)

(16.2)

(205.6)

2,312.4

Taxation

110.0

(460.5)

(Loss)/profit 

0.4

34.1

(50.5)

–

28.8

–

143.1

(16.2)

after taxation

(95.6)

1,851.9

34.5

(50.5)

28.8

(62.4)

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

(30.9) 2,529.2

2.1

(345.6)

(28.8) 2,183.6

(143.1)

–

99.6

1.1

(358.8)

–

–

(16.2)

99.6

(27.7) 1,824.8

–

(4.1)

27.7

(38.8)

(158.0)

1,851.9

34.5

(50.5)

28.8

–

(16.2)

95.5

– 1,786.0

shares for EPS

1,075.6

(Losses)/

Earnings Per 
Share 

(14.7)

EBITDA

Adjusted operating profit from 

Adjusted 
operating profit 
from continuing 
operations
£m

Share of joint 
venture and 
associates’ 
depreciation 
and 
amortisation
£m

Release of 
deferred  
income
£m

Depreciation  
on FV uplifts  
£m

Share of 
depreciation, 
impairment and 
amortisation 
before 
exceptional items 
attributable to 
non-controlling 
interests
£m

Depreciation, 
impairment and 
amortisation 
before 
exceptional 
charges
£m

1,075.6

166.0

Adjusted 
EBITDA 
£m

continuing operations

2,529.2

201.1

(13.9)

(28.8)

704.2

(9.7)

3,382.1

March 2022 (restated*)

Continuing operations

Reported
£m

Movement 
on 
derivatives
£m

Exceptional 
items
£m

Adjustments to 
Gas Production 
decommissioning 
provision
£m 

Depreciation 
on FV uplifts
£m

Joint venture 
interest and 
tax
£m

Interest on net 
pension asset
£m

Deferred 
tax
£m

Operating profit 
Net finance costs

3,749.5
(273.2)

(2,097.8)
(21.0)

(301.8)
(3.2)

Profit before 
taxation

Taxation

3,476.3

(2,118.8)

(305.0)

(881.3)

408.0

323.7

18.7

Profit after taxation

2,595.0

(1,710.8)

13.1
–

13.1

–

13.1

20.6
–

20.6

–

20.6

Attributable to 
other equity 
holders

Profit attributable 

to ordinary 
shareholders

(50.7)

–

–

–

–

2,544.3

(1,710.8)

18.7

13.1

20.6

Number of shares 

for EPS

Earnings Per Share 

1,055.0
241.2

147.3
(67.8)

79.5

(79.5)

–

–

–

–
(7.6)

(7.6)

–

(7.6)

–
–

–

122.0

122.0

Adjusted
£m

1,530.9
(372.8)

1,158.1

(107.1)

1,051.0

–

–

(50.7)

(7.6)

122.0

1,000.3

1,055.0
94.8

SSE plc  Annual Report 2023

197

Financial StatementsStrategic ReportDirectors’ ReportAlternative performance measures continued

Rationale for adjustments to profit measure continued
March 2022 (restated*) continued

Adjusted 
operating profit 
from continuing 
operations
£m

Share of joint 
venture and 
associates’ 
depreciation and 
amortisation
£m

Release of 
deferred income
£m

Depreciation on 
FV uplifts 
£m

Depreciation, 
impairment and 
amortisation 
before 
exceptional 
charges
£m

Adjusted 
EBITDA 
£m

EBITDA

Adjusted operating profit from continuing 

operations

1,530.9

146.6

(17.6)

(20.6)

612.0

2,251.3

*   The comparative Alternative Performance Measures have been restated. See note 2.1.

March 2021 

Continuing operations

Operating profit 
Net finance costs

Reported
£m

2,654.9
(236.9)

Movement 
on 
derivatives
£m

Exceptional 
items
£m

Depreciation 
on FV uplifts
£m

(597.8)
(55.6)

(848.9)
(1.4)

Profit before taxation

2,418.0

(653.4)

(850.3)

Taxation

Profit after taxation

Attributable to other equity holders
Profit attributable to ordinary 

shareholders

(224.3)

125.9

(3.1)

2,193.7

(527.5)

(853.4)

(46.6)

–

–

2,147.1

(527.5)

(853.4)

Number of shares for EPS
Earnings Per Share 

1,040.9
206.3

Joint 
venture 
interest 
and tax
£m

104.7
(82.4)

22.3

(22.3)

–

–

–

Interest on 
net pension 
asset
£m

Deferred 
tax
£m

–
(8.3)

(8.3)

–

(8.3)

–

(8.3)

–
–

–

37.9

37.9

–

37.9

20.6
–

20.6

–

20.6

–

20.6

Adjusted 
operating profit 
from continuing 
operations
£m

Share of joint 
venture and 
associates’ 
depreciation and 
amortisation
£m

Release of 
deferred income
£m

Depreciation on 
FV uplifts 
£m

Depreciation, 
impairment and 
amortisation 
before 
exceptional 
charges
£m

1,333.5

143.9

(17.7)

(20.6)

556.2

1,995.3

EBITDA

Adjusted operating profit from continuing 

operations

Debt measure

Group APM

Purpose

Closest equivalent IFRS 
measure

Adjusted Net Debt 
and Hybrid Capital

Debt 
measure

Unadjusted 
net debt 

Adjustments to reconcile to primary financial statements

•  Hybrid equity
•  Cash posted as collateral
•  Lease obligations
•  Non-controlling share of borrowings and cash

Rationale for adjustments to debt measure
11  Hybrid equity
The characteristics of certain hybrid capital securities mean that they qualify for recognition as equity rather than debt under IFRS. 
Consequently, their coupon payments are presented within equity rather than within finance costs. As a result, the coupon payments  
are not included in SSE’s adjusted profit before tax measure. In order to present total funding provided from sources other than ordinary 
shareholders, SSE presents its adjusted net debt measure inclusive of hybrid capital to better reflect the Group’s funding position.

12  Cash posted as collateral
Cash posted as collateral are SSE cash balances held by counterparties including trading exchanges. Collateral balances mostly represent 
initial and variation margin, required as part of the management of the Group’s exposures on commodity contracts, that will be received 
on maturity of the related trades. Loans with a maturity of less than three months are also included in this adjustment. The Group includes 
this adjustment in order to better reflect the immediate cash resources to which it has access, which in turn better reflects the Group’s 
funding position.

13  Lease obligations
SSE’s reported loans and borrowings include lease liabilities on contracts within the scope of IFRS 16, which are not directly related to 
external financing of the Group. The Group excludes these liabilities from its adjusted net debt and hybrid capital measure to better 
reflect the Group’s underlying funding position with its primary sources of capital.

198

SSE plc  Annual Report 2023

Adjusted
£m

1,333.5
(384.6)

948.9

(85.9)

863.0

(46.6)

816.4

1,040.9
78.4

Adjusted 
EBITDA 
£m

14  Debt and cash attributable to non-controlling interests
The Group’s structure includes non-wholly owned but controlled subsidiaries which are consolidated within the financial statements of the 
Group under IFRS. The most significant of those is SSEN Transmission, a 25% stake in which was divested on 30 November 2022 (see note 
12.2 in the financial statements for more details of that transaction). Following completion of the transaction, the Group has removed the 
share of external debt and cash in these subsidiaries proportionately attributable to the non-controlling interest holders from its adjusted 
net debt and hybrid capital metric. While legal entitlement to these items has not changed, the Group makes this adjustment to present net 
debt attributable to ordinary equity holders of the Group.

Unadjusted net debt
Cash posted as collateral
Lease obligations
External net debt attributable to non-controlling interests

Adjusted Net Debt
Hybrid equity

Adjusted Net Debt and Hybrid Capital

Capital measures

March 2023
£m

March 2022
£m

March 2021
£m

(8,168.1)
316.3
405.9
434.2

(7,011.7)
(1,882.4)

(8,015.4)
74.7
393.5
–

(7,547.2)
(1,051.0)

(7,810.4)
(37.1)
421.0
–

(7,426.5)
(1,472.4)

(8,894.1)

(8,598.2)

(8,898.9)

Group APM

Purpose

Closest equivalent IFRS measure

Adjustments to reconcile to primary financial statements

Adjusted 
Investment and
Capital 
Expenditure

Capital
measure

Capital additions to intangible 
assets and property, plant and 
equipment

Adjusted 
Investment, Capital 
and Acquisition 
Expenditure 

Capital
measure

Capital additions to intangible 
assets and property, plant and 
equipment

•  Customer funded additions
•  Allowances and certificates
•  Additions acquired through business combinations
•  Disposed or impaired additions
•  Joint ventures and associates’ additions funding
•  Non-controlling share of capital expenditure
•  Refinancing proceeds/refunds

•  Customer funded additions
•  Allowances and certificates
•  Additions acquired through business combinations
•  Disposed or impaired additions
•  Joint ventures and associates’ additions funding
•  Non-controlling share of capital expenditure
•  Refinancing proceeds/refunds
•  Acquisition cash consideration

Adjustments to capital measures
15  Customer funded additions 
Customer funded additions represents additions to electricity and other networks funded by customer contributions. Given these are 
directly funded by customers, these additions have been excluded to better reflect the Group’s underlying investment position.

16  Allowances and certificates
Allowances and certificates consist of purchased carbon emissions allowances and generated or purchased renewable obligations 
certificates (ROCs) and additions in the year are not included in the Group’s ‘capital expenditure and investment’ APM to better reflect  
the Group’s investment in enduring operational assets.

17  Additions acquired through business combinations
Where the Group acquires an early-stage development company, which is classified as the acquisition of an asset, or group of assets  
and not the acquisition of a business, the acquisition is treated as an addition to intangible assets or property, plant and equipment  
and is included within ‘adjusted investment and capital expenditure’. Where the Group acquires an established business or interest in  
an equity-accounted joint venture requiring a fair value assessment in line with the principles of IFRS 3 ‘Business Combinations’, the fair 
value of acquired consolidated tangible or intangible assets are excluded from the Group’s ‘adjusted investment and capital expenditure’, 
as they are not direct capital expenditure by the Group. However, the fair valuation of consideration paid for the business or investment is 
included in the Group’s ‘adjusted investment, capital and acquisition expenditure’ metric, see 23 below. Please refer to note 12 for detail 
of the Group’s acquisitions in the year.

18  Additions subsequently disposed or impaired
For consistency of presentation, any capital additions in the year that are subsequently written-down or disposed are removed from the 
APM. In the prior year there were capex additions of £13.9m related to the Gas Production business, which was disposed on 14 October 
2021. This adjustment also includes any subsequently derecognised development expenditure.

SSE plc  Annual Report 2023

199

Financial StatementsStrategic ReportDirectors’ ReportAlternative performance measures continued

Adjustments to capital measures continued
19  Joint ventures and associates’ additions funding
Joint ventures and associates’ additions included in the Group’s capital measures represent the direct loan or equity funding provided by 
the Group to joint venture and associate arrangements in relation to capital expenditure projects. This has been included to better reflect 
the Group’s use of directly funded equity accounted vehicles to grow the Group’s asset base. Asset additions funded by project finance 
raised within the Group’s joint ventures and associates are not included in this adjustment.

20  Non-controlling share of capital expenditure
The Group’s structure includes non-wholly owned but controlled subsidiaries which are consolidated within the financial statements  
of the Group under IFRS. The most significant of those is SSEN Transmission, a 25% stake in which was divested on 30 November 2022 
(see note 12.2 in the financial statements for more details of that transaction). In the current year, the Group has removed the share of 
capital additions attributable proportionately to these equity holders from the point when the ownership structure changed (i.e. for SSEN 
Transmission, with effect from 1 December 2022) from its ‘adjusted investment and capital expenditure’ and ‘adjusted investment, capital 
and acquisition expenditure’ metrics. This is consistent with the adjustments noted elsewhere related to these non-controlling interests. 
This has no impact on the prior year metrics.

21  Refinancing proceeds/refunds
The Group’s model for developing large scale capital projects within joint ventures and associates involves project finance being raised 
within those entities. Where the Group funds early-stage capex which is then subsequently reimbursed to SSE following the receipt of 
project finance within the vehicle, the refinancing proceeds are included in the Group’s net adjusted investment and capital expenditure 
metric. This is consistent with the inclusion of the initial investment in the metric as explained at 17 above. There were no refinancing 
proceeds in the year ended 31 March 2023. In the year ended 31 March 2022, Doggerbank windfarm reimbursed SSE for previous funding 
of £136.7m. In the year ended 31 March 2021, the Group received reimbursed capex of £246.1m in relation to Seagreen windfarm and 
£182.5m in relation to Doggerbank windfarm. These receipts have been deducted from the Group’s adjusted investment and capital 
expenditure metric.

22  Lease additions
Additions of right of use assets under the Group’s IFRS 16 compliant policies for lease contracts are excluded from the Group’s adjusted 
capital measures as they do not represent directly funded capital investment. This is consistent with the treatment of lease obligations 
explained at 13, above.

23  Acquisition cash consideration in relation to business combinations
The Group has outlined a significant investment programme which will partly be achieved through the acquisition of businesses  
with development opportunities for the Group. The cash consideration paid for these entities is included within the Group’s adjusted 
investment, capital and acquisition expenditure metric as it provides stakeholders an accurate basis of cash investment into the Group’s 
total development pipeline and is consistent with the reporting of the Group’s Net Zero Acceleration Programme Plus.

Capital additions to intangible assets
Capital additions to property, plant and equipment

Capital additions to intangible assets and property, plant and equipment

Customer funded additions
Allowances and certificates
Additions through business combinations
Additions subsequently disposed/impaired
Joint ventures and associates’ additions
Non-controlled interests share of capital expenditure
Refinancing (proceeds)/refunds
Lease asset additions

Adjusted Investment and Capital expenditure

Acquisition cash consideration 

Adjusted Investment, Capital and Acquisition Expenditure

*  The comparative Alternative Performance Measures have been restated. See note 2.1.

March 2023
£m

1,688.6
1,500.1

3,188.7

(80.9)
(805.2)
(515.2)
–
498.4
(46.7)
–
(78.5)

2,160.6

642.7

2,803.3

March 2022 
(restated*)
£m

921.0
1,392.9

2,313.9

(91.3)
(544.5)
(197.8)
(13.9)
682.5
–
(136.7)
(85.7)

1,926.5

141.3

2,067.8

March 2021
£m

701.3
1,102.5

1,803.8

(61.8)
(509.0)
–
(19.7)
172.7
–
(428.6)
(45.4)

912.0

–

912.0

Impact of discontinued operations on the Group’s APMs
The following metrics have been adjusted in all years presented to exclude the contribution of the Group’s investment in Scotia Gas 
Networks Limited (‘SGN’) which was disposed on 22 March 2022 (see note 12) and Group’s Gas Production operations which were 
disposed on 14 October 2021:
•  Adjusted EBITDA;
•  Adjusted operating profit;
•  Adjusted net finance costs;
•  Adjusted profit before tax;
•  Adjusted current tax charge; and
•  Adjusted Earnings Per Share.

‘Adjusted net debt and hybrid capital’, ‘adjusted investment and capital expenditure’, and ‘adjusted investment, capital and acquisition 
expenditure’ have not been adjusted as the Group continues to fund the discontinued operations until the date of disposal. 

The following table summarises the impact of excluding discontinued operations from the APMs of the continuing activities of the Group 
in current and prior years:

Adjusted EBITDA of SSE Group (including discontinued operations)
Less: Gas Production profit
Less: SGN profit

Adjusted EBITDA of continuing operations  APM

Adjusted operating profit of SSE Group (including discontinued operations)
Less: Gas Production profit
Less: SGN profit

Adjusted operating profit of continuing operations  APM

Adjusted net finance costs of SSE Group (including discontinued operations)
Less: Gas Production
Less: SGN 

Adjusted net finance costs of continuing operations  APM

Adjusted profit before tax of SSE Group (including discontinued operations)
Less: Gas Production profit
Less: SGN profit

Adjusted profit before tax of continuing operations  APM

Adjusted current tax of SSE Group (including discontinued operations)
Less: SGN current tax charge

Adjusted current tax of continuing operations  APM

Adjusted Earnings Per Share of SSE Group (including discontinued operations)
Less: Gas Production Earnings Per Share
Less: SGN Earnings Per Share

Adjusted Earnings Per Share of continuing operations  APM

*  The comparative Alternative Performance Measures have been restated. See note 2.1.

March 2023
£m

March 2022
(restated*)
£m

March 2021
£m

3,382.1
–
–

3,382.1

2,529.2
–
–

2,529.2

345.6
–
–

345.6

2,183.6
–
–

2,183.6

358.8
–

358.8

166.0
–
–

166.0

2,384.8
(101.4)
(32.1)

2,251.3

1,653.3
(101.4)
(21.0)

1,530.9

377.6
(0.1)
(4.7)

372.8

1,275.7
(101.3)
(16.3)

1,158.1

109.4
(2.3)

107.1

105.6
(9.6)
(1.2)

94.8

2,262.9
(33.0)
(234.6)

1,995.3

1,539.5
(33.0)
(173.0)

1,333.5

443.9
(2.3)
(57.0)

384.6

1,095.6
(30.7)
(116.0)

948.9

107.8
(21.9)

85.9

90.5
(3.0)
(9.1)

78.4

The remaining APMs presented by the Group are unchanged in all periods presented by the discontinued operations. 

200

SSE plc  Annual Report 2023

SSE plc  Annual Report 2023

201

Financial StatementsStrategic ReportDirectors’ ReportContents

Primary statements

Consolidated income statement

Consolidated statement of comprehensive income

Consolidated balance sheet

Consolidated statement of changes in equity

Consolidated cash flow statement

Notes to the consolidated financial statements

1.

2.

3.

4.

5.

6.

7.

8.

9.

10.

11.

12.

13.

14.

15.

16.

17.

18.

19.

20.

21.

22.

23.

24.

General information and basis of preparation

New accounting policies and reporting changes 

Adjusted accounting measures

Accounting judgements and  
estimation uncertainty

Segmental information

Other operating income and cost

Exceptional items and certain re-measurements

Directors and employees

Finance income and costs

Taxation

Dividends and Earnings Per Share

Acquisitions and disposals

Intangible assets

Property, plant and equipment

Impairment testing

Investments

Inventories

Trade and other receivables

Trade and other payables

Provisions

Sources of finance

Equity

Retirement benefit obligations

Financial instruments

25. Commitments and contingencies

26.

Post balance sheet events

204

205

206

208

209

209

210

212

215

227

228

234

236

237

239

241

246

248

249

257

259

259

260

260

262

268

269

274

275

275

Accompanying information

203

A1.

 Basis of consolidation and significant  
accounting policies

A2.

A3.

A4.

A5.

A6.

A7.

Taxation

Related undertakings

Joint ventures and associates

Related party transactions

Financial risk management

Fair value of financial instruments

A8. Hedge accounting

Company financial statements

Company balance sheet

Company statement of changes in equity

Notes to the Company financial statements

1.

2.

3.

4.

5.

6.

7. 

8.

9.

10.

11.

12.

13.

Principal accounting policies

Supplementary financial information

Investments in associates and joint ventures

Subsidiary undertakings

Trade and other receivables

Trade and other payables

Taxation

Loans and borrowings

Equity

Retirement benefit obligations

Financial instruments

Commitments and contingencies

Provisions

276

287

289

296

299

300

310

313

314

315

316

317

317

317

318

318

318

318

320

321

324

324

325

Consolidated income statement
For the year ended 31 March 2023

Continuing operations
Revenue 
Cost of sales 

Gross profit/(loss)
Operating costs
Debt impairment charges
Other operating income

Operating profit/(loss) before joint ventures 

and associates

Joint ventures and associates:
Share of operating profit
Share of interest 
Share of movement in derivatives
Share of tax 

Share of profit on joint ventures and 

associates

Operating profit/(loss) from continuing 

operations
Finance income
Finance costs 

Profit/(loss) before taxation
Taxation

Profit/(loss) for the year from continuing 

operations

Discontinued operations
Profit from discontinued operation, net of tax

Profit/(loss) for the year

Attributable to:
Ordinary shareholders of the parent
Non-controlling interests
Other equity holders

(Losses)/Earnings Per Share
Basic (pence)
Diluted (pence)

(Losses)/Earnings Per Share – continuing 

operations
Basic (pence)
Diluted (pence)

Note

5
6

6
A6.2
6

16

5
9
9

10

12

11

11
11

11
11

2023

2022

Before 
exceptional 
items and 
certain 
re-
measurements
£m

Exceptional 
items and 
certain 
re-
measurements 
(note 7)
£m

Before 
exceptional 
items and 
certain 
re-
measurements
(restated*)
£m

Exceptional 
items and 
certain 
re-
measurements 
(note 7)
£m

Total
£m

12,490.7
(9,933.2)

2,557.5
(1,431.6)
(91.0)
1,015.0

– 12,490.7
(12,650.4)

(2,717.2)

8,697.2
(6,405.5)

(2,717.2)
(230.4)
–
89.1

(159.7)
(1,662.0)
(91.0)
1,104.1

2,291.7
(1,117.6)
(1.1)
67.1

–
2,097.8

2,097.8
297.5
–
4.3

Total
(restated*) 
£m

8,697.2
(4,307.7)

4,389.5
(820.1)
(1.1)
71.4

2,049.9

(2,858.5)

(808.6)

1,240.1

2,399.6

3,639.7

531.9
(70.1)
–
(104.0)

140.7
–
202.9
(39.1)

672.6
(70.1)
202.9
(143.1)

257.1
(67.8)
–
(46.3)

–
–
–
(33.2)

257.1
(67.8)
–
(79.5)

357.8

304.5

662.3

143.0

(33.2)

109.8

2,407.7
135.3
(396.7)

2,146.3
(355.5)

(2,554.0)
202.1
–

(2,351.9)
465.5

(146.3)
337.4
(396.7)

(205.6)
110.0

1,383.1
79.0
(376.4)

1,085.7
(149.6)

2,366.4 
24.2
–

2,390.6
(731.7)

3,749.5
103.2
(376.4)

3,476.3
(881.3)

1,790.8

(1,886.4)

(95.6)

936.1

1,658.9

2,595.0

–

35.0

35.0

116.3

366.4

482.7

1,790.8

(1,851.4)

(60.6)

1,052.4

2,025.3

3,077.7

1,728.4
23.6
38.8

(1,851.4)
–
–

(123.0)
23.6
38.8

1,001.7
–
50.7

2,025.3
–
–

3,027.0
–
50.7

(11.4)
(11.4)

(14.7)
(14.7)

286.9
286.4

241.2
240.7

*  The comparative Consolidated Income Statement has been restated. See note 2.1.

The accompanying notes are an integral part of these financial statements.

202

SSE plc  Annual Report 2023

SSE plc  Annual Report 2023

203

Financial StatementsStrategic ReportDirectors’ ReportConsolidated statement of comprehensive income
For the year ended 31 March 2023

Consolidated balance sheet
As at 31 March 2023

(Loss)/profit for the year
Continuing operations
Discontinued operations

Other comprehensive income:
Items that will be reclassified subsequently to profit or loss:

Net gains on cash flow hedges
Transferred to assets and liabilities on cash flow hedges
Taxation on cashflow hedges

Share of other comprehensive gain of joint ventures and associates, net of taxation
Exchange difference on translation of foreign operations
(Loss)/gain on net investment hedge 

Items that will not be reclassified to profit or loss:
Actuarial (loss)/gain on retirement benefit schemes, net of taxation
Share of other comprehensive loss of joint ventures and associates, net of taxation
Losses on revaluation of investments in equity instruments, net of taxation

Other comprehensive gain, net of taxation

Total comprehensive income for the year

Total comprehensive income for the year arises from:

Continuing operations
Discontinued operations

Items that will be reclassified subsequently to profit or loss:
Share of other comprehensive gain of joint venture and associates, net of taxation
Items that will not be reclassified to the profit or loss:
Share of other comprehensive loss of joint ventures, net of taxation

Other comprehensive gain from discontinued operations

Profit from discontinued operations

Total comprehensive income from discontinued operations

Total comprehensive income for the year

Attributable to:
Ordinary shareholders of the parent
Non-controlling interests
Other equity holders

*  The comparative Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income has been restated. See note 2.1.

The accompanying notes are an integral part of these financial statements.

2023
£m

(95.6)
35.0

(60.6)

43.3
(12.7)
(8.1)

22.5
342.4
72.5
(43.1)

394.3

(59.4)
–
(0.4)

(59.8)

334.5

273.9

2022
(restated*)
£m

2,595.0
482.7

3,077.7

22.9
11.2
(4.4)

29.7
181.4
(3.2)
9.4

217.3

124.7
(1.7)
–

123.0

340.3

3,418.0

238.9

2,908.4

–

–

–

35.0

35.0

273.9

206.4
28.7
38.8

273.9

28.6

(1.7)

26.9

482.7

509.6

3,418.0

3,367.3
–
50.7

3,418.0

Assets
Property, plant and equipment
Goodwill and other intangible assets
Equity investments in joint ventures and associates
Loans to joint ventures and associates
Other investments
Other receivables
Derivative financial assets
Retirement benefit assets

Non-current assets

Intangible assets
Inventories
Trade and other receivables
Current tax asset
Cash and cash equivalents
Derivative financial assets

Current assets

Total assets

Liabilities
Loans and other borrowings
Trade and other payables
Current tax liabilities
Provisions
Derivative financial liabilities

Current liabilities

Loans and other borrowings
Deferred tax liabilities
Trade and other payables
Provisions
Derivative financial liabilities

Non-current liabilities

Total liabilities

Net assets

Equity:
Share capital 
Share premium
Capital redemption reserve
Hedge reserve
Translation reserve
Retained earnings

Equity attributable to ordinary shareholders of the parent
Hybrid equity 
Attributable to non-controlling interests

Total equity 

*  The comparative Consolidated Balance Sheet has been restated. See note 2.1.

The accompanying notes are an integral part of the financial statements.

14
13
16
16
16
18
24
23

13
17
18
10
21
24

21
19
10
20
24

21
10
19
20
24

22

22
22

Note

2023
£m

2022
(restated*)
£m

14,612.8
1,127.8
1,239.5
736.9
8.7
136.4
371.7
584.9

18,818.7

459.3
266.6
2,211.0
8.8
1,049.3
2,941.8

6,936.8

15,395.9
1,960.3
1,937.0
1,115.4
27.4
149.5
246.0
541.1

21,372.6

454.9
394.9
3,245.1
19.9
891.8
759.2

5,765.8

27,138.4

25,755.5

1,820.6
2,658.6
9.1
29.4
243.3

4,761.0

7,239.3
1,299.1
959.9
742.7
1,021.0

11,262.0

16,023.0

11,115.4

547.0
821.2
52.6
441.2
32.1
6,689.8

8,583.9
1,882.4
649.1

11,115.4

1,190.8
2,672.6
–
93.3
701.5

4,658.2

7,873.9
1,644.1
842.4
1,017.9
549.6

11,927.9

16,586.1

9,169.4

536.5
835.1
49.2
77.5
6.6
6,572.9

8,077.8
1,051.0
40.6

9,169.4

204

SSE plc  Annual Report 2023

SSE plc  Annual Report 2023

205

These financial statements were approved by the Board of Directors on 23 May 2023 and signed on their behalf by: 

Gregor Alexander   
Finance Director 

Sir John Manzoni 
Chairman

SSE plc
Registered No: SC117119

Financial StatementsStrategic ReportDirectors’ Report 
Consolidated statement of changes in equity 
For the year ended 31 March 2023

Consolidated statement of changes in equity 
For the year ended 31 March 2022

Share 
capital 
£m

Share 
premium 
£m

Capital 
redemption 
reserve
£m

Hedge 
reserve 
£m

Translation 
reserve
£m

Retained 
earnings
£m

Total 
attributable 
to ordinary 
shareholders
£m

Total equity 
before 
non-
controlling 
interests
£m

Hybrid 
equity
£m

Non-
controlling 
interests
£m

Total 
equity 
£m

536.5
–

835.1
–

49.2
–

77.5
–

6.6 6,572.9
– (123.0)

8,077.8 1,051.0
38.8

(123.0)

9,128.8
(84.2)

40.6 9,169.4
(60.6)
23.6

–

363.7

25.5

(59.8)

329.4

–

329.4

5.1

334.5

At 1 April 2022 
(restated*)

Profit for the year
Other 

comprehensive 
income

Total 

comprehensive 
income for the 
year

Dividends to 

shareholders
Scrip dividend 
related share 
issue

Issue of treasury 

shares

Distributions to 
Hybrid equity 
holders
Issue of  

Hybrid equity  
(note 22.5)
Share buy back 
(note 22.1)

Partial disposal of 
interest in SSEN 
Transmission 
transaction  
(note 12)

Credit in respect 
of employee 
share awards 

Investment in own 

shares

–

–

–

–

–

–

13.9

(13.9)

–

–

–

(3.4)

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

3.4

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

363.7

25.5

(182.8)

206.4

38.8

245.2

28.7

273.9

– (955.8)

(955.8)

(955.8)

–

(955.8)

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

481.5

481.5

18.0

18.0

481.5

18.0

–

–

–

–

(38.8)

(38.8)

831.4

831.4

(107.6)

(107.6)

–

(107.6)

–

–

–

–

–

481.5

18.0

(38.8)

831.4

(107.6)

–

868.3

868.3

–

–

18.7

18.7

(23.4)

(23.4)

–

–

–

868.3

579.8 1,448.1

18.7

(23.4)

–

–

18.7

(23.4)

Share 
capital 
£m

Share 
premium 
£m

Capital 
redemption 
reserve
£m

Hedge 
reserve 
£m

Translation 
reserve
£m

Retained 
earnings
£m

Total 
attributable  
to ordinary 
shareholders
£m

Hybrid 
equity
£m

Total equity 
before 
non-
controlling 
interests
£m

Non-
controlling 
interests
£m

Total 
equity 
£m

524.5

847.1

49.2

(133.6)

0.4 3,921.1

5,208.7 1,472.4

6,681.1

– 6,681.1

At 1 April 2021
Profit for the year 

(restated*)

Other 

comprehensive 
income

Total 

comprehensive 
income for the 
year (restated*)

Dividends to 

shareholders
Scrip dividend 

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

related share issue

12.0

(12.0)

Issue of treasury 

shares

Distributions to 
Hybrid equity 
holders

Redemption of 
Hybrid equity

Credit in respect of 
employee share 
awards 

Investment in own 

shares

Acquisition of 
subsidiary

At 31 March 2022 

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

– 3,027.0

3,027.0

50.7

3,077.7

– 3,077.7

211.1

6.2

123.0

340.3

–

340.3

–

340.3

211.1

6.2 3,150.0

3,367.3

50.7

3,418.0

– 3,418.0

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

– (862.3)

(862.3)

(862.3)

– (862.3)

355.7

355.7

6.3

6.3

–

–

–

355.7

6.3

–

–

–

355.7

6.3

(50.7)

–

–

(50.7)

(50.7)

(4.6)

(4.6)

(421.4)

(426.0)

– (426.0)

20.8

20.8

(14.1)

(14.1)

–

–

–

–

–

20.8

(14.1)

–

–

20.8

(14.1)

–

40.6

40.6

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

(restated*)

536.5

835.1

49.2

77.5

6.6 6,572.9

8,077.8 1,051.0

9,128.8

40.6 9,169.4

*  The comparative Statement of Changes in Equity has been restated. See note 2.1.

At 31 March 2023

547.0

821.2

52.6

441.2

32.1 6,689.8

8,583.9 1,882.4 10,466.3

649.1 11,115.4

206

SSE plc  Annual Report 2023

SSE plc  Annual Report 2023

207

Financial StatementsStrategic ReportDirectors’ ReportConsolidated cash flow statement
For the year ended 31 March 2023

Notes to the consolidated financial statements
For the year ended 31 March 2023

Operating (loss)/profit – continuing operations
Operating loss – discontinued operations 

Operating profit – total operations
Less share of profit of joint ventures and associates

Operating (loss)/profit before jointly controlled entities and associates
Pension service charges less contributions paid
Movement on operating derivatives
Depreciation, amortisation, write downs and impairments
Impairment of joint venture investment
Charge in respect of employee share awards (before tax)
Profit on disposal of assets and businesses 
Release of provisions
Release of deferred income

Cash generated from operations before working capital movements
Increase in inventories
Increase in receivables
Increase in payables
(Decrease)/increase in provisions

Cash generated from operations

Dividends received from investments
Interest paid
Taxes paid

Net cash from operating activities

Purchase of property, plant and equipment
Purchase of other intangible assets 
Deferred income received
Proceeds from disposals
Purchase of businesses, joint ventures and subsidiaries
Joint venture development expenditure refunds
Loans and equity provided to joint ventures and associates
Loans and equity repaid by joint ventures
Increase in other investments

Net cash from investing activities

Proceeds from issue of share capital
Dividends paid to company’s equity holders
Share buy backs
Proceeds from divestments
Hybrid equity dividend payments
Employee share awards share purchase
Issue of hybrid instruments
Redemption of hybrid instruments
New borrowings
Repayment of borrowings
Settlement of cashflow hedges

Net cash from financing activities

Net decrease in cash and cash equivalents

Cash and cash equivalents at the start of year
Net decrease in cash and cash equivalents

Cash and cash equivalents at the end of year

The accompanying notes are an integral part of these financial statements.

*  The comparative Consolidated Cash Flow Statement has been restated. See note 2.1.

2023
£m

(146.3)
–

(146.3)
(662.3)

(808.6)
(19.2)
2,691.6
640.7
329.3
18.7
(89.1)
(114.9)
(13.9)

2,634.6
(137.3)
(996.0)
166.7
(15.3)

1,652.7

296.5
(199.9)
(255.3)

1,494.0

(1,479.7)
(336.4)
13.9
60.0
(642.7)
–
(621.8)
61.4
(19.1)

(2,964.4)

18.0
(474.3)
(107.6)
1,448.1
(38.8)
(23.4)
831.4
–
1,914.7
(2,242.5)
(12.7) 

1,312.9

(157.5)

1,049.3
(157.5)

891.8

2022
£m
(restated*)

3,749.5
(100.5)

3,649.0
(28.7)

3,620.3
(23.0)
(2,100.4)
303.2
106.9
20.8
(48.2)
(1.6)
(17.6)

1,860.4
(24.4)
(625.6)
544.2
61.3

1,815.9

177.0
(273.5)
(91.5)

1,627.9

(1,273.6)
(182.2)
12.3
1,366.9
(145.3)
136.7
(676.0)
10.9
5.4

(744.9)

6.3
(506.6)
–
–
(50.7)
(14.1)
–
(426.0)
506.1
(960.1)
11.2

(1,433.9)

(550.9)

1,600.2
(550.9)

1,049.3

Note

12

23
24

7,16

7,12
20
6

16

5
5

12
12
16
16
16
16

22
11
22
12
22
22
22

21
21

21

21

1. General Information and basis of preparation
1.1. General information
SSE plc (the Company) is a company domiciled in Scotland. The address of the registered office is given on the back cover. The Group’s 
operations and its principal activities are set out in the Strategic Report. The consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 March 
2023 comprise those of the Company and its subsidiaries (together referred to as the Group). The Company financial statements present 
information about the Company as a separate entity and not about the Group, these can be seen on pages 314 to 325 .

1.2. Basis of preparation
Statement of compliance
The financial statements were authorised for issue by the directors on 23 May 2023. The financial statements have been prepared in 
accordance with UK adopted International Accounting Standards (‘IAS’). 

Going concern
The Directors consider that the Group has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the period to 31 December 2024. 
The financial statements are therefore prepared on a going concern basis. 

In addition, further details of the Group’s liquidity position and going concern review are provided at note 21 and in A6  Accompanying 
Information to the Financial Statements on page 276 .

Basis of measurement
The financial statements of the Group are prepared on the historical cost basis except for certain gas inventory, derivative financial 
instruments, financial instruments designated at fair value through profit or loss or other comprehensive income on initial recognition, 
assets of the Group pension schemes, all of which are measured at their fair value, and liabilities of the Group pension schemes which 
are measured using the projected unit credit method. The directors believe the financial statements present a true and fair view. The 
financial statements of the Group are presented in pounds sterling. The basis for including operations and transactions conducted in 
currencies other than pounds sterling is provided in A1  Accompanying Information to the Financial Statements on page 276 .

Use of estimates and judgements
The preparation of financial statements conforming with adopted IFRS requires the use of certain accounting estimates. It also requires 
management to exercise judgement in the process of applying the accounting policies. The areas involving a higher level of judgement 
or estimation are summarised at pages 212 to 214 .

Changes to presentation and prior year adjustments
There have been no material changes to presentation of the financial statements in the current or prior year. The prior year comparatives 
at 31 March 2022 have been restated following the adoption of the amendment to IAS 16 Proceeds Before Intended Use, as disclosed in 
the section below 2.1.

Changes to estimates 
There have been no changes to the basis of accounting estimates during the current and prior year.

2. New accounting policies and reporting changes 
The principal accounting policies applied in the preparation of these financial statements are set out below and in the A1  Accompanying 
Information to the Financial Statements on pages 276 to 286 . 

2.1. New standards, amendments and interpretations effective or adopted by the Group
The Group has retrospectively adopted the amendments to ‘IAS 16 Property, Plant and Equipment – Proceeds Before Intended Use’ from 
the earliest period presented in these financial statements, in line with the requirements of the standard. The Group had pre-commissioning 
activity in the year ended 31 March 2022 and therefore has restated the comparative information presented. 

The Group’s Keadby 2 asset achieved its first fire in October 2021, commenced test operations in February 2022 and entered commercial 
operations on 15 March 2023. During the period from October 2021 to 15 March 2023 the Group received pre-commissioning revenue 
within the scope of the amendment to the standard which previously would have been recognised as a cost of the constructed asset. 
The impact of adoption of the amendment in the prior year was to increase revenue by £89.0m, increase cost of sales by £94.7m, 
increase operating costs by £0.2m therefore decreasing profit before tax by £5.9m, and decreasing profit after tax by £4.4m. Additionally 
in the balance sheet, the Group’s property, plant and equipment balance has been decreased by £5.9m and deferred tax liability 
decreased by £1.5m.

In the current year ended 31 March 2023, the Group has recognised pre-commissioning revenue of £245.4m and pre-commissioning 
costs of £226.8m related to Keadby 2. In addition, the Group holds an equity investment in Seagreen Wind Energy Limited (‘Seagreen’) 
which has been undertaking pre-commissioning testing activity during the construction of its offshore windfarm in the current financial 
year. The Group’s share of profit recognised from joint ventures and associates in the current year includes £28.9m of pre-commissioning 
operating costs from Seagreen.

208

SSE plc  Annual Report 2023

SSE plc  Annual Report 2023

209

Financial StatementsStrategic ReportDirectors’ ReportNotes to the consolidated financial statements continued
For the year ended 31 March 2023

2. New accounting policies and reporting changes continued
2.1. New standards, amendments and interpretations effective or adopted by the Group continued
The Group has adopted the amendment to ‘IAS 37 Onerous Contracts – Cost of Fulfilling a Contract’ in the current year. Adoption of the 
amendment was reflected in the calculation of the onerous provision of £21.7m recognised by the Group’s Business Energy segment at 
30 September 2022. This provision has been released in the second half of the financial year following decreases in wholesale energy 
prices and therefore has no impact on amounts presented at 31 March 2023.

There were no other standards, amendments to standards or interpretations relevant to the Group’s operations which were adopted 
during the period.

2.2. New standards, amendments and interpretations issued, but not yet adopted by the Group
A number of standards, amendments and interpretations have been issued but not yet adopted by the Group within these financial 
statements, because application is not yet mandatory or because UK adoption remains outstanding at the date the financial statements 
were authorised for issue.

IFRS 17 ‘Insurance contracts’ is effective from 1 January 2023 (1 April 2023 for the Group) following UK endorsement on 16 May 2022. 
Adoption of the standard is not anticipated to have a material impact on the consolidated financial statements of the Group, however  
the Parent Company, SSE plc, enters into financial guarantee contracts to guarantee indebtedness of the other companies within the 
Group and continues to provide guarantees in respect of the disposed Contracting and Rail and Gas Production businesses. The Group  
is continuing to assess the impact of adoption of the standard for the Parent Company.

Amendments to IAS 12 ‘Deferred Tax related to Assets and Liabilities arising from a Single Transaction’ is effective from 1 January 2023 (1 April 
2023 for the Group) following UK endorsement on 15 December 2022. Adoption of the amendment is expected to result in a gross up of 
deferred tax assets and liabilities, but is not anticipated to have a material impact on the net deferred tax balances within the consolidated 
financial statements of the Group.

There are a number of other interpretations and amendments issued but not yet effective at 31 March 2023. These are not anticipated  
to have a material impact on the Group’s consolidated financial statements.

3. Adjusted accounting measures
The Group applies the use of adjusted accounting measures or alternative performance measures (‘APMs’) throughout the Annual Report 
and Financial Statements. These measures enable the Directors to present the underlying performance of the Group and its segments to 
the users of the statements in a consistent and meaningful manner. The adjustments applied and certain terms such as ‘adjusted operating 
profit’, ‘adjusted Earnings Per Share’, ‘adjusted EBITDA’, ‘adjusted investment and capital expenditure’, ‘adjusted investment, capital and 
acquisition expenditure’ and ‘adjusted net debt and hybrid capital’ that are not defined under IFRS and are explained in more detail below. 
In addition, the section ‘Alternative Performance Measures’ at page 194  provides further context and explanation of these terms.

3.1 Adjusted measures
The Directors assess the performance of the Group and its reportable segments based on ‘adjusted measures’. These measures are used 
for internal performance management and are believed to be appropriate for explaining underlying performance to users of the accounts. 
These measures are also deemed to be the most useful for ordinary shareholders of the Company and for other stakeholders. 

The performance of the reportable segments is reported based on adjusted profit before interest and tax (‘adjusted operating profit’). 
This is reconciled to reported profit before interest and tax by adding back exceptional items and certain re-measurements (see note 3.2 
below), depreciation and amortisation expense on fair value uplifts, the share of operating profit attributable to non-controlling interests, 
adjustments to the retained Gas Production decommissioning provision and after the removal of interest and taxation on profits from 
equity-accounted joint ventures and associates.

The performance of the Group is reported based on adjusted profit before tax which excludes exceptional items and certain re-
measurements (see note 3.2 below), depreciation and amortisation expense on fair value uplifts, the share of profit before tax attributable 
to non-controlling interests, the net interest costs associated with defined benefit schemes, adjustments to the retained Gas Production 
decommissioning provision and taxation on profits from equity-accounted joint ventures and associates. The interest charges or credits 
on defined benefit schemes removed are non-cash and are subject to variation based on actuarial valuations of scheme liabilities. 

The Group also uses adjusted earnings before interest, taxation, depreciation and amortisation (‘adjusted EBITDA’) as an alternative 
operating performance measure which acts as a management proxy for cash generated from operating activities. This does not take into 
account the rights and obligations that SSE has in relation to its equity-accounted joint ventures and associates. This measure excludes 
exceptional items and certain re-measurements (see note 3.2 below), the depreciation charged on fair value uplifts, the share of EBITDA 
attributable to non-controlling interests, adjustments to the retained Gas Production decommissioning provision, the net interest costs 
associated with defined benefit schemes, depreciation and amortisation from equity-accounted joint ventures and associates and 
interest and taxation on profits from equity-accounted joint ventures and associates. For the purpose of calculating the ‘Net Debt to 
EBITDA’ metric referred at page 89 , ‘adjusted EBITDA’ is further adjusted to remove the proportion of adjusted EBITDA from equity-
accounted joint ventures relating to off-balance sheet debt (see note 5.1(v)).

The Group’s key performance measure is adjusted Earnings Per Share (EPS), which is based on basic Earnings Per Share before exceptional 
items and certain re-measurements (see note 3.2 below), depreciation and amortisation on fair value uplifts, adjustments to the retained 
Gas Production decommissioning provision, the net interest costs/income associated with defined benefit schemes and after the removal 
of deferred taxation and other taxation items. Deferred taxation is excluded from the Group’s adjusted EPS because of the Group’s 
significant ongoing capital investment programme, which means that the deferred tax is unlikely to reverse. Adjusted profit after tax is 
presented on a basis consistent with adjusted EPS except for the non-inclusion of payments to holders of hybrid equity.

The financial statements also include an ‘adjusted net debt and hybrid capital’ measure. This presents financing information on the basis 
used for internal liquidity risk management. This measure excludes obligations due under lease arrangements and the share of net debt 
attributable to non-controlling interests, and includes cash posted as collateral on commodity trading exchanges, and other short term 
loans. The measure represents the capital owed to investors, lenders and equity holders other than the ordinary shareholders. As with 
‘adjusted Earnings Per Share’, this measure is considered to be of relevance to the ordinary shareholders of the Group as well as other 
stakeholders and interested parties.

Finally, the financial statements include an ’adjusted investment and capital expenditure’ and an ‘adjusted investment, capital and 
acquisition expenditure’ measure. These metrics represent the capital invested by the Group in projects that are anticipated to provide a 
return on investment over future years or which otherwise support Group operations and are consistent with internally applied metrics. 
They therefore include capital additions to property, plant and equipment and intangible assets and also the Group’s direct funding of joint 
venture and associates capital projects. The Group has considered it appropriate to report these values both internally and externally in 
this manner due to its use of equity-accounted investment vehicles to grow the Group’s asset base and to highlight, where the Group is 
providing funding to the vehicle through either loans or equity. The Group does not include project funded capital additions in these 
metrics, nor does it include other capital invested in joint ventures and associates. Where initial capital funding of an equity accounted 
joint venture is refunded, these refunds are deducted from the metrics in the year the refund is received. In addition, the Group excludes 
from this metric additions to its property, plant and equipment funded by Customer Contributions and additions to intangible assets 
associated with Allowances and Certificates. The Group also excludes the share of investment and capital expenditure attributable to 
non-controlling interests in controlled but not wholly owned subsidiaries, disposed or impaired additions and refinancing proceeds and 
refunds. The ‘adjusted investment, capital and acquisition expenditure’ measure also includes cash consideration paid by the Group in 
business combinations which contribute to growth of the Group’s capital asset base and is considered to be relevant metric in context  
of the Group’s Net Zero Acceleration Programme Plus. As with ‘adjusted Earnings Per Share’, these measures are considered to be of 
relevance to management and to the ordinary shareholders of the Group as well as to other stakeholders and interested parties.

Reconciliations from reported measures to adjusted measures along with further description of the rationale for those adjustments are 
included in the ‘Adjusted Performance Measures’ section at pages 194 to 201 .

APM  Where the Group have referred to an adjusted performance measure in the financial statements the following sign is presented to 
denote this.

3.2 Exceptional items and certain re-measurements
Exceptional items are those charges or credits that are considered unusual by nature and/or scale and of such significance that separate 
disclosure is required for the financial statements to be properly understood. The trigger points for recognition of items as exceptional 
items will tend to be non-recurring although exceptional charges (or credits) may impact the same asset class or segment over time. 

Market conditions that have deteriorated or improved significantly over time will only be captured to the extent observable at the balance 
sheet date. Examples of items that may be considered exceptional include material asset or business impairment charges, reversals of historic 
impairments, business restructuring costs and reorganisation costs, significant realised gains or losses on disposal, unrealised fair value 
adjustments on part disposal of a subsidiary or on acquisition of an investment, and provisions in relation to significant disputes and claims. 

The Group operates a policy framework for estimating whether items are considered to be exceptional. This framework, which is reviewed 
annually, estimates the materiality of each broad set of potentially exceptional circumstances, after consideration of strategic impact and 
likelihood of recurrence, by reference to the Group’s key performance measure of adjusted Earnings Per Share. This framework estimates 
that any qualifying item greater than £40.0m will be considered exceptional, with lower thresholds applied to circumstances that are 
considered to have a greater strategic impact and are less likely to recur. The £40.0m threshold was increased during the year from the 
previously applied limit of £30.0m reflecting the increased profitability of the Group and the growth in the scale of its operations. The only 
exception to this threshold is for gains or losses on disposal, or divestment of early-stage SSE Renewables international or offshore wind 
farm development projects within SSE Renewables, which are considered non-exceptional in line with the Group’s strategy to generate 
recurring gains from developer divestments. Where a gain arises on a non-cash transaction, the gain is treated as exceptional.

Certain re-measurements are re-measurements arising on: certain commodity, interest rate and currency contracts which are accounted for 
as held for trading or as fair value hedges in accordance with the Group’s policy for such financial instruments; remeasurements on stocks of 
commodities held at the balance sheet date; or movements in fair valuation of contracts for difference not designated as government grants. 
The amount shown in the before exceptional items and certain re-measurements results for these contracts is the amount settled in the year 
as disclosed in note 24.1.

This excludes commodity contracts not treated as financial instruments under IFRS 9 where held for the Group’s own use requirements 
which are not recorded until the underlying commodity is delivered.

The impact of changes in Corporation Tax rates on deferred tax balances are also included within certain remeasurements. 

3.3 Other additional disclosures
As permitted by IAS 1 ‘Presentation of financial statements’, the Group’s income statement discloses additional information in respect of 
joint ventures and associates, exceptional items and certain re-measurements to aid understanding of the Group’s financial performance 
and to present results clearly and consistently.

210

SSE plc  Annual Report 2023

SSE plc  Annual Report 2023

211

Financial StatementsStrategic ReportDirectors’ ReportNotes to the consolidated financial statements continued
For the year ended 31 March 2023

4. Accounting judgements and estimation uncertainty
In the process of applying the Group’s accounting policies, management is necessarily required to make judgements and estimates  
that will have a significant effect on the amounts recognised in the financial statements. Changes in the assumptions underlying the estimates 
could result in a significant impact to the financial statements. The Group’s key accounting judgement and estimation areas are noted below, 
with the most significant financial judgement areas as specifically considered by the Audit Committee being highlighted separately.

The Group has made no changes to its significant financial judgement areas since the financial year ended 31 March 2022, however  
the level of judgement applied in the revenue recognition judgement (see 4.1 (iii) below) has increased as a result of the introduction  
of customer support schemes during the year.

4.1 Significant financial judgements and estimation uncertainties
The preparation of these financial statements has specifically considered the following significant financial judgements, some of which 
are also areas of estimation uncertainty as noted below. 

(i) Impairment testing and valuation of certain non-current assets – financial judgement and estimation uncertainty
The Group reviews the carrying amounts of its goodwill, other intangible assets, specific property, plant and equipment and investment 
assets to determine whether any impairments or reversal of impairments to the carrying value of those assets requires to be recorded. 
Where an indicator of impairment or impairment reversal exists, the recoverable amount of those assets is determined by reference  
to value in use calculations or fair value less cost to sell assessments, if more appropriate. As well as its goodwill balances, the specific 
assets under review in the year ended 31 March 2023 are intangible development assets and specific property, plant and equipment 
assets related to gas storage and thermal power generation. In addition, the Group performed an impairment review over the carrying 
value of its equity investments in Neos Networks Limited and Triton Power Holdings Limited. 

In conducting its reviews, the Group makes judgements and estimates in considering both the level of cash generating unit (CGU)  
at which common assets such as goodwill are assessed against, as well as the estimates and assumptions behind the calculation of 
recoverable amount of the respective assets or CGUs. 

Changes to the estimates and assumptions on factors such as regulation and legislation changes (including the Electricity Generator 
Levy and climate change related regulation), power, gas, carbon and other commodity prices, volatility of gas prices, plant running 
regimes and load factors, discount rates and other inputs could impact the assessed recoverable value of assets and CGUs and 
consequently impact the Group’s income statement and balance sheet.

Further detail of the calculation basis and key assumptions used in the impairment review, the resulting impairment and the sensitivity of 
this assessment to key assumptions is disclosed at note 15. Detail on the accounting policies applied is included in the Accompanying 
Information section A1 .

(ii) Retirement benefit obligations – estimation uncertainty
The assumptions in relation to the cost of providing post-retirement benefits during the year are based on the Group’s best estimates and 
are set after consultation with qualified actuaries. While these assumptions are believed to be appropriate, a change in these assumptions 
would impact the level of the retirement benefit obligation recorded and the cost to the Group of administering the schemes.

Further detail of the calculation basis and key assumptions used, the resulting movements in obligations and the sensitivity of key 
assumptions to the obligation is disclosed at note 23. 

(iii) Revenue recognition – Customers unbilled supply of energy – financial judgement and estimation uncertainty
Revenue from energy supply activities undertaken by the GB Business Energy and Airtricity businesses includes an estimate of the value 
of electricity or gas supplied to customers between the date of the last meter reading and the year end. This estimation comprises both 
billed revenue and unbilled revenue and is calculated based on applying the tariffs and contract rates applicable to customers against 
estimated customer consumption, taking account of various factors including usage patterns, tariff changes, changes to the proportion 
of customers on different contract types, levels of unread meters, weather trends and externally notified aggregated volumes supplied  
to customers from national settlements bodies. During the year both of the Group’s Supply businesses have administered government 
backed customer support schemes, where the Group provides discounts to customers based on estimated usage and recovers amounts 
from government based on actual customer usage. The administration of these support schemes has increased the complexity and  
level of estimation uncertainty of the Group’s unbilled calculations. The most material support scheme administered by the Group in the 
year was the Energy Bills Relief Scheme (‘EBRS’) within the GB Business Energy business. The accounting policy for customer support 
schemes and the balances claimed from government is explained at A1.2 . 

This unbilled estimation is subject to an internal corroboration process which compares calculated unbilled volumes to a theoretical 
‘perfect billing’ benchmark measure of unbilled volumes (in GWh and millions of therms) derived from historical weather-adjusted 
consumption patterns and aggregated metering data used in industry reconciliation processes. Furthermore, actual meter readings and 
billings continue to be compared to unbilled estimates between the balance sheet date and the finalisation of the financial statements. 
The estimation of the government receivable included within the Group’s unbilled revenue accrual is based on claimed and unclaimed 
values based on the same customer consumption detail and derived from consideration of tariffs applied to customers, metered and 
estimated volumes and other factors. The EBRS claims submitted by SSE will be audited by the UK government and are subject to 
volumetric risk as estimated consumption data is replaced by actual metered data over the 14 month electricity industry reconciliation 
period. The value of outstanding EBRS claims recognised at 31 March 2023 was £326.6m, which includes a risk provision of £15.1m related 
to amounts where the Group has provided the discount to the customer but has assessed that it will be unable to recover the amount 
from the government during the open claim window.

212

SSE plc  Annual Report 2023

Given the non-routine process, the number and the extent of differing inputs and the requirement of management to apply judgement 
noted above, the estimated revenue is considered a significant estimate made by management in preparing the financial statements.  
A change in the assumptions underpinning the unbilled calculation would have an impact on the amount of revenue recognised in any 
given period. The sensitivity associated with this judgement factor is disclosed at note 18. 

(iv) Valuation of other receivables – financial judgement and estimation uncertainty
The Group holds a £100m loan note due from Ovo Energy Limited following the disposal of SSE Energy Services on 15 January 2020. 
The loan is repayable in full by 31 December 2029, carries interest at 13.25% and is presented cumulative of accrued interest payments, 
discounted at 13.25%. At 31 March 2023, the carrying value (net of expected credit loss provision of £1.5m (2022: £1.8m)) is £149.5m 
(2022: £131.0m). 

The Group has assessed recoverability of the loan note receivable and has recognised a provision for expected credit loss in accordance 
with the requirements of IFRS 9. Due to previous energy supplier failures and recent market volatility, the Group’s assessment of the 
recoverability of the loan note is considered a significant financial judgement. The Group has taken appropriate steps to assess all 
available information in respect of the recoverability of the loan note. Procedures included reviewing recent financial information  
of Ovo Energy Limited, including the 31 December 2021 statutory financial statements; considering available Government support 
schemes; and discussions with Ovo management. While the carrying value is considered to be appropriate, changes in economic 
conditions could lead to a change in the expected credit loss incurred by the Group in future periods. 

(v) Impact of climate change and the transition to net zero – financial judgement and estimation uncertainty
Climate change and the transition to net zero have been considered in the preparation of these financial statements. Where relevant 
assumptions have been applied that are consistent to a Paris-aligned 1.5°C 2050 net zero pathway. The Group has a clearly articulated  
Net Zero Acceleration Programme Plus (‘NZAP Plus’) set out on pages 16 to 17  to lead in the UK’s transition to net zero and aligns its 
investment plans and business activities to that strategy. These plans are supported by the Group’s Green Bond framework under which 
the fifth green bond was issued in July 2022 (see note 21). The proceeds of the fifth green bond were allocated to fund Renewables’  
wind projects. 

The impact of future climate change regulation could have a material impact on the currently reported amounts of the Group’s assets 
and liabilities. In preparing these financial statements, the following climate change related risks have been considered: 

Valuation of property, plant and equipment, and impairment assessment of goodwill
In the medium term, the transition to net zero may result in regulation restricting electricity generation from unabated gas fired power 
stations. The Group’s view is that flexible generation capacity, such as the Group’s fleet of CCGT power stations, will be an essential part 
of the net zero transition in order to provide security of supply to a market which is increasingly dependent upon renewable sources, 
which are inherently intermittent. The majority of the Group’s GB CCGT fleet is nearing the end of its economic life and it is not currently 
expected that regulation to require abatement would be introduced before the planned closure of most of those power stations. Of the 
net book value held at 31 March 2023, only four assets are forecast to continue to operate beyond 2030 being: Great Island; Keadby 2; 
Marchwood (which is operated by SSE under a lease); and Saltend Power Station within the Triton joint venture. The Group’s view is that 
Great Island will continue to be essential to providing security of supply in the Irish electricity market. Keadby 2 commenced commercial 
operation on 15 March 2023 and has an efficiency of around 63% making it the most efficient plant of its type in the UK and Europe. 
Work is also underway to explore how to decarbonise Keadby 2 further with the potential to blend hydrogen into the plant. Marchwood 
is a 50% equity accounted joint venture and is considered one of the most efficient CCGTs in the UK. Saltend was acquired as part of 
Triton Power 50% equity accounted joint venture and supports the long-term decarbonisation of the UK’s power system, and also 
contributes to security of supply and grid stability. Initial steps are underway at Saltend, targeting abatement by 2027 through blending 
up to 30% of low-carbon hydrogen. Therefore, the Group considers that other assets operating in the market would be more likely to 
close before Keadby 2, Marchwood and Saltend and the plants will continue to be required to balance the UK electricity market beyond 
2030. As a result, the useful economic life of the four assets have not been shortened when preparing the 31 March 2023 financial 
statements. The Group assesses the useful economic life of its property, plant and equipment assets annually. In the short term, the 
economic return from the activity provided by the Group’s Great Island CCGT asset has increased, resulting in the reversal of historic 
impairments at 31 March 2023 (see note 15.2). 

A significant increase in renewable generation capacity in the Group’s core markets in the UK and Ireland could potentially result in an 
oversupply of renewable electricity at a point in the future, which would lead to a consequential decrease in the power price achievable 
for the Group’s wind generation assets. The Group has not assessed that this constitutes an indicator of impairment at 31 March 2023  
as the Group’s baseline investment case models assume a centrally approved volume of new build in these markets over the life of the 
existing assets. The Group’s policy is to test the goodwill balances associated with its wind generation portfolio for impairment on an 
annual basis in line with the requirements of IAS 36. Through this impairment assessment (see note 15.1), a sensitivity to power price, 
which may arise in a market with significant new build, was modelled. This scenario indicated that, despite a modelled 10% reduction  
in power price, there remained significant headroom on the carrying value in the Group’s wind generation assets. 

Changes to weather patterns resulting from global warming have also been considered as a potential risk to future returns from the 
Group’s wind and hydro assets. Changes to weather patterns could result in calmer, drier weather patterns, which would reduce volumes 
achievable for the Group’s wind and hydro generation assets (although noting that this would likely lead to capacity constraints and hence 
higher prices). This has not been assessed as an indicator of impairment for operating assets in the UK and Ireland at 31 March 2023,  
as there is no currently observable evidence to support that scenario directly. The Group has performed a sensitivity to its impairment 
modelling and has assessed that an 8% reduction in achievable volume would result in significant headroom on the carrying value of the 
UK and Ireland assets at 31 March 2023 (see note 15.1). The TCFD physical risk scenarios modelled a 4% to 8% change in average mean 
wind speeds in the longer term across the wind portfolio, consistent with the impairment sensitivity performed. 

SSE plc  Annual Report 2023

213

Financial StatementsStrategic ReportDirectors’ ReportNotes to the consolidated financial statements continued
For the year ended 31 March 2023

4. Accounting judgements and estimation uncertainty continued
4.1 Significant financial judgements and estimation uncertainties continued
(v) Impact of climate change and the transition to net zero – financial judgement and estimation uncertainty continued
Valuations of decommissioning provisions
The Group holds decommissioning provisions for its Renewable and Thermal generation assets and has retained a 60% share for the 
decommissioning of its disposed Gas Production business. As noted above, the Group’s view at 31 March 2023 is that climate change 
regulation will not bring forward the closure dates of its CCGT fleet, many of which are expected to close before 2030. Similarly, it is 
expected that fundamental changes to weather patterns, or the impact of new wind generation capacity will not bring forward the 
decommissioning of the Group’s wind farm portfolio. 

The discounted share of the Gas Production provision is £201.4m (2022: £249.4m). At 31 March 2023, the impact of discounting of this 
retained provision is £64.5m (2022: £33.8m), which is expected to be incurred across the period to 31 March 2037. If the decommissioning 
activity was accelerated due to changes in legislation, the costs of unwinding the discounting of the provision would be recognised earlier. 

Defined Benefit scheme assets 
The Group holds defined benefit pension scheme assets at the 31 March 2023 which could be impacted by climate-related risks. The 
Trustees of the schemes have a long term investment strategy that seeks to reduce investment risk as and when appropriate and takes 
into consideration the impact of climate-related risk.

Going concern and viability statement 
The implications of near term climate-related risks have been considered in the Group’s going concern assessment and viability 
statement assessment. 

4.2 Accounting judgements and estimation uncertainties – changes from prior year
The Group has made no changes to accounting judgements and estimation uncertainties from those presented in the Group’s 2022 
Annual Report .

4.3 Other areas of estimation uncertainty
(i) Tax provisioning
The Group has open tax disputes with the tax authorities in the UK. Where management makes a judgement that an outflow of funds  
is probable, and a reliable estimate of the dispute can be made, provision is made for the best estimate of the most likely liability.

In estimating any such liability, the Group applies a risk-based approach, taking into account the specific circumstances of each dispute 
based on management’s interpretation of tax law and supported, where appropriate, by discussion and analysis by external tax advisors. 
These estimates are inherently judgemental and could change substantially over time as disputes progress and new facts emerge. 
Provisions are reviewed on an ongoing basis, however the resolution of tax issues can take a considerable period of time to conclude 
and it is possible that amounts ultimately paid will be different from the amounts provided. 

In the financial statements to 31 March 2023, the Group has no provision for uncertain tax positions included in current tax liabilities 
(2022: £27.9m). The provision held by the Group at 31 March 2022 related to the Group’s case concerning the availability of capital 
allowances on Glendoe Hydro Electric Station. This case was heard at the Supreme Court on 23 March 2023 and a final decision on the 
case was released on 17 May 2023. This decision upheld SSE’s position in relation to the dispute and accordingly the provision held has 
been released as an adjusting post balance sheet event and a related deferred tax liability of £23.4m in relation to the associated capital 
allowances has been recognised. The Group has no other open tax positions against which a provision has required to be recognised.

(ii) Decommissioning costs
The calculation of the Group’s decommissioning provisions involves the estimation of quantum and timing of cash flows to settle the 
obligation. The Group engages independent valuation experts to estimate the cost of decommissioning its Renewable, Thermal and  
Gas Storage assets every three years based on current technology and prices. The last independent assessment for the majority of the 
Group’s Renewable and Thermal generation assets was performed in the year to 31 March 2022. A formal assessment for Gas Storage 
assets was performed in the year to 31 March 2023. Retained decommissioning costs in relation to the disposed Gas Production business 
are periodically agreed with the field operators and reflect the latest expected economic production lives of the fields. 

The dates for settlement of future decommissioning costs are uncertain, particularly for the disposed gas exploration and production 
business where reassessment of gas and liquids reserves and fluctuations in commodity prices can lengthen or shorten the field life. 

During the year, the carrying value of the Group’s decommissioning provisions have decreased by £228m due to provision reassessments, 
increases in discount rate and decreases in inflation assumptions since 31 March 2022. With the exception of the decrease of £48.1m to 
the provision relating to Gas Production activities, movements on which are recorded in the income statement, all revaluation movements 
have been matched by an offsetting adjustment to an associated decommissioning asset.

Further detail on the assumptions applied, including expected decommissioning dates, and movement in decommissioning costs during 
the year are disclosed at note 20.

5. Segmental information
There have been no changes to the Group’s core operating segments during the year. These segments are used internally by the Board  
to run the business and make strategic decisions. The Group’s ‘Corporate unallocated’ segment is the Group’s residual corporate central 
costs which cannot be allocated to individual segments, and also includes the Group’s joint venture investment in Neos Networks Limited.

The types of products and services from which each reportable segment derives its revenues are:

Business Area

Reported Segments Description

Continuing operations

Transmission

SSEN 
Transmission

The economically regulated high voltage transmission of electricity from generating plant to the 
distribution network in the North of Scotland. Revenue earned from constructing, maintaining and 
renovating our transmission network is determined in accordance with the regulatory licence, based 
on an Ofgem approved revenue model and is recognised as charged to National Grid. The revenue 
earned from other transmission services such as generator plant connections is recognised in line 
with delivery of that service over the expected contractual period and at the contracted rate. On 
25 November 2022 the Group sold a 25.0% non-controlling interest in this business to the Ontario 
Teachers’ Pension Plan. 

Distribution

Renewables

SSEN Distribution The economically regulated lower voltage distribution of electricity to customer premises in the North 
of Scotland and the South of England. Revenue earned from delivery of electricity supply to customers 
is recognised based on the volume of electricity distributed to those customers and the set customer 
tariff. The revenue earned from other distribution services such as domestic customer connections  
is recognised in line with delivery of that service over the expected contractual period and at the 
contracted rate.

SSE Renewables The generation of electricity from renewable sources, such as onshore and offshore windfarms and 
run of river and pumped storage hydro assets in the UK and Ireland, the development of similar wind 
assets in Japan and Southern Europe and the development of wind, solar and battery opportunities. 
Revenue from physical generation of electricity in Great Britain is sold to SSE EPM and in Ireland is  
sold to Airtricity and is recognised as generated, based on the contracted or spot price at the time  
of delivery. Revenue from national support schemes (such as Renewable Obligation Certificates  
or the Capacity Market in Great Britain or REFIT in Ireland) may either be recognised in line with 
electricity being physically generated or over the contractual period, depending on the underlying 
performance obligation.

Thermal

SSE Thermal 

With effect from 18 April 2023, Renewables has taken responsibility for the development, delivery  
and operation for battery storage and solar assets in Great Britain from Distributed Energy, aligning 
that activity with its international operations. The impact of applying this change is not considered 
material. This realignment of segmental reporting will be applied in the interim financial statements  
for the period to 30 September 2023.

The generation of electricity from thermal plant and the Group’s interests in multifuel assets in the  
UK and Ireland. Revenue from physical generation of electricity in Great Britain and Ireland is sold to 
SSE EPM and is recognised as generated, based on the contract or spot price at the time of delivery. 
Revenue from national support schemes (such as the Capacity Market) and ancillary generation 
services may either be recognised in line with electricity being physically generated or over the 
contractual period, depending on the underlying performance obligation.

Gas Storage

The operation of gas storage facilities in Great Britain, utilising capacity to optimise trading 
opportunity associated with the assets. Contribution arising from trading activities is recognised  
as realised based on the executed trades or withdrawal of gas from caverns.

Energy 
Customer 
Solutions

Business Energy The supply of electricity and gas to business customers in Great Britain. Revenue earned from the 
supply of energy is recognised in line with the volume delivered to the customer, based on actual  
and estimated volumes, and reflecting the applicable customer tariff after deductions or discounts. 

Airtricity

Distributed 
Energy

Distributed 
Energy

The supply of electricity, gas and energy related services to residential and business customers in the 
Republic of Ireland and Northern Ireland. Revenue earned from the supply of energy is recognised in 
line with the volume delivered to the customer, based on actual and estimated volumes, and reflecting 
the applicable customer tariff after deductions or discounts. Revenue earned from energy related 
services may either be recognised over the expected contractual period or following performance  
of the service, depending on the underlying performance obligation.

The provision of services to enable customers to optimise and manage low-carbon energy use; 
development and management of battery storage and solar assets; distributed generation, independent 
distribution, heat and cooling networks, smart buildings and EV charging activities. The results of  
the Group’s Contracting and Rail business was included within this segment until it was disposed on 
30 June 2021. As noted above, with effect from 18 April 2023, the battery storage and solar assets 
activity in Great Britain has been transferred to SSE Renewables.

214

SSE plc  Annual Report 2023

SSE plc  Annual Report 2023

215

Financial StatementsStrategic ReportDirectors’ ReportDisaggregation of revenue 
Revenue from contracts with customers can be disaggregated by reported segment, by major service lines and by timing of revenue 
recognition as follows:

Revenue from contracts with customers

Goods or services transferred  
over time

Goods or services transferred  
at a point in time

Use of 
electricity 
networks 
2023
£m

Supply of 
energy and 
ancillary 
services
2023
£m

Construction 
related 
services
2023
£m

Other 
contracted 
services
2023
£m

Physical 
energy
2023
£m

Gas 
storage
2023
£m

Other 
revenue
2023
£m

Total 
revenue 
from 
contracts 
with 
customers 
2023
£m

Other 
contract 
revenue
2023
£m

Total
2023
£m

Continuing operations
SSEN Transmission
SSEN Distribution

634.0
1,054.0

SSE Renewables

SSE Thermal
Gas Storage

Energy Customer 

Solutions
Business Energy 
SSE Airtricity

–

–
–

–
–

–
–

49.7

736.9
–

3,313.5
1,756.7

–
–

–

–
–

–
–

Distributed Energy

16.4

29.5

14.4

–
–

–
–

–

–
–

–
–

–

EPM

Corporate unallocated

–

–

–

–

–

–

– 4,158.7

–

–

20.4
12.3

–
–

87.5

184.3

–
–

–

1.7
17.9

656.1
1,084.2

–
18.5

656.1
1,102.7

13.3

334.8

–
12.2

3.5
–

740.4
12.2

–

–
–

334.8

740.4
12.2

–
–

–

–

–

–
20.2

3,313.5
1,776.9

– 3,313.5
– 1,776.9

73.0

133.3

5.8

139.1

190.1

4,348.8

– 4,348.8

66.2

66.2

–

66.2

Total SSE Group

1,704.4

5,886.3

14.4

120.2 4,343.0

12.2

385.9 12,466.4

24.3 12,490.7

Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued
For the year ended 31 March 2023

5. Segmental information continued
Business Area

Reported Segments Description

EPM & I

Energy Portfolio 
Management 
(EPM)

The provision of a route to market for the Group’s Renewable and Thermal generation businesses  
and commodity procurement for the Group’s energy supply businesses in line with the Group’s stated 
hedging policies. Revenue from physical sales of electricity, gas and other commodities produced  
by SSE is recognised as supplied to either the national settlements body or the customer, based on 
either the spot price at the time of delivery or trade price where that trade is eligible for ‘own use’ 
designation. The sale of commodity optimisation trades is presented net in cost of sales alongside 
purchase commodity optimisation trades.

Discontinued operations

EPM & I

Gas Production The production and processing of gas and oil from North Sea fields. Revenue was recognised based 

Gas 
Distribution

SGN

on the production that had been delivered to the customer at the specified delivery point, at the 
applicable contractual market price. This business was disposed of in the financial year to 31 March 
2022. SSE has retained an obligation for 60% of the decommissioning liabilities of the disposed 
business as part of the transaction.

SSE’s share of Scotia Gas Networks, which operates two economically regulated gas distribution 
networks in Scotland and the South of England. The revenue earned from transportation of natural 
gas to customers was recognised based on the volume of gas distributed to those customers and  
the set customer tariff. This investment was disposed of in the financial year to 31 March 2022 and 
accordingly is noted here in relation to the comparative information for that year.

As referred to in note 3, the internal measure of profit used by the Board is ‘adjusted profit before interest and tax’ or ‘adjusted operating 
profit’ which is arrived at before exceptional items, the impact of financial instruments measured under IFRS 9, share of profits attributable 
to non-controlling interests, the net interest costs/income associated with defined benefit pension schemes, adjustments to the retained 
Gas Production decommissioning and after the removal of taxation and interest on profits from joint ventures and associates.

Analysis of revenue, operating profit, assets and earnings before interest, taxation, depreciation and amortisation (‘EBITDA’) by segment  
is provided on the following pages. All revenue and profit before taxation arise from operations within the UK and Ireland.

5.1 Segmental information disclosure
(i) Revenue by segment

Continuing operations
SSEN Transmission
SSEN Distribution

SSE Renewables

SSE Thermal 
Gas storage

Energy Customer Solutions

Business Energy 
SSE Airtricity

Distributed Energy

EPM:

Gross trading
Optimisation trades

EPM 
Corporate unallocated

Reported 
revenue
2023
£m

Inter-segment 
revenue(i)
2023
£m

656.1
1,102.7

334.8

740.4
12.2

3,313.5
1,776.9

139.1

–
81.0

602.7

3,863.8
5,147.5

59.4
233.1

20.1

24,700.6
(20,351.8)

4,348.8
66.2

11,972.4
(937.3)

11,035.1
232.1

Total continuing operations

12,490.7

21,274.8

Segment 
revenue
2023
£m

656.1
1,183.7

937.5

4,604.2
5,159.7

3,372.9
2,010.0

159.2

36,673.0
(21,289.1)

15,383.9
298.3

33,765.5

Reported 
revenue
(restated*)
2022
£m

Inter-segment 
revenue(i)
2022
£m

Segment 
revenue
(restated*)
2022
£m

589.7
954.6

357.4

933.2
8.7

2,289.0
1,177.3

176.9

12,808.3
(10,667.6)

2,140.7
69.7

8,697.2

–
78.6

418.8

285.0
2,471.1

34.5
451.3

25.4

7,160.2
(2,914.0)

4,246.2
147.7

8,158.6

589.7
1,033.2

776.2

1,218.2
2,479.8

2,323.5
1,628.6

202.3

19,968.5
(13,581.6)

6,386.9
217.4

16,855.8

Discontinued operations
Gas Production

Total discontinued operations

–

–

–

–

–

–

8.1

8.1

133.9

133.9

142.0

142.0

Total SSE Group

12,490.7

21,274.8

33,765.5

8,705.3

8,292.5

16,997.8

(i)  Significant inter-segment revenue is derived from the sale of power and stored gas from SSE Renewables, SSE Thermal, Gas Storage and Distributed Energy to EPM; use 
of system income received by SSEN Distribution from Business Energy; Business Energy provides internal heat and light power supplies to other Group companies; EPM 
provides power, gas and other commodities to Business Energy and SSE Airtricity; Gas Production (discontinued) sold gas from producing upstream fields to EPM; and 
Corporate unallocated provides corporate and infrastructure services to all segments as well as third parties. All are provided at arm’s length. 

*  The comparative segment revenue has been restated. See note 2.1.

216

SSE plc  Annual Report 2023

SSE plc  Annual Report 2023

217

Financial StatementsStrategic ReportDirectors’ ReportNotes to the consolidated financial statements continued
For the year ended 31 March 2023

5. Segmental information continued
5.1 Segmental information disclosure continued
(i) Revenue by segment continued
Disaggregation of revenue continued

(Restated*)

Revenue from contracts with customers

Goods or services transferred  
over time

Goods or services transferred  
at a point in time

Use of 
electricity 
networks 
2022
£m

Supply of 
energy and 
ancillary 
services
2022
£m

Construction 
related 
services
2022
£m

Other 
contracted 
services
2022
£m

Physical 
energy
2022
£m

Gas 
storage
2022
£m

Other 
revenue
2022
£m

Continuing operations
SSEN Transmission
SSEN Distribution

570.8
903.3

SSE Renewables

SSE Thermal 
Gas Storage

Energy Customer 

Solutions
Business Energy 
SSE Airtricity

–

–
–

–
–

–
–

79.7

929.1
–

2,289.0
1,158.1

–
–

–

–
–

–
–

16.5
10.5

–
–

75.0

202.7

–
–

–
19.2

–
–

–
–

Distributed Energy

11.9

15.8

77.7

3.9

2.9

–

–

–

–

–

–

– 1,920.9

–

–

Total 
revenue 
from 
contracts 
with 
customers 
2022
£m

589.7
936.6

357.4

933.2
8.7

Other 
contract 
revenue
2022
£m

–
18.0

–

–
–

Total
2022
£m

589.7
954.6

357.4

933.2
8.7

2.4
22.8

–

4.1
–

–
–

2,289.0
1,177.3

– 2,289.0
1,177.3
–

59.3

171.5

5.4

176.9

219.8

2,140.7

– 2,140.7

69.7

69.7

–

69.7

–
–

–

–
8.7

–
–

–

–

–

EPM

Corporate unallocated

Total continuing 

operations

Discontinued 
operations
Gas Production

Total discontinued 

operations

1,486.0

4,471.7

77.7

125.1

2,126.5

8.7

378.1

8,673.8

23.4

8,697.2

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

8.1

8.1

8.1

8.1

–

–

8.1

8.1

Total SSE Group

1,486.0

4,471.7

77.7

125.1

2,126.5

8.7

386.2

8,681.9

23.4

8,705.3

*  The comparative disaggregated segment revenue has been restated. See note 2.1.

Included within trade and other receivables (note 18) is £666.1m (2022: £492.7m) of unbilled energy income. Included within trade and 
other payables (note 19) is £215.4m (2022: £242.5m) of contract related liabilities. Contract related assets reflect the Group’s right to 
consideration in exchange for goods or services that have transferred to the customer, and contract related liabilities reflect the Group’s 
obligation to transfer future goods or services for which the Group has already received consideration. Contract related assets and 
liabilities principally arose in the Distributed Energy reporting segment with changes during the periods reflecting ongoing contract 
progress, offset by cash receipts or customer invoicing.

The Group has not disclosed information related to the transaction price allocated to remaining performance obligations on the basis 
that the Group’s contracts either have an original expected duration of less than one year, or permit the Group to recognise revenue 
as invoiced.

Revenue by geographical location on continuing operations is as follows:

UK
Ireland

218

SSE plc  Annual Report 2023

2023
£m

10,899.8
1,590.9

12,490.7

2022
(restated*)
£m

7,381.1
1,316.1

8,697.2

(ii) Operating profit/(loss) by segment

2023

Adjusted 
operating 
profit 
reported to 
the Board
APM
£m

Depreciation 
on fair value 
uplifts
£m

JV/Associate 
share of 
interest and 
tax
£m

Adjustments 
to Gas 
Production 
decommissioning 
provision
£m

Non-
controlling 
interests
£m

Before 
exceptional 
items and 
certain 
re-
measurements
£m

Exceptional 
items and
certain 
re-
measurements
£m

Total
£m

Continuing operations
SSEN Transmission
SSEN Distribution

372.7
382.4

–
–

–
–

SSE Renewables

580.0

(18.8)

(103.0)

SSE Thermal
Gas Storage

1,031.9
212.5

(10.0)
–

(60.4)
–

Energy Customer 

Solutions
Business Energy 
SSE Airtricity

Distributed Energy

EPM 

Corporate

17.9
5.6

(27.4)

80.4

Corporate unallocated
Neos

(87.0)
(39.8)

–
–

–

–

–
–

–
(0.4)

–

–

–
(10.3)

Total SSE Group

2,529.2

(28.8)

(174.1)

–
–

–

–
–

–
–

–

–

50.5
–

50.5

32.8
–

(1.9)

–
–

–
–

–

–

–
–

405.5
382.4

456.3

961.5
212.5

17.9
5.2

–
–

405.5
382.4

(10.0)

446.3

128.0
36.7

1,089.5
249.2

–
–

17.9
5.2

(27.4)

(6.1)

(33.5)

80.4

(2,706.4)

(2,626.0)

(36.5)
(50.1)

9.7
(5.9)

(26.8)
(56.0)

30.9

2,407.7

(2,554.0)

(146.3)

The adjusted operating profit of the Group is reported after removal of the Group’s share of interest, fair value movements on financing 
derivatives, the depreciation charged on fair value uplifts and tax from joint ventures and associates, Gas production decommissioning 
costs, operating profit from non-controlling interests and after adjusting for exceptional items and certain re-measurements (note 7). 

The Group’s share of operating profit from joint ventures and associates has been recognised in the SSE Renewables, SSE Thermal, SSE 
Airtricity and Corporate segments. 

SSE plc  Annual Report 2023

219

Financial StatementsStrategic ReportDirectors’ ReportNotes to the consolidated financial statements continued
For the year ended 31 March 2023

5. Segmental information continued
5.1 Segmental information disclosure continued
(ii) Operating profit/(loss) by segment continued

2022 
(restated*)

Adjusted 
operating 
profit 
reported to 
the Board
APM
£m

Depreciation 
on fair value 
uplifts
£m

JV/Associate 
share of 
interest and 
tax
£m

Adjustments 
to Gas 
Production 
decommissioning 
provision
£m

Before 
exceptional 
items and 
certain 
re-
measurements
£m

Exceptional 
items and
certain 
re-
measurements
£m

Total
£m

Continuing operations
SSEN Transmission
SSEN Distribution

SSE Renewables

SSE Thermal
Gas Storage

Energy Customer Solutions

Business Energy 
SSE Airtricity

Distributed Energy

EPM 

Corporate

Corporate unallocated
Neos

380.5
351.8

568.1

300.4
30.7

(21.5)
60.4

(10.9)

(16.8)

(95.7)
(16.1)

Total continuing operations

1,530.9

Discontinued operations
Gas Production
SGN(i)

Total discontinued 

operations

Total SSE Group

101.4
21.0

122.4

1,653.3

–
–

–
–

(18.8)

(92.9)

–
–

–
–

–

–

–
(1.8)

(20.6)

–
–

–

(20.6)

(9.5)
–

–
–

–

–

(4.7)
(7.0)

(114.1)

–
(12.8)

(12.8)

(126.9)

–
–

–

–
–

–
–

–

–

(13.1)
–

(13.1)

–
–

–

(13.1)

380.5
351.8

456.4

290.9
30.7

(21.5)
60.4

(10.9)

–
–

380.5
351.8

(28.6)

427.8

333.3
94.7

624.2
125.4

–
–

(21.5)
60.4

(18.3)

(29.2)

(16.8)

2,100.4

2,083.6

(113.5)
(24.9)

–
(115.1)

(113.5)
(140.0)

1,383.1

2,366.4

3,749.5

101.4
8.2

109.6

1,492.7

(120.8)
(89.3)

(19.4)
(81.1)

(210.1)

(100.5)

2,156.3

3,649.0

*  The comparative operating profit by segment information has been restated. See note 2.1.
(i)   In the table above total operating profit from SGN has been restated to remove the £576.5m gain recognised on disposal of SGN. There has been no change to the 

presentation of this gain in the income statement and note 12.

For the year ended 31 March 2022, the share of SGN interest included loan stock interest payable to the consortium shareholders. The Group 
has accounted for its 33% share of this, £6.8m as discontinued finance income.

(iii) Capital expenditure by segment

Continuing operations
SSEN Transmission
SSEN Distribution

SSE Renewables

SSE Thermal
Gas Storage

Energy Customer Solutions

Business Energy 
SSE Airtricity

Distributed Energy

EPM 

Corporate unallocated

Total continuing operations

Discontinued operations
Gas Production

Total discontinued operations

Total SSE Group

Increase in prepayments related to capital expenditure
Increase in trade payables related to capital expenditure
IFRS 15 adjustment
Lease asset additions
Less non-cash items:

Allowances and certificates
Assets acquired through acquisitions

Net cash outflow

*  The comparatives have been restated. See note 2.1.

Capital 
additions to 
intangible assets 
2023
£m

Capital 
additions to 
property, 
plant and 
equipment
2023
£m

Capital 
additions to 
intangible assets 
2022
£m

Capital 
additions to 
property, 
plant and 
equipment
2022
(restated*)
£m

7.2
15.2

685.7

20.8
–

38.9
10.5

62.0

809.9

38.4

536.6
486.8

311.3

44.5
6.3

–
–

66.6

–

48.0

1,688.6

1,500.1

–

–

–

–

5.8
15.6

265.2

9.5
–

4.6
–

8.7

545.3

65.8

920.5

–

–

608.6
440.5

193.2

59.2
2.1

30.6
4.6

17.9

1.6

21.2

1,379.5

13.9

13.9

1,688.6

1,500.1

920.5

1,393.4

–
(31.8)
–
–

(208.4)
(515.2)

933.2

6.8
132.2
(80.9)
(78.5)

–
–

1,479.7

–
–
–
–

(193.7)
(197.8)

529.0

(2.0)
59.2
(91.3)
(85.7)

–
–

1,273.6

Capital additions do not include assets acquired in acquisitions or assets acquired under leases. Capital additions to intangible assets 
includes the cash purchase of emissions allowances and certificates (2023: £596.8m; 2022: £350.8m). These purchases are presented  
in the cash flow statement within operating activities since they relate to the obligation to surrender the allowances and certificates in 
line with operating volumes of emissions. Other non-cash additions comprise self-generated renewable obligation certificates.

No segmental analysis of assets requires to be disclosed as this information is not presented to the Board.

220

SSE plc  Annual Report 2023

SSE plc  Annual Report 2023

221

Financial StatementsStrategic ReportDirectors’ ReportNotes to the consolidated financial statements continued
For the year ended 31 March 2023

5. Segmental information continued
5.1 Segmental information disclosure continued
(iii) Capital expenditure by segment continued

Capital 
additions 
to 
intangible 
assets 
2023
£m

Capital 
additions 
to 
property, 
plant and 
equipment
2023
£m

Capital 
Investment 
relating to 
Joint 
Ventures and 
Associates(i)
£m

7.2
15.2

536.6
486.8

–
–

At 31 March 2023

Continuing operations
SSEN Transmission
SSEN Distribution

SSE Renewables

685.7

311.3

391.8

SSE Thermal 
Gas Storage

Energy Customer Solutions

Business Energy
SSE Airtricity

20.8
–

38.9
10.5

44.5
6.3

87.9
–

–
–

Distributed Energy 

62.0

66.6

EPM 

809.9

–

Allowances 
and 
certificate(ii)
£m

Customer 
funded 
additions(iii)
£m

Acquired 
through 
business 
combinations(iv)
£m

Lease asset 
additions(v)
£m

Share of 
on-controlling 
interests(vi)
£m

–
–

–

–
–

–
–

–

(805.2)

–
(80.9)

–
–

(1.6)
(0.1)

(46.7)
–

–

–
–

–
–

–

–

–

(515.2)

(36.1)

–
–

–
–

–

–

–

–
–

–
–

(3.9)

–

(36.8)

–

–
–

–
–

–

–

–

–
–

–

–

Adjusted
Investment 
and Capital 
Expenditure
2023
APM
£m

495.5
421.0

837.5

153.2
6.3

38.9
10.5

124.7

4.7

68.3

(i)  Represents equity or debt funding provided to joint ventures or associates in relation to capital expenditure projects.
(ii)  Allowances and Certificates consist of purchased carbon emissions allowances and generated or purchased renewable obligations certificates (ROCs) and are not 

included in the Group’s Capital Expenditure and Investment alternative performance measure.

(iii)  Represents removal of additions to electricity and other networks funded by customer contributions.
(iv)  Represents removal of additions achieved through business combinations; for Renewables additions of £515.2m refer to note 12. Note that the Group’s Adjusted 

Investment, Capital and Acquisitions metric includes the £642.7m cash consideration paid for Business Combinations and totals £2,803.3m. 

(v)  Represents removal of additions in respect of right of use assets recognised on the commencement date of a lease arrangement.
(vi)  Represents the share of capital additions attributable to non-controlling interests.

Corporate unallocated

38.4

48.0

18.7

–

Total SSE Group

1,688.6

1,500.1

498.4

(805.2)

(80.9)

(515.2)

(78.5)

(46.7)

2,160.6

EPM 

545.3

Capital 
additions 
to 
property, 
plant and 
equipment
2022
(restated*)
£m

Capital 
Investment 
relating to 
Joint 
Ventures 
and 
Associates(i)
£m

Capital 
additions 
to 
intangible 
assets 
2022
£m

Allowances 
and 
certificates(ii)
£m

Customer 
funded 
additions(iii)
£m

Acquired 
through 
business 
combinations(iv)
£m

Additions 
subsequently 
impaired/
disposed(vi)
£m

Lease asset 
additions(v)
£m

Refinancing 
proceeds(vii)
£m

Adjusted
Investment 
and Capital 
Expenditure
2022
(restated*)
APM
£m

At 31 March 2022

Continuing 
operations

SSEN 

Transmission

5.8

608.6

SSEN 

Distribution

15.6

440.5

–

–

SSE Renewables

265.2

193.2

588.8

9.5
–

59.2
2.1

54.7
–

SSE Thermal 
Gas Storage

Energy 

Customer 
Solutions
Business 
Energy

SSE Airtricity

Distributed 
Energy 

4.6
–

8.7

30.6
4.6

17.9

1.6

–
–

–

–

–

–

–

–
–

–
–

–

(544.5)

–

(91.3)

–

–

–

–

–

–
–

–
–

–

–

–

(197.8)

(38.4)

–
–

–
–

–

–

–

–
–

–
–

–

–

(47.3)

Corporate 

unallocated

Total continuing 

65.8

21.2

39.0

–

operations

920.5

1,379.5

682.5

(544.5)

(91.3)

(197.8)

(85.7)

Discontinued 
operations
Gas Production

Total 

discontinued 
operations

0.5

13.4

0.5

13.4

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

Total SSE Group

921.0

1,392.9

682.5

(544.5)

(91.3)

(197.8)

(85.7)

–

–

–

–
–

–
–

–

–

–

–

–

–

614.4

364.8

(136.7)

674.3

–
–

–
–

–

–

–

123.4
2.1

35.2
4.6

26.6

2.4

78.7

(136.7)

1,926.5

(13.9)

(13.9)

(13.9)

–

–

–

–

(136.7)

1,926.5

*  The comparatives have been restated. See note 2.1.
(i)  Represents equity or debt funding provided to joint ventures or associates in relation to capital expenditure projects.
(ii)  Allowances and Certificates consist of purchased carbon emissions allowances and generated or purchased renewable obligations certificates (ROCs) and are not 

included in the Group’s Capital Expenditure and Investment alternative performance measure.

(iii)  Represents removal of additions to electricity and other networks funded by customer contributions.
(iv)  Represents removal of additions achieved through business combination; for Renewables additions of £197.8m refer to note 12. Note that the Group’s Adjusted 

Investment, Capital and Acquisitions metric includes the £141.3m cash consideration paid for Business Combinations and totals £2,067.8m.

(v)  Represents removal of right of use assets recognised on the commencement date of a lease arrangement.
(vi)  On 14 October 2021, the Group disposed of its Gas Production business but retained a 60% share of the decommissioning obligation of the business.
(vii) Represents the refunding of equity or debt funding provided by the Group (predominately to joint ventures); as the funding is included at (i) above, when there is  
a refinancing and SSE receives a repayment, those proceeds are excluded from its adjusted capex measure. In the year to 31 March 2022, Doggerbank windfarm 
reimbursed SSE for previous funding of £136.7m. 

222

SSE plc  Annual Report 2023

SSE plc  Annual Report 2023

223

Financial StatementsStrategic ReportDirectors’ ReportNotes to the consolidated financial statements continued
For the year ended 31 March 2023

5. Segmental information continued
5.1 Segmental information disclosure continued
(iv) Items included in operating profit/(loss) by segment 

Depreciation/impairment on property,  
plant and equipment

Amortisation/impairment  
of intangible assets

Before 
exceptional 
charges 
2023
£m

Impairment 
charges/
(credits)
2023
£m

109.4
172.0

161.1

103.3
16.5

0.2
0.1

4.7

–

38.4

605.7

–
–

12.5

(7.2)
(45.7)

–
–

0.4

–

1.6

(38.4)

Before 
exceptional 
charges 
2023
£m

Impairment 
charges/
(credits)
2023
£m

4.7
10.2

2.0

0.6
–

4.5
6.8

1.7

6.0

18.1

54.6

–
–

4.2

–
–

–
–

–

–

14.6

18.8

Total
2023
£m

109.4
172.0

173.6

96.1
(29.2)

0.2
0.1

5.1

–

40.0

567.3

Depreciation/impairment on property,  
plant and equipment

Amortisation/impairment  
of intangible assets

Before 
exceptional 
charges 
2022
£m

Impairment 
charges/
(credits)
2022
£m

Total
2022
£m

99.6
186.5

160.1

–
20.7

–

(331.6)
(97.3)

(261.8)
(96.5)

–
–

(1.6)

–

–

(409.8)

120.8

120.8

(289.0)

5.1
0.2

4.0

–

38.4

135.6

120.8

120.8

256.4

Before 
exceptional 
charges 
2022
£m

Impairment 
charges/
(credits)
2022
£m

3.6
9.4

0.8

0.4
–

6.2
1.5

2.3

4.5

16.7

45.4

–

–

45.4

–
–

–

–
–

–
–

0.5

–

1.0

1.5

–

–

1.5

99.6
165.8

160.1

69.8
0.8

5.1
0.2

5.6

–

38.4

545.4

–

–

545.4

Total
2023
£m

4.7
10.2

6.2

0.6
–

4.5
6.8

1.7

6.0

32.7

73.4

Total
2022
£m

3.6
9.4

0.8

0.4
–

6.2
1.5

2.8

4.5

17.7

46.9

–

–

46.9

Continuing operations
SSEN Transmission
SSEN Distribution

SSE Renewables

SSE Thermal 
Gas Storage

Energy Customer Solutions

Business Energy 
SSE Airtricity

Distributed Energy

EPM 

Corporate unallocated

Total SSE Group

Continuing operations
SSEN Transmission
SSEN Distribution

SSE Renewables

SSE Thermal 
Gas Storage

Energy Customer Solutions

Business Energy 
SSE Airtricity

Distributed Energy

EPM 

Corporate unallocated

Total continuing operations

Discontinued operations
Gas Production

Total discontinued operations

Total SSE Group

(v) Earnings before interest, taxation, depreciation and amortisation (‘EBITDA’) 

Adjusted 
operating profit 
reported to the 
Board 
(note 5.1(ii))
APM
2023
£m

Depreciation 
on fair 
value uplifts
2023
£m

Depreciation/
Impairment/
amortisation 
before 
exceptional 
charges 
(note 5.1(iv))
2023
£m

JV/Associate 
share of 
depreciation 
and 
amortisation 
(note 16.4)
2023
£m

Share of 
non-controlling 
interest 
depreciation 
and 
amortisation
2023
£m

Release of 
deferred income 
(note 6) 
2023
£m

Continuing operations
SSEN Transmission
SSEN Distribution

SSE Renewables

SSE Thermal
Gas Storage

Energy Customer Solutions

Business Energy 
SSE Airtricity

Distributed Energy

EPM 

Corporate

Corporate unallocated
Neos

372.7
382.4

580.0

1,031.9
212.5

17.9
5.6

(27.4)

80.4

(87.0)
(39.8)

–
–

(18.8)

(10.0)
–

–
–

–

–

–
–

Total SSE Group

2,529.2

(28.8)

114.1
182.2

179.8

114.5
16.5

4.7
6.9

6.8

6.0

72.7
–

704.2

–
–

92.8

60.8
–

–
–

–

–

–
47.5

201.1

(2.1)
(10.6)

(0.1)

–
–
–

–
–

(0.2)

–

(0.9)
–

(13.9)

Adjusted
EBITDA
APM
2023
£m

475.0
554.0

833.7

1,197.2
229.0

22.6
12.5

(20.8)

86.4

(15.2)
7.7

(9.7)
–

–

–
–

–
–

–

–

–
–

(9.7)

3,382.1

Note that the Group’s ‘Net Debt to EBITDA’ metric is derived after removing the proportionate EBITDA from the following debt-financed 
Beatrice and Seagreen joint ventures. This adjustment is £146.9m (2022: £125.4m) resulting in EBITDA on continuing operations for 
inclusion in the Debt to EBITDA metric of £3,235.2m (2022: £2,125.3m restated). 

For 31 March 2023 the £704.2m combined depreciation, impairment and amortisation charges included non-exceptional impairments 
totalling £43.9m.

The Group’s share of SGN depreciation in the year ended 31 March 2022 (£10.4m) and amortisation (£0.7m) is not included within 
operating costs.

224

SSE plc  Annual Report 2023

SSE plc  Annual Report 2023

225

Financial StatementsStrategic ReportDirectors’ ReportNotes to the consolidated financial statements continued
For the year ended 31 March 2023

5. Segmental information continued
5.1 Segmental information disclosure continued
(v) Earnings before interest, taxation, depreciation and amortisation (‘EBITDA’) continued

Adjusted 
operating profit 
reported to 
the Board 
(note 5.1(ii))
APM
2022
£m

380.5
351.8

568.1

300.4
30.7

(21.5)
60.4

(10.9)

(16.8)

(95.7)
(16.1)

1,530.9

101.4
21.0

122.4

Depreciation 
on fair 
value uplifts
2022
£m

–
–

(18.8)

–
–

–
–

–

–

–
(1.8)

(20.6)

–
–

–

Continuing operations
SSEN Transmission
SSEN Distribution

SSE Renewables

SSE Thermal
Gas Storage

Energy Customer Solutions

Business Energy 
SSE Airtricity

Distributed Energy

EPM 

Corporate

Corporate unallocated
Neos

Total continuing operations

Discontinued operations
Gas Production
SGN

Total discontinued operations

(restated*)

Depreciation/
Impairment/
amortisation 
before 
exceptional 
charges 
(note 5.1(iv))
2022
£m

JV/Associate 
share of 
depreciation 
and 
amortisation 
(note 16.4)
2022
£m

103.2
195.9

160.9

70.2
0.8

11.3
1.7

7.4

4.5

56.1
–

612.0

–
–

–

–
–

85.4

19.0
–

–
–

–

–

–
42.2

146.6

–
11.1

11.1

157.7

Total SSE Group

1,653.3

(20.6)

612.0

*  The comparative adjusted operating profit by segment information has been restated. See note 2.1.

6. Other operating income and cost
Group operating profit on continuing operations is stated after charging/(crediting) the following items: 

Depreciation of property, plant and equipment on continuing operations(i) (note 14)
Net exceptional gains on disposal (note 7)
Exceptional charges/(credits) (continuing operations) (note 7)
Research costs 
Lease charges(ii) 
Release of deferred income in relation to capital grants and historic customer contributions
Government grant income(iii)
Gain on disposals (non-exceptional) (note 12)
Amortisation of other intangible assets 

2023
£m

605.7
(89.1)
230.4
10.8
11.7
(13.9)
(1,012.6)
–
0.3

2022
£m

544.8
(4.3)
(297.5)
12.0
11.0
(17.6)
–
(67.1)
1.5

(i)  Does not include exceptional impairment charges.
(ii)  Represents the expense of leases with a duration of 12 months or less and leases for assets which are deemed ‘low value’ under the principles of IFRS 16. In 

addition, variable lease payments, which are not included within the measurement of lease liabilities as they do not depend on an index or rate, of £10.4m (2022: 
£7.8m) were charged in the current year.

(iii)  During the year the Group received £1,012.6m of income from government funded customer support schemes. All amounts received were passed to the Group’s 

energy customers in the United Kingdom and Republic of Ireland. Amounts received have been classed as other operating income in line with the Group’s 
accounting policies for government grants. 

Auditor’s remuneration

Audit of these financial statements
Amounts receivable by the Company’s auditor and its associates in respect of:
Audit of financial statements of subsidiaries of the Company
Audit related assurance services
Other services fees

Total remuneration paid to auditor

2023
£m

0.4

3.2
0.3
0.1

3.6

4.0

2022
£m

0.4

3.1
0.3
0.1

3.5

3.9

Audit fees in the current year include scope changes and overruns of £0.4m (2022: £0.4m) related to the prior year audit. Assurance and Tax 
service fees incurred in the year were £0.5m (2022: £0.5m). Audit related assurance services include fees incurred in relation to regulatory 
accounts and returns required by Ofgem and comfort letters in connection with funding and debt issuance. A description of the work of the 
Audit Committee is set out on pages 150 to 159  and includes an explanation of how auditor objectivity and independence is safeguarded 
when non-audit services are provided by the auditors. 

Release of 
deferred 
income 
(note 6) 
2022
£m

(3.8)
(11.6)

–

–
–

–
–

(1.3)

–

(0.9)
–

(17.6)

–
–

–

Adjusted 
EBITDA
APM
2022
£m

479.9
536.1

795.6

389.6
31.5

(10.2)
62.1

(4.8)

(12.3)

(40.5)
24.3

2,251.3

101.4
32.1

133.5

(17.6)

2,384.8

For 31 March 2022 the £612.0m combined depreciation, impairment and amortisation charges included non-exceptional impairments 
totalling £21.2m.

226

SSE plc  Annual Report 2023

SSE plc  Annual Report 2023

227

Financial StatementsStrategic ReportDirectors’ ReportNotes to the consolidated financial statements continued
For the year ended 31 March 2023

7. Exceptional items and certain re-measurements

Exceptional items and certain remeasurements are disclosed across the following categories within the income statement:

Continuing operations 
Exceptional items (note 7.1)

Asset impairments and related (charges) and credits
Net gains/(losses) on acquisitions/disposals of businesses and other assets

Total exceptional items

Certain re-measurements 

Movement on operating derivatives (note 24)
Movement in fair value of commodity stocks
Movement on financing derivatives (note 24)
Share of movement on derivatives in jointly controlled entities (net of tax)

Total certain re-measurements

Exceptional items and certain re-measurements on continuing operations before taxation

Taxation 

Taxation on other exceptional items
Taxation on certain re-measurements
Effect of deferred tax rate change in wholly owned entities 
Effect of deferred tax rate change in jointly controlled entities

Taxation 

Total exceptional items and certain re-measurements on continuing operations after taxation

Discontinued operations
Exceptional items and certain re-measurements

Gas production asset impairments and related credits/(charges)
Net gain on disposal of jointly controlled entities
Share of movement on derivatives in jointly controlled entities (net of tax)
Effect of deferred tax rate change in jointly controlled entities

Total exceptional items and certain re-measurements on discontinued operations after taxation

2023
£m

2022
£m

(233.6)
233.2

322.6
(17.6)

(0.4)

305.0

(2,708.2)
(9.0)
201.9
163.8

2,100.4
(2.6)
21.0
–

(2,351.5)

2,118.8

(2,351.9)

2,423.8

(34.1)
499.6
–
–

(79.0)
(408.0)
(244.7)
(33.2)

465.5

(764.9)

(1,886.4)

1,658.9

35.0
–
–
–

35.0

(120.8)
576.5
(3.8)
(85.5)

366.4

Continuing operations
Cost of sales:
Movement on operating derivatives (note 24)
Movement in fair value of commodity stocks 

Operating costs:
Asset impairments and reversals
Other exceptional provisions and charges

Operating income:
Net gains on disposals of businesses and other assets

Joint ventures and associates:
Net gains on acquisitions of a joint venture
Share of movement on derivatives in jointly controlled entities (net of tax)
Effect of deferred tax rate change in jointly controlled entities

Operating profit

Finance income
Movement on financing derivatives (note 24)
Interest income on deferred consideration receipt

Profit before tax on continuing operations

Discontinued operations

Gas Production asset impairments and related credits/(charges)

Joint ventures and associates:

Net gain on disposal of jointly controlled entities
Share of movement on derivatives in jointly controlled entities (net of tax)

Profit before tax on discontinued operations

2023
£m

2022
£m

(2,708.2)
(9.0)

2,100.4
(2.6)

(2,717.2)

2,097.8

(233.6)
3.2

(230.4)

89.1

89.1

140.7
163.8
–

304.5

322.6
(25.1)

297.5

4.3

4.3

–
–
(33.2)

(33.2)

(2,554.0)

2,366.4

201.9
0.2

202.1

21.0
3.2

24.2

(2,351.9)

2,390.6

35.0

(120.8)

–
–

35.0

576.5
(3.8)

451.9

228

SSE plc  Annual Report 2023

SSE plc  Annual Report 2023

229

Financial StatementsStrategic ReportDirectors’ ReportNotes to the consolidated financial statements continued
For the year ended 31 March 2023

7. Exceptional items and certain re-measurements continued
7.1 Exceptional items
Exceptional items in the year ended 31 March 2023
In the year to 31 March 2023, the Group recognised a net exceptional charge of £0.4m arising from its continuing operations. The net 
exceptional charge is primarily due to a net impairment of £150.9m in relation to the Group’s 50% investment in Triton Power Holdings 
Limited (see note 7.1.iv below for further analysis of amounts recognised in relation to Triton), offset by an exceptional gain of £89.1m 
from the sale of land at Fiddler’s Ferry, an impairment reversal of £45.7m related to the Group’s Gas Storage operations at Aldbrough  
and an impairment reversal of £17.8m in relation to the Group’s Great Island combine cycle gas turbine (‘CCGT’) plant in Ireland. 

In discontinued operations, the Group recognised an exceptional gain of £35.0m relating to a provision release associated with the 
disposal of its Gas Production assets, which completed on 14 October 2021.

The net exceptional charges/(credits) recognised can be summarised as follows:

Thermal Electricity Generation (i)
Gas storage (ii)
Fiddler’s Ferry (iii)
Triton Power 50% joint venture (iv)
Neos Networks (v)
Other credits (vi)

Total exceptional items continuing 

operations

Gas Production (vii)

Total exceptional items discontinued 

operations

Total exceptional items 

Property, plant 
and equipment 
(note 14)
£m

Provisions and 
other charges
£m

Investment in 
joint ventures 
£m

Cash and cash 
equivalents
£m

Other 
receivables
£m

Total charges/
(credits)
£m

(17.8)
(45.7)
24.1
–
–
–

(39.4)

–

–

(39.4)

–
–
(53.2)
–
–
(1.5)

(54.7)

(35.0)

(35.0)

(89.7)

–
–
–
150.9
5.9
–

–
–
(60.0)
–
–
(2.1)

156.8

(62.1)

–

–

–

–

–
–
–
–
–
(0.2)

(0.2)

–

–

156.8

(62.1)

(0.2)

(17.8)
(45.7)
(89.1)
150.9
5.9
(3.8)

0.4

(35.0)

(35.0)

(34.6)

(i) Thermal Electricity Generation – impairment reversal
At 31 March 2023, the Group has carried out a formal impairment review to reassess the carrying value of its GB CCGT power stations 
and the Group’s Great Island CCGT plant in Ireland (see note 15.2). As a result of the review, the Group has recognised an exceptional 
impairment reversal of £17.8m to the carrying value of the Group’s Great Island CCGT plant.

(ii) Gas Storage – impairment reversal
At 30 September 2022, the Group recognised an impairment reversal of £201.1m reflecting future market price assumptions at that time. 
The Group performed a formal impairment review at 31 March 2023 to reassess the carrying value of its Gas Storage operations at Atwick 
and Aldbrough (see note 15.2). As a result of the assessment, the Group has recognised an exceptional impairment of £155.4m to the 
carrying value of the assets at Aldbrough, resulting in a net impairment reversal of £45.7m. The impairment previously recognised in 
relation to Atwick was fully reversed in the year ended 31 March 2022, and no impairment is required for the current financial year.

(iii) Fiddler’s Ferry land sale
On 30 June 2022, the Fiddlers Ferry site was sold to Peel NRE Developments Limited for cash consideration of £60.0m. The Group 
carried a decommissioning provision for the site of £53.2m and a residual asset of £24.1m, both of which were disposed of as part  
of the sale. As a result, the Group has recognised an exceptional gain of £89.1m on disposal. 

(iv) Triton Power 50% joint venture acquisition and impairment
On 1 September 2022, the Group acquired 50% of the share capital of Triton Power Holdings Limited from Energy Capital Partners for  
total consideration of £341.0m (see note 12). The purchase price of £341.0m was agreed based on prices prevalent in the market during 
the summer, prior to completion of the transaction on 1 September 2022. The Group assessed that, due to movements in near term 
market observable power prices between the transaction agreement date and the completion date, the fair value of the acquisition was 
£140.7m greater than the acquisition price. This bargain purchase was recognised as an exceptional gain in the Group’s half year results  
to 30 September 2022. During the second half of the year, the Group realised a significant proportion of the acquired fair value of the 
business through trading operations of the joint venture. As a result, the future recoverable value of the business is lower at 31 March 2023 
than at 1 September 2022 and the Group has therefore recognised an impairment charge at 31 March 2023 of £291.6m (see note 15.2).  

A summary of exceptional items recognised in relation to Triton since the 50% acquisition on 1 September 2022 is set out below:

Financial statement line item  

charge/(credit) is included within

Exceptional items 
and certain 
re-measurements 
£m

Recognition of bargain purchase
Impairment of investment

Total exceptional items 

Joint venture and associates share of profit
Operating costs

Mark-to-market movement on operating derivatives

Share of tax on mark-to-market movement on operating derivatives

Total certain remeasurements

Joint venture and associates share of 
movement on derivatives
Joint venture and associates share of tax

Total exceptional items and certain remeasurements

(140.7)
291.6

150.9

(213.9)
41.9

(172.0)

(21.1)

(v) Neos Networks – investment impairment and adjustments to consideration
At 31 March 2023, the Group has assessed that the recoverable amount of its investment in Neos Networks has been impaired by £37.7m, 
of which £5.9m has been treated as exceptional. Under the Group’s policy, an impairment charge of less than £40m is not considered to 
be an exceptional item. However, £5.9m of the impairment relates to the fair value gain previously recognised on acquisition of the joint 
venture investment in March 2019, which had been previously treated as an exceptional item. Therefore, for consistent presentation, this 
reversal has been recognised separately. The balance of the impairment charge, being £31.8m, has been recognised as part of adjusted 
operating profit. See note 15 for further details of this impairment.

(vi) Other credits
At 31 March 2023, the Group recognised further exceptional credits of £3.8m relating to reversal of previously recognised exceptional 
charges or judgements. These included i) reassessment of separation cost provisions associated primarily with the disposals of SSE 
Energy Services and SGN (credit of £9.7m) ii) credit of £0.2m in relation to the unwind of discounting on deferred consideration 
recognised on the part disposal of SSE Slough Multifuel Limited in the year ending 31 March 2021, iii) reassessment of impairments 
associated with Heat Networks assets credit of £0.4m, partially offset by iv) £6.5m charge recognised in relation to provisions in 
connection with the sale of the Contracting and Rail business in June 2021.

Exceptional items within discontinued operations in the year ended 31 March 2023
(vii) Gas Production – gain on disposal 
On 4 November 2022, RockRose Energy Limited received HMRC clearance in respect of tax treatment in relation to the Group’s disposal 
of its Gas Production business to Viaro Energy (through its subsidiary RockRose Energy Limited), which completed on 14 October 2021. 
The Group had indemnified RockRose Energy Limited in relation to certain tax liabilities that it might suffer as a result of the transaction, 
and this formed part of the provision which was recognised on the disposal of the Gas Production business. The HMRC clearance 
indicated that no such tax liabilities arise for RockRose Energy Limited and as a result the Group has released £35.0m of provision relating 
to the indemnity as an adjustment to the loss on disposal recognised. The adjustment is recognised in discontinued operations in the 
year ended 31 March 2023.

Exceptional items in the year ended 31 March 2022
In the year to 31 March 2022, the Group recognised a net exceptional credit of £305.0m arising from its continuing operations. The  
net exceptional credit was primarily due to impairment reversals of £331.5m in relation to the Group’s GB CCGT power stations and  
the Group’s Great Island CCGT plant in Ireland and impairment reversals of £97.3m related to the Group’s Gas Storage operations at 
Atwick and Aldbrough. These credits were offset by an impairment loss of £106.9m recognised in relation to the Group’s investment in 
Neos Networks, a further £18.9m loss was recognised on completion of the disposal of SSE Contracting on 30 June 2021 and £6.2m 
consideration adjustment associated with the disposal of the Group’s 50% stake in Neos Networks, which completed in the year ended 
31 March 2019. 

In discontinued operations, the Group recognised an exceptional gain on the disposal of the Group’s 33.3% investment in SGN of £576.5m, 
offset by an exceptional charge of £120.8m associated with the disposal of its Gas Production assets, which completed on 14 October 2021.

230

SSE plc  Annual Report 2023

SSE plc  Annual Report 2023

231

Financial StatementsStrategic ReportDirectors’ ReportNotes to the consolidated financial statements continued
For the year ended 31 March 2023

7. Exceptional items and certain re-measurements continued
7.1 Exceptional items continued
Exceptional items in the year ended 31 March 2022 continued
The net exceptional charges/(credits) recognised can be summarised as follows:

Property, plant 
and equipment 
(note 14)
£m

Held for sale
£m

Provisions and 
other charges
£m

Investment in 
joint ventures 
£m

Other 
receivables
£m

Total charges/
(credits)
£m

Thermal Electricity Generation (i)
Gas storage (ii)
SSE Contracting (iii)
Neos Networks (iv)
Other credits (v)

Total exceptional items continuing 

operations

SGN disposal gain (vi)
Gas Production (vii)

Total exceptional items discontinued 

operations

(331.6)
(97.3)
–
–
(0.6)

(429.5)

–
–

–

Total exceptional items 

(429.5)

–
–
–
–
–

–

–
120.8

120.8

120.8

–
–
18.9
6.2
–

25.1

–
–

–

–
–
–
106.9
–

106.9

–
–

–

25.1

106.9

–
–
–
–
(7.5)

(7.5)

(576.5)
–

(576.5)

(584.0)

(331.6)
(97.3)
18.9
113.1
(8.1)

(305.0)

(576.5)
120.8

(455.7)

(760.7)

(i) Thermal Electricity Generation – impairment reversals
At 31 March 2022, the Group reversed £331.6m of historic impairments related to the Group’s GB CCGT power stations and the Group’s 
Great Island CCGT plant in Ireland (see note 15.2). This represented a full impairment reversal for the CCGT plants at Peterhead, 
Marchwood, Keadby and Medway and a partial reversal for Great Island.

(ii) Gas Storage – impairment reversals
At 31 March 2022, the Group reversed historic impairments of £97.3m related to its Gas Storage operations at Atwick and Aldbrough  
(see note 15.2). 

(iii) SSE Contracting – loss on disposal
On 30 June 2021, the Group recorded a further impairment charge of £18.9m following the completion of the sale of its Contracting 
and Rail business to the Aurelius Group. This impairment was recognised in addition to the exceptional impairment loss of £51.2m 
recognised during the year ended 31 March 2021. 

Exceptional items in the year ended 31 March 2021
In the year to 31 March 2021, the Group recognised a net exceptional credit of £850.3m in its continuing operations. The net exceptional 
credit was primarily due to gains on disposal of the Group’s stakes in Ferrybridge Multifuel (£669.9m), Walney offshore windfarm (£188.7m) 
and Maple SmartMeterCo (£70.4m) investments. In addition, the Group reversed £26.1m of prior year exceptional provisions for bad debt 
arising from coronavirus and recorded exceptional gains following the fair value uplift of its retained stakes in SSE Slough Multifuel Limited 
(£21.3m) and Seagreen Holdco 1 Limited (£25.7m). These exceptional credits were offset by an impairment to the Group’s Great Island 
Thermal CCGT plant of £58.1m and a write down of £51.2m to SSE Contracting, which represented the fair value less costs to sell. Finally, 
the Group incurred £24.2m of further charges related to the disposal of SSE Energy Services which was completed in 2020 and reduced 
the overall gain on disposal, completed in the year ended 31 March 2019, of Neos Networks Limited by £21.8m. 

The net exceptional charges/(credits) recognised can be summarised as follows:

Thermal Electricity Generation 
Customer bad debt provisioning 
SSE Contracting
SSE Energy Services disposal costs 
Neos Networks 
Other charges 
Disposal gains 

Total exceptional items

Property, plant 
and equipment 
£m

Intangible assets 
£m

Provisions and 
other charges
£m

Trade 
receivables
£m

Other 
receivables
£m

Total charges/
(credits)
£m

58.1
–
–
15.1
–
(1.9)
–

71.3

–
–
–
5.2
–
–
–

5.2

–
–
51.2
3.9
20.2
–
–

75.3

–
(26.1)
–
–
–
–
–

(26.1)

–
–
–
–
1.6
(1.6)
(976.0)

(976.0)

58.1
(26.1)
51.2
24.2
21.8
(3.5)
(976.0)

(850.3)

7.2 Certain re-measurements
The Group, through its EPM business, enters into forward commodity purchase (and sales) contracts to meet the future demand 
requirements of its Business Energy and SSE Airtricity supply businesses, to optimise the value of its SSE Renewables and SSE Thermal 
power generation assets or to conduct other trading subject to the value at risk limits set out by the Energy Markets Risk Committee. 
Certain of these contracts (predominately electricity, gas and other commodity purchase contracts) are determined to be derivative 
financial instruments under IFRS 9 ‘Financial Instruments’ and as such are required to be recorded at their fair value. Conversely, 
commodity contracts that are not financial instruments under IFRS 9 (predominately electricity sales contracts) are accounted for  
as ‘own use’ contracts and are not recorded at their fair value. Inventory purchased to utilise excess capacity ahead of an optimised  
sale in the market by the Gas Storage business is held as trading inventory at fair value with changes in value recognised within ‘certain 
re-measurements’. In addition, the mark-to-market valuation movements on the Group’s contracts for difference contracts entered into 
by SSE Renewables that are not designated as government grants and which are measured as Level 3 fair value financial instruments are 
also included within ‘certain re-measurements’.

(iv) Neos Networks – investment impairment and adjustments to consideration
At 31 March 2022, the Group assessed that the value of its investment in Neos Networks was impaired by £106.9m (see note 15.2). In  
the year ended 31 March 2022, the Group also reassessed its position relating to the original disposal of a 50% stake in the business on 
31 March 2019 with the net impact being the recognition of an exceptional charge of £6.2m. 

Changes in the fair value of those commodity contracts designated as financial instruments and trading inventory are therefore reflected 
in the income statement. The Group shows the change in the fair value of these forward contracts and trading inventory separately as 
‘certain re-measurements’, as the Group does not believe this mark-to-market movement is relevant to the underlying performance of 
its businesses.

(v) Other credits
At 31 March 2022, the Group recognised further exceptional credits of £8.1m relating to reversal of previously recognised exceptional 
charges or judgements. These included (i) reassessment of impairments associated with Heat Networks assets credit of £0.6m, (ii) credit 
of £3.2m in relation the unwind of discounting on deferred consideration recognised on the part disposal of SSE Slough Multifuel Limited 
in the year ending 31 March 2021, (iii) credit of £4.3m in relation to a gain on disposal of historically impaired land at Seabank.

Exceptional items within discontinued operations in the year ended 31 March 2022
(vi) SGN disposal gain
On 2 August 2021, the Group announced it had agreed to sell its 33.3% investment in SGN to a consortium comprising existing SGN 
shareholders Ontario Teachers’ Pension Plan Board and Brookfield Super-Core Infrastructure Partners for cash consideration of £1,225m. 
The transaction completed on 22 March 2022, with the Group recognising an exceptional gain on disposal of £576.5m. See note 12.2 for 
further information.

(vii) Gas Production – impairment loss 
The Group recorded an exceptional impairment of £120.8m prior to the sale of its Gas Production assets and liabilities to RockRose 
Energy Limited on 14 October 2021. The impairment was recognised to reduce the carrying value of the assets and liabilities to their fair 
value less costs to sell. 

At 31 March 2023, volatility in global commodity markets and changes in SSE’s contractual positions have resulted in a significantly 
adverse mark-to-market remeasurement on commodity contracts (predominately power purchases) designated as financial instruments 
and trading inventory of £2,717.2m (2022: £2,097.8m gain). It should be noted that the net IFRS 9 position on operating derivatives at 
31 March 2023 is a liability of £386.9m (2022: £2,301.8m asset). 

In addition, the Group has executory ‘own use’ designated commodity contracts which, if classified as financial instruments and 
remeasured at fair value in accordance with IFRS 9, would significantly increase the total fair value remeasurement and closing liability 
value. These predominately relate to financial hedges entered into on behalf of the SSE Renewables and SSE Thermal businesses  
for future sales which were entered into before the subsequent increase in market prices. A significant proportion of ‘in the money’ 
mark-to-market contracts recorded at 31 March 2023 and unvalued ‘own use’ designated commodity contracts are expected to reverse 
in the next financial year as the relevant commodity is delivered. The remaining settlement of these contracts will predominately be 
within the subsequent 12 to 24 months. The mark-to-market loss in the year has resulted in a deferred tax credit of £499.6m (2022: 
£408.0m), which has also been classified as exceptional. In addition, the Group has recognised gains of £201.9m (2022: £21.0m) on the 
remeasurement of the certain interest rate and foreign exchange contracts through the income statement, gains on the remeasurement 
of cash flow hedge accounted contracts of £43.3m (2022: £22.9m) in other comprehensive income and gains on the equity share of the 
remeasurement of cash flow hedge accounted contracts in joint ventures of £342.4m (2022: £181.4m).

The re-measurements arising from IFRS 9 and the associated deferred tax are disclosed separately to aid understanding of the underlying 
performance of the Group.

232

SSE plc  Annual Report 2023

SSE plc  Annual Report 2023

233

Financial StatementsStrategic ReportDirectors’ ReportNotes to the consolidated financial statements continued
For the year ended 31 March 2023

7. Exceptional items and certain re-measurements continued
7.3 Change in UK corporation tax rates
The Government announced in the Budget on 3 March 2021 that the main rate of corporation tax will increase to 25% for the financial 
year beginning 1 April 2023. Prior to this date, the rate of corporation tax will remain at 19%. The increase to 25% was substantively 
enacted at 24 May 2021 and therefore the deferred tax balances were re-measured at 31 March 2022. The rate change resulted in an 
income statement charge for continuing operations of £244.7m at 31 March 2022 and an increase to the Group›s deferred tax liabilities 
(including the effect of equity accounted items) of £279.5m at 31 March 2022. The impact of the rate change on the Group’s share of 
profits of its equity accounted investments was a charge of £33.2m at 31 March 2022 for continuing operations and a charge of £85.5m 
for discontinued operations at 31 March 2022.

Finance Bill 2021 also included draft legislation in respect of Capital Allowance ‘Super-deductions’ of 130% in respect of General Pool 
plant and machinery, alongside First Year Allowances of 50% for Special Rate Pool plant and machinery for the two years commencing 
1 April 2021. The Group expects these changes, which were substantively enacted on 24 May 2021, to significantly increase the deduction 
for Capital Allowances in the financial years ending 31 March 2022 and 31 March 2023. An estimate of the super-deduction has been taken 
into account when calculating the effective tax for the current year and prior year. Finance Bill 2023 introduced draft legislation, effective 
from 1 April 2023 to 31 March 2026, to allow ‘Full Expensing’ of 100% General Pool plant and machinery, alongside 50% for Special Rate 
Pool plant and machinery. The Group expects these changes to significantly increase the deductions for Capital Allowances in the 
financial years ending 31 March 2024 to 31 March 2026.

Finance Bill 2023 also introduced draft legislation in respect of Multinational Top-up Tax in line with OECD BEPS pillar 2 principles. The 
legislation is expected to be in force for the year ended 31 March 2025. Similar draft legislation has been introduced in the Republic of 
Ireland and other EU jurisdictions. The Group is assessing the impact of the changes but does not expect a material impact to arise.

Taxation
The Group has separately recognised the tax effect of the exceptional items and certain re-measurements summarised above.

8. Directors and employees
8.1 Staff costs 

Staff costs:
Wages and salaries
Social security costs
Share-based remuneration 
Pension costs (note 23)

Less: capitalised as property, plant and equipment or intangible assets

2023
£m

2022
£m

587.6
69.6
20.6
94.0

771.8
(179.6)

592.2

517.6
60.1
17.6
93.4

688.7
(157.4)

531.3

The figures in the table above for 31 March 2022 included £11.9m of staff costs related to the Group’s Contracting and Rail business 
which was sold on 30 June 2021 (2023: £nil).

The average number of people employed by the Group (including Executive Directors) during the year was:

SSEN Transmission
SSEN Distribution

SSE Renewables

SSE Thermal 
Gas Storage

Energy Customer Solutions

Business Energy
SSE Airtricity

Distributed Energy

EPM

Corporate Services

Total SSE Group

2023 
Number

1,136
4,197

2022 
Number
(restated*)

819
4,061

1,591

1,321

458
84

843
845

855

256

441
83

892
751

1,182

227

1,211

1,181

11,476

10,958

*   The comparatives for the year ended 31 March 2022 have been restated to align the presentation with the current year, which reflects that certain employees, who 

were previously reported within Corporate Services directly support the business units of the Group.

8.3 Remuneration of key management personnel
The remuneration of the key management personnel of the Group (excluding amounts equivalent to pension value increases as set out 
in the Remuneration Report), is set out below in aggregate.

Salaries and short term employee benefits
Social security costs
Post-employment benefits
Share based benefits

4.0
0.9
0.7
1.7

7.3

5.2
1.0
0.7
4.4

11.3

18.6

Executive 
committee 
members
£m

2023

Executive 
directors
£m

Executive 
committee 
members
£m

2022

Executive 
directors
£m

2.2
0.4
0.3
1.2

4.1

4.9
0.9
0.9
4.3

11.0

Total
£m

7.1
1.3
1.2
5.5

15.1

Total
£m

9.2
1.9
1.4
6.1

8.2 Employee numbers

Numbers employed at 31 March

2023
Number

12,180

12,180

2022
Number

10,754

10,754

Key management personnel are responsible for planning, directing and controlling the operations of the Group and are designated 
Persons Discharging Management Responsibilities (‘PDMRs’) in line with the market abuse regulation definition. The Group has three 
(2022: three) Executive directors. Executive committee members included in the table above at 31 March 2023 are the Managing Director 
of SSEN Distribution; the Managing Director of SSEN Transmission; the Managing Director of SSE Renewables; the Managing Director of 
Thermal; the Director of Corporate Affairs and Strategy; the Director of Human Resources and the Group’s General Counsel. 

Further information about the remuneration of individual directors is provided in the audited part of the Remuneration Report. 

Information regarding transactions with post-retirement benefit plans is included in note 23.

Non-executive directors were paid fees of £1.3m during the current year (2022: £1.2m).

234

SSE plc  Annual Report 2023

SSE plc  Annual Report 2023

235

Financial StatementsStrategic ReportDirectors’ ReportNotes to the consolidated financial statements continued
For the year ended 31 March 2023

9. Finance income and costs
Recognised in income statement

Before 
exceptional 
items and 
certain 
re-
measurements 
£m

2023

Exceptional 
items and 
certain 
re-
measurements 
£m

Before 
exceptional 
items and 
certain 
re-
measurements
£m

2022

Exceptional 
items and 
certain 
re-
measurements 
£m

Finance income:
Interest income from short term deposits 
Interest on pension scheme assets(i)

Other interest receivable:

Joint ventures and associates
Other receivable

Total finance income

Finance costs:
Bank loans and overdrafts
Other loans and charges
Foreign exchange translation of monetary assets 

and liabilities

Notional interest arising on discounted provisions 
Lease charges
Less: interest capitalised(ii)

Total finance costs

Changes in fair value of financing derivative assets 

or liabilities at fair value through profit or loss

Net finance costs

Presented as:
Finance income
Finance costs

Net finance costs

17.5
16.2

67.6
34.0

101.6

135.3

(50.1)
(339.1)

–
(22.1)
(29.4)
44.0

(396.7)

–

(261.4)

135.3
(396.7)

(261.4)

Total
£m

17.5
16.2

67.6
34.2

101.8

135.5

(50.1)
(339.1)

–
(22.1)
(29.4)
44.0

–
–

–
0.2

0.2

0.2

–
–

–
–
–
–

–

0.8
7.6

46.8
23.8

70.6

79.0

(16.2)
(340.2)

(14.6)
(5.7)
(30.4)
30.7

(396.7)

(376.4)

201.9

202.1

202.1
–

202.1

201.9

(59.3)

337.4
(396.7)

(59.3)

–

(297.4)

79.0
(376.4)

(297.4)

Total
£m

0.8
7.6

46.8
27.0

73.8

82.2

(16.2)
(340.2)

(14.6)
(5.7)
(30.4)
30.7

(376.4)

21.0

(273.2)

103.2
(376.4)

(273.2)

–
–

–
3.2

3.2

3.2

–
–

–
–
–
–

–

21.0

24.2

24.2
–

24.2

(i)  The interest income on net pension assets for the year ended 31 March 2023 of £16.2m (2022: £7.6m) represents the interest earned under IAS 19.
(ii)  The capitalisation rate applied in determining the amount of borrowing costs to capitalise in the year was 4.11% (2022: 3.86%).

Adjusted net finance costs are arrived at after the following adjustments:

Net finance costs
(add)/less:
Share of interest from joint ventures and associates
Interest on pension scheme liabilities
Movement on financing derivatives (note 24)
Exceptional item
Share of net finance cost attributable to non-controlling interests

Adjusted net finance costs  APM  

Notional interest arising on discounted provisions
Lease charges
Hybrid coupon payment (note 22.5(iii)

Adjusted net finance costs for interest cover calculations  APM  

2023
£m

2022
£m

(59.3)

(273.2)

(70.1)
(16.2)
(201.9)
(0.2)
2.1

(67.8)
(7.6)
(21.0)
(3.2)
–

(345.6)

(372.8)

22.1
29.4
(38.8)

5.7
30.4
(50.7)

(332.9)

(387.4)

Recognised in other comprehensive income

Gain on effective portion of cash flow hedges (before tax)
Share of joint venture/associate gain on effective portion of cash flow hedges (before tax)

Total recognised in other comprehensive income

2023
£m

43.3
456.5

499.8

2022
£m

22.9
224.0

246.9

For 31 March 2022 other comprehensive income of £246.9m included £28.6m (2023: £nil), which was realised on the disposal of SGN.

10. Taxation
10.1 Analysis of charge recognised in the income statement

Before 
exceptional 
items and 
certain 
re-
measurements
£m

2023

Exceptional 
items and 
certain 
re-
measurements 
£m

Before 
exceptional 
items and 
certain 
re-
measurements
£m

2022 
(restated*)

Exceptional 
items and 
certain 
re-
measurements 
£m

82.5
(5.9)

76.6

75.2
–
(2.2)

73.0

8.8
–

8.8

478.2
244.7
–

722.9

Total
£m

91.3
(5.9)

85.4

553.4
244.7
(2.2)

795.9

Total
£m

271.4
(16.7)

254.7

(371.7)
–
7.0

(20.9)
5.3

(15.6)

(444.6)
–
(5.3)

(449.9)

(364.7)

Current tax
UK corporation tax 
Adjustments in respect of previous years

Total current tax

Deferred tax
Current year
Effect of change in tax rate
Adjustments in respect of previous years

Total deferred tax

292.3
(22.0)

270.3

72.9
–
12.3

85.2

Total taxation charge/(credit)

355.5

(465.5)

(110.0)

149.6

731.7

881.3

The Group has separately recognised the tax effect of the exceptional items and certain re-measurements summarised above. The rate 
change to 25% in respect of periods commencing after 1 April 2023 included in Finance Bill 2021 was recognised during the year ended 
31 March 2022, as it was substantively enacted on 24 May 2021. 

‘Adjustments in respect of previous years’ primarily relate to the post balance sheet event in respect of Glendoe, referred to in note 26, 
and adjustments relating to the submission of tax returns.

SSE continues to be accredited with the Fair Tax Mark. As a consequence, these financial statements include a number of areas of 
enhanced disclosure which have been provided in order to develop stakeholder understanding of the tax the Group pays and the 
reported total taxation charge along with additional commentary on the main reconciling items. 

These can be seen at section A2 .

In 2022 SSE became the first UK-based multinational business to be accredited under Fair Tax Foundation’s new Global Multinational 
Standard.

The majority of the Group’s profits are earned in the UK, with the standard rate of UK corporation tax being 19% for the year to 31 March 
2023 (2022: 19%). The Group’s disposed Gas Production business, which was included within discontinued operations for the year ended 
31 March 2022, was taxed at a UK corporation tax rate of 30% plus a supplementary charge of 10% (combined 40%). Profits earned by the 
Group in the Republic of Ireland are taxable at either 12.5% or 25%, depending upon the nature of the income. 

236

SSE plc  Annual Report 2023

SSE plc  Annual Report 2023

237

Financial StatementsStrategic ReportDirectors’ ReportNotes to the consolidated financial statements continued
For the year ended 31 March 2023

10. Taxation continued
10.1 Analysis of charge recognised in the income statement continued
The ‘adjusted current tax charge’ and the ‘adjusted effective rate of tax’, which are presented in order to best represent underlying 
performance by making similar adjustments to the ‘adjusted profit before tax’ measure, are arrived at after the following adjustments:

Continuing operations

Group tax (credit)/charge and effective rate
Less: reported deferred tax charge and effective rate

Reported current tax charge and effective rate
Effect of adjusting items 

Reported current tax charge and effective rate on adjusted basis 
add:

Share of current tax from joint ventures and associates

less:

Current tax credit on exceptional items
Share of current tax attributable to non-controlling interests

Adjusted current tax charge and effective rate  APM

Tax (credit)/charge recognised in other comprehensive income/(loss):

Relating to:

Pension scheme actuarial movements 
Cash flow and net investment hedge movements

All tax recognised through other comprehensive income is deferred tax.

See further Taxation disclosures at A2 . 

10.2 Current tax assets and liabilities

Corporation tax (assets)/liabilities

2023
£m

(110.0)
364.7

254.7

254.7

2023
%

12.7
(42.0)

(29.3)
41.0

11.7

89.6

4.1

15.6
(1.1)

358.8

0.7
(0.1)

16.4

2022
£m
(restated*)

2022
%
(restated*)

881.3
(795.9)

85.4

85.4

30.6

(8.9)
–

107.1

2023
£m

(19.8)
8.1

(11.7)

25.4
(22.9)

2.5
4.8

7.3

2.6

(0.7)
–

9.2

2022
£m

72.6
4.4

77.0

2023
£m

(10.8)

2022
£m

(8.8)

Uncertain tax positions
The Group invests heavily in infrastructure, on which significant amounts of capital allowances are potentially available. The extent to 
which capital allowances are available on any single asset is, however, very much dependent upon the fact pattern for the asset involved, 
and there will often be an element of uncertainty as to how capital allowances legislation applies in those circumstances. Therefore, 
reaching agreement with tax authorities as to the amount of capital allowances available can take a number of years and sometimes  
can only be resolved through a formal legal process.

The calculation of the Group’s total tax charge therefore necessarily involves a degree of estimation and judgement in relation to certain 
items for which the tax treatment cannot be finally determined until resolution has been reached with the tax authorities or, if required, 
through a formal legal process. At 31 March 2023, the Group has not recognised provisions in respect of uncertain tax positions (2022: 
£27.9m). 

On 23 March 2023, the Group’s case concerning the availability of capital allowances on Glendoe Hydro Electric Station was heard at  
the Supreme Court. On 17 Mary 2023, the Supreme Court released its decision, which rejected HMRC’s appeal in full. The matter is now 
concluded and is not subject to further appeal. Accordingly, the release of the Group’s provision on its uncertain tax position of £27.9m 
and the associated recognition of £23.4m deferred tax liabilities in relation to Glendoe’s capital allowances is an adjusting post balance 
sheet event (see note 26).

10.3 Deferred taxation
The following are the deferred tax liabilities and assets recognised by the Group and movements thereon during the current and prior 
reporting periods:

At 31 March 2021
Charge/(credit) to income statement on continuing operations
Charge to other comprehensive income/(loss)
Credit to equity
Exchange adjustment

At 31 March 2022

Charge/(credit) to income statement 
Charge/(credit) to other comprehensive income/(loss)
Charge to equity
Recognised on acquisition (note 12)
Exchange adjustment

Accelerated
capital
allowances
£m

733.8
407.6
–
–
0.2

1,141.6

112.0
–
–
(0.1)
1.6

Fair value 
gains/
(losses) on 
derivatives
£m

(25.3)
399.4
4.4
–
–

378.5

(476.7)
8.1
–
–
–

Retirement
benefit
obligations
£m

Other
(restated*) 
£m

Total
(restated*)
£m

67.8
5.8
72.6
–
–

(2.0)
(16.9)
–
(1.9)
(1.4)

774.3
795.9
77.0
(1.9)
(1.2)

146.2

(22.2)

1,644.1

8.9
(19.8)
–
–
–

(8.9)
–
2.0
27.1
0.8

(364.7)
(11.7)
2.0
27.0
2.4

At 31 March 2023

1,255.1

(90.1)

135.3

(1.2)

1,299.1

Certain deferred tax assets and liabilities have been offset, including the asset balances analysed in the tables above. The following is an 
analysis of the deferred tax balances (after offset) for financial reporting purposes:

2023
£m

2022
(restated*)
£m

Deferred tax liabilities
Deferred tax assets 

Net deferred tax liabilities/(assets)

1,485.1
(186.0)

1,716.0
(71.9)

1,299.1

1,644.1

In total there are £6.1m (2022: £6.0m) of unrecognised deferred tax assets. The Group has not recognised a deferred tax asset of £5.6m 
on trading losses of £44.8m (2022: £47.6m) in the Republic of Ireland. The Group has not recognised deferred tax assets of £0.5m (2022: 
£nil) in respect of losses of £2.3m (2022: £nil) in Spain, France, Italy and Greece. These assets have not been recognised as the Group is 
uncertain that there will be sufficient future profits against which to utilise the assets. There is no time limit for expiry of the losses or 
allowances to which they relate.

No deferred tax is recognised on the unremitted earnings of overseas subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures. As the earnings are 
continually reinvested by the Group, no tax is expected to be payable on them in the foreseeable future. Total unremitted earnings at 
31 March 2023 were £468.8m (2022: £350.8m).

*  The comparatives have been restated. See note 2.1.

11. Dividends and Earnings Per Share
11.1 Ordinary dividends

Interim – year ended 31 March 2023
Final – year ended 31 March 2022
Interim – year ended 31 March 2022
Final – year ended 31 March 2021

2023 Total
£m

Settled via 
scrip
£m

Pence per 
ordinary 
share

2022 Total
£m

Settled via 
scrip
£m

Pence per 
ordinary 
share

313.2
642.6
–
–

955.8

159.0
322.5
–
–

481.5

29.0
60.2
–
–

–
–
271.8
590.5

862.3

–
–
28.2
327.5

355.7

–
–
25.5
56.6

The final dividend of 60.2p per ordinary share declared in respect of the financial year ended 31 March 2022 (2021: 56.6p) was approved 
at the Annual General Meeting on 21 July 2022 and was paid to shareholders on 22 September 2022. Shareholders were able to elect to 
receive ordinary shares credited as fully paid instead of the cash dividend under the terms of the Company’s scrip dividend scheme. 

For dividends paid in relation to the financial year ended 31 March 2022 and in relation to the subsequent years to 31 March 2026, the 
Group’s policy is to repurchase shares to reduce the scrip’s dilutive effects, if the scrip take-up exceeds 25% of the full year dividend  
in any given year. The overall scrip dividend take-up for the financial year ended 31 March 2022 was 38.3%. Under the share buyback 
programme 6.9m of shares were repurchased and cancelled during the year ended 31 March 2023 for total consideration of £107.6m 
(including stamp duty and commission).

An interim dividend of 29.0p per ordinary share (2022: 25.5p) was declared and paid on 9 March 2023 to those shareholders on the 
SSE plc share register on 13 January 2023. Shareholders were able to elect to receive ordinary shares credited as fully paid instead of  
the interim cash dividend under the terms of the Company’s scrip dividend scheme.

238

SSE plc  Annual Report 2023

SSE plc  Annual Report 2023

239

Financial StatementsStrategic ReportDirectors’ ReportNotes to the consolidated financial statements continued
For the year ended 31 March 2023

11. Dividends and Earnings Per Share continued
11.1 Ordinary dividends continued
The proposed final dividend of 67.7p per ordinary share based on the number of issued ordinary shares at 31 March 2023 is subject to 
approval by shareholders at the Annual General Meeting and has not been included as a liability in these financial statements. Based  
on shares in issue at 31 March 2023, this would equate to a final dividend of £740.6m. 

11.2 Basic and adjusted earnings/(losses) per share
The calculation of basic earnings/(losses) per ordinary share at 31 March 2023 is based on the net profit/(loss) attributable to ordinary 
shareholders and a weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding during the year ended 31 March 2023.

Adjusted earnings/(losses) per share has been calculated by excluding the charge for deferred tax, interest on net pension liabilities under 
IAS 19, retained Gas Production decommissioning costs, the depreciation charged on fair value uplifts, the share or profit attributable to 
non-controlling interests and the impact of exceptional items and certain re-measurements (note 7). 

Continuing operations

(Losses)/earnings attributable to ordinary shareholders
Less: earnings attributable to discontinued operations

Basic (losses)/earnings on continuing operations used to calculate 

adjusted EPS

Exceptional items and certain re-measurements (note 7) 

Basic excluding exceptional items and certain re-measurements 
Adjusted for:
Decommissioning Gas Production
Depreciation charge on fair value uplifts
Interest on net pension scheme assets/(liabilities) (note 9)
Deferred tax
Deferred tax from share of joint ventures and associates
Deferred tax on non-controlling interest

2023
(Losses)/
earnings 
£m

(123.0)
(35.0)

(158.0)
1,886.4

1,728.4

(50.5)
28.8
(16.2)
85.2
14.4
(4.1)

2023
(Losses)/
Earnings Per 
Share
pence

(11.4)
(3.3)

(14.7)
175.4

160.7

(4.7)
2.7
(1.5)
7.9
1.3
(0.4)

2022
Earnings 
£m
(restated*)

3,027.0
(482.7)

2,544.3
(1,658.9)

885.4

13.1
20.6
(7.6)
73.0
15.8
–

Adjusted  APM  

1,786.0

166.0

1,000.3

Basic 
Dilutive effect of outstanding share options

Diluted

Reported (losses)/Earnings Per Share

(158.0)
–

(158.0)

(14.7)
–

(14.7)

2,544.3
–

2,544.3

2022
Earnings Per 
Share
pence
(restated*)

286.9
(45.7)

241.2
(157.2)

84.0

1.2
2.0
(0.7)
6.8
1.5
–

94.8

241.2
(0.5)

240.7

Basic
(Losses)/Earnings Per Share on continuing operations
Earnings Per Share on discontinued operations

(Losses)/Earnings Per Share attributable to ordinary shareholders 

Diluted (losses)/Earnings Per Share on continuing operations
Diluted Earnings Per Share on discontinued operations

Diluted (losses)/Earnings Per Share attributable to ordinary shareholders

The weighted average number of shares used in each calculation is as follows: 

For basic and adjusted Earnings Per Share
Effect of exercise of share options

For diluted Earnings Per Share

2023
(Losses)/
earnings 
£m

(158.0)
35.0

(123.0)

(158.0)
35.0

(123.0)

2023
(Losses)/
Earnings Per 
Share
pence

(14.7)
3.3

(11.4)

(14.7)
3.3

(11.4)

2022
Earnings 
£m
(restated*)

2,544.3
482.7

3,027.0

2,544.3
482.7

3,027.0

2022
Earnings Per 
Share
pence
(restated*)

241.2
45.7

286.9

240.7
45.7

286.4

31 March 2023
Number of 
shares
(millions)

31 March 2022
Number of 
shares
(millions)

1,075.6
1.7

1,077.3

1,055.0
2.0

1,057.0

11.3 Dividend cover
The Group’s adjusted dividend cover metric is calculated by comparing adjusted Earnings Per Share on continuing operations to the 
projected Dividend Per Share payable to ordinary shareholders. 

Reported (losses)/Earnings Per Share (continuing operations)
Adjusted Earnings Per Share (continuing operations)  APM  

* The comparatives have been restated. See note 2.1.

2023
(Losses)/
Earnings 
Per Share 
(pence)

(14.7)
166.0

2023
Dividend 
Per Share
(pence)

96.7
96.7

2023
Dividend 
cover 
(times)

(0.15)
1.72

2022
Earnings 
Per Share 
(pence)
(restated*)

241.2
94.8

2022
Dividend 
Per Share 
(pence)

85.7
85.7

2022
Dividend 
cover 
(times)
(restated*)

2.81
1.11

12. Acquisitions and disposals
12.1 Acquisitions
Current year acquisitions
European onshore renewables development platform
On 1 September 2022 the Group completed the 100% acquisition of a European onshore renewable energy development platform  
from Siemens Gamesa Renewable Energy (‘SGRE’) for cash consideration of £519.5m. The SGRE portfolio is mainly located in Spain  
with the remainder across France, Italy and Greece. This acquisition is aligned to the Group’s published strategy to pursue overseas 
renewable opportunities. 

Acquisition costs of £6.0m were expensed to operating costs in the year. The acquired business contributed £nil to revenue and £0.5m 
of costs to operating profit of the Group for the year. Had the acquisition occurred on 1 April 2022, the acquired business would have 
contributed nil to revenue and contributed an immaterial loss to operating profit. The intangible development assets acquired are 
late-stage windfarm development costs. The goodwill recognised represents early-stage intangible development costs that do not 
qualify for separate recognition as set out in the table below. 

Assets acquired and liabilities assumed
Intangible development assets
Inventories
Trade and other receivables
Cash
Trade and other payables
Deferred tax liability (note 10)

Total net assets acquired
Goodwill

Cash consideration

Fair value at 
1 September 
2022
£m

104.4
3.0
20.3
11.5
(3.5)
(27.0)

108.7
410.8

519.5

Triton Power – 50% joint venture acquisition
On 1 September 2022, the Group announced that SSE Thermal and Equinor had completed the acquisition of Triton Power Holdings 
Limited from Energy Capital Partners for headline consideration of £341m shared equally. The headline consideration included £96m of 
loans which were settled on completion of the transaction and replaced with shareholder loans of £48.0m each from SSE and Equinor. 
The Group’s share of the cash consideration paid for the equity investment was therefore £123.2m after completion adjustments. Triton 
Power operates the 1.2GW Saltend Power Station in the Humber along with two smaller plants, Indian Queens Power Station, a 140MW 
OCGT in Cornwall, and Deeside Power Station, a decommissioned CCGT in north Wales. The acquisition will strengthen SSE’s existing 
collaboration with Equinor and will support the long-term decarbonisation of the UK’s power system and contribute to security of supply 
and grid stability. An exceptional gain on acquisition of £140.7m was recognised at 30 September 2022 based on movements in the 
underlying fair value of assets between agreeing and completing the transaction. During the second half of the financial year a fair value 
exercise and impairment review have been completed which resulted in an impairment loss of £291.6m and a £172.0m gain on financial 
instruments (net of tax) being recognised. 

The joint venture contributed £210.2m to operating profit before exceptional items, but including £10.0m charge for fair value 
adjustments, in the year to 31 March 2023 on an equity accounted basis.

Other asset acquisitions
During the year ended 31 March 2023, the Group made other smaller asset acquisitions (of special purpose vehicles as opposed to 
businesses) for cash consideration of £19.8m and deferred consideration of £34.9m (2022: £4.0m cash consideration). The total cash 
consideration for business combinations of £642.7m (2022: £141.3m) is included in the Group’s Adjusted investment, capital and 
acquisition metric.

240

SSE plc  Annual Report 2023

SSE plc  Annual Report 2023

241

Financial StatementsStrategic ReportDirectors’ ReportNotes to the consolidated financial statements continued
For the year ended 31 March 2023

12. Acquisitions and disposals continued
12.1 Acquisitions continued
Prior year acquisitions
Acquisition of 80% equity interest in Japanese offshore wind development platform
On 29 October 2021 the Group completed the acquisition of an 80% equity interest in an offshore wind development platform based in 
Japan from Pacifico Energy and its affiliates for $193m USD upfront cash consideration and a further $30m USD deferred consideration 
subject to a number of conditions.

Acquisition costs of £7.2m were expensed to operating costs in the prior year. The subsidiaries acquired had nil revenue and contributed a 
loss of £0.1m to the consolidated result of the Group for the year ended 31 March 2022. The assets and liabilities acquired largely comprise 
tangible and intangible assets, being windfarm site development costs and goodwill as set out in the table below. The non-controlling 
interest acquired was measured at fair value, where fair value represented the non-controlling interest’s proportionate share of the assets 
and liabilities acquired through the transaction. 

Assets acquired
Intangible development assets
Cash
Other assets

Total net assets acquired

Non-controlling interest
Goodwill

Cash consideration
Deferred consideration

Fair value at 
29 October 2021
£m

20.5
4.3
0.4

25.2

(40.6)
176.7

161.3

141.3
20.0

161.3

12.2 Disposals 
(i) Significant disposals
Current year disposals
During the year the Group recognised a gain of £868.3m within equity from the sale of a 25% non-controlling equity stake in its SSEN 
Transmission business (being the company Scottish Hydro Electric Transmission plc) and an exceptional income statement gain of 
£89.1m from the disposal of the Fiddlers Ferry site. 

25% non-controlling equity stake in Scottish Hydro Electric Transmission plc: On 25 November 2022, the Group announced it had 
agreed to sell a 25% non-controlling equity stake in Scottish Hydro Electric Transmission plc (‘SHET’) to Ontario Teachers Pension Plan 
(‘OTPP’) for cash consideration of £1,465.0m, less transactions costs of £16.9m. The transaction completed on 30 November 2022, at 
which time the consolidated carrying value of SHET’s net assets was £2,319.3m. Since the transaction did not result in a loss of control,  
the Group recognised a gain of £868.3m within equity attributable to owners of the parent company. The Group considered the rights  
and obligations and operating protocols arising from the disposal and has determined that the non-controlling interest in SHET has the 
characteristics of equity and has classified the non-controlling interest as such. 

Carrying value of non-controlling interests disposed
Cash consideration paid by non-controlling interest holder
Transaction costs

Excess of consideration received recognised in equity

Details regarding SHET’s principal activity and country of incorporation are included in A3 .

SHET’s summary financial information is as follows:

Non-current assets
Current assets
Current liabilities
Non-current liabilities

30 November 
2022
£m

(579.8)
1,465.0
(16.9)

868.3

31 March 
2023
£m

4,907.1
16.5
(370.3)
(2,909.4)

1,643.9

30 November 
2022
£m

4,717.0
2.0
(384.3)
(2,795.4)

1,539.3

Revenue
Operating profit
Net finance costs 
Profit before taxation
Taxation

Profit after taxation

1 April 2022 to 
25 November 
2022 
£m

26 November 
2022 to 
31 March 2023
£m

435.4
274.5
(31.7)
242.8
(59.1)

183.7

220.4
131.0
(14.9)
116.1
(19.6)

96.5

Total
£m

655.8
405.5
(46.6)
358.9
(78.7)

280.2

The summary financial information provided above is presented without Group eliminations, including £780.0m of internal loans and 
related interest of £6.5m which have been eliminated to calculate the gain on partial disposal and the non-controlling interest for 
adjusted profit.

Net profit 
add/(less):
Interest elimination
Current taxation on interest elimination
Deferred taxation

Adjusted net profit attributable to 25% non-controlling interests

26 November 2022 
to 31 March 2023
£m

96.5

6.5
(1.1)
16.5

118.4

29.6

Fiddler’s Ferry land sale: On 30 June 2022, the Fiddlers Ferry site was sold to Peel NRE Developments Limited for cash proceeds of 
£60m. The Group released decommissioning provision related to the site, which resulted in an exceptional gain on disposal of £89.1m.

Prior year disposals
Sale of investment in SSE Contracting: On 30 June 2021, the Group completed the sale of its Contracting and Rail business to the 
Aurelius Group for headline consideration of £22.5m and £5m of contingent consideration, based on earning targets within the business. 
Due to working capital movements in the business subsequent to the transaction agreement, cash consideration received was £0.2m. 
The Group recorded an exceptional loss on disposal of £18.9m in the year of completion, in addition to the exceptional impairment  
loss of £51.2m recognised during the year ended 31 March 2021. A further impairment of £6.5m has been recognised in the year ended 
31 March 2023 in relation to receivables previously recognised on disposal.

Sale of stake in Dogger Bank C: On 10 February 2022, SSE completed the sale of a 10% stake in Dogger Bank C to Eni for consideration 
of £70.0m and contingent consideration of up to £40m, resulting in a non-exceptional gain on disposal of £64.3m. The gain was 
recognised within the adjusted profit of the Group in line with the Group’s stated policy in relation to developer gains on disposal of 
divestments in early-stage offshore windfarms (see note 3.2). After the sale the Group’s shareholding in Dogger Bank C was 40%.

Other disposals: On 19 August 2021 the Group received a dividend of £4.8m following the sale of Smarter Grid Solutions by the 
Environmental Energies Fund Limited, resulting in a non-exceptional gain on sale of £2.8m.

Sale of discontinued operations
Sale of investment in SGN: On 2 August 2021, the Group announced it had agreed to sell its 33.3% investment in SGN to a consortium 
comprising existing SGN shareholders Ontario Teachers’ Pension Plan Board and Brookfield Super-Core Infrastructure Partners for cash 
consideration of £1,225m. The agreement was conditional on certain regulatory approvals and completed on 22 March 2022, with an 
exceptional gain on disposal of £576.5m recognised.

Sale of investment in Gas Production: On 14 October 2021, the Group completed the sale of its Gas Production business to Viaro Energy 
through its subsidiary RockRose Energy Limited. In the period to 14 October 2021, the Gas Production business had an operating profit 
(recognised in discontinued operations) of £101.4m. The Group recorded an impairment of £120.8m to reduce the carrying value of the 
assets and liabilities to the fair value less costs to sell prior to completion of the disposal. The impairment charge of £120.8m included a 
provision for indemnified tax liabilities of £35.0m, which was released in the year to 31 March 2023 as noted at 7.1(vii).

242

SSE plc  Annual Report 2023

SSE plc  Annual Report 2023

243

Financial StatementsStrategic ReportDirectors’ Report 
Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued
For the year ended 31 March 2023

12. Acquisitions and disposals continued
12.2 Disposals continued
(ii) Disposal reconciliation
The following table summarises disposals of subsidiaries, businesses and assets during the financial year, including other assets and 
investments disposed of as part of the normal course of business but before recognition of impairment charges in the year, which are 
noted in the relevant respective notes to the financial statements. 

Net assets disposed:
Property, plant and equipment
Intangible and biological assets
Investments and loans – joint ventures
Other investments
Deferred tax asset
Inventories
Trade and other receivables
Trade and other payables
Provisions
Loans and borrowings

Net assets

Proceeds of disposal:
Consideration
Provision recognised on disposal
Costs of disposal

Net proceeds

Recycle of amounts recognised in hedge reserve

Gain on disposal

Presentation:
Continuing operations
Income statement exceptional gain/(loss)
Income statement non-exceptional credit 

Discontinuing operations
Income statement exceptional credit

SSE Group

Net proceeds of disposal 
Recycle of amounts recognised in hedge reserve
Provision recognised on disposal
Costs of disposal
Deferred consideration

Net cash proceeds

2023  
£m

2022 
£m

24.1
–
–
–
–
–
–
–
(88.2)
–

(64.1)

60.0
–
–

60.0

–

124.1

89.1
–

89.1

35.0

124.1

2023
£m

60.0
–
–
–
–

60.0

105.1
28.4
662.5
2.0
14.8
6.9
28.5
(33.2)
(159.8)
(0.8)

654.4

1,372.1
(35.0)
(29.8)

1,307.3

(28.2)

624.7

(18.9)
67.1

48.2

576.5

624.7

2022
£m

1,279.1
28.2
35.0
29.8
(5.2)

1,366.9

Plus net cash proceeds from sale of non-controlling interest in SHET

Net cash proceeds

1,448.1

–

1,508.1

1,366.9

12.3 Discontinued operations
The discontinued operations represented the Group’s investment in SGN, which was disposed on 22 March 2022 and the Group’s 
investment in Gas Production assets, which was sold on 14 October 2021. The profit/(loss) of the discontinued operation is as follows:

Before 
exceptional 
items and 
certain 
re-
measurements
£m

2023

Exceptional 
items and 
certain 
re-
measurements 
£m

Before 
exceptional 
items and 
certain 
re-
measurements 
£m

2022

Exceptional 
items and 
certain 
re-
measurements
£m

Total
£m

–
–

–
–

–

–
–
–
–
–

–

–
–
–

–

–

–

–
–

–
–

–

–
–
–
–
–

–

–
–
–

–

–
–

–
–

–

–
–
–
–
–

–

–
–
–

–

35.0

35.0

35.0

35.0

142.0
(38.9)

103.1
(1.7)

101.4

21.0
(11.1)
–
(1.7)

8.2

109.6
6.8
(0.1)

116.3

–

116.3

–
–

–
(120.8)

(120.8)

–
–
(4.6)
(84.7)

(89.3)

(210.1)
–
–

(210.1)

576.5

366.4

Total
£m

142.0
(38.9)

103.1
(122.5)

(19.4)

21.0
(11.1)
(4.6)
(86.4)

(81.1)

(100.5)
6.8
(0.1)

(93.8)

576.5

482.7

Revenue 
Cost of sales 

Gross profit
Operating costs

Operating profit/(loss) before joint ventures

Joint ventures
Share of operating profit
Share of interest
Share of movement on derivatives
Share of tax

Share of profit/(loss) on joint ventures

Operating profit/(loss)
Finance income
Finance costs

Profit/(loss) for the year

Profit on disposal of discontinued operations

Profit from discontinued operations, net of tax

Other comprehensive income from discontinued operations

Items that will be reclassified subsequently to profit or loss:
Share of other comprehensive gain/(loss) of joint ventures and associates, net of taxation
Items that will not be reclassified to profit or loss:
Share of other comprehensive (loss)/income of joint ventures, net of taxation

Other comprehensive loss from discontinued operations

Cashflows from discontinued operations

Cashflows from operating activities
Cashflows from investing activities

Net (decrease)/increase in cash and cash equivalents in discontinued operations

2023
£m

2022
£m

–

–

–

2023
£m

–
–

–

0.5

(1.7)

(1.2)

2022
£m

11.6
(11.6)

–

244

SSE plc  Annual Report 2023

SSE plc  Annual Report 2023

245

Financial StatementsStrategic ReportDirectors’ ReportNotes to the consolidated financial statements continued
For the year ended 31 March 2023

Goodwill
£m

Allowances and 
Certificates 
£m

Development
assets
£m

Other 
intangibles
£m

Software  
Assets
£m

13. Intangible assets

Cost:
At 31 March 2021
Additions
Acquired through business combinations
Transfer (to)/from property plant and 

equipment (note 14)

Disposals/utilised
Exchange adjustments

At 31 March 2022

Additions
Acquired through business combinations
Transfer (to)/from property plant and 

equipment (note 14)

Disposals/utilised
Exchange adjustments

At 31 March 2023

Aggregate amortisation and impairment:
At 31 March 2021
Charge for the year
Disposals/utilised
Non-exceptional impairment charge(i)

At 31 March 2022

Charge for the year
Transfer from property plant and 

equipment (note 14)

Disposals/utilised
Non-exceptional impairment charge(i)

At 31 March 2023

Carrying amount:
At 31 March 2023

At 31 March 2022

At 1 April 2021

522.1
–
176.7

–
–
6.1

704.9

–
410.8

–
–
34.8

1,150.5

(192.9)
–
–
–

(192.9)

–

–
–
–

602.4
544.5
–

–
(459.8)
(0.3)

686.8

805.2
–

–
(810.1)
0.5

682.4

(227.5)
–
–
–

(227.5)

–

–
–
–

303.5
80.5
21.1

(40.4)
(9.8)
(0.5)

354.4

235.9
104.4

(2.6)
(18.4)
7.9

681.6

(158.4)
–
5.1
–

(153.3)

–

–
–
(4.2)

(192.9)

(227.5)

(157.5)

(114.9)

(606.0)

(1,298.8)

957.6

512.0

329.2

454.9

459.3

374.9

524.1

201.1

145.1

1.0

1.3

2.8

477.6

413.4

364.2

2,415.2

1,587.1

1,216.2

(i)  The non-exceptional impairments in both years relate to assets where future development became uncertain or untenable in the year. The impairment of these 

items does not meet the Group’s definition of an exceptional item, therefore they are included in the adjusted and reported results of the Group.

Intangible assets have been analysed as current and non-current as follows:

Current
Non-current

2023
£m

454.9
1,960.3

2,415.2

2022
£m

459.3
1,127.8

1,587.1

(113.1)
(1.5)
–
–

(114.6)

(0.3)

–
–
–

(480.1)
(43.9)
26.7
(1.5)

(498.8)

(54.3)

(41.6)
3.3
(14.6)

(1,172.0)
(45.4)
31.8
(1.5)

(1,187.1)

(54.6)

(41.6)
3.3
(18.8)

Total
£m

2,388.2
722.7
197.8

(40.4)
(499.4)
5.3

2,774.2

1,173.4
515.2

42.9
(834.9)
43.2

(i) Goodwill
At inception, goodwill arising from business combinations is allocated to cash-generating units (CGUs) or groups of CGUs for 
impairment testing purposes. Certain goodwill valuations have changed in the current year following retranslation. Commentary on  
the impairment testing of the related CGUs, with the exception of two historic balances totalling £8.2m, is included in note 15.

A summary of the goodwill allocated to CGUs and the Group’s operating segments is presented below:

CGU group

Operating Segment

Great Britain and Ireland windfarms1
SSE Pacifico2
SSE Southern Europe3
Energy Solutions4 
Ireland Supply5

SSE Renewables
SSE Renewables
SSE Renewables
GB Business Energy & Distributed Energy
SSE Airtricity

2023
£m

292.3
196.0
428.7
32.4
8.2

957.6

2022
£m

286.2
185.2
–
32.4
8.2

512.0

1  Following the acquisition of the SGRE platform (see note 12.1), the Group performed a review of the CGUs within its Renewables business and assessed that 

‘Onshore windfarms’ and ‘Offshore windfarms’ no longer represents the appropriate level of aggregation for the purposes of impairment testing. Following the 
review, the ‘Great Britain’ and ‘Ireland’ CGUs now support the goodwill balance previously attributed to the Onshore and Offshore windfarm CGUs.

2  Relates to the acquisition of an 80% equity interest in an offshore wind development platform from Pacifico Energy.
3  SSE Southern Europe relates to the acquisition on 1 September 2022 of the SGRE renewable platform in Spain, France, Greece and Italy (see note 12.1). The Group 

115.9
–
–

–
–
–

115.9

–
–

–
–
–

844.3
97.7
–

–
(29.8)
–

912.2

132.3
–

45.5
(6.4)
–

115.9

1,083.6

3,714.0

has assessed that the four CGUs support the carrying value of the goodwill related to the acquisition. 

4  Energy Solutions includes goodwill balances arising from the historic acquisitions of The Energy Solutions Group Limited (TESGL) of £31.7m (2022: £31.7m and a 

further £0.7m (2022: £0.7m) in relation to the acquisition of Fusion Heating Limited. The amount of goodwill associated with the historic businesses is not significant 
in context of the aggregate carrying value of the business units or the aggregate value of goodwill held by the Group.

5  The value associated with the Ireland supply goodwill represents the difference between the fair value attributed to the Northern Ireland based Phoenix Energy 

business acquired in 2012 and the book value of those assets. No impairment has been recognised during the year on this balance.

(ii) Allowances and certificates
Allowances and Certificates consist of purchased carbon emissions allowances and generated or purchased renewable obligations 
certificates (ROCs). These allowances and certificates will be utilised in settlement of environmental obligations incurred by the Group’s 
Thermal and GB Business Energy supply business and are therefore distinct from allowances and certificates held in excess of the 
Group’s environmental obligations which are recorded within inventories.

(iii) Development assets 
Development costs primarily relate to the design, construction and testing of Thermal, Renewable and Solar and Battery assets,  
which the Group believes will generate probable future economic benefits. Costs capitalised as development intangibles include  
options over land rights, planning application costs, environmental impact studies and other costs incurred in bringing windfarms and 
other development projects to the consented stage. These may be costs incurred directly or at a cost as part of the fair value attribution 
on acquisition. 

At the point the development reaches the consent stage and is approved for construction, the carrying value is transferred to property, 
plant and equipment (note 14). At the point a project is no longer expected to reach the consented stage, the carrying amount of the 
project is impaired.

(iv) Other intangible assets
Included within other intangible assets are brands, customer lists and contracts.

No exceptional or non-exceptional impairment charges have been recognised in the year (2022: £nil). 

(v) Software assets
Software assets include application software license fees, software development work, software upgrades and purchased PC 
software packages.

246

SSE plc  Annual Report 2023

SSE plc  Annual Report 2023

247

Financial StatementsStrategic ReportDirectors’ ReportNotes to the consolidated financial statements continued
For the year ended 31 March 2023

14. Property, plant and equipment

Thermal 
power 
generation 
assets(iii)
£m

Renewable 
power 
generation 
assets(iii)
£m

Distribution 
network 
assets
£m

Transmission 
network assets
£m

Land and 
buildings
£m

Assets under 
construction
£m

Other 
assets(iii)
£m

Total
£m

Cost:
At 31 March 2021 restated(i)

Additions(ii)
Adjustment to decommissioning 

asset(i)

Transfer from intangible assets 

(note 13)

Transfer from assets under 

construction

Disposals(i) 
Exchange rate adjustments

3,814.5

4,548.3

9,075.7

4,556.4

–

–

76.3

30.4

88.5

–

–

–

–

21.8
–
(3.6)

75.8
(18.5)
(8.1)

347.6
–
–

3.6

–

–

550.5
–
–

At 31 March 2022 restated(i)

3,863.1

4,686.0

9,499.6

5,110.5

Additions
Adjustment to decommissioning 

asset

Transfer (to)/from intangible 

assets (note 13)(iv)

Transfer from assets under 

construction

Disposals 
Exchange rate adjustments

–

–

95.8

(11.1)

(89.5)

–

–

–

–

433.8
(638.9)
24.6

22.5
(4.8)
38.5

402.3
–
–

–

–

–

531.6
–
–

527.9

41.1

–

–

(0.9)
(13.8)
(0.2)

554.1

45.4

–

–

4.8
(13.5)
0.6

665.5

1,392.3

24,580.6

1,214.3

44.2

1,379.5

–

28.3

147.2

40.4

–

40.4

(1,058.6)
(7.8)
(0.2)

63.8
(105.7)
(0.6)

–
(145.8)
(12.7)

853.6

1,422.3

25,989.2

1,323.5

35.4

1,500.1

–

(44.9)

(145.5)

2.6

(45.5)

(42.9)

(1,412.5)
(0.1)
1.6

17.5
(40.2)
2.7

–
(697.5)
68.0

At 31 March 2023

3,671.5

4,652.7

9,997.7

5,642.1

591.4

768.7

1,347.3

26,671.4

Depreciation:
At 31 March 2021 restated(i)

Charge for the year
Impairments reversals (note 7);(v)
Non-exceptional impairment 

charges(v)

Disposals
Exchange rate adjustments

(3,270.5)

(1,776.2)

(4,199.7)

(681.3)

(208.7)

(18.3)

(1,171.6)

(11,326.3)

(65.3)
331.6

(158.3)
–

(156.4)
–

(90.5)
–

(17.2)
–

–
–
(0.2)

–
18.7
0.2

(20.7)
–
–

–
–
–

–
1.9
–

–
–

1.0
6.5
–

(57.7)
97.9

–
49.6
8.8

(545.4)
429.5

(19.7)
76.7
8.8

At 31 March 2022 restated(i)

(3,004.4)

(1,915.6)

(4,376.8)

(771.8)

(224.0)

(10.8)

(1,073.0)

(11,376.4)

Charge for the year
Impairment reversals (note 7)(v)
Non-exceptional 

impairment charges(v)

Transfer to intangible assets  

(note 13)(iv)

Transfers
Disposals
Exchange rate adjustments

At 31 March 2023

Net book value

At 31 March 2023

(106.3)
17.8

(153.9)
–

(163.2)
–

(97.7)
–

(17.0)
–

(10.6)

(12.5)

–
4.1
612.8
(11.1)

–
–
3.1
(16.4)

–

2.3
–
–
–

–

–
–
–
–

(1.0)

–
–
5.5
(0.6)

–
–

(0.3)

6.0
(4.1)
–
(0.2)

(67.6)
45.7

(605.7)
63.5

(0.7)

(25.1)

33.3
–
35.6
(2.1)

41.6
–
657.0
(30.4)

(2,497.7)

(2,095.3)

(4,537.7)

(869.5)

(237.1)

(9.4)

(1,028.8)

(11,275.5)

At 31 March 2022 restated(i)

858.7

2,770.4

5,122.8

At 1 April 2021 restated(i)

544.0

2,772.1

4,876.0

1,173.8

2,557.4

5,460.0

4,772.6

4,338.7

3,875.1

354.3

330.1

319.2

759.3

842.8

647.2

318.5

15,395.9

349.3

14,612.8

220.7

13,254.3

(iii)  Thermal and Renewable generation assets include generation plant and machinery and related land and buildings. The net book value of power generation assets, 

renewables and thermal includes decommissioning costs with a net book value of £89.6m and £88.6m (2022: £183.5m and £127.0m) respectively. Additionally in 
Other assets is £55.5m in relation to decommissioning costs for Gas Storage assets (2022: £128.0m).

(iv)  Represents the carrying value of development assets transferred from intangible assets (note 13) which have reached the consent stage and have been approved 

for construction.

(v)  Impairment reversals relate to exceptional impairment reversals of £17.8m in relation to the Group’s Great Island CCGT plant and £45.7m relating to the Group’s 

gas storage operations at Aldbrough (see note 7) and non-exceptional impairments of £25.1m. (2022: exceptional impairment reversals of £429.5m and 
non-exceptional impairments of £19.7m).

(vi)  The disposals in the current year primarily relate to the decommissioning asset in relation Fiddlers Ferry land sale, see note 7 for details.

Included within property, plant and equipment are the following right of use assets for leased assets:

Cost
At 31 March 2021

Additions
Disposals

At 31 March 2022

Additions
Disposals

At 31 March 2023

Depreciation
At 31 March 2021

Charge for the year
Disposals
Impairment reversal

At 31 March 2022

Charge for the year
Disposals
Impairment reversal

At 31 March 2023

Net book value
At 31 March 2023

At 31 March 2022

At 1 April 2021

Thermal  
power 
generation 
assets
£m

Land and 
buildings 
£m

Distribution 
network assets 
£m

369.6

–
–

369.6

–
–

369.6

(272.5)

(15.1)
–
54.0

(233.6)

(18.5)
–
–

(252.1)

117.5

136.0

97.1

171.2

40.6
(8.7)

203.1

45.4
(1.0)

247.5

(21.6)

(10.6)
1.1
–

(31.1)

(11.9)
0.3
(0.5)

(43.2)

204.3

172.0

149.6

12.2

–
–

12.2

–
–

12.2

(2.6)

(2.2)
–
–

(4.8)

(7.4)
–
–

(12.2)

–

7.4

9.6

Other  
assets
£m

118.4

45.1
(67.8)

95.7

33.1
(12.9)

115.9

(49.1)

(18.9)
31.7
–

(36.3)

(19.8)
12.2
–

(43.9)

72.0

59.4

69.3

Total
£m

671.4

85.7
(76.5)

680.6

78.5
(13.9)

745.2

(345.8)

(46.8)
32.8
54.0

(305.8)

(57.6)
12.5
(0.5)

(351.4)

393.8

374.8

325.6

15. Impairment testing 
Goodwill and intangible assets that are not amortised are reviewed at least annually for impairment. Property, plant and equipment, 
investments and other intangibles are assessed annually for impairment (or impairment reversal) triggers. 

The Group’s accounting policies and methodologies for impairment testing are described at Accompanying Information sections A1.2 .

The key operating and valuation assumptions, specific considerations and outcome of tests for all impairment reviews are noted in the 
following sections. The discount rates used are pre-tax real, except where noted, and reflect specific risks attributable to the relevant 
assets subject to impairment review. The discount rates applied in both 2023 and 2022 remain consistent across all CGUs, except where 
noted, reflecting the Group’s view of cost of capital and risk. The recoverable amounts derived from the VIU or FVLCS calculations are 
compared to the carrying amount of each asset or CGU to determine whether an impairment charge requires to be recognised. The 
reviews carried out for the 2023 financial statements were carried out in the fourth quarter of the year, which is consistent with previous 
reviews. Note that the actual outcomes may differ from the assumptions included in the assessments at the balance sheet date.

(i) 

In the financial statements to 31 March 2022 the primary categories of assets in the property, plant and equipment note were reclassified within the asset classes. In the 
year ended 31 March 2023 the Group identified that the cost and accumulated depreciation of certain assets were not appropriately allocated as part of this reallocation. 
As a consequence, the cost and accumulated depreciation of the affected asset classes as at 31 March 2021 and as at 31 March 2022 have been restated compared to 
the amounts previously presented in the year ended 31 March 2022 financial statements. The Renewables power generation cost, accumulated depreciation and net 
book value at 31 March 2021 and 31 March 2022 has been reduced by £1,173.7m, £1,012.0m and £161.7m respectively, offset by increases in Thermal power generation  
of £1,045.7m, £1,012.0m and £33.7m (2021: £1,056.2m, £1,012.0m and £44.2m). Other assets cost has been increased by £128.0m (2021: £117.5m), accumulated 
depreciation by nil (2021: nil) and net book value by £128.0m (2021: £117.5m). There is no impact on the Group’s aggregate property, plant and equipment as at 
31 March 2021 and 2022, and no impact on the depreciation charged during either year, as a result of these reclassifications. 

(ii)   As a result of the adoption of the amendment to IAS 16, the additions to assets under construction for the year ended 31 March 2022 have been reduced by £5.9m.

248

SSE plc  Annual Report 2023

SSE plc  Annual Report 2023

249

Financial StatementsStrategic ReportDirectors’ ReportNotes to the consolidated financial statements continued
For the year ended 31 March 2023

15. Impairment testing continued
15.1 Goodwill impairment reviews – CGUs testing 
Following the acquisition of the Southern Europe wind and solar platform from Siemens Gamesa Renewable Energy, the Group has 
determined that it has three goodwill balances within its SSE Renewables business (GB and Ireland, SSE Southern Europe and SSE 
Pacifico) that are subject to annual goodwill impairment reviews. In addition, the Group has a legacy goodwill balance within the SSE 
Enterprise Energy Solutions business. The recoverable amounts of the CGUs supporting the goodwill balances are determined by 
reference to value-in-use (‘VIU’) calculations. The VIU calculations use, as a starting point, pre-tax cash flow projections based on the 
Group’s five year Corporate Model as approved by the Board. The Group’s Corporate Model is based both on past experience and 
reflects the Group’s forward view of markets, prices, risks and its strategic objectives. Commodity prices used are based on observable 
market data and, where this is not available, on internal estimates.

Cash flow period 
assumption

Period to end of life 
of portfolio assets

Assets/CGUs

Great Britain 
(GB) and 
Ireland 
windfarm 
CGUs

Operating and other valuation assumptions 

Commentary and impairment conclusions

Modelling methodology and assumptions
The VIU assessment is used to test the 
carrying value of £292.3m of goodwill 
related to the Group’s GB and Ireland 
windfarm CGUs. The assessment is based on 
the discounted pre-tax cash flows expected 
to be generated by the specific wind farm 
assets included in the CGU across the 
remaining useful lives of those assets. 

The GB and Ireland CGU includes cashflows 
for operational assets only, being over 50 
individual windfarms across Great Britain  
and the Island of Ireland, given the risk and 
uncertainty associated with projects in the 
development stage. Significant developments 
at Viking, Seagreen and Doggerbank are 
currently under construction and continue  
to be excluded from the analysis.

Cash inflows for the CGUs are based on the 
expected average annual generation output 
based on technical assessment and past 
experience and are valued based on forward 
power prices. These factors are subject to 
management review on an annual basis. The 
prices applied to projected outputs are based 
either on observable market information 
during that period, which is deemed to be 3 
years, or on internal estimations beyond the 
observable market period (a Level 3 basis as 
defined by IFRS 13 Fair Value Measurement). 
The projections are also dependent on the 
UK and Irish government’s continuing 
support for existing qualifying wind assets 
through CFD subsidies and ROCs or REFIT. 
Cash outflows are based on planned and 
expected maintenance profiles and other 
capital or replacement costs. 

The cash flow projections are based on UK 
and Irish power prices between £55 - £169 
per MWh and have been discounted applying 
a pre-tax real discount rate between 6.9%  
for GB and 5.8% for Ireland (2022: between 
5.1% and 6.0%) based on technology and 
market risks.

Impairment conclusion 
The recoverable amount of the GB and Ireland 
CGUs at 31 March 2023 is significantly in excess  
of the carrying value of the goodwill and tangible 
and intangible assets attributed to the CGUs. 
Therefore, no impairment has been recognised.

Sensitivity analysis 
The principal assumptions impacting the valuation 
model of the GB and Ireland CGU are discount 
rate, generation volume and electricity price. 

While cash flow projections are subject to inherent 
uncertainty, a 10% power price decrease and a 15% 
decrease in projected generation volumes were 
modelled, both of which indicated significant 
headroom on the carrying value of the assets.  
The 8% volume sensitivity is based on the Group’s 
assessment of the climate related risk to future 
volume reduction, as set out in the Group’s TCFD 
disclosures. A 0.5% increase in the pre-tax real 
discount rate to 9.8% for GB and 8.74% for Ireland, 
also indicated significant headroom on the 
carrying value of the assets.

TCFD related sensitivity analysis 
A significant increase in renewable generation 
capacity in the Group’s core markets could result 
in an oversupply of renewable electricity at a point 
in the future, which would lead to a consequential 
decrease in the power price achievable for the 
Group’s GB and Ireland wind generation assets.  
A downside power price sensitivity, which may 
arise in a market with significant new build was 
modelled. This scenario indicated that, despite  
a modelled 15% reduction in forecast power  
price, there remained significant headroom on  
the carrying value in the Group’s GB and Ireland 
wind generation assets.

Changes to weather patterns resulting from global 
warming could result in calmer weather patterns, 
which would reduce volumes achievable for the 
Group’s GB and Ireland wind generation assets 
(although noting that this would likely lead to 
capacity constraints and hence higher prices). 
Despite an 8% reduction in modelled projected 
volume, there remained significant headroom on 
the carrying value in the Group’s GB and Ireland 
wind generation assets. The TCFD Variable wind 
generation risk scenario modelled the physical risk 
of average wind speed changes of 4% to 8% over 
the longer term, consistent with the impairment 
sensitivity performed.

Assets/CGUs

Cash flow period 
assumption

SSE Southern 
Europe

Period to end of life 
of portfolio assets

Operating and other valuation assumptions 

Commentary and impairment conclusions

Modelling methodology and assumptions
The VIU assessment is used to test the 
carrying value of £428.7m of goodwill and 
£116.1m of intangible development assets 
related to the Group’s Southern Europe 
windfarms for impairment. As the Southern 
Europe platform is in early-stage 
development, the assessment was based on 
the discounted pre-tax cash flows from the 
acquisition model updated to reflect changes 
to specific project circumstances and wider 
market developments since acquisition. 

Impairment conclusion 
The recoverable amount of the Southern Europe 
windfarm CGUs has been calculated at £591.7m 
and exceeds the carrying value of the goodwill  
and intangible development assets. Therefore, no 
impairment has been recognised at 31 March 2023.

Sensitivity analysis 
The principal assumptions impacting the valuation 
model of the Southern Europe windfarm CGU are 
discount rate, generation volume and development 
probability of success. 

While cash flow projections are subject to  
inherent uncertainty, a 10% reduction in 
generation volume was modelled which  
indicated continued headroom. 

A 5% reduction in the probability of success 
attributed to the development projects would 
result in marginal headroom on the carrying value. 

A 0.5% increase in the pre-tax real respective 
discount rates (Spain: 9.0% France: 9.4%, Italy:  
9.5% and Greece: 9.9%) indicated an impairment 
of £88.8m. An impairment would be recognised  
as a result of a 0.3% increase in the discount rate. 

Within the base case model the Group has 
assessed that many of the projects in the portfolio 
will obtain a revenue support contract. If this 
assumption were changed and the projects  
were developed on a merchant basis, the price 
assumptions applied in the model would increase 
and therefore headroom on the base case 
valuation would increase.

The Southern Europe CGU includes 
cashflows for early-stage development 
assets, being c65 individual windfarm 
projects across Spain, France, Italy and 
Greece. Due to the early stage nature of the 
portfolio, each project has been attributed a 
probability of development success.

Cashflows for the CGUs are based on the 
expected average annual generation output 
based on technical assessment valued using 
forward power price projections. These 
factors are subject to management review  
on an annual basis. The prices applied to 
projected outputs are based either on 
observable market information during that 
period, which is deemed to be 3 years, or on 
internal estimations beyond the observable 
market period (a Level 3 basis as defined by 
IFRS 13 Fair Value Measurement). Assumptions 
have also been made on the Spanish, French, 
Italian and Greek government’s support  
for the development of wind projects and 
expected governmental support under CFD 
subsides. Cash outflows are based on planned 
and expected maintenance profiles and other 
capital or replacement costs. 

The cash flow projections are based on 
European power prices between €33-€209 
per MWh and have been discounted applying 
a pre-tax real discount rate between 8.5% and 
9.5% based on technology and market risks.

250

SSE plc  Annual Report 2023

SSE plc  Annual Report 2023

251

Financial StatementsStrategic ReportDirectors’ ReportNotes to the consolidated financial statements continued
For the year ended 31 March 2023

15. Impairment testing continued
15.1 Goodwill impairment reviews – CGUs testing continued

Assets/CGUs

SSE Pacifico

Cash flow period 
assumption

Period to end of life 
of portfolio assets

5 years

Enterprise 
Energy 
Solutions

Operating and other valuation assumptions 

Commentary and impairment conclusions

Modelling methodology and assumptions
The VIU assessment is used to test the 
carrying value of £196m of goodwill and 
£30.8m of intangible development assets 
related to SSE Pacifico. SSE Pacifico is an 
early-stage Japanese offshore wind portfolio 
acquired on 29 October 2021. The Group is 
continuing to progress with the development, 
however all projects remain at an early stage. 
Therefore, the assessment was based on the 
discounted pre-tax cash flows from the 
acquisition model, updated to reflect changes 
to specific project circumstances and wider 
market developments since acquisition. 

Cash inflows for the CGU are based on  
the Group’s latest projections for expected 
average annual generation output based  
on technical modelling assessment and  
are valued based on the Group’s internal 
projections of forward power prices under 
revenue support contracts available in  
Japan. The projections are dependent  
on the Japanese government’s support  
for development of offshore wind projects. 
The Japanese government has published 
targets of 10GW of auctioned capacity by 
2030 and 30GW to 45GW of auctioned 
capacity by 2040. 

Impairment conclusion 
While the assessed VIU of £316.9m exceeds the 
carrying value at 31 March 2023, the early stage  
of the development investment means that the 
model is sensitive to changes in key assumptions. 
The Group’s base case model, reflecting the 
Group’s best estimate of observable inputs to  
the model, indicates headroom on the carrying 
value of the asset. Therefore, no impairment has 
been recognised at 31 March 2023.

Sensitivity analysis 
As noted above, the value in use model is sensitive 
to changes in key input assumptions. The principal 
assumptions impacting the valuation model of the 
SSE Pacifico CGU are: revenue support contract 
price; generation volumes; the proportion of 
external funding achievable; discount rate; and 
project probability of success. 

A 10% decrease in forecast power price to between 
¥13 - ¥25 per kWh under revenue support scheme 
results in an impairment of £179.1m. Similarly a  
10% reduction to generation volume results in an 
impairment of £179.1m. Similarly a 10% reduction 
to generation volume results in an impairment of 
£179.1m. An impairment would be recognised  
as a result of a 3.3% decrease in the price or 
volume assumptions. 

Cash outflows are based on planned and 
expected maintenance profiles and other 
capital or replacement costs.

A 5% decrease to the Group’s assumption on 
external funding proportion decreases the 
headroom to a marginal amount.

For the purposes of the impairment test,  
the VIU model includes cashflows for four 
early-stage offshore wind projects out of a 
total of 11 acquired by the Group.

The cash flow projections are based on 
Japanese power prices, per foundation type, 
between ¥15 - ¥28 per kWh and have been 
discounted applying a pre-tax real discount 
rate of 8.5% based on technology and  
market risks. The discount rate is based  
on assumptions of the capital cost of the 
project and the proportion of external 
project funding available in the local market. 

The Group has capitalised goodwill of 
£31.7m in relation to the acquisition of  
the Energy Solutions Group in 2016. The 
business designs, installs and optimises 
building management technologies which 
deliver efficient operating environments for 
its customers. 

The VIU of the business CGU has been based 
on a 5.6% (2022: 5.6%) pre-tax real discount 
rate, which is consistent with the prior year.

A 5% increase to the discount rate assumption on 
continues to result in headroom.

If project probability is decreased by 20% for the 
projects currently valued, there continues to be 
headroom on the carrying value of the assets. 
Similarly, if the portfolio is reduced from four 
projects to three, there continues to be headroom 
on the carrying value of the assets. 

Conclusion
At 31 March 2023, the impairment review indicates 
headroom on the carrying value. A decrease in 
forecast cashflows of 20% would result in a £5.1m 
impairment. An increase in the discount rate of 4% 
would result in an impairment of £10.4m. 

15.2 Property, plant and equipment, other intangibles and investment impairment reviews – asset testing 
Where an indicator of impairment exists, the recoverable amounts of the Group’s property, plant and equipment, other intangible  
assets and interests in joint ventures and associates are determined by reference to VIU or, where appropriate, fair value less costs to sell 
calculations. The calculations use, as their starting point, pre-tax cash flow projections based on the Group’s five year Corporate Model 
as approved by the Board. The Group’s Corporate Model is based on past experience and reflects the Group’s forward view of markets, 
prices, risks and its strategic objectives. Commodity prices used are based on observable market data and, where this is not available,  
on internal estimates. Fair value less costs to sell valuations are derived from market analysis for similar transactions, adjusted to specific 
circumstances of the Group’s investment to reflect the amount the Group believes will be recoverable in a sale transaction.

Changes from prior year
The assets identified for impairment reviews in the prior year (being GB CCGTs and the Great Island CCGTs) remained subject to 
impairment testing at 31 March 2023. In addition to these assets, the Group’s Gas Storage asset at Aldbrough displayed indicators of 
impairment reversal following improved financial performance during the year. This was mainly due to global gas price volatility during 
the year, with the asset providing opportunities for the Group to trade within this volatility. At 31 March 2022 the Group fully reversed the 
historic impairments previously recognised in relation to the Gas Storage asset at Atwick. Following its acquisition and revaluation in 
September 2022 and a strong financial contribution in the period to March 2023, the Group’s 50% joint venture investment in Triton 
Power displayed indicators of impairment at March 2023. Finally, the Group’s 50% joint venture investment in Neos Networks Limited 
displayed indicators of impairment following the loss of a major contract, subsequent to increases in the Group’s investment during the 
year.

Cash flow period 
assumption

Period to end 
of life

Assets

GB CCGTs 
(Keadby, 
Medway, 
Peterhead and 
Marchwood 
(PPA Right  
of use lease 
asset) power 
stations)

Operating and other valuation assumptions 

Commentary and impairment conclusions

Modelling methodology and assumptions
The VIU of the Group’s GB combined cycle 
gas turbine (‘CCGT’) power stations were 
based on pre-tax discounted cash flows 
expected to be generated by each plant,  
based on management’s view of operating 
prospects and operational flexibility within  
the GB wholesale market, including capacity 
market clearing prices. Cash flows are subject 
to a pre-tax real discount rate between 10.0% 
and 19.4% (2022: between 9.2% and 21.2%).

Changes from prior year
Certain assets within the Group’s GB CCGT 
fleet are nearing the end of their operational 
life and are therefore more sensitive to 
fluctuations in market assumptions. 

During the year, UK and European commodity 
markets have been volatile, resulting in an 
increase in Gas and Carbon prices feeding 
through to UK power prices. The UK market 
has also experienced periods where available 
generation capacity above demand has been 
reduced, which has also resulted in increased 
power prices. As a result, the observable spark 
margins assumed for the GB CCGT assets  
has increased and there has been strong 
operational performance of the assets.  
These factors were considered as a potential 
indicator of impairment in the impairment 
review at 31 March 2023.

Conclusion
At 31 March 2023 there were no historic impairments 
of the Group’s GB CCGT assets remaining to be 
reversed. The Group’s fair valuation exercise of the 
assets indicated significant headroom on the carrying 
value, therefore no impairment was recognised. 

Sensitivity analysis
A 20% decrease in gross margin would continue  
to result in significant headroom for each asset. A 
sensitivity on non-contracted capacity mechanism 
prices has not been performed as the assets subject to 
impairment testing are contracted into future periods. 

TCFD related sensitivity analysis – GB CCGTs
The future introduction of legislation restricting 
power generation from unabated gas fired power 
stations beyond 2030 has been identified as a 
potential risk the Group could be exposed to as the 
UK transitions to a net zero economy. However, this 
has not been treated as an indicator of impairment  
at 31 March 2023 as legislation has not been 
introduced or enacted by the balance sheet date. 

Most of the Group’s GB CCGTs are nearing the end  
of their economic life and are projected to cease 
operations before 2030. Of the Group’s GB CCGTs, 
Keadby 2 and Marchwood are projected to operate 
beyond this date. Keadby 2 and Marchwood are not 
displaying indicators of impairment and so have not 
been included in the impairment review above. If 
legislation was introduced requiring the closure of 
Keadby 2 and Marchwood by 2030, it would result  
in no impairment at 31 March 2023. Under the TCFD 
Accelerated Gas Closure risk scenario, the indicative 
potential present value of the future economic 
benefit lost from early closure of Keadby 2 and 
Marchwood by 2030 was in the range of £0.3bn 
–£0.4bn.

252

SSE plc  Annual Report 2023

SSE plc  Annual Report 2023

253

Financial StatementsStrategic ReportDirectors’ ReportCash flow period 
assumption

Operating and other valuation assumptions 

Commentary and impairment conclusions

Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued
For the year ended 31 March 2023

15. Impairment testing continued
15.2 Property, plant and equipment, other intangibles and investment impairment reviews – asset testing continued

Assets

Cash flow period 
assumption

Great Island 
CCGT

Period to end 
of life

Operating and other valuation assumptions 

Commentary and impairment conclusions

Modelling methodology and assumptions
The VIU of the Group’s Great Island CCGT 
Power station was based on pre-tax discounted 
cash flows expected to be generated by the 
plant based on management’s view of the 
plant’s operating prospects. Cash flows are 
subject to a pre-tax real discount rate of 12.4% 
(2022: 11.0%) reflecting the specific risks in the 
Irish market.

Conclusion
The VIU assessment performed on the asset indicated 
an impairment of £nil, at 31 March 2023. The Group 
recorded an exceptional impairment reversal of 
£17.8m at 30 September 2022 on its Great Island 
CCGT based on observable power prices at that  
date. This reversal represented a final full reversal  
of historical impairments. The carrying value of  
the Great Island asset at 31 March 2023 is £269.9m 
against an assessed recoverable value of £280.4m.

Assets

Gas Storage 
assets  
(Atwick and 
Aldbrough) 
continued

Investment in 
Triton Power 
Holdings 
Limited

Period to end 
of life

Sensitivity analysis
A 1% increase in the discount rate would result in an 
impairment of £9.6m. 

A 20% decrease in gross margin would result in an 
impairment of £77.8m. 

A €10/KW decrease in projected non-contracted 
capacity market prices would result in an impairment 
of £13.8m. 

TCFD related sensitivity analysis – Great Island 
CCGTs
The future introduction of legislation restricting power 
generation from unabated gas fired power stations 
beyond 2030 has been identified as a potential risk the 
Group could be exposed to as Ireland transitions to a 
net zero economy. However, this has not been treated 
as an indicator of impairment at 31 March 2023, as 
legislation has not been introduced or enacted by the 
balance sheet date. 

Great Island is projected to operate beyond this date, 
and so while legislation has not been introduced 
requiring the shortening of the economic life to this 
date, the Group has performed a sensitivity analysis  
to the impairment test noted above. If legislation was 
introduced requiring the closure of Great Island by 
2030, it would result in an impairment of £31.3m  
at 31 March 2023. Under the TCFD Accelerated Gas 
Closure risk scenario, the indicative potential present 
value of the future economic benefit lost from early 
closure of Great Island by 2030 was less than £0.04bn.

Conclusion
The VIU assessment performed on the assets 
indicated a net impairment reversal of £45.7m to 
Aldbrough. The Group’s Atwick site, which has no 
remaining historic impairments, indicated significant 
headroom on the fair value exercise performed as at 
31 March 2023. 

At 31 March 2023, the carrying value of Aldbrough is 
£92.6m and the carrying value of Atwick is £62.3m. 
Both carrying values represent the net book value of 
the storage assets and exclude the carrying value of 
cushion gas volumes. 

Gas Storage 
assets  
(Atwick and 
Aldbrough)

Period to end 
of life

The VIU of the Group’s Gas Storage assets  
at Aldbrough and Atwick were based on 
pre-tax discounted cash flows expected to  
be generated by the storage assets based on 
management’s view of the assets’ operating 
prospects. Cash flows are subject to a pre-tax 
real discount rate of 18.8% for Atwick and 
13.8% for Aldbrough reflecting risks specific  
to the assets.

254

SSE plc  Annual Report 2023

The key assumptions applied in the valuation 
of the assets are gas price volatility and the 
mean reversion rate (‘MRR’). The gas price 
volatility assumption reflects management’s 
view of price fluctuations between periods 
where the Group can purchase gas at a low 
price, store it and sell during periods of peak 
prices. The assumption is based on market 
observed volatility in the last five years and 
management’s view on projected volatility in 
future periods. MRR represents the time taken 
for the market to return to average after a 
period of increase or decline. The MRR 
combined with the volatility rate derives 
management’s fair value of the assets. 

The Group recorded an exceptional impairment 
reversal of £201.1m at 30 September 2022 on 
its Aldbrough asset based on observable gas 
price volatility and the MRR at that date. In the 
second half of the financial year, observable gas 
prices (and projected gas price volatility) have 
decreased, resulting in an impairment of 
£155.4m in the second half of the year.

Modelling methodology and assumptions
The Group has valued its 50% joint venture 
investment Triton Power Holdings Limited 
(‘Triton’) based on projected cashflows that 
will be derived from the investment on a VIU 
basis.

The VIU assessment of the Triton power 
stations (Saltend, Indian Queens and Deeside) 
were based on pre-tax discounted cash flows 
expected to be generated by each plant, based 
on management’s view of operating prospects 
and operational flexibility within the GB 
wholesale market, including capacity market 
clearing prices. Cash flows are subject to a 
pre-tax real discount rate of 9.7% (blended).

Sensitivity analysis – Atwick
Sensitivity analysis performed with high and low  
MRR assumptions indicated significant headroom  
on the carrying value of the asset. The low volatility 
assumption indicated an impairment of £46.6m.  
The Group has not recognised any impairment  
to the asset at 31 March 2023. 

Sensitivity analysis – Aldbrough
A sensitivity performed with a high volatility 
assumption would reduce the impairment recognised 
at 31 March 2023 from £155.4m to £69.1m (net 
impairment reversal for the full year of £132.0m).

A low volatility assumption would increase the 
impairment recognised at 31 March 2023 from 
£155.4m to £265.9m (net impairment for the full  
year of £64.8m). 

A high sensitivity of the MRR assumption (represents 
an increase in the rate by 1.0) would reduce the 
impairment recognised at 31 March 2023 from 
£155.4m to £109.2m (net impairment reversal  
for the full year of £91.9m). 

A low sensitivity of the MRR assumption (represents  
a decrease in the rate by 1.0) would increase the 
impairment recognised at 31 March 2023 from £155.4m 
to £214.8m (net impairment for the full year of £13.7m). 

Conclusion
The Group has assessed the investment for indicators 
of impairment. At 31 March 2023 an exceptional 
impairment of £291.6m has been recognised against 
the carrying value of the Group’s investment within 
operating costs. This impairment has been calculated 
following an exceptional gain on purchase of £140.7m 
being recognised within share of operating profit  
from joint ventures and associates, and the Group 
recognising a share of the movement in derivatives of 
£172.0m (net of tax) during the period (see note 7.1(iv) 
for a reconciliation of amounts recognised related to 
Triton Power). The post-tax contribution to SSE from 
Triton in the period to March 2023 from the JV was 
£210.2m, which was effectively the realisation of the 
gain on acquisition.

Following the impairment, the Group’s carrying value 
of equity investment is £253.9m.

Sensitivity analysis
A 1% increase in the discount rate would increase  
the impairment recognised at 31 March 2023 from 
£291.6m to £300.4m. A 1% decrease in the discount 
rate would reduce the impairment recognised from 
£291.6m to £281.9m.

A 20% increase in gross margin would result in reduce 
the impairment charge to £256.6m, and a 20% 
decrease in gross margin would increase the 
impairment to £326.8m. 

A £10/KW increase in non-contracted capacity 
market price would decrease the impairment charge 
to £273.1m and a £10/KW decrease would increase 
the impairment charge to £310.1m. 

SSE plc  Annual Report 2023

255

Financial StatementsStrategic ReportDirectors’ ReportNotes to the consolidated financial statements continued
For the year ended 31 March 2023

15. Impairment testing continued
15.2 Property, plant and equipment, other intangibles and investment impairment reviews – asset testing continued

16. Investments 
16.1 Joint Ventures and associates 

Cash flow period 
assumption

Operating and other valuation assumptions 

Commentary and impairment conclusions

Assets

Investment in 
Triton Power 
Holdings 
Limited 
continued

n/a

Investment  
in Neos  
Networks 
Limited

The Group has valued its 50% joint venture 
investment in Neos Networks Limited (‘NNL’) 
based on projected valuations that could be 
achieved in a market transaction, using 
earnings multiples observable from recent 
similar transactions. Due to the nature of the 
valuation technique, which was performed to 
approximate an achievable fair value less costs 
to sell, a wide range of valuations were derived 
from this exercise. The Group has used a point 
estimate valuation within the range of possible 
valuations based on earnings targets and 
earning multiples that the Group believes are 
achievable. The Group has assessed that this  
is a level 3 valuation in the fair value hierarchy, 
with the key inputs being EBITDA and the 
transaction multiple. 

TCFD related sensitivity analysis – Triton
The future introduction of legislation restricting 
power generation from unabated gas fired power 
stations beyond 2030 has been identified as a 
potential risk the Group could be exposed to as the  
UK transitions to a net zero economy. However, this 
has not been treated as an indicator of impairment at 
31 March 2023, as legislation has not been introduced 
or enacted by the balance sheet date. 

Triton is projected to operate beyond this date, and  
so while legislation has not been introduced requiring 
the shortening of the economic life to this date, the 
Group has performed a sensitivity analysis to the 
impairment test noted above. If legislation was 
introduced requiring the closure of Triton by 2030, it 
would result in an impairment of £76.5m at 31 March 
2023. Under the TCFD Accelerated Gas Closure risk 
scenario, the indicative potential lost discounted EBIT 
from early closure of Saltend by 2030 was less than 
£0.1bn.

Conclusion
The valuation exercise resulted in a wide range of 
reasonably probable valuations for the business from 
an impairment of £74.9m to headroom of £1.2m 
based on current contracts and probable contract 
wins. The business fundamentals remain strong and  
a change to the current client base would have an 
impact on this assessment. 

The Group has assessed that within this range of 
valuations, a point valuation resulting in an impairment 
of £37.7m best represents the recoverable value of the 
investment. 

Following the impairment, the Group’s carrying value 
of equity investment, shareholder loans and receivables 
due from NNL is £174.8m. 

Sensitivity analysis
Sensitivity analysis was performed in relation to  
the EBITDA and the multiple applied in deriving the 
valuation. A 10% increase in the EBITDA assumption 
would reduce the impairment to £20.2m, whereas a 
12% decrease in the EBITDA assumption would result 
in an impairment of £58.7m. 

A 10% decrease to the multiple assumption would 
result in an impairment of £56.1m, whereas a 10% 
increase to the multiple assumption would result in 
an impairment of £18.3m.

Share of net assets/cost

At 1 April
Additions 
Repayment of shareholder loans
Dividends received
Share of profit/(loss) after tax(i) – 

continuing operations

Share of profit/(loss) after tax – 

discontinued operations

Share of other comprehensive income
Disposals
Transfer – Loans to Equity
Impairments
Exchange rate adjustments

Equity
£m

1,239.5
263.6
–
(294.1)

663.6

–
342.4
(0.2)
50.0
(329.3)
1.5

2023

Loans
£m

736.9
489.7
(61.4)
–

Total
£m

1,976.4
753.3
(61.4)
(294.1)

Equity
£m

1,643.5
243.5
–
(177.0)

2022

Loans
£m

554.3
449.0
(147.6)
–

Total
£m

2,197.8
692.5
(147.6)
(177.0)

–

663.6

110.7

–

110.7

–
–
–
(50.0)
–
0.2

–
342.4
(0.2)
–
(329.3)
1.7

(81.1)
152.8
(545.7)
–
(106.9)
(0.3)

–
–
(118.8)
–
–
–

736.9

(81.1)
152.8
(664.5)
–
(106.9)
(0.3)

1,976.4

At 31 March

1,937.0

1,115.4

3,052.4

1,239.5

(i)  Of the £663.6m (2022: £110.7m) share of profits from continuing operations, only £662.3m (2022: £109.8m) is recognised through the income statement. The 
£1.3m (2022: £0.9m) difference relates to profits earned from SSE Group companies where the costs have been capitalised. This profit has been eliminated on 
consolidation.

(ii)  Impairments of £329.3m include charges of £291.6m in relation to the Group’s Triton joint venture, and £37.7m in relation to the Group’s investment in Neos 

Networks, of which £5.9m has been treated as exceptional and £31.8m has been treated as non-exceptional, see note 7.

16.2 Additions and disposals of equity in the current year
Additions in the year 
On 1 September 2022, the Group announced that SSE Thermal and Equinor had completed the acquisition of Triton Power Holdings 
Limited from Energy Capital Partners for total consideration of £341.0m shared equally. Further detail on the Group’s acquisitions in the 
year is provided in note 12.1.

Additionally the Group has provided equity and loans to its existing joint venture investments of £141.4m and £441.7m respectively, 
primarily in relation to Seagreen Wind Energy Limited, SSE Slough Multifuel Limited and Ossian Offshore Windfarm Limited.

Disposals of equity in the year 
There were no significant disposals of equity in the current year.

16.3 Acquisitions and disposals of equity in the previous year
Additions in the previous year arising on loss on control
There were no significant additions of equity in the prior year.

Disposals of equity in the previous year 
Sale of stake in Dogger Bank C: On 10 February 2022, SSE completed the sale of a 10% stake in Dogger Bank C to Eni for consideration of 
£70.0m and contingent consideration of up to £40.0m, resulting in a non-exceptional gain on disposal of £64.3m. The gain was recognised 
within the adjusted profit of the Group in line with the Group’s stated exceptional policy for gains on disposal of divestments in offshore 
windfarms (see note 3.2). After the sale the Group’s shareholding in Dogger Bank C is 40%.

Sale of investment in SGN: On 2 August 2021, the Group announced it had agreed to sell its 33.3% investment in SGN to a consortium 
comprising existing SGN shareholders Ontario Teachers’ Pension Plan Board and Brookfield Super-Core Infrastructure Partners for cash 
consideration of £1,225m. The agreement was conditional on certain regulatory approvals and completed on 22 March 2022, with the 
Group recognising an exceptional gain on disposal of £576.5m.

16.4 Principal joint ventures and associates
Under IFRS 12 Disclosure of Interests in Other Entities, the Group has evaluated the key joint ventures and associates it holds with the 
purpose of disclosing any which are materially significant in order to identify the impact on the Group’s financial position, performance 
and cash flows, whilst identifying the nature of the risks associated with these interests. A full listing of the Group’s incorporated joint 
ventures, joint operations, associates and investments are included in the Accompanying Information A3 .

256

SSE plc  Annual Report 2023

SSE plc  Annual Report 2023

257

Financial StatementsStrategic ReportDirectors’ ReportNotes to the consolidated financial statements continued
For the year ended 31 March 2023

16. Investments continued
16.4 Principal joint ventures and associates continued
Share of results of joint ventures and associates

Revenue
Other income
Depreciation and amortisation
Other operating costs

Operating profit
Interest expense
Changes in fair value of derivatives
Corporation tax

Share of post taxation results

Recognised in other comprehensive income
Cashflow hedges(ii)
Taxation(ii)

Total comprehensive income

2023
Windfarms
£m

471.0
10.2
(92.8)
(111.4)

277.0
(55.6)
(11.0)
(44.9)

165.5

453.4
(113.3)

505.6

2023
Thermal 
Generation
£m

1,003.5
–
(60.8)
(540.1)

402.6
(4.2)
213.9
(98.0)

514.3

3.1
(0.8)

516.6

2023
Other(i)
£m

90.3
–
(47.5)
(48.5)

(5.7)
(10.3)
–
(0.2)

(16.2)

–
–

2023
Total
£m

1,564.8
10.2
(201.1)
(700.0)

673.9
(70.1)
202.9
(143.1)

663.6

456.5
(114.1)

(16.2)

1,006.0

2022
Total
£m

555.4
112.5
(146.6)
(263.3)

258.0
(67.8)
–
(79.5)

110.7

188.5
(35.7)

263.5

(i)  Other comprises the investments the Group holds in Neos Networks Limited and Marron Activ8 Energies Limited.
(ii)  For the year ended 31 March 2022, other comprehensive income from net cashflow hedges of £181.4m included £28.6m in relation to the disposal of SGN, which 

was disclosed as a discontinued operation.

Share of joint ventures and associates’ assets and liabilities

Non-current assets
Current assets
Cash and cash equivalents
Current liabilities
Non-current liabilities

Other adjustments

Share of net assets of joint ventures and associates
Shareholder loans

Interest in joint venture and associate

2023
Windfarms
£m

5,379.4
155.4
187.6
(220.1)
(4,631.5)

870.8
550.4

1,421.2
906.1

2,327.3

2023
Thermal 
Generation
£m

396.7
309.7
63.6
(191.5)
(205.3)

373.2
68.0

441.2
153.7

594.9

2023
Other(i)
£m

316.9
21.8
12.1
(72.5)
(176.6)

101.7
(27.1)

74.6
55.6

130.2

2023
Total
£m

6,093.0
486.9
263.3
(484.1)
(5,013.4)

1,345.7
591.3

1,937.0
1,115.4

3,052.4

2022
Total
£m

4,475.5
223.5
230.6
(341.2)
(3,913.2)

675.2
564.3

1,239.5
736.9

1,976.4

Information on Group’s investments in joint ventures and associates is provided at A3, A4 and A5 .

16.5 Joint operations
Listed are the incorporated joint operations that have a material impact on the financial position and financial results of the Group.

Greater Gabbard Offshore Winds Limited

Offshore Windfarm

UK

Principal activity

Country of 
incorporation

Class of  
shares held

Ordinary

Proportion 
of shares 
held (%)

Group 
Interest (%)

Year end

50

50 31 March

The Group’s interest in Greater Gabbard Offshore Winds Limited is that of a joint operation designed to provide output to the parties 
sharing control. The liabilities of the arrangement are principally met by the parties through the contracts for the output of the windfarm. 

The Group also has an unincorporated arrangement with Equinor under which it accounts for its 66.7% share of the Aldbrough gas 
storage facility owned by SSE Hornsea Limited. 

16.6 Other investments held at fair value through other comprehensive income

At 31 March 2021
Additions in year
Disposals in the year
Fair value adjustment through other comprehensive income

At 31 March 2022
Additions in year
Fair value adjustment through other comprehensive income

At 31 March 2023

The group has received £2.4m in relation to other investments during the year ended 31 March 2023 (2022: £nil).

17. Inventories

Fuel and consumables
Renewables Obligation Certificates
Gas held in storage
Less: provisions held

Total
£m

3.6
5.4
(0.4)
0.1

8.7
19.1
(0.4)

27.4

2022
£m

127.9
171.3
1.0
(33.6)

266.6

2023
£m

179.3
125.4
142.2
(52.0)

394.9

Where Renewables Obligation Certificates (‘ROCs’) are self-generated or purchased to fulfil the Group’s environmental obligations, they 
are recorded within intangible assets. ROCs held in excess of the Group’s environmental obligations are recorded within inventories.

The Group has expensed inventories of £601.5m within cost of sales in the year (2022: £685.8m). 

18. Trade and other receivables

Non-current assets

Loan note receivable

Current assets
Trade receivables
Unbilled energy income
Other receivables
Cash posted as collateral
Other prepayments and accrued income

Total trade and other receivables

2023
£m

2022
£m

149.5

136.4

1,404.0
666.1
226.0
316.3
632.7

3,245.1

3,394.6

1,433.9
492.7
109.8
83.8
90.8

2,211.0

2,347.4

The non-current loan note receivable relates to £149.5m (2022: £131.2m) recognised on the disposal of SSE Energy Services on 15 January 
2020 and payable by Ovo Energy by 2029. The Ovo loan note carries interest of 13.25% and is presented cumulative of accrued interest 
repayments, discounted at 13.25%. Additionally in the prior year £5.2m (2023: £nil) was recognised on the disposal of the Contracting and 
Rail business to Aurelius Group on 1 April 2021. 

Unbilled energy income represents an estimate of the value of electricity or gas supplied to customers between the date of the last meter 
reading and the year end. Detail of the calculation applied to estimate this balance is included at note 4.1(iii). A 5% sensitivity on the unbilled 
energy accrual would equate to an increase or decrease in the receivable balance of £33.6m (2022: £24.6m). 

Included in other prepayments and accrued income is £347.3m (2022: £nil) in relation to government funded customer support schemes.

Cash posted as collateral relates to amounts deposited on commodity trading exchanges of £316.3m (2022: £83.8m). 

Trade receivables and other financial assets are part of the Group’s financial exposure to credit risk as explained in accompanying 
information note A6 .

258

SSE plc  Annual Report 2023

SSE plc  Annual Report 2023

259

Financial StatementsStrategic ReportDirectors’ ReportNotes to the consolidated financial statements continued
For the year ended 31 March 2023

19. Trade and other payables

Current liabilities
Trade payables 
Contract related liabilities(i)
Other creditors
Other accruals(ii)

Non-current liabilities
Contract related liabilities(i)
Deferred income and other accruals(ii)

2023
£m

2022
£m

694.6
54.1
560.8
1,349.1

2,658.6

161.3
798.6

959.9

919.7
46.3
330.2
1,376.4

2,672.6

196.2
646.2

842.4

Total trade and other payables

3,618.5

3,515.0

(i)  Current contract related liabilities includes customer contributions of £14.5m (2022: £15.0m) and non-current contract related liabilities includes customer 

contributions of £161.3m (2022: £196.2m).

(ii)  Non-current other accruals includes government grants of £7.9m (2022: £1.8m). 

20. Provisions

At 31 March 2021
Charged in the year
Increase in decommissioning provision
Unwind of discount 
Released during the year
Utilised during the year
Exchange rate adjustments 

At 31 March 2022

Charged in the year
Decrease in decommissioning provision
Unwind of discount 
Released during the year
Disposed during the year
Utilised during the year
Transfers
Exchange rate adjustments 

At 31 March 2023

At 31 March 2023
Non-current 
Current

At 31 March 2022
Non-current 
Current

Decommissioning
£m

Legal and 
restructuring
£m

Employee 
related
£m

768.0
–
178.7
5.7
–
(11.1)
(1.2)

940.1

6.8
(196.0)
22.1
–
(56.7)
(12.2)
1.8
6.2

712.1

686.0
26.1

712.1

912.2
27.9

940.1

48.7
74.1
–
–
(1.6)
(27.2)
–

94.0

16.9
–
–
(45.2)
–
(51.0)
5.6
–

20.3

19.9
0.4

20.3

57.4
36.6

94.0

36.6
3.0
–
–
–
(0.1)
–

39.5

4.5
–
–
(11.0)
–
(2.0)
(10.1)
–

20.9

18.6
2.3

20.9

39.5
–

39.5

Other
£m

19.3
20.6
–
–
–
(2.3)
–

37.6

21.7

–
(43.2)
–
–
2.7
–

18.8

18.2
0.6

18.8

8.8
28.8

37.6

Total
£m

872.6
97.7
178.7
5.7
(1.6)
(40.7)
(1.2)

1,111.2

49.9
(196.0)
22.1
(99.4)
(56.7)
(65.2)
–
6.2

772.1

742.7
29.4

772.1

1,017.9
93.3

1,111.2

Decommissioning provisions
Provision has been made for the estimated net present value of decommissioning the Group’s Thermal and Renewable power generation 
assets, Gas Storage facilities and the retained 60% share of decommissioning costs of the disposed Gas Production business. Cost 
estimates are based on the forecast remediation or clean-up costs based on current technology and prices for Renewable, Thermal and 
Gas Storage assets and are reviewed by independent valuation experts every three years. In the intervening years, management update 
cost estimates based on factors arising since the last formal valuation date. Retained decommissioning costs in relation to the disposed 
Gas Production business are periodically agreed with the field operators. The cost estimates include a risk adjustment and are inflated to 
the projected decommissioning date using a market observable inflation rate. This projection is discounted using a risk-free discount rate 
based on UK gilt rates with maturity date similar to the expected decommissioning date. 

There is a wide range of assumed decommissioning dates across the obligation due to the number of assets and their varying ages, 
which is summarised in the table. Decommissioning dates are based on the useful economic lives of the individual assets based on 
technology and price forecasts at the balance sheet date. It is possible that the forecast decommissioning dates will change due to 
technology advances or decisions to repower wind farms when the current turbines reach the end of their respective lives. The date  
of decommissioning of the Gas Production business can vary based on hydrocarbon reserve estimates and market commodity prices, 
which can shorten or lengthen the economic life of the field.

260

SSE plc  Annual Report 2023

Business Unit

Renewables
Thermal
Gas Storage
Gas Production
Distributed Energy

Total

Value of 
Provision 
31 March 2023
£m

Number of 
decommissioning 
sites

Forecast 
decommissioning 
dates

218.5
165.0
119.4
201.4
7.8

712.1

55
14
181
42
1

2025 – 2049
2023 – 2051
2023 – 2050
2023 – 2038
2027

1  The Group has two Gas Storage assets at Aldbrough and Atwick. In total there are 18 caverns with varying economic lives, therefore the number of sites has been 

disclosed to more accurately reflect the scale and expected timing of decommissioning activities. 

2  The Group has retained a 60% share of the decommissioning obligation for four Gas Production fields, though each field has multiple wells and shared 

infrastructure that the Group retains an obligation to remediate. 

The Group’s decommissioning provision has decreased during the year from £940.1m to £712.1m, primarily due to the financial assumptions 
applied in calculating the obligation. A decrease in the long term inflation rate to 3.2% (2022: 3.8%) has not been offset by the increase in the 
risk free discount rates applied of between 3.5%-3.8% (2022: 1.6%-1.8%) which has had a significant impact on the closing provision. Of the 
£196.0m reduction of provision based on revaluation, £145.5m has been recognised as an opposing reduction to decommissioning assets 
and £50.5m was recognised in the income statement in relation to the Group’s share of gas production decommissioning liabilities. During 
the year, the Group incurred £12.2m of decommissioning spend, primarily related to the Fiddlers Ferry and Ferrybridge sites, included within 
Thermal above. Based on work completed to date, provisions accrued for the decommissioning of these power stations are expected to be 
sufficient for the final cost of the works. The disposed provision in the year related to the Fiddler’s Ferry land site.

Impact of climate change on the Group’s decommissioning provisions
The Group has assessed that the most likely impact of climate change on its decommissioning provisions would be the enactment of 
legislation that would result in the earlier closure of its unabated gas fired power stations. The decommissioning provision included in the 
table above for these assets is based on forecast closure dates under legislation enacted at the balance sheet date and therefore forecast 
closure dates have not been accelerated. In the sensitivity analysis below, a scenario has been included assuming legislation is enacted 
that would result in closure of these assets from 2030. 

Sensitivity analysis
Sensitivity analysis reflecting reasonably probable fluctuations to the main assumptions used in the calculation of the decommissioning 
provisions is set out below:

Estimated decommissioning provision including:

Increasing the projected cost estimate by 10%
Increasing the inflation rate by 1.0%
Decreasing the discount rate by 0.5%
Closure of unabated gas CCGTs from 2030

2023
£m

781.4
793.2
747.1
714.5

2022
£m

1,027.8
1,051.2
992.1
931.7

Legal and restructuring provisions
Provision had been made for costs associated with the restructure of the Group, including the disposal of SSE Energy Services, Neos 
Networks Limited and the Group’s Contracting business. These provisions were utilised or released in the year. In the year the Group 
released provisions in total of £45.2m, of which £35.0m for a tax indemnity provided to RockRose Energy Limited (‘RRE’) following the 
disposal of SSE E&P Limited on 14 October 2021 (see note 7.1) was released. The Group settled provisions relating to restructuring and 
disposals totalling £51.0m in the year. Legal and restructuring provision utilisation during the year primarily relates to separation costs in 
relation to the disposals of SSE Energy Services, SGN and the Group’s 50% investment in Neos Networks. 

Provisions have been made for ongoing legal and regulatory disputes. Where outcomes are unknown, a range of possible scenarios is 
calculated, with the most likely being reflected in the provision. The timing of settlement for legal provisions is more uncertain as it is 
dependent upon legal resolution being achieved.

Employee related provisions
Employee related provisions include the Group’s employer financed retirement benefit provision for certain directors and former directors 
and employees, which is valued in accordance with IAS 19 using assumptions consistent with the Scottish Hydro Electric Pension Scheme 
(see note 23 for assumptions applied). In addition, the Group has legal obligations arising from severance payments due to employees, which 
are measured based on length of service. At 31 March 2023, the provisions for severance are related to the closure of Tarbert Power Station.

Other provisions
Other provisions include onerous contract provisions, mutualisation obligations and other contractual obligations and are calculated 
based on a best estimate basis. The timing of settlement of these provisions varies by obligation between 2023 and 2028.

SSE plc  Annual Report 2023

261

Financial StatementsStrategic ReportDirectors’ ReportNotes to the consolidated financial statements continued
For the year ended 31 March 2023

21. Sources of finance
21.1 Capital management
The Board’s policy is to maintain a strong balance sheet and credit rating to support investor, counterparty and market confidence in the 
Group and to underpin future development of the business. The Group’s credit ratings are also important in maintaining an efficient cost 
of capital and in determining collateral requirements throughout the Group. As at 31 March 2023, the Group’s long-term credit rating 
was BBB+ positive outlook for Standard & Poor’s and Baa1 stable outlook for Moody’s.

The maintenance of a medium-term corporate model is a key control in monitoring the development of the Group’s capital structure 
and allows for detailed scenarios and sensitivity testing. Key ratios drawn from this analysis underpin regular updates to the Board and 
include the ratios used by the rating agencies in assessing the Group’s credit ratings.

The Group’s debt requirements are principally met through issuing bonds denominated in Sterling and Euros as well as private placements 
and medium-term bank loans including those with the European Investment Bank. On 1 August 2022 SSE plc issued a 7 year €650m 
Eurobond at a coupon of 2.875% under the Group’s Green Bond Framework and additionally, SSE Group (through Scottish Hydro Electric 
Transmission plc) also received £350m of proceeds, on 30 June 2022, from the private placement that was priced and committed to in 
March 2022. In April 2022 SSE plc issued a €1bn NC6 equity accounted Hybrid bond at 4% to re-finance the dual tranche debt accounted 
Hybrid bonds whose first call date occurred on 16 September 2022 with SSE taking advantage of the 3 month par call option on these 
Hybrid bonds meaning the bonds were repaid on 16 June 2022. Senior debt redeemed in the financial year included $255m (£162.7m) US 
Private Placement in April 2022, a £300m Eurobond in September 2022 and a £150m loan from the European Investment Bank to Scottish 
Hydro Electric Transmission plc in October 2022.

SSE’s adjusted net debt and hybrid capital was £8.9bn at 31 March 2023, compared with £8.6bn at 31 March 2022. 

Adjusted net debt and hybrid capital is stated after removing lease obligations, external debt attributed to non-controlling interests and 
cash posted as collateral in line with the Group’s presentation basis which is explained at note 3(i). Cash posted as collateral refers to 
amounts deposited on commodity trading exchanges which are reported within ‘Trade and other receivables’ on the face of the balance 
sheet. The adjustment related to the non-controlling interest share of Scottish Hydro Electric Transmission plc external net debt is 
£434.2m and relates to 25% of external loans of £1,744.8m net of cash and cash equivalents of £7.8m.

The Group has an established €1.5bn Euro commercial paper programme (paper can be issued in a range of currencies and swapped 
into Sterling) and as at 31 March 2023 there was £919m commercial paper outstanding (2022: £507m). The Group also has £3.5bn of 
revolving credit facilities which includes £750m relating to Scottish Hydro Electric Transmission plc (2022: £1.5bn) (see note 21.3). As at 
31 March 2023 there was £100m of drawings against these committed facilities being less than 3% utilisation (2022: undrawn). 

The Group capital comprises:

Total borrowings (excluding lease obligations)
Less: Cash and cash equivalents

Net debt (excluding hybrid equity)
Hybrid equity
External debt attributable to non-controlling interests
Cash (posted)/held as collateral and other short term loans

Adjusted net debt and hybrid capital  APM
Equity attributable to shareholders of the parent

Total capital excluding lease obligations

*  The comparative has been restated. See note 2.1.

2023
£m

8,654.0
(891.8)

7,762.2
1,882.4
(434.2)
(316.3)

8,894.1
8,583.9

2022
£m
(restated*)

8,671.2
(1,049.3)

7,621.9
1,051.0
–
(74.7)

8,598.2
8,077.8

17,478.0

16,676.0

Under the terms of its major borrowing facilities, the Group is required to comply with the following financial covenant:
• 

Interest Cover Ratio: The Group shall procure that the ratio of Operating Profit to Net Interest Payable for any relevant period is not 
less than 2.5 to 1.

The following definitions apply in the calculation of these financial covenants:
• 

‘Operating Profit’ means, in relation to a relevant period, the profit on ordinary activities before taxation (after adding back Net 
Interest Payable) of the Group for that relevant period but after adjusting this amount to exclude any exceptional profits (or losses) 
and, for the avoidance of doubt, before taking account of any exceptional profits (or losses) and excluding the effect of IFRS 9 
remeasurements.
‘Net Interest Payable’ means, in respect of any relevant period, interest payable during that relevant period less interest receivable 
during that relevant period.

• 

In summary, the Group’s intent is to balance returns to shareholders between current returns through dividends and long-term capital 
investment for growth. In doing so, the Group will maintain its capital discipline and will continue to operate within the current economic 
environment prudently. There were no changes to the Group’s capital management approach during the year.

Under the SSE plc’s articles of association, the borrowings of the Company are limited so as to ensure that the aggregate amount of all 
borrowings by the Group outstanding at any time is not more than three times the capital and reserves of the Group.

21.2 Loans and other borrowings 

Current

Short-term loans
Lease obligations

Non-current 
Loans 
Lease obligations

Total loans and borrowings

Cash and cash equivalents 

Unadjusted net debt

Add/(less):
Hybrid equity
External net debt attributable to non-controlling interests
Lease obligations
Cash (posted)/held as collateral and other short term loans 

Adjusted net debt and hybrid capital  APM

2023
£m

1,738.5
82.1

1,820.6

6,915.5
323.8

7,239.3

2022
£m

1,118.7
72.1

1,190.8

7,552.5
321.4

7,873.9

9,059.9

9,064.7

(891.8)

(1,049.3)

8,168.1

8,015.4

1,882.4
(434.2)
(405.9)
(316.3)

1,051.0
–
(393.5)
(74.7)

8,894.1

8,598.2

Cash and cash equivalents (which are presented as a single class of asset on the face of the balance sheet) comprise cash at bank and 
short term highly liquid investments with a maturity of three months or less. The cash and cash equivalents are lower year on year due  
to a lower surplus cash position at March 2023, with no large divestment proceeds received in March 2023 compared to March 2022.

21.3 Borrowing facilities
The Group has an established €1.5bn Euro commercial paper programme (paper can be issued in a range of currencies and swapped 
into Sterling) and as at 31 March 2023 there was £919m commercial paper outstanding (2022: £507m). 

The Group also has £3.5bn of revolving credit facilities (2022: £1.5bn). As at 31 March 2023 there was £100m of drawings against these 
committed facilities being less than 3% utilisation (2022: undrawn). The details of the five committed facilities as at 31 March 2023 are:

•  a £1.3bn revolving credit facility for SSE plc maturing March 2026 (2022: £1.3bn);
•  a £0.2bn bilateral facility for SSE plc maturing October 2026 (2022: £0.2bn);
•  a new £0.75bn facility for Scottish Hydro Electric Transmission plc maturing November 2025 (2022: £nil);
•  a new £0.25bn facility for Scottish Hydro Electric Distribution plc and Southern Electric Power Distribution plc maturing November 

2025 (2022: £nil); and 

•  a new £1.0bn committed facility for SSE plc maturing February 2024 (2022: £nil). 

The £1.3bn revolving credit facility and £0.2bn bilateral facility are both in place to provide back-up to the commercial paper programme 
and support the Group’s capital expenditure plans. The Transmission and Distribution related facilities, both of which have 1 year extension 
options at the borrower’s discretion, were entered into to help cover the capital expenditure and working capital of those businesses as 
they look to become financially independent of the Group as part of the 25% divestment process. The new £1bn committed facility at SSE 
plc has a 1 year extension option at the lender’s discretion and was entered into to provide cover for potential cash collateral requirements, 
if periods of extreme volatility return to the commodity markets. The only facility that was drawn at 31 March 2023 was the £750m 
Transmission facility, with £100m drawn to cover capital expenditure requirements.

During the year to 31 March 2023 SSE plc issued a 7 year €650m Eurobond at a coupon of 2.875% with an all-in cost of funding rate of 
just below 3% once fees and cost of pre-hedging have been included. The bond will be left in Euros as part of the Group’s net investment 
hedge of Euro denominated businesses. SSE Group (through Scottish Hydro Electric Transmission plc) also received the proceeds from 
the private placement that was priced and committed to in March 2022. This comprised of a £350m dual tranche US Private Placement 
with Pricora Capital being a £175m 10-year tranche at 3.13% and a £175m 15-year tranche at 3.24% giving an all-in average rate of 3.185% 
across both tranches.

In April 2022 SSE plc issued a €1bn NC6 equity accounted Hybrid bond at 4% to re-finance the dual tranche debt accounted Hybrid 
bonds whose first call date occurred on 16 September 2022, with SSE taking advantage of the 3 month par call option on these Hybrid 
bonds meaning the bonds were repaid on 16 June 2022. The €1bn equity accounted Hybrid bond was left in Euros with the proceeds 
used to cover the portion of the maturing Hybrid that was swapped to Euros and a portion of the costs associated with the acquisition  
of the Southern European onshore renewables development platform from Siemens Gamesa Renewables Energy.

262

SSE plc  Annual Report 2023

SSE plc  Annual Report 2023

263

Financial StatementsStrategic ReportDirectors’ ReportNotes to the consolidated financial statements continued
For the year ended 31 March 2023

21. Sources of finance continued
21.3 Borrowing facilities continued
Analysis of borrowings

Current
Bank Loans – non-amortising(i)
Other Short term loans – non-amortising(ii)
US Private Placement 16 April 2022
5.875% Eurobond Repayable 22 September 2022
US Private Placement 28 April 2023
US Private Placement 6 September 2023
1.75% €700m Eurobond repayable 8 September 2023(v)

2023
Weighted 
average 
interest  
rate(iv)

2023
Face  
value
£m

2023
Fair  
value
£m

2023
Carrying 
amount
£m

2022
Weighted 
average 
interest  
rate(iv)

2022
Face  
value
£m

2022

Fair  

value
£m

2022
Carrying 
amount
£m

2.6%
49.4
50.0
4.5% 1,029.4 1,033.5
–
–
35.3
118.8
510.8

–
–
35.0
120.0
514.6

–
–
2.8%
2.9%
1.8%

50.0
1,019.2
–
–
35.0
119.8
514.5

3.0%
0.8%
4.3%
5.9%
–
–
–

150.0
507.1
162.7
300.0
–
–
–

151.1
507.5
197.8
306.1
–
–
–

150.0
506.1
162.7
299.9
–
–
–

Total current borrowings 

1,749.0

1,747.8 1,738.5

1,119.8

1,162.5

1,118.7

Non-Current
Bank loans – non-amortising(i)
US Private Placement 28 April 2023
US Private Placement 6 September 2023
1.75% €700m Eurobond repayable 8 September 2023(v)
US Private Placement 16 April 2024
1.250% Eurobond Repayable 16 April 2025(viii)
0.875% €600m Eurobond Repayable  

8 September 2025(x)

US Private Placement 8 June 2026
US Private Placement 6 September 2026
US Private Placement 6 September 2027
1.375% €650m Eurobond repayable  

4 September 2027(vi)(x)

1.50% Eurobond Repayable 24 March 2028

Between two and five years

Bank loans – non-amortising(i)
US Private Placement 6 September 2027
1.375% €650m Eurobond repayable  

4 September 2027(vi)

1.50% Eurobond Repayable 24 March 2028(x)
8.375% Eurobond repayable on 20 November 2028
2.875% Eurobond Repayable 1 August 2029(x)
1.750% Eurobond Repayable 16 April 2030(ix)
5.50% Eurobond repayable on 7 June 2032
Private Placement 30 June 2032
2.25% Eurobond repayable 27 September 2035(x)
2.125% Eurobond Repayable 24 March 2036(x)
4.625% Eurobond repayable on 20 February 2037
Private Placement
6.25% Eurobond repayable on 27 August 2038
4.454% Index linked loan repayable on  

27 February 2044

1.429% Index linked bond repayable on  

20 October 2056

4.75% $900m NC5.5 Hybrid debt maturing 

16 September 2077(vii)

3.625% NC5.5 Hybrid maturing 16 September 2077(vii)

Over five years

Fair value adjustment(iii) 

3.4%
–
–
–
4.4%
1.3%

0.9%
3.1%
3.2%
3.2%

1.4%
1.5%

–
–

–
–
8.4%
2.9%
1.8%
5.5%
3.1%
2.3%
2.1%
4.6%
3.2%
6.3%

500.0
–
–
–
204.1
531.4

527.5
64.0
247.1
35.0

591.4
250.0

479.5
–
–
–
259.6
508.3

495.3
59.9
257.4
31.7

545.8
212.8

499.9
–
–
–
204.1
531.4

526.2
63.5
245.0
34.7

590.5
249.1

2.2%
2.8%
2.9%
1.8%
4.4%
1.3%

0.9%
3.1%
3.2%
–

–
–

350.0
35.0
120.0
514.6
204.1
531.4

510.9
64.0
247.1
–

–
–

344.3
35.4
120.1
524.0
250.6
533.4

504.3
63.8
258.7
–

–
–

349.9
34.9
119.4
514.3
204.0
531.4

504.2
63.3
244.3
–

–
–

2,950.5 2,850.3 2,944.4

2,577.1

2,634.6

2,565.7

–
–

–
–
500.0
571.5
442.9
350.0
175.0
350.0
250.0
325.0
175.0
350.0

–
–

–
–
575.0
548.3
388.1
364.1
152.8
255.9
177.7
301.2
142.2
372.0

–
–

–
–
497.6
569.8
442.9
350.1
175.0
347.4
248.4
324.2
175.0
347.5

0.8%
3.2%

1.4%
1.5%
8.4%

1.8%
5.5%

2.3%
2.1%
4.6%

200.0
35.0

591.4
250.0
500.0

442.9
350.0

350.0
250.0
325.0

200.7
34.8

588.7
232.9
659.0

439.6
428.6

314.1
220.7
375.4

200.0
34.6

590.2
249.0
497.2

442.9
350.1

347.2
248.3
324.1

6.3%

350.0

473.3

347.5

4.5%

165.9

190.4

165.5

4.5%

148.5

250.8

145.1

2.0%

173.1

140.4

173.1

2.0%

153.9

251.2

154.2

–
–

–
–

–
–

–
–

4.8%
3.6%

725.4
300.0

727.6
301.6

725.0
299.8

3,828.4 3,608.1

3,816.5

4,972.1

5,499.0 4,955.2

154.6

31.6

Total non-current borrowings

6,778.9 6,458.4 6,915.5

7,549.2

8,133.6

7,552.5

Total borrowings

8,527.9 8,206.2 8,654.0

8,669.0

9,296.1

8,671.2

Note: The Sterling-equivalent fair value reflects the fair value of non-Sterling denominated borrowings, post the impact of the hedges noted below.
(i)  Balances include term loans and EIB debt and is a mixture of fixed and floating rate debt.
(ii)  Balances include Commercial Paper and facility advances (£919m of Commercial Paper and £100m of facility advances outstanding at 31 March 2023).
(iii)  The fair value adjustment relates to the change in the carrying amount of the borrowings as a result of fair value hedges that are in place. The movement in the fair 

value adjustment is recognised in the income statement with a corresponding movement on the hedging instrument also being recognised in the income statement.

264

SSE plc  Annual Report 2023

(iv)  The weighted average interest rates (including the effect of interest rate swaps) for the year ended 31 March 2023 was 3.35% (2022: 3.29%).
(v)  The 1.75% €700m Eurobond maturing 8 September 2023 has been swapped to Sterling giving an effective interest rate of 3.16%.
(vi)  The 1.375% €650m Eurobond maturing 4 September 2027 has been swapped to Sterling giving an effective interest rate of 2.56%.
(vii) The 4.75% $900m NC5.5 Hybrid maturing 16 September 2077 has been swapped to Euros ($605m) and Sterling ($295m) giving an effective interest rate of 2.25% 
and 3.29% respectively. This and the 3.625% NC5.5 Hybrid maturing 16 September 2077 were the Group’s debt-accounted Hybrids (see (ii) below), both were 
redeemed on 16 June 2022 using a 3 month par call option. 

(viii) The 1.250% €600m Eurobond maturing 16 April 2025 has been swapped to Sterling giving an effective interest rate of 2.43%
(ix)  The 1.750% €500m Eurobond maturing 16 April 2030 has been swapped to Sterling giving an effective interest rate of 2.89%
(x)  Bonds have been issued under the Group’s Green Bond Framework

(i) Lease liabilities
Amounts charged under lease arrangements are detailed within note 6, and right of use assets recognised under lease arrangements are 
detailed within note 14.

At 31 March 2021
Additions during the year
Disposals during the year
Unwind of discount
Repayment in the year

At 31 March 2022
Additions during the year
Disposals during the year
Unwind of discount
Repayment in the year

At 31 March 2023

£m

421.0
82.7
(46.8)
31.7
(95.1)

393.5
79.9
(1.4)
28.3
(94.4)

405.9

The weighted average incremental borrowing rate applied to lease liabilities during the year was 5.02% (2022: 4.92%). Incremental 
borrowing rates applied to individual lease additions in the year ranged between 4.03% to 5.06% (2022: 4.81% to 5.06%).

The Group has additional committed payments under short term and low value leases at 31 March 2023 of £11.7m (2022: £11.3m).

The maturity of future lease liabilities are as follows:

Within one year
Between one and five years 
After five years

Less: future finance charge

Present value of lease obligations

2023
£m

94.5
202.4
316.1

613.0
(207.1)

405.9

2022
£m

88.7
223.7
268.9

581.3
(187.8)

393.5

(ii) Hybrid debt
On 16 March 2017, the Group issued £1.0bn of hybrid debt securities. Due to these hybrid instruments having a fixed redemption date, they 
were accounted for as a debt item and were included within Loans and Other Borrowings in note 21.2. Following the issue of a new €1bn 
equity accounted hybrid in April 2022, the Group took advantage of the 3 month par call option on the debt accounted hybrids to fully 
redeem these hybrids on 16 June 2022. Therefore included within loans and borrowings at 31 March 2023 is £nil hybrid debt securities, 
compared to £1.0bn of hybrid debt securities at 31 March 2022.

21.4 Reconciliation of net increase in cash and cash equivalents to movement in adjusted net debt and hybrid capital

Decrease in cash and cash equivalents 
Add/(less): 
New borrowing proceeds
New hybrid equity proceeds
Repayment of borrowings
Repayment of hybrid equity
Non-cash movement on borrowings
External debt attributable to non-controlling interests
Increase in cash posted as collateral and other short term loans

(Increase)/decrease in adjusted net debt and hybrid capital  APM

2023
£m

2022
£m

(157.5)

(550.9)

(1,914.7)
(831.4)
2,148.1
–
(216.2)
434.2
241.6

(295.9)

(506.1)
–
865.0
421.4
(40.5)
–
111.8

300.7

Cash posted/held as collateral refers to amounts deposited on commodity trading exchanges and loans provided with a less than three 
month maturity which are reported within trade and other receivables on the face of the balance sheet.

SSE plc  Annual Report 2023

265

Financial StatementsStrategic ReportDirectors’ ReportNotes to the consolidated financial statements continued
For the year ended 31 March 2023

21. Sources of finance continued
21.5 Reconciliation of movements in financing liabilities

Financing cash flows

Non-cash movements

At  
31 March 
2022
£m

New 
borrowings
£m

Disposal of 
borrowings
£m

Repayment 
of 
borrowings
£m

Repayment 
of lease 
creditor
£m

Fair  
value 
movements
£m

Foreign 
exchange 
movements
£m

Lease 
liabilities
£m

Re- 
classification
£m

Other
£m

At 
31 March 
2023
£m

Financing 
Liabilities
Bank loans
Private 

549.8

–

placement

784.5

350.0

Fixed rate 

Eurobonds 4,945.0

545.5

Index linked 

loans

Hybrid debt

Total long 

299.3
973.9

–
–

term 
borrowings 7,552.5

150.0

299.9

895.5

–

–

Bank loans
Fixed rate 

Eurobonds
Other short 
term loans 
– non-
amortising

US private 

506.1

1,019.2

placement

162.7

–

Total short 

term 
borrowings 1,118.7

1,019.2

8,671.2

1,914.7

Lease 

liabilities

393.5

–

–

–

–

–
–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–
(1,029.4)

(1,029.4)

(150.0)

(299.9)

(506.1)

(162.7)

(1,118.7)

(2,148.1)

–

–

–

–
–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

(3.2)

75.1

–
51.1

–

–

47.4

–
4.1

123.0

51.5

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

123.0

51.5

–

–

–

–
–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

(94.4)

–

–

106.8

(50.0)

0.1

499.9

(154.8)

1.6

978.1

(514.5)

0.4 5,098.9

–
–

39.3
0.3

338.6
–

(719.3)

41.7 6,915.5

50.0

514.5

–

–

50.0

514.5

–

– 1,019.2

154.8

–

154.8

–

–

41.7 8,654.0

–

405.9

Total loans 

and 
borrowings  9,064.7

1,914.7

–

(2,148.1)

(94.4)

123.0

51.5

106.8

–

41.7 9,059.9

Assets held 
to hedge 
long term 
borrowings

242.1

–

9,306.8

1,914.7

–

–

–

–

(371.4)

–

–

(2,148.1)

(94.4)

(248.4)

51.5

106.8

–

–

–

(129.3)

41.7 8,930.6

719.3

– 1,738.5

Lease 

Financing cash flows

Non-cash movements

At  
31 March 
2021
£m

New 
borrowings
£m

Disposal of 
borrowings
£m

Repayment 
of 
borrowings
£m

Repayment 
of lease 
creditor
£m

Fair  
value 
movements
£m

Foreign 
exchange 
movements
£m

Lease 
liabilities
£m

Re-
classification
£m

Other
£m

At  
31 March 
2022
£m

–

–

–

–
–

–

–

–

Financing 
Liabilities
Bank loans
Private 

699.7

placement

915.9

5,278.1

283.0
950.8

8,127.5

150.0

712.1

Fixed rate 

Eurobonds
Index linked 

loans

Hybrid debt

Total long 
term 
borrowings

Bank loans
Fixed rate 

Eurobonds
Other short 
term loans 
– non-
amortising

US private 

placement

Total short 

term 
borrowings

–

–

506.1

–

862.1

8,989.6

506.1

506.1

liabilities

421.0

–

Total loans 

and 
borrowings  9,410.6

506.1

Assets held to 
hedge long 
term 
borrowings

315.4

–

9,726.0

506.1

–

–

–

–
–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–
–

–

(150.0)

(715.0)

–

–

(865.0)

(865.0)

–

–

–

–
–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

29.8

(30.7)

–
26.7

25.8

–

2.6

–

–

2.6

28.4

–

–

(4.8)

–
(4.7)

(9.5)

–

–

–

–

–

(9.5)

–

–

–

–
–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

(95.1)

–

–

67.6

(865.0)

(95.1)

28.4

(9.5)

67.6

–

–

(865.0)

(95.1)

(73.3)

(44.9)

–

–

(9.5)

67.6

(150.0)

0.1

549.8

(162.7)

1.5

784.5

(299.9)

2.3 4,945.0

–
–

16.3
1.1

299.3
973.9

(612.6)

21.3

7,552.5

150.0

–

150.0

299.9

0.3

299.9

–

162.7

–

–

506.1

162.7

612.6

0.3

1,118.7

–

–

–

–

–

21.6

8,671.2

–

393.5

21.6

9,064.7

–

242.1

21.6 9,306.8

266

SSE plc  Annual Report 2023

SSE plc  Annual Report 2023

267

Financial StatementsStrategic ReportDirectors’ ReportNotes to the consolidated financial statements continued
For the year ended 31 March 2023

22. Equity
22.1 Share capital

Allotted, called up and fully paid:
At 1 April 2021
Issue of shares(i)

At 31 March 2022

Issue of shares(i)
Shares repurchased(ii)

At 31 March 2023

Number
(millions)

1,049.1
24.0

1,073.1

27.7
(6.9)

1,093.9

£m

524.5
12.0

536.5

13.9
(3.4)

547.0

The Company has one class of ordinary share which carries no right to fixed income. The holders of ordinary shares are entitled to 
receive dividends as declared and are entitled to one vote per share at meetings of the Company.

(i)  Shareholders were able to elect to receive ordinary shares in place of the final dividend of 60.2p per ordinary share (in relation to year ended 31 March 2022) and 
the interim dividend of 29.0p (in relation to the current year) under the terms of the Company’s scrip dividend scheme. This resulted in the issue of 18,241,941 and 
9,413,103 new fully paid ordinary shares respectively (2022: 22,201,443 and 1,782,473). In addition, the Company issued 1.9m (2022: 0.6m) shares during the year 
under the savings-related share option schemes (all of which were settled by shares held in Treasury) for a consideration of £18.0m (2022: £6.3m).

(ii)  Under the share buyback programme announced on 28 September 2022 6.9m of shares were repurchased and cancelled in the year to 31 March 2023 for a total 

consideration of £107.6m (including stamp duty and commission). The nominal value of share capital repurchased and cancelled is transferred out of share capital 
and into the capital redemption reserve. 

Of the 1,093.9m shares in issue, 3.6m are held as treasury shares. These shares will be held by the Group and used to award shares to 
employees under the Sharesave scheme in the UK. 

During the year, on behalf of the Company, the employee share trust purchased 1.4m shares for a total consideration of £23.4m (2022: 
0.9m shares, consideration of £14.1m) to be held in trust for the benefit of employee share schemes. At 31 March 2023, the trust held 
6.5m shares (2022: 6.3m) which had a market value of £118.0m (2022: £110.0m).

22.2 Capital redemption reserve
The capital redemption reserve comprises the value of shares redeemed or purchased by the Company from distributable profits.

22.3 Hedge reserve
The hedge reserve comprises the effective portion of the cumulative net change in the fair value of cash flow hedge derivative 
instruments related to hedged transactions that have not yet occurred.

22.4 Translation reserve
Comprises exchange translation differences on foreign currency net investments offset by exchange translation differences on 
borrowings and derivatives classified as net investment hedges under IAS 39.

22.5 Hybrid Equity

GBP 600m 3.74% perpetual subordinated capital securities(i)
EUR 500m 3.125% perpetual subordinated capital securities(i)
EUR 1,000m 4.00% perpetual subordinated capital securities(ii)

2023
£m

598.0
453.0
831.4

2022
£m

598.0
453.0
–

1,882.4

1,051.0

(i) 2 July 2020 £600m and €500m Hybrid Capital Bonds
The hybrid capital bonds issued in July 2020 have no fixed redemption date, but the Company may, at its sole discretion, redeem all but 
not part of the capital securities at their principal amount. The date for the first potential discretionary redemption of the £600m hybrid 
bond is 14 April 2026 and then every 5 years thereafter. The date for the first potential discretionary redemption of the €500m hybrid 
capital bond is 14 July 2027 and then every 5 years thereafter. For the £600m Hybrid the discretionary coupon payments are made 
annually on 14 April and for the €500m Hybrid the coupon payments are made annually on 14 July.

(ii) 12 April 2022 €1,000m Hybrid Capital Bonds
The hybrid capital bond issued in April 2022 has no fixed redemption date, but the Company may, at its sole discretion, redeem all but 
not part of the capital securities at their principal amount. The date for the first potential discretionary redemption is 21 April 2028 and 
then every 5 years thereafter. The discretionary hybrid coupon payments are made annually on 21 April.

(iii) Coupon Payments
In relation to the £600m hybrid equity bond a discretionary coupon payment of £22.4m (2022: £16.8m) was made on 14 April 2022 and 
for the €500m hybrid equity bond a discretionary coupon payment of £16.4m (2022: £16.4m) was made on 14 July 2022. Additionally,  
in relation to the €600m hybrid equity bond (redeemed on 1 April 2021), the final discretionary coupon payment of £17.5m was made  
on 1 April 2021. The first discretionary coupon payment on the new €1bn hybrid equity bond will occur on 21 April 2023.

The coupon payments in the year to 31 March 2023 consequently totalled £38.8m (2022: £50.7m).

The Company has the option to defer coupon payments on the bonds on any relevant payment date, as long as a dividend on the 
ordinary shares has not been declared. Deferred coupons shall be satisfied only on redemption; or on a dividend payment on ordinary 
shares, both of which occur at the sole option of the Company. Interest will accrue on any deferred coupon.

22.6 Equity attributable to non-controlling interests 
Equity attributable to non-wholly owned but controlled subsidiaries which are consolidated within the financial statements of the Group 
under IFRS. At 31 March 2023 the amount attributable to non-controlling interests is £649.1m (2022: £40.6m), which relates to SHET of 
£606.5m (2022: £nil) and SSE Pacifico £42.6m (2022: £40.6m). The SHET’s summarised financial information is included in note 12.2(i). 
The profit and loss attributable to non-controlling interests for the year ended 31 March 2023 is £23.6m gain (2022: £nil), which relates to 
SHET £25.5m gain (2022: £nil) and SSE Pacifico £1.9m loss (2022: £nil).

23. Retirement benefit obligations
Defined benefit schemes
The Group has two funded final salary pension schemes which provide defined benefits based on final pensionable pay. The schemes 
are subject to independent valuations at least every three years. The future benefit obligations are valued by actuarial methods on the 
basis of an appropriate assessment of the relevant parameters.

The Group also has an Employer Financed Retirement Benefit scheme and a defined contribution scheme, SSE Pensions+ under a 
master trust with Aviva. The Group matches employee contributions up to a specified limit, in most circumstances this is set at 6%.  
The Group may also provide additional contributions of 3% after five years and a further 3% after ten years continuous Group service.

The Group presents its pension scheme valuations under two different measurement bases, an actuarial valuation and an IAS 19 
valuation as required by accounting standards. The IAS 19 valuation is used to determine the assets and obligations recognised in the 
Group’s consolidated balance sheet and is calculated annually by scheme actuaries, whereas the formal actuarial valuation is used to 
determine the contributions the Group makes to each scheme. The actuarial valuation is recalculated for each scheme every three years. 

Actuarial valuations
The individual pension scheme details based on the latest formal actuarial valuations are as follows:

Latest formal actuarial valuation
Valuation carried out by

Value of assets based on valuation
Value of liabilities based on valuation
Valuation method adopted
Average salary increase
Average pension increase
Value of fund assets/accrued benefits

Scottish Hydro Electric

SSE Southern

31 March 2021
Hymans Robertson

31 March 2022
Aon Hewitt

£2,050.5m
£1,782.2m
Projected Unit
RPI+0.5%
RPI
115.1%

£2,395.6m
£2,475.2m
Projected Unit
RPI+0.25%
RPI
96.8%

Future contributions
Scottish Hydro Electric Pension Scheme
The last triennial actuarial valuation of the scheme was carried out at 31 March 2021 and showed a surplus of £268.3m on a projected 
unit basis. Following this valuation, the Group agreed to a new schedule of contributions which does not require contributions to be paid 
to the scheme, unless there is a deficit on the valuation basis for two successive quarterly valuations. Consequently, the Group has not 
made contributions to the scheme in the year ending 31 March 2023. 

The next triennial funding valuation will be carried out as at 31 March 2024. 

SSE Southern Group of the Electricity Supply Pension Scheme
The last triennial actuarial valuation of the Scheme as at 31 March 2022 was finalised in April 2023, and showed a deficit of £79.6m on a 
projected unit basis. Following this valuation, the Group agreed to a new schedule of contributions which, along with investment returns 
from return-seeking assets, are expected to make good this shortfall by 31 March 2027. The next funding valuation will be carried out at 
31 March 2025. The Group also pays contributions in respect of current accrual. Total contributions of approximately £29.0m are expected 
to be paid by the Company during the year ending on 31 March 2024, including deficit repair contributions of £14.2m. The deficit repair 
contribution will be made annually until March 2027, increasing in line with inflation each year.

During the year ending 31 March 2023 the Group continued to pay deficit contributions of £38.0m. 

268

SSE plc  Annual Report 2023

SSE plc  Annual Report 2023

269

Financial StatementsStrategic ReportDirectors’ ReportNotes to the consolidated financial statements continued
For the year ended 31 March 2023

23. Retirement benefit obligations continued
Pension summary as measured under IAS 19:

Scottish Hydro Electric 
SSE Southern 

Net actuarial (loss)/gain 

Scheme type

Defined benefit
Defined benefit

Net actuarial (loss)/gain recognised in 
respect of the pension asset in the 
statement of comprehensive income

Net pension asset

2023
£m

(152.0)
72.8

(79.2)

2022
£m

(24.6)
221.9

197.3

2023
£m

366.6
174.5

541.1

2022
£m

517.5
67.4

584.9

IFRC 14 surplus restrictions 
The value of Scottish Hydro Electric Pension Scheme assets recognised was previously impacted by the asset ceiling test which restricts 
the surplus that can be recognised to assets that can be recovered through future refunds or reductions in future contributions to the 
schemes, and may increase the value of scheme liabilities where there are minimum funding liabilities in relation to agreed contributions. 
IFRIC 14 ‘IAS 19 – The Limit on a Defined Benefit Asset, Minimum Funding Requirements and their Interaction’ clarifies that future refunds 
may be recognised if the sponsoring entity has an unconditional right to a refund in certain circumstances.

In 2016/17 the Group agreed with the trustees to the Scottish Hydro Electric Pension Scheme an amendment to the scheme rules to 
clarify that the Company has a clear right to any surplus upon final winding up of the scheme. This amendment removes the previous 
restriction on recognition of any surplus and as such the previously applied restriction is no longer recognised. The net pension asset of 
the Scottish Hydro Electric Scheme at 31 March 2023 was equal to £366.6m (2022: £517.5m).

At 31 March 2023, the SSE Southern Pension Scheme has a net surplus of £174.5m (2022: £67.4m), and unrecognised future contributions 
of £50.9m (2022: £195.7m), subject to increases in line with inflation. The Group has assessed that it has the right to recognise the current 
and any future surpluses on the scheme, therefore has not recognised a liability for future unrecoverable contributions.

23.1 Pension scheme assumptions
Both schemes have been updated to 31 March 2023 by qualified independent actuaries. The valuations have been prepared for the 
purposes of meeting the requirements of IAS 19. The major assumptions used by the actuaries in both schemes were:

Rate of increase in pensionable salaries
Rate of increase in pension payments
Discount rate
Inflation rate

At 31 March 
2023

At 31 March 
2022

3.5%
3.2%
4.8%
3.2%

4.2%
3.7%
2.7%
3.7%

The assumptions relating to longevity underlying the pension liabilities at 31 March 2023 are based on standard actuarial mortality tables, 
and include an allowance for future improvements in longevity. The assumptions, equivalent to future longevity for members in normal 
health at age 65, are as follows:

Scottish Hydro Electric

Currently aged 65 
Currently aged 45 

SSE Southern

Currently aged 65 
Currently aged 45 

At 31 March 2023

At 31 March 2022

Male

22
24

Female

24
26

Male

22
24

At 31 March 2023

At 31 March 2022

Male

22
24

Female

24
26

Male

23
24

Female

24
27

Female

25
26

23.2 Sensitivity analysis
The impact on the schemes’ liabilities of changing certain of the major assumptions is as follows:

Scottish Hydro Electric

Rate of increase in pensionable salaries
Rate of increase in pension payments
Discount rate
Longevity

SSE Southern

Rate of increase in pensionable salaries
Rate of increase in pension payments
Discount rate
Longevity

23.3 Valuation of combined Pension Schemes

Equities
Government bonds
Corporate bonds
Insurance contracts(i)
Other investments

Total fair value of plan assets
Present value of defined benefit obligation

Surplus in the schemes
Deferred tax thereon(ii)

Net pension asset

(i)  See details of valuations of insurance contracts in note 23.7 (ii).
(ii)  Deferred tax rate of 25% applied to net pension surplus position (2022: 25%).

At 31 March 2023

At 31 March 2022

Increase/
decrease in 
assumption

0.1%
0.1%
0.1%
1 year

Effect on 
scheme’s 
liabilities

+/-0.1%
+/-0.7%
+/-0.7%
+/-1.9%

Increase/
decrease in 
assumption

0.1%
0.1%
0.1%
1 year

Effect on 
scheme’s 
liabilities

+/-0.1%
+/-0.9%
+/-1.0%
+/-2.0%

At 31 March 2023

At 31 March 2022

Increase/
decrease in 
assumption

0.1%
0.1%
0.1%
1 year

Effect on 
scheme’s 
liabilities

+/-0.1%
+/-1.2%
+/-1.3%
+/-3.3%

Increase/
decrease in 
assumption

0.1%
0.1%
0.1%
1 year

Quoted
£m

Unquoted
£m

94.3
1,381.6
122.8
–
1,057.5

–
–
–
532.4
–

Quoted
£m

Unquoted
£m

511.5
1,332.7
167.6
–
1,585.9

–
–
–
713.5
–

Value at 
31 March 
2023
£m

94.3
1,381.6
122.8
532.4
1,057.5

3,188.6
(2,647.5)

541.1
(135.3)

405.8

Effect on 
scheme’s 
liabilities

+/-0.2%
+/-1.5%
+/-1.5%
+/-5.8%

Value at 
31 March 
2022
£m

511.5
1,332.7
167.6
713.5
1,585.9

4,311.2
(3,726.3)

584.9
(146.2)

438.7

270

SSE plc  Annual Report 2023

SSE plc  Annual Report 2023

271

Financial StatementsStrategic ReportDirectors’ ReportNotes to the consolidated financial statements continued
For the year ended 31 March 2023

23. Retirement benefit obligations continued
23.4 Movements in the combined defined benefit asset obligations and assets during the year:

At 1 April
Included in Income Statement
Current service cost
Past service cost 
Settlements and curtailments
Interest income/(cost)

Included in Other 

Comprehensive Income

Actuarial gain/(loss) arising from:
Demographic assumptions
Financial assumptions
Experience assumptions
Return on plan assets excluding interest 

income

Other
Contributions paid by the employer
Scheme participant’s contributions
Benefits paid

Assets
£m

2023

Obligations
£m

4,311.2

(3,726.3)

–
–
–
114.8

114.8

(28.2)
(5.7)
–
(98.6)

(132.5)

Total

584.9

(28.2)
(5.7)
–
16.2

(17.7)

–
–
–

71.7
1,099.8
(135.1)

71.7
1,099.8
(135.1)

(1,115.6)

(1,115.6)

–

(1,115.6)

1,036.4

(79.2)

53.1
0.1
(175.0)

(121.8)

–
(0.1)
175.0

174.9

53.1
–
–

53.1

Assets
£m

2022

Obligations
£m

4,312.1

(3,955.1)

–
–
(2.5)
85.2

82.7

–
–
–

26.4

26.4

59.0
0.1
(169.1)

(110.0)

(31.0)
(5.1)
2.6
(77.6)

(111.1)

16.8
195.6
(41.5)

–

170.9

–
(0.1)
169.1

169.0

Total

357.0

(31.0)
(5.1)
0.1
7.6

(28.4)

16.8
195.6
(41.5)

26.4

197.3

59.0
–
–

59.0

Balance at 31 March

3,188.6

(2,647.5)

541.1

4,311.2

(3,726.3)

584.9

23.5 Pension scheme contributions and costs
Charges/(credits) recognised:

Service costs (charged to operating profit)
Settlements and curtailment gains

(Credited)/charged to finance costs:
Interest from pension scheme assets
Interest on pension scheme liabilities

The return on pension scheme assets is as follows:

Return on pension scheme assets

2023
£m

33.9
–

33.9

(114.8)
98.6

(16.2)

2023
£m

(1,000.8)

2022
£m

36.1
(0.1)

36.0

(85.2)
77.6

(7.6)

2022
£m

111.6

Defined contribution scheme
The total contribution paid by the Group to defined contribution pension schemes was £58.7m (2022: £57.3m).

Employer financed retirement benefit (EFRB) pension costs 
The decrease in the year in relation to EFRB was £8.9m (2022: decrease of £1.1m). This is included in Employee related provisions (note 20).

Staff costs analysis
The pension costs in note 8 can be analysed as follows:

Service costs
Defined contribution scheme payments

272

SSE plc  Annual Report 2023

2023
£m

33.9
60.1

94.0

2022
£m

36.1
57.3

93.4

23.6 Pension scheme risk assessment and mitigation
Risks to which the Pension Schemes exposes the Group 
The nature of the Group’s defined benefit pension schemes expose the Group to the risk of paying unanticipated additional contributions 
to the schemes in times of adverse experience. The most financially significant risks are likely to be:

(i) Asset volatility
The liabilities are calculated using a discount rate set with reference to corporate bond yields; if assets underperform this yield, this  
will create a deficit. The schemes hold a proportion of growth assets (equities, diversified growth fund and global absolute return fund) 
which, though expected to outperform corporate bonds in the long-term, create volatility and risk in the short-term. The allocation  
to growth assets is monitored to ensure it remains appropriate given the schemes’ long term objectives. The SHEPS has a much lower 
proportion of growth assets than the SSE Southern Pension Scheme reflecting the maturity of each scheme.

(ii) Changes in bond yields
A decrease in corporate bond yields will increase the value placed on the schemes’ liabilities for accounting purposes. However, this will 
be partially offset by an increase in the value of the schemes’ bond holdings and its interest rate hedging in both schemes.

(iii) Inflation risk
The majority of the schemes’ benefit obligations are linked to inflation, and higher inflation will lead to higher liabilities (although, in most 
cases, caps on the level of inflationary increases are in place to protect against extreme inflation). The majority of the assets are either 
unaffected by or only loosely correlated with inflation, meaning that an increase in inflation will also increase the deficit, although this is 
further limited by the inflation hedging in both schemes.

(iv) Life expectancy
The majority of the schemes’ obligations are to provide benefits for the life of the members, so an increase in the life expectancy will 
result in an increase in the liabilities. The sensitivity analysis disclosed is intended to provide an indication of the impact on the value of 
the schemes’ liabilities of the risks highlighted.

(v) Liability versus asset risk
The risk that movement in the value of the schemes’ liabilities are not met by corresponding movements in the value of the schemes’ 
assets will expose the Group to movements in the overall funding surplus.

23.7 Risk mitigation
(i) De-risking
The Trustees have taken a number of steps to control the level of investment risk including reducing the Schemes’ exposures to higher 
risk assets and increasing the level of protection against adverse movements in interest rates and inflation. The Trustees of both schemes 
continue to review the risk exposures in light of the longer term objectives of the respective schemes, including consideration of the 
impact of climate-related risk. Detailed below are further details on the hedging of pensioner longevity risk.

(ii) Asset buy-in
On 1 October 2019, the Scottish Hydro Electric Pension Scheme entered into an asset buy-in, transferring the risk of volatility in the 
assumptions used to calculate the obligation for 1,800 pensioners and 567 dependants (covering c.£800m of the scheme’s liabilities) to  
a third party. The asset buy-in is valued under the accounting principles of IFRS 13 and is considered a Level 3 instrument in the fair value 
hierarchy. This is in addition to a previous buy-in completed during the year ended 31 March 2018 when c.£250m of the scheme’s assets 
and liabilities related to 617 pensioners and 190 dependants were transferred to a third party. The Group has now insured against volatility 
in obligations related to pensioners who retired before 1 October 2019 to third parties (insurer PIC) and is now only exposed to valuation 
fluctuations related to active and deferred members and any members who retired after 1 October 2019.

(iii) Asset-liability matching strategies used by the Scheme 
The Company and trustees of the schemes have agreed a long term investment strategy that seeks to reduce investment risk as and when 
appropriate. The asset-liability matching strategy is part of this approach which aims to reduce the volatility of the funding level of the 
pension schemes by investing in assets which perform in line with the liabilities of the schemes so as to protect against inflation being 
higher than expected. This has been adopted for a proportion of the schemes’ assets, which is designed to provide partial protection 
against adverse movements in interest rates and inflation. The trustees of the respective schemes review the schemes’ asset allocation  
on an ongoing basis in light of changes in the funding position and market opportunities.

23.8 Risk assessment
(i) Maturity profile of the defined benefit obligations
The weighted average duration of the defined benefit obligation is 17 years (2022: 17 years) for the Scottish Hydro Electric Pension 
Scheme and 14 years (2022: 16 years) for the SSE Southern Pension Scheme.

SSE plc  Annual Report 2023

273

Financial StatementsStrategic ReportDirectors’ Report 
 
Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued
For the year ended 31 March 2023

23. Retirement benefit obligations continued
23.8 Risk assessment continued
(ii) Information about the defined benefit obligations
Status of members is weighted by the liabilities of each scheme

Active members
Deferred members
Pensioners

Scottish Hydro 
Electric

SSE  

Southern

23%
14%
63%

100%

18%
8%
74%

100%

23.9 Pension scheme policies
(i) Recognition of gains and losses
The Group recognises actuarial gains and losses in the Statement of Other Comprehensive Income following the re-measurement of the 
net defined benefit liabilities of the schemes.

(ii) Methods and assumptions used in preparing the sensitivity analyses 
The sensitivities disclosed are calculated using approximate methods taking into account the duration of the schemes’ liabilities. While 
these have been calculated consistently with the previous financial year, the method applied may change over time with financial 
conditions and assumptions.

(iii) Asset recognition 
The Group has recognised net pension assets in relation to the Scottish Hydro Electric and SSE Southern pension schemes due to a surplus 
existing under IAS 19 accounting. The Group will only recognise a surplus should it have rights to that surplus under the rules of the pension 
scheme. The company no longer applies the ‘asset ceiling’ restriction mandated by IFRIC 14. Details on this key accounting consideration 
are provided above.

(iv) Fair value assessment of scheme assets
The Group seeks to assess whether there is a quotable market value (referenced as ‘quotable’ above) in relation to pension scheme 
assets held. This assessment is based on regular reviews conducted in conjunction with the trustees of the schemes. For assets where no 
quotable market value exists, these assets will be valued based on a set methodology agreed by trustees and scheme advisors and then 
regularly assessed.

Currently only one unquotable value exists within the two pension schemes of the Group, this being insurance contracts (or ‘buy-in’) 
held by the Scottish Hydro Electric Pension Scheme. These assets are currently valued consistently with the scheme’s liabilities with the 
expected return on these assets being set equal to the discount rate.

24. Financial instruments
For financial reporting purposes, the Group has classified derivative financial instruments into two categories, operating derivatives and 
financing derivatives. Operating derivatives include all qualifying commodity contracts including those for electricity, gas, oil, and carbon 
and the post-day 1 fair value movements on non-government backed contracts for difference in SSE Renewables. Financing derivatives 
include all fair value and cash flow interest rate hedges, non-hedge accounted (mark-to-market) interest rate derivatives, cash flow 
foreign exchange hedges and non-hedge accounted foreign exchange contracts. Non-hedge accounted contracts are treated as held 
for trading. 

24.1 Financial instruments – income statement

Operating derivatives
Total result on operating derivatives(i)

Less: Amounts settled(ii)

Movement in unrealised derivatives

Financing derivatives (and hedged items)
Total result on financing derivatives(i)

Less: Amounts settled(ii)

Movement in unrealised derivatives

Net income statement impact

2023
£m

2022
£m

(2,980.2)
272.0

(2,708.2)

3,527.2
(1,426.8)

2,100.4

81.3
120.6

201.9

(43.3)
64.3

21.0

(2,506.3)

2,121.4

(i)  Total result on derivatives in the income statement represents the total amounts (charged) or credited to the income statement in respect of operating and 

financial derivatives.

(ii)  Amounts settled in the year represent the result on derivatives transacted which have matured or been delivered and have been included within the total result on 

derivatives. 

The movement in unrealised operating derivative excludes £16.6m of gains on proprietary trades, which has been recognised in the 
underlying profit of the Group.

24.2 Financial instruments – balance sheet
The derivative financial assets and (liabilities) are represented as follows:

Derivative financial assets

Non-current
Current

Total derivative assets

Derivative liabilities

Non-current
Current 

Total derivative liabilities

Net liability

2023
£m

246.0
759.2

1,005.2

(1,021.0)
(243.3)

(1,264.3)

(259.1)

2022
£m

371.7
2,941.8

3,313.5

(549.6)
(701.5)

(1,251.1)

2,062.4

Information on the Group’s financial risk management and the fair value of financial instruments is available at A6 and A7 .

25. Commitments and contingencies
25.1 Capital commitments

Capital expenditure:
Contracted for but not provided

2023
£m

2022
£m

1,035.6

985.9

Contracted for but not provided capital commitments include the fixed contracted costs of the Group’s major capital projects. In practice 
contractual variations may arise on the final settlement of these contractual costs. 

25.2 Contingent assets and liabilities
The Group has unrecognised contingent assets in relation to the part disposal transactions of Neos Networks Limited, SSE Slough Multifuel 
Limited, Seagreen and Doggerbank C. In total, contingent consideration receivable is up to £149.1m (2022: £187.1m), for which the Group 
has recognised a net receivable of £4.1m (2022: £4.1m). The payments of the remaining £145.0m (2022: £183.0m) are subject to various 
earn outs or contract and planning milestones, some of which the Group has assessed are unachievable or are out of the Group’s control. 
At 31 March 2023, the Group has assessed that there is neither the required certainty of receipt, nor the ability to accurately assess the 
amounts receivable for recognition of these amounts.

Contingent liabilities for the Group solely relate to SSE plc, and have been disclosed within note 12 to the Company Financial Statements.

26. Post balance sheet events
26.1 Glendoe Hydro Electric Station announcement
On 23 March 2023, the Group’s case concerning the availability of capital allowances on Glendoe Hydro Electric Station was heard at the 
Supreme Court. On 17 May 2023, the Supreme Court released its decision, which rejected HMRC’s appeal in full. The matter is now 
concluded and is not subject to further appeal. Accordingly, the release of the Group’s provision on its uncertain tax position of £27.9m 
and the associated recognition of £23.4m deferred tax liabilities in relation to Glendoe’s capital allowances is an adjusting post balance 
sheet event.

274

SSE plc  Annual Report 2023

SSE plc  Annual Report 2023

275

Financial StatementsStrategic ReportDirectors’ Report 
Accompanying information

A1. Basis of consolidation and significant accounting policies 
A1.1 Basis of consolidation 
The financial statements consolidate the results of the Company and its subsidiaries together with the Group’s share of the results and 
net assets of its interests in joint arrangements and associates. Where necessary to ensure consistency, the accounting policies of the 
subsidiaries, joint arrangements or associates have been adjusted to align to the accounting policies of the Group. Intra-Group balances 
and any unrealised gains and losses or income and expenses arising from Intra-Group transactions are eliminated in preparing the 
consolidated financial statements. Unrealised gains and losses arising from transactions with joint arrangements and associates are 
eliminated to the extent of the Group’s interest in the entity. Non-controlling interests represent the equity in subsidiaries that is not 
attributable, either directly or indirectly, to SSE plc shareholders.

Subsidiaries (Accompanying Information A3)
Subsidiaries are those entities controlled by the Group or the Company. Control exists when the Group has the power, directly or 
indirectly, to govern the financial and operating policies of an entity in order to obtain variable returns from its activities. In assessing 
control, potential voting rights that are currently exercisable or convertible are taken into account. The financial statements of subsidiaries 
acquired are consolidated in the financial statements of the Group from the date that control commences until the date control ceases. 
Transactions with non-controlling interests that relate to their ownership interests and do not result in a loss of control are accounted for 
as equity transactions.

Interests in joint arrangements and associates (note 16 and Accompanying Information A3)
Joint arrangements, as defined by IFRS 11 ‘Joint Arrangements’, are those arrangements that convey to two or more parties ‘joint 
control’. Joint control exists when decisions about the ‘relevant activities’, being the financial, operational or strategic policies of the 
arrangement, are made with the unanimous consent of the parties sharing control. Whilst this assessment is principally focused on any 
‘reserved matters’, being the material activities that typically require all significant shareholders to approve, other contractual agreements 
such as Power Purchase Agreements and Management Services Agreements are also considered. The Group’s investments in joint 
arrangements are classified as either joint operations or joint ventures depending on the investee’s legal form and the investor’s 
contractual rights and obligations over the assets and liabilities of the investee.

Associates are those investments over which the Group has significant influence but neither control nor joint control. 

The Group’s interests in its joint operations are accounted for by recognising its share of the assets, liabilities, revenue and expenses  
of the operation. In these arrangements, the Group’s share of the revenue will be eliminated as it relates to its purchased share of the 
output from the arrangement.

The Group’s joint ventures and associates are accounted for using the equity method of accounting where the joint venture and 
associate net investments (comprising both equity and long term loans) are carried at historical cost plus the Group’s share of post-
acquisition results, less any impairment in value. Where an impairment is recognised against the carrying value of an investment, it is 
recognised within the operating costs line of the consolidated financial statements. For those investments that were formerly subsidiaries 
of the Group, this will also include any fair value uplift arising from loss of control. The Group recognises its share of the results of these 
equity-accounted operations after tax and interest in the income statement. 

Foreign currencies
The consolidated financial statements are presented in pounds sterling, which is the functional currency of the parent. Each entity in the 
Group determines its own functional currency and items included in the financial statements of each entity are measured accordingly. 

Transactions in foreign currencies are recorded at the rate ruling at the date of the transaction. Monetary assets and liabilities denominated 
in foreign currencies are translated at the rate of exchange ruling at the balance sheet date. Any gain or loss arising on the restatement  
of such items is taken to the income statement as a finance cost, with the exception of exchange gains or losses on foreign currency 
borrowings that provide a hedge against a net investment in a foreign entity or exchange gains or losses incurred as part of a qualifying cash 
flow hedge. These exchange gains or losses are transferred to the translation reserve to the extent the hedge is effective. Non-monetary 
assets that are measured in terms of historical cost in a foreign currency are translated at the historic rate at the date of transaction.

For the purpose of presenting the consolidated financial statements, the assets and liabilities of the Group’s foreign operations are 
translated into pounds sterling at the balance sheet closing rate. The results of these operations are translated at the average rate in the 
relevant period. Exchange differences on retranslation of the opening net assets and the results of foreign operations are transferred to 
the translation reserve and are reported in the consolidated statement of comprehensive income. 

The average and spot rates for the principal functional currencies that the Group’s foreign operations are denominated in are shown in 
the table below.

EUR v GBP

US$ v GBP

JPY v GBP

Year end spot rate
Average spot rate

Year end spot rate
Average spot rate

Year end spot rate
Average spot rate

276

SSE plc  Annual Report 2023

2023

1.1374
1.1564

1.2337
1.2050

2022

1.1856
1.1750

1.3139
1.3616

163.8230
163.2888

159.7110
153.8007

Change

(4.1)%
(1.6)%

(6.1)%
(11.5)%

2.6%
6.2%

A1.2 Significant accounting policies
Revenue (notes 2 and 5)
Revenue from contracts with customers is recognised to the extent that it reflects the expected consideration for goods or services 
provided to the customer under contract, over the performance obligations they are being provided. For each separable performance 
obligation identified, the Group determines whether it is satisfied at a ‘point in time’ or ‘over time’ based upon an evaluation of the receipt 
and consumption of benefits, control of assets and enforceable payment rights associated with that obligation. If the criteria required for 
‘over time’ recognition are not met, the performance obligation is deemed to be satisfied at a ‘point in time’.

Revenue principally arises as a result of the Group’s activities in energy production, storage, transmission, distribution, supply and related 
services in the energy markets in Great Britain and Ireland. The key policies applied by each Business Unit are as follows:

Transmission
Use of electricity transmission networks
Revenue from use of electricity transmission networks is derived from the allowed revenue as defined by the parameters in the relevant 
electricity transmission licence, which informs the tariffs set.

Electricity transmission revenue is determined in accordance with the regulatory licence, based on an Ofgem approved revenue model 
and is recognised ‘over time’ as charged to National Grid. Where this revenue differs from the allowed revenue, there may be an over-  
or under-recovery of revenue which will be reflected in future financial years’ allowed revenue as set out in the regulatory licence. No 
accounting adjustments are made for over- or under-recoveries in the year that they arise as they are contingent on future events (being 
the transmission of electricity in a future period). The over or under recovery adjustment is recognised in the subsequent period when 
included within the tariffs that form allowed revenue under the regulatory agreement.

Transmission network contracted services
Where the Group has an ongoing obligation to provide contracted services (transmission network connections), revenues are recognised 
‘over time’ consistent with the customer receiving and consuming the benefits of that service across the expected contractual service 
period. Any assets constructed in order to deliver the service are capitalised and depreciated over their useful life. Payments are typically 
received from customers in advance of providing the contracted service and are deferred on balance sheet. No extended warranty 
periods are offered.

Distribution
Use of electricity distribution networks
Revenue from use of electricity distribution networks is derived from the allowed revenue as defined by the parameters in the relevant 
electricity distribution licence, which informs the tariffs set.

Electricity distribution revenue recognised is based on the volume of electricity distributed ‘over time’, as use of distribution service is 
determined by the customer, and the set customer tariff. As with electricity transmission revenue, any over- or under-recovery of revenue 
is reflected in future financial years’ allowed revenue as set out in the regulatory licence. No accounting adjustments are made for over- or 
under-recoveries in the year that they arise as they are contingent on future events (being the distribution of electricity in a future period). 
The over or under recovery adjustment is recognised in the subsequent period when included within the tariffs that form allowed revenue 
under the regulatory agreement.

The Distribution business is responsible for recovering industry charges for supplier failures from customers under Ofgem’s Supplier of 
Last Resort scheme. The Group’s policy is to recognise revenue for recovered amounts when the Group is entitled to invoice customers 
through its regulated use of system tariff. The Group recognises its obligation to pay amounts recovered to eligible suppliers when the 
Group is entitled to invoice customers through its regulated use of system tariff. 

Distribution network contracted services
Where the Group has an ongoing obligation to provide contracted services (such as for distribution network connections), revenues  
are recognised ‘over time’ consistent with the customer receiving and consuming the benefits of that service across the expected 
contractual service period. Any assets constructed in order to deliver the service are capitalised and depreciated over their useful life. 
Payments are typically received from customers in advance of providing the contracted service and are deferred on balance sheet.  
No extended warranty periods are offered.

Renewables
Electricity generation
Revenue from the physical generation of electricity is recognised ‘point in time’ as generated and supplied to the national settlements 
body. Revenue is measured at either the spot price at the time of delivery, or trade price where that trade is eligible for ‘own 
use’ designation.

Renewables contracted services
Revenue from national support schemes, such as Renewable Obligation Certificates, is recognised at the point the performance 
obligation has been met. This is typically considered to be either at the point electricity has been physically generated or over the 
contractual period, depending on the underlying performance obligation. Revenue is measured either at the market rate at the point  
of generation, or at the fixed contractual consideration, depending on the individual scheme mechanic.

Revenue from other ancillary generation services is recognised ‘over time’ consistent with the customer receiving and consuming the 
benefits of those services across the expected contractual service period, and at the contracted consideration.

SSE plc  Annual Report 2023

277

Financial StatementsStrategic ReportDirectors’ ReportAccompanying information continued

A1. Basis of consolidation and significant accounting policies continued
A1.2 Significant accounting policies continued
Thermal
Electricity generation
Revenue from the physical generation of electricity is recognised ‘point in time’ as generated and supplied to the national settlements body. 
Revenue is measured at either the spot price at the time of delivery, or trade price where that trade is eligible for ‘own use’ designation.

Gas storage
Revenue from gas storage trading activities is recognised ‘point in time’ as injected back into the gas network. Revenue is measured at 
either the spot price at the time of delivery, or trade price where that trade is eligible for ‘own use’ designation.

Thermal Generation contracted services
Revenue from national support schemes, such as the Capacity Market mechanism, is recognised at the point the performance obligation 
has been met. This is typically considered to be either at the point electricity has been physically generated or over the contractual 
period, depending on the underlying performance obligation. Revenue is measured either at the market rate at the point of generation, 
or at the fixed contractual consideration, depending on the individual scheme mechanic.

Revenue from other ancillary generation services is recognised ‘over time’ consistent with the customer receiving and consuming the 
benefits of those services across the expected contractual service period, and at the contracted consideration.

Customers 
Supply of energy
Revenue on the supply of energy comprises sales to domestic (in Ireland) and business end-user customers (in GB and Ireland) based on 
actual energy consumption including an estimate of the value of electricity and gas supplied to customers between the date of the last 
meter reading and the year end. Revenue is recognised ‘over time’ consistent with the delivery of energy to the customer as we consider 
the receipt and consumption of the benefits of the energy to be simultaneous. Revenue is measured based on the applicable customer 
tariff rate and after deduction of any applicable contractual discounts.

Details of the judgements involved in the estimation process for the value of electricity and gas supplied to customers is given within note 4.1(iii).

Payments from customers may be received in advance of providing the contracted service and are deferred on balance sheet. Amounts 
received from customers in relation to energy management services provided by Third Party Intermediaries (‘TPIs’) are offset against 
payments to those TPIs, reflecting the responsibility for providing the energy management service.

Energy related services
Where the Group has an ongoing obligation to provide contracted energy related services, revenues are recognised ‘over time’ 
consistent with the customer receiving and consuming the benefits of that service across the expected contractual service period at the 
fixed contracted rate. Where the Group has an obligation to perform a specific service, revenues are recognised ‘point in time’, following 
performance of the service at the fixed contracted consideration. No extended warranty periods are offered.

Distributed Energy
Construction related services
Construction related service revenue related to the Contracting and Rail business, which was disposed on 30 June 2021. For construction 
related services, revenue was recognised for each identified performance obligation ‘over time’ by applying an input method to determine 
the proportion of total contract revenue (being fixed price consideration plus the latest estimate of variable consideration) that should be 
recognised. The input method applied was calculated by reference to the costs incurred to date on that performance obligation, relative 
to the total expected costs to satisfy that performance obligation, provided the contract outcome can be assessed with reasonable 
certainty. Revenue from non-contracted agreements or variations to contracted work was only recognised to the extent there is additional 
supporting evidence to their recoverability and may be subject to constraints on recognition. Revenue on contracts in customer dispute 
was recognised only to the extent it is considered to be highly probable that the revenue will be recovered.

Commissions in relation to acquisition of construction related contracts were expensed as incurred. No extended warranty periods were 
offered. Payments from customers were based on agreed billing schedules, with payment milestones typically aligned with delivery of 
performance obligations.

EPM & I
Commodity optimisation and other services
Income from sales commodity optimisation trading occurring in any business unit is presented net in cost of sales alongside purchase 
commodity optimisation trades. Revenue on physical power and gas supplies recognised ‘point in time’ as delivered to the national 
settlements body or third parties. Revenue is measured at either the spot price at the time of delivery, or trade price where that trade  
is eligible for ‘own use’ designation.

Revenue arising on commodities purchased in excess of the Group’s requirements and recorded as inventory assets, such as Renewables 
Obligation Certificates, is recognised ‘point in time’ on disposal of these inventory assets to third parties.

Revenue from other ancillary services is recognised ‘over time’ consistent with the customer receiving and consuming the benefits of 
those services across the expected contractual service period, and at the contracted consideration.

Physical energy production
The Group’s Gas production business was disposed on 14 October 2021 and was presented as a discontinued operation within the prior 
year financial statements.

Revenue from the physical production of natural gas, crude oil and condensates arose from the Group’s interest in various joint ventures 
and associates and was based on the entitlement method; whereby the Group’s share of interest and production sharing terms were 
used to determine the allocation of production to each party in the arrangement. Revenue was recognised ‘point in time’ based on the 
production delivered to the customer at the specified delivery point and measured based on the applicable market price as specified in 
the customer contracts. 

Aside from where specifically noted above, consideration is due when the performance obligation has been satisfied. As the period 
between satisfaction of the performance obligation and receipt of consideration from the customer is expected to be less than a year, 
the Group has applied the practical expedient not to adjust revenue for the effect of any financing components.

Revenue from sources other than the Group’s contracts with customers principally comprise meter rental income within the Distributed 
Energy business, and Contract for Difference income within certain Joint Venture arrangements.

Income on meter rental agreements, which are classified as operating leases, are presented as revenue where they relate to the core 
operating activities of that business. Lease payments are recognised as income on a straight-line basis over the lease term.

Other operating income – Government Grants (note 6)
During the year ended 31 March 2023, the UK and Irish governments introduced customer support schemes under which licensed 
energy suppliers are required to provide a discount on gas and electricity prices to customers. The level of discount applied to each 
customer varied dependent upon energy tariff and support scheme applicable to each customer. Where SSE provided a discount to 
customer through reduction of energy bill, the cost of applying these discounts was recovered from the Government. The amounts 
reclaimed under this scheme are recognised as government grant income within Other Operating Income in the consolidated income 
statement. 

The most significant customer support scheme administered by the Group during the year was the Energy Bill Relief Scheme, applicable 
to GB commercial gas and electricity customer usage during the period 1 October 2022 to 31 March 2023. This scheme impacts GB 
Business Energy with discounts made to SSE’s billings to customers and unbilled income accrual and a separate asset recognised in 
respect of claimed or to-be-claimed receipts from the UK government. 

Contract for Differences (‘CfD’) are agreements between a low-carbon electricity generator and the Low Carbon Contracts Company 
(‘LCCC’), a UK Government owned entity responsible for delivering support mechanisms for low-carbon electricity generation. These 
agreements are not considered to be contracts with a customer, as the LCCC does not receive any goods or services from the generator. 
These arrangements are instead considered to be Government Grants, with income arising from these grants recognised in the income 
statement in the period in which generation takes place. In the year, the Group recognised no income or expense related to Contracts 
for Difference with the LCCC within its wholly owned subsidiaries. The Group’s joint venture investment, Beatrice Offshore Windfarm 
Limited, has a CfD with the LCCC which resulted in payments from the LCCC of £25.6m in the year (SSE share of £12.8m recognised 
within share of profit). The Group’s wholly owned Viking windfarm and joint venture investment Seagreen Wind Energy Limited also have 
a CfD arrangements in place with LCCC, however these agreements have not yet commenced and no income or cost was recognised 
during the year. 

Where the CfD strike price falls below the spot price of generation and payments are made to the LCCC, these payments are expensed 
as incurred within operating costs.

The Group has commercial CfD arrangements in place where the Group has agreed to provide a revenue support contract. Where the 
Group has entered into these arrangements and there is no relationship with a government entity, the instruments are classified as 
derivatives and accounted for under IFRS 9. The Group has assessed that due to the valuation complexity of these arrangements, they 
are Level 3 financial instruments in the fair value hierarchy. On day 1, the Group recognises no gain or loss arising from the instrument, 
but instead defers this gain or loss and recognises it progressively over the life of the instrument. At each balance sheet date the fair value 
of the instrument is assessed with any movement in fair value recognised in the income statement in the period it arises. None of these 
contracts were active at 31 March 2023.

Cost of sales (note 6)
Cost of sales includes fuel and energy purchases, direct employee benefits, and depreciation of property, plant and equipment.

The net result from sales and purchases of commodity optimisation trades – comprising both realised and unrealised gains and losses 
arising from optimisation trading activities – is also presented within cost of sales, reflecting the underlying economic purpose of this 
trading activity.

278

SSE plc  Annual Report 2023

SSE plc  Annual Report 2023

279

Financial StatementsStrategic ReportDirectors’ ReportAccompanying information continued

A1. Basis of consolidation and significant accounting policies continued
A1.2 Significant accounting policies continued
Finance income and costs (note 9)
Interest income and costs are recognised in the income statement as they accrue, on an effective interest method. The issue costs and 
interest payable on bonds and all other interest payable and receivable is reflected in the income statement on the same basis. 

Interest on the funding attributable to major capital projects is capitalised during the period of construction and depreciated as part of 
the total cost over the useful life of the asset.

The accounting policy for foreign exchange translation of monetary assets and liabilities is described on page 276  and for lease liability 
charges on page 283 .

Taxation (note 10)
Taxation on the profit for the year comprises current and deferred tax. Taxation is recognised in the income statement unless it relates  
to items recognised directly in equity, in which case it is recognised in other comprehensive income.

Current tax is the expected tax payable on the taxable income for the year, using tax rates enacted or substantively enacted at the 
balance sheet date, and any adjustment to tax payable in respect of previous years.

Deferred tax is calculated using the balance sheet liability method, providing for temporary differences between the carrying amounts  
of assets and liabilities for financial reporting purposes and the amounts used for taxation purposes. The following temporary differences 
are not provided for: goodwill not deductible for tax purposes, the initial recognition of assets or liabilities other than in business 
combinations that affect neither accounting nor taxable profit, and differences relating to investments in subsidiaries to the extent that they 
will probably not reverse in the foreseeable future. The amount of deferred tax provided is based on the expected manner of realisation or 
settlement of the carrying amount of assets and liabilities, using tax rates enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date. 

Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset where there is a legally enforceable right of offset within the same tax authority and where  
the Group intends to either settle them on a net basis, or to realise the asset and settle the liability simultaneously. A deferred tax asset is 
recognised only to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profits will be available against which the asset can be utilised. Deferred 
tax assets are reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable that the related tax benefit will be realised.

During the year ended 31 March 2023, the UK government announced draft legislation related to the Electricity Generator Levy (‘EGL’), 
which is effective for periods from 1 January 2023 to 31 March 2028. The Group has assessed that the EGL has the characteristics  
of a levy rather than an income tax. While the legislation was not enacted by the balance sheet date, legislation was passing through 
Parliament and the Group expects no significant amendments will be made to the draft legislation through the enactment process. As a 
result, the Group has recognised an accrual of £43.4m for the period 1 January 2023 to 31 March 2023 within cost of sales (£33.6m) and 
share of operating profit from joint ventures and associates (£9.8m).

Business Combinations (note 12)
The acquisition of subsidiaries, and joint operations that meet the definition of a business, is accounted for under the acquisition method 
as defined by IFRS 3 ‘Business Combinations’.

The cost of acquisition is measured as being the aggregate fair value of consideration to be transferred at the date control is obtained. 
Goodwill is measured at the acquisition date as the fair value of consideration transferred, plus non-controlling interests, less the net 
recognised amount (which is generally fair value) of the identifiable assets and liabilities assumed. Goodwill is subject to an annual review 
for impairment (or more frequently if necessary) in accordance with the Group’s impairment accounting policy. 

Contingent consideration is classified as a liability and subsequently re-measured through the income statement. Acquisition costs are 
expensed as incurred.

Changes in ownership that do not result in a change of control are accounted for as equity transactions.

Held for sale assets and liabilities and discontinued operations (note 12)
Non-current assets are classified as held for sale if their recoverable value is likely to be recovered via a sale or distribution as opposed to 
continued use by the Group. In order to be classified as assets held for sale, assets must meet all of the following conditions: the sale is 
highly probable; it is available for immediate sale; it is being actively marketed; and the sale is likely to occur within one year.

Assets that qualify as held for sale and related liabilities are disclosed separately from other assets and liabilities in the balance sheet 
prospectively from the date of classification. Non-current assets determined as held for sale are measured at the lower of carrying value 
and fair value less costs to sell, no depreciation is charged in respect of these assets after classification as held for sale.

Assets or groups of assets and related liabilities that qualify as held for sale are classified as discontinued operations when they represent a 
separate major line of business or geographical area, are part of a single plan to dispose of a separate major line of business or geographical 
area or are acquired exclusively with a view to resale. Income and expenses relating to these discontinued operations are disclosed in a 
single net amount after taxes in the income statement, with comparative amounts re-presented accordingly.

Intra-Group balances and any unrealised gains and losses or income and expenses arising from trading between continuing and 
discontinued operations continue to be eliminated in preparing the consolidated financial statements. 

280

SSE plc  Annual Report 2023

Intangible assets (note 13)
Goodwill and impairment testing
Goodwill arising on a business combination represents the excess of the cost of acquisition over the Group’s interest in the fair value of 
the identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities of a subsidiary, associate or joint venture at the date of acquisition. Following 
initial recognition, goodwill is measured at cost less any accumulated impairment losses. Goodwill is reviewed for impairment at least on 
an annual basis. 

For the purpose of impairment testing, goodwill is allocated on initial recognition to the cash-generating units (CGUs) or groups of CGUs 
expected to benefit from the combination’s synergies. The CGUs (or groups of CGUs) used for goodwill impairment testing purposes will 
represent how goodwill was attributed but may not represent reportable business segments.

Goodwill may also arise upon investments in joint arrangements and associates. Goodwill arising on a joint operation is recorded as  
a separate asset and any impairment loss is recognised in the income statement. Goodwill arising on a joint venture or associate is 
recorded within the carrying amount of the Group’s investment and any impairment loss is included within the share of result from joint 
ventures and associates. On disposal or closure of a previously acquired investment or business, any attributed goodwill will be included 
in determining the profit or loss on disposal.

Allowances and certificates
Allowances and certificates consist of purchased carbon emissions allowances and generated or purchased obligations certificates. 
These allowances and certificates will be utilised in settlement of environmental obligations incurred by the Group’s Thermal and 
Business Energy businesses.

The EU Emissions Trading Scheme (EU ETS) has been in operation since 1 January 2005, with the Group operating under the established 
EU ETS carbon pricing system from that date. Since 1 January 2021, following Brexit, the UK Government has established a UK Emissions 
Trading Scheme (UK ETS) to replace the EU ETS with the Group’s UK generation assets now operating under the UK ETS carbon pricing 
system. The Group continues to hold EU ETS certificates to settle obligations arising through the activities of its Irish Thermal generation 
assets. Carbon allowances purchased are recorded at cost within intangible assets. Forward carbon contracts are measured at fair value 
with gains or losses arising on re-measurement being recognised in the income statement. A liability is recognised based on the level of 
emissions recorded. Up to the level of allowances held, including forward carbon contracts, the liability is measured at the cost of 
purchase. When the carbon emission liability exceeds the carbon allowances held, the difference is measured at market value selling 
price. Subsequent movements in market value are prospectively recognised in operating profit.

The carbon allowance intangible asset is surrendered at the end of the compliance period to the extent requested reflecting the 
consumption of the economic benefit and is recorded as being utilised. As a result, no amortisation is booked but an impairment charge 
may be recognised should the carrying value of allowances exceed market or fair value.

Under the Renewable Obligations Certificates (ROCs) scheme, certificates obtained from own generation are awarded by a third party, 
Ofgem. ROCs can be traded with third parties and are ultimately used by suppliers to demonstrate to Ofgem that they have met their 
obligation to source a set proportion of the electricity they supply from renewable sources. The value of a ROC to a supplier comprises 
two elements: the ‘buy-out’ price which is set annually in advance of the compliance period by Ofgem; and the ‘recycle’ price which  
is determined after the compliance period by Ofgem. The recycle price element is estimated at the balance sheet date based on 
assumptions at that point in time around likely levels of renewable generation and supply over the remaining compliance period,  
and is therefore subject to possible future variation.

Where ROCs are self-generated or purchased to fulfil the Group’s liability under the renewable obligation, they are recorded at market 
value at the point of generation or purchased within intangible assets. The Group can hold ROCs in excess of the Group’s renewables 
obligation, which, due to limited evidence of liquidity or net settlement for ROC trades, are recorded at the lower of cost or net realisable 
value within inventories. Similarly, the fair value of any forward contracts entered into at the balance sheet date for the purchase or sale 
of ROCs in future periods are not recognised, as there is insufficient liquidity for net settlement. The Group’s liability under the renewable 
obligation is recognised based on electricity supplied to customers, the obligation level set by Ofgem and the prevailing market price.

The intangible assets are surrendered at the end of the compliance period reflecting the consumption of economic benefit and release 
of the associated liability. As a result, no amortisation is recorded during the period.

Research and development
Expenditure on research activities is charged to the income statement as incurred. 

Expenditure on development activities is capitalised as intangible assets if the project or process is considered to be technically and 
commercially feasible and the Group intends to complete the project or process for use or for sale. Development projects include wind 
farm developments, battery storage and solar developments, thermal generation projects and other developments relating to proven 
technologies. Costs incurred in bringing these projects to the consent stage include options over land rights, planning application costs 
and environmental impact studies and may be costs incurred directly or part of the fair value exercise on acquisition of an interest in  
a project. At the point that the project reaches the consent stage and is approved by the Board, the carrying value of the project is 
transferred to property, plant and equipment as assets under construction. Revenue and costs incurred through pre-commissioning 
testing activities are reflected in the income statement. Once in operation, depreciation will be charged over the expected useful life  
of the asset. The asset is derecognised on disposal, or when no future economic benefits are expected to arise.

SSE plc  Annual Report 2023

281

Financial StatementsStrategic ReportDirectors’ ReportAccompanying information continued

A1. Basis of consolidation and significant accounting policies continued
A1.2 Significant accounting policies continued
Intangible assets (note 13) continued
Other intangible assets
Other intangible assets that have been acquired separately by the Group are stated at cost less accumulated amortisation and 
impairment losses. Expenditure on internally generated brands or customer lists are expensed as incurred. Expenditure on internally 
developed software assets and application software licences includes contractors’ fees and directly attributable labour and overheads. 
Amortisation is charged to the income statement on a straight-line basis over the estimated useful life of these assets. The amortisation 
periods utilised are as follows:

Brands
Customer lists
Developed software assets and application software licences

Years 

10
Contract term
3 to 15

The useful lives of all the intangible assets are reviewed annually and amended, as required, on a prospective basis. Intangible assets are 
derecognised on disposal, or when no future economic benefits are expected from their use.

Cloud computing arrangements
The Group has contracts for Software as a Service (SaaS) and Platform as a Service (PaaS) Cloud Computing Arrangements. Where the 
Group does not control the underlying assets in these arrangements, costs are expensed as incurred. Implementation costs in respect of 
these contracts are capitalised when the definition and recognition criteria of an intangible asset under IAS 38 are met.

Property, plant and equipment (note 14)
Owned assets
Items of property, plant and equipment are stated at cost less accumulated depreciation and impairments. The cost of self-constructed 
assets includes the cost of materials, direct labour and other directly attributable costs. Where the asset is a qualifying asset, for which  
a considerable period of time is required to prepare the asset for use or sale, borrowing costs will be capitalised as part of the asset’s 
cost. Where an item of property, plant and equipment comprises major components having different useful lives, the components  
are accounted for as separate items of property, plant and equipment, and depreciated accordingly. An item of property, plant and 
equipment is derecognised on disposal or when no future economic benefits are expected to arise from the continued use of the asset. 

Right of use assets
Right-of-use assets are measured at cost, less any accumulated depreciation and impairment losses, and adjusted for any remeasurement 
of lease liabilities. The cost of right-of-use assets includes the amount of lease liabilities recognised, initial direct costs incurred, and lease 
payments made at or before the commencement date less any lease incentives received. Where a modification to a lease agreement 
decreases the scope of the lease, the carrying amount of the right of use asset is adjusted and a gain or loss is recognised in proportion to 
the decrease in scope of the lease. All other modifications to lease agreements are accounted for as a reassessment of the lease liability 
with a corresponding adjustment to the right of use asset. 

Hydro civil assets 
The Group is obliged under the Reservoirs Act 1975 to maintain its hydro infrastructure network, including its dams, tunnels and other 
hydro civil engineering structures (hydro civil assets). All items of property, plant and equipment within hydro civil assets, with the 
exception of land, are subject to depreciation.

In accordance with the transition provisions of IFRS 1 ‘First-time Adoption of IFRS’, the Group identified the carrying value of these assets 
at privatisation and has treated this value as deemed cost. Following this assessment, the assets, and all subsequent enhancement and 
replacement expenditure, has been subject to depreciation over a useful economic life of 75 years. All subsequent maintenance 
expenditure is chargeable directly to the income statement. 

Depreciation
Depreciation is charged to the income statement to write off cost, less residual values, on a straight line basis over their estimated useful 
lives. Heritable and freehold land is not depreciated. Depreciation policy, useful lives and residual values are reviewed at least annually, 
for all asset classes to ensure that the current method is the most appropriate. Depreciation commences following the asset 
commissioning period and when the asset is available for commercial operation. The estimated useful lives for assets depreciated on  
a straight line basis are as follows:

Hydro civil assets (classified within Renewable power generation assets)
Thermal and hydro power stations including electrical and mechanical assets (classified within Thermal power 

generation assets)

Onshore wind farms (classified within Renewable power generation assets)
Offshore wind farms (classified within Renewable power generation assets)
Gas storage facilities (classified within Other assets)
Overhead lines, underground cables and other network assets (classified within Distribution or  

Transmission network assets)

Office buildings (classified within Land and buildings)
Fixtures, IT assets, vehicles and mobile plant (classified within Other assets)

Years

75 to 100

20 to 60
20 to 25
23 to 30
25 to 50

5 to 80
30 to 40
3 to 15

Assets held under leases are depreciated over their expected useful lives on the same basis as owned assets or, where shorter, over the 
term of the relevant lease agreement.

Subsequent expenditure
It is the Group policy to capitalise qualifying replacement expenditure and depreciate it over the expected useful life of the replaced 
asset. Replaced assets are derecognised at this point and the costs recorded as costs of disposal. Where an item of property, plant and 
equipment is replaced and it is not practicable to determine the carrying amount of the replaced part, the cost of the replacement 
adjusted for inflation will be used as an approximation of the cost of the replaced part at the time it was acquired or constructed.

Expenditure incurred to replace a component of an item of property, plant and equipment that is accounted for separately is capitalised. 
Other subsequent expenditure is capitalised only when it increases the future economic benefits of the item of property, plant and 
equipment to which it relates. Maintenance and repair costs are expensed as incurred.

Derecognition
An item of property, plant or equipment is derecognised upon disposal or when no future economic benefits are expected to arise from 
the continued use of the asset. Gains and losses on disposals are determined by comparing the proceeds received with the carrying 
amount of the asset and are included in the income statement. Any gain or loss on derecognition of the asset is included in the income 
statement in the period of derecognition.

Lease arrangements (note 21)
Lease arrangements are separately distinguished from service contracts based on whether the contract conveys the right to control the 
use of an identified asset for a period of time in exchange for consideration. If the Group is deemed to control the use of an identified 
asset, a right of use asset and a corresponding lease liability are recognised on the balance sheet.

Right of use assets are capitalised and held as part of property, plant and equipment. The accounting policy for such arrangements is 
described on page 282 .

Lease liabilities are initially measured at the present value of the future lease payments discounted using the rate implicit in the lease if 
that can be readily determined. If the interest rate implicit in the lease cannot be readily determined the incremental borrowing rate is 
used. Where the interest rate implicit in the lease is not readily determinable, the Group has applied the intercompany borrowing rate 
which is based on the Group’s external medium-term borrowing rates with premia adjustments for any subsidiary specific risk factors.

In determining whether any break and/or extension clauses should be included within the lease term, the Group has considered that 
where an internal decision has been made to break or extend the lease agreement, that decision shall be applied in determining the 
appropriate lease term. Where an internal decision has not been made, and where the non-cancellable element of the lease term has 
longer than five years remaining, it is considered that any clauses will not be triggered as any decision beyond that date is not reasonably 
certain. For all leases with less than five years remaining, an assessment is made at each reporting period on a lease-by-lease basis on 
whether the clause is reasonably certain to be triggered. Reassessment of break and/or extension judgements made in prior periods 
could result in recalculation of the lease liability and adjustments to associated balances.

The lease liability is subsequently adjusted for the unwind of discounting, repayments and other modifications to the underlying 
agreement. Lease modifications are accounted for as a separate lease where the scope of the lease increases through the right to use 
one or more underlying assets and where the consideration of the lease increases by an amount that is equivalent to the standalone 
price of the increase in scope. Where a modification decreases the scope of the lease, the carrying amount of the right of use asset is 
adjusted and a gain or loss is recognised in proportion to the decrease in scope of the lease. All other modifications are accounted for  
as a reassessment of the lease liability with a corresponding adjustment to the right of use asset.

Leases with a duration of 12 months or less and leases for assets which are deemed ‘low value’ are expensed to the income statement on 
a straight-line basis over the lease term.

Impairment review (note 15)
The carrying amounts of the Group’s property, plant and equipment and other intangible assets and the Group’s investments in joint 
ventures and associates, are reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount 
may not be recoverable, or where there are indications that a previously recognised impairment loss has reduced. For property, plant  
and equipment assets that have previously been identified as exhibiting indications of impairment, the review of impairment will be 
performed annually until there is sufficient evidence to confirm that any potential impairment loss has been appropriately recognised, or 
until previously recognised impairment losses have been fully written back. For goodwill and other intangible assets with an indefinite life 
or which are not yet ready for use, the test for impairment is carried out annually. In addition, financial assets measured at amortised cost 
are also reviewed for impairment annually. 

282

SSE plc  Annual Report 2023

SSE plc  Annual Report 2023

283

Financial StatementsStrategic ReportDirectors’ ReportAccompanying information continued

A1. Basis of consolidation and significant accounting policies continued
A1.2 Significant accounting policies continued
Impairment review (note 15) continued
For assets subject to impairment testing, the asset’s carrying value is compared to the asset’s (or cash-generating unit’s, in the case of 
goodwill), recoverable amount. The recoverable amount is determined to be the higher of the fair value less costs to sell (‘FVLCS’) and 
the value-in-use (‘VIU’) of the asset or cash-generating unit (‘CGU’). For financial assets measured at amortised cost the impairment is 
measured as the difference between the asset’s carrying amount and the present value of estimated future cash flows discounted at the 
financial asset’s original effective interest rate. 

If the carrying amount of the asset or CGU exceeds its recoverable amount, an impairment charge will be recognised immediately in the 
income statement. Reversals of previous impairment charges are recognised if the recoverable amount of the asset or CGU significantly 
exceeds the carrying amount. Previous impairments of goodwill are not reversed.

Value in use (‘VIU’) calculations require the estimation of future cash flows to be derived from the respective assets (or CGUs) and the 
selection of an appropriate discount rate in order to calculate their present value. The VIU methodology is consistent with the approach 
taken by management to evaluate economic value and is deemed to be the most appropriate for reviews of property, plant and equipment 
assets and the Group’s identified goodwill-related CGUs. The methodology is based on the pre-tax cash flows arising from the specific 
assets, underlying assets or CGUs, and discounted using a pre-tax discount rate based on the Group’s cost of funding and adjusted for any 
specific risks. The estimation of the timing and value of underlying projected cash flows and the selection of appropriate discount rates 
involves management judgement. Subsequent changes to these estimates or judgements may impact the carrying value of the assets.

The fair value less costs to sell methodology also uses a present value technique, unless there is a quoted price in an active market for 
that asset. The methodology is based on the post-tax cash flows arising from the specific assets, underlying assets or CGUs, and 
discounted using a post-tax discount rate determined in the same manner as the rates used in the VIU calculations, adjusted for the 
relevant taxation rate.

Any impairment charge identified will initially be adjusted against the goodwill allocated to the cash-generating unit. Any excess charge 
will be allocated against the remaining assets of the cash-generating unit. Reversals of previous impairment charges are allocated 
against the carrying value of assets previously subject to an impairment charge.

Inventories (note 17)
Inventories – aside from inventory purchased by the Gas Storage business for trading activities – are valued at the lower of cost and net 
realisable value. Net realisable value is the estimated selling price in the ordinary course of business, less the estimated costs of completion 
and selling expenses. 

Gas inventory purchased by the Gas Storage business for trading activities is held at fair value with reference to the forward month market 
price. Gains and losses on remeasurement at fair value are recognised within the Income Statement, as a ‘certain remeasurement’ item.

Provisions (note 20)
A provision is recognised in the balance sheet when the Group has a present legal or constructive obligation as a result of a past event,  
it can be measured reliably, and it is probable that an outflow of economic benefits will be required to settle the obligation. 

If the effect is material, provisions are determined by discounting the expected future cash flows at a pre-tax rate that reflects current 
market assessments of the time value of money and, where appropriate, the risks specific to the liability.

Decommissioning
The Group engages independent experts to estimate the cost to decommission its Renewable, Thermal and Gas Storage assets every three 
years. In the intervening years, management updates the external valuation based on factors arising since the last formal valuation date. 
Provision is made for the net present value of the estimated cost of decommissioning gas storage facilities, wind farms and power stations 
at the end of the useful life of the facilities. This includes development assets, where if a present obligation exists, a provision is recognised 
during construction and prior to commencement of operations from the site. The estimates are based on technology and prices at the 
balance sheet date and exclude any salvage value related to those assets. A corresponding decommissioning asset is recognised and is 
included within property, plant and equipment when it gives access to future economic benefits, and is depreciated on a straight-line basis 
over the expected useful life of the asset. Changes in these provisions are recognised prospectively. The unwind of discounting of the 
provision is included in finance costs.

The Group retained a decommissioning obligation following the disposal of its Gas Production business. The decommissioning cost 
estimates are updated periodically by field operators based on current technology and prices. Field operators also provide estimated end 
of field life dates for each field, which can change based on market commodity prices. 

Retirement benefit obligations (note 23)
Defined benefit pension schemes
The Group operates two defined benefit pension schemes, one of which is operated by the Company. Pension scheme assets are 
measured using bid market values. Pension scheme liabilities are measured using the projected unit credit actuarial method and are 
discounted at the current rate of return on a high quality corporate bond of equivalent term and currency to the liability. 

Any increase in the present value of liabilities within the Group’s defined benefit pension schemes expected to arise from employee 
service in the year is charged as service costs to operating profit. 

Net interest costs are based on net scheme assets or liabilities, adjusted for minimum funding requirement and pension surplus restrictions 
under IFRIC 14 ‘IAS 19—The Limit on a Defined Benefit Asset, Minimum Funding Requirements and their Interaction’. Actuarial gains and 
losses are recognised in full in the consolidated statement of comprehensive income. Pension scheme surpluses, to the extent that they  
are considered recoverable, or deficits are recognised in full and presented on the face of the balance sheet. 

Defined contribution pension schemes
The Group also operates a number of defined contribution pension schemes. The assets of the schemes are held separately from those 
of the Group in independently administered funds. The amounts charged represent the contributions payable to the schemes in the year 
and are charged directly to the income statement.

Equity and equity-related compensation benefits
The Group operates a number of employee share schemes as described in the Remuneration Report. These schemes enable Group 
employees to acquire shares of the Company. 

The exercise prices of the sharesave scheme are set at a discount to market price at the date of the grant. The fair value of the sharesave 
scheme option granted is measured at the grant date by use of a Black-Scholes model. The fair value of the options granted is recognised 
as an expense on a straight-line basis over the period that the scheme vests. Estimates are updated for non-market conditions at each 
balance sheet date with any adjustment in respect of the current and prior years being recognised in the income statement. The costs 
associated with the other main employee schemes are recognised over the period to which they relate. The charge related to the equity 
shares in the Company awarded under the share schemes is treated as an increase in the cost of investment held by the Company in the 
subsidiary companies of the Group. The disclosures on equity and equity-related compensation benefits have been removed on the 
grounds of materiality in relation to the Group.

Financial instruments (note 24)
The Group uses a range of financial instruments to hedge exposures to financial risks, such as interest rate, foreign exchange and energy 
price fluctuations in its normal course of business and in accordance with the Group’s risk management policies. The Group’s risk 
management policies are further explained in A6 .

The Group’s review of the IFRS 9 hedge accounting model concluded that, whilst adoption would not change the treatment of existing 
hedging arrangements, the changes made would not result in any additional hedge designations either. As such, the existing hedge 
accounting model under IAS 39 appropriately reflects the Group’s risk management activities in the financial statements. Therefore, as 
permitted by IFRS 9, the Group has elected to continue to apply the hedge accounting requirements of IAS 39. This policy choice will be 
periodically reviewed to consider any changes in our risk management activities.

Interest rate and foreign exchange derivatives
Financial derivative instruments are used by the Group to hedge interest rate and currency exposures. All such derivatives are recognised 
at fair value and are re-measured to fair value each reporting period. Certain derivative financial instruments are designated as being held 
for hedging purposes. The designation of the hedge relationship is established at the inception of the hedge and procedures are applied 
to ensure the derivative is highly effective in achieving its objective and that the effectiveness of the hedge can be reliably measured. The 
treatment of gains and losses on re-measurement is dependent on the classification of the hedge and whether the hedge relationship is 
designated as either a ‘fair value’ or ‘cash flow’ hedge. Derivatives that are not designated as hedges are treated as if held for trading, with 
all fair value movements being recorded through the income statement.

A derivative classified as a ‘fair value’ hedge recognises gains and losses from re-measurement immediately in the income statement. Loans 
and borrowings are measured at cost except where they form the underlying transaction in an effective fair value hedge relationship. In 
such cases, the carrying value of the loan or borrowing is adjusted to reflect fair value movements with the gain or loss being reported in 
the income statement.

A derivative classified as a ‘cash flow’ hedge recognises the portion of gains or losses on the derivative which are deemed to be effective 
directly in equity in the hedge reserve. Any ineffective portion of the gains or losses is recognised in the consolidated income statement. 
When hedged cash flows result in the recognition of a non-financial asset or liability, the associated gains or losses previously recognised in 
equity are included in the initial measurement of the asset or liability. For all other cash flow hedges, the gains or losses that are recognised 
in equity are transferred to the income statement in the same period in which the hedged cash flows affect the income statement.

284

SSE plc  Annual Report 2023

SSE plc  Annual Report 2023

285

Financial StatementsStrategic ReportDirectors’ ReportAccompanying information continued

A1. Basis of consolidation and significant accounting policies continued
A1.2 Significant accounting policies continued
Financial instruments (note 24) continued
Interest rate and foreign exchange derivatives continued
Hedge accounting is discontinued when the hedging instrument expires, or is sold, terminated or exercised, or no longer qualifies for 
hedge accounting. At the point of discontinuation, any cumulative gain or loss on the hedging instrument recognised in equity remains 
in equity until the forecast transaction affects profit or loss. On settlement, the cumulative gain or loss recognised in equity is recognised 
in the income statement.

Commodity derivatives
Within its regular course of business, the Group routinely enters into sale and purchase derivative contracts for commodities such as 
electricity, gas, carbon allowances and oil. Where the contract was entered into and continues to be held for the purpose of receipt or 
delivery in accordance with the Group’s expected sale, purchase or usage requirements, the contracts are designated as ‘own use’ 
contracts and are measured at cost. These contracts are not within the scope of IFRS 9.

Derivative commodity contracts which are not designated as own use contracts are accounted for as trading derivatives and are 
recognised in the balance sheet at fair value. Where a hedge accounting relationship is designated and is proven to be effective,  
the changes in fair value will be recognised in accordance with the rules noted above. There are currently no designated hedge 
relationships in relation to commodity contracts. 

Other commodity contracts, where own use is not established and a hedge accounting relationship is not designated, are measured at 
fair value with gains and losses on re-measurement being recognised in the income statement in cost of sales. 

Embedded derivatives
Derivatives embedded in other financial instruments or other host contracts are treated as separate derivatives where the characteristics 
of the derivatives are not closely related to those of the host contracts. 

Net investment hedges
Hedges of net investments in foreign operations are accounted in a manner similar to effective cash flow hedges. Any gain or loss on  
the effective portion of the hedge is recognised in equity, in the translation reserve, and any gain or loss on the ineffective portion of the 
hedge is recognised in the income statement. On disposal of the foreign operation, the cumulative value of any gains or losses recognised 
directly in equity is transferred to the income statement.

Cash and cash equivalents
Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash balances and call deposits. Bank overdrafts that are repayable on demand and form an integral 
part of the Group’s cash management are included as a component of cash and cash equivalents for the purpose of the statement of 
cash flows.

Trade receivables 
Trade receivables do not carry any interest and are measured at cost less an appropriate allowance for lifetime expected credit losses. 

Interest-bearing loans and borrowings
All such loans and borrowings are initially recognised at fair value including transaction costs and are subsequently measured at 
amortised cost, except where the loan or borrowing is the hedged item in an effective fair value hedge relationship. 

Share capital
Ordinary shares are accounted for as equity. Incremental costs directly attributable to the issue of new shares are shown in equity as a 
deduction from the proceeds received. Own equity instruments that are reacquired are deducted from equity. No gain or loss is recognised 
in the Group Income Statement on the purchase, sale, issue or cancellation of the Group’s own equity instruments.

Hybrid equity
Hybrid equity comprises issued bonds that qualify for recognition as equity. Accordingly, any coupon payments are accounted for as 
dividends and are recognised directly in equity at the time the payment obligation arises. This is because the coupon payments are 
discretionary and relate to equity. Coupon payments consequently do not have any impact on the income statement. Coupon payments 
are recognised in the cash flow statement in the same way as dividends to ordinary shareholders. Tax credits in relation to the coupon 
payments are linked to the past transactions or events that support the coupon payments and consequently the tax credits are reported 
in the income statement.

Hybrid debt
Hybrid debt comprises issued bonds that have a fixed redemption date and are accounted within Loans and Borrowings. Coupon 
payments are recognised within the income statement as a finance cost.

A2. Taxation
The Group’s primary tax disclosures are included at note 10. The following tables represent enhanced disclosures adopted in order  
to assist stakeholder understanding of the Group’s tax position and policies as part of the Group’s commitment to its Fair Tax Mark 
accredited status. 

Reconciliation of tax charge to adjusted underlying current tax

Group (loss)/profit before tax
Less: share of results of associates and jointly controlled entities

(Loss)/profit before tax
Tax on profit on ordinary activities at standard UK corporation tax rate of 19% (2022: 19%)
Tax effect of:

Capital allowances less than depreciation
Movement in restructuring and settlement provisions
Non-taxable gain on sale of assets
Fair value movements on derivatives
Pension movements
Relief for capitalised interest and revenue costs
Hybrid equity coupon payments
Expenses not deductible for tax purposes
Utilisation of tax losses brought forward
Impact of foreign tax rates
Permanent benefit of super-deduction capital allowances
Adjustments to tax charge in respect of previous years 
Other items

Reported current tax charge and effective rate
Depreciation in excess of capital allowances
Movement in provisions
Fair value movements on derivatives
Pension movements
Relief for capitalised interest and revenue costs
Impact of foreign tax rates
Adjustments to tax charge in respect of previous years
Change in rate of UK corporation tax
Tax losses utilised
Other items

Reported deferred tax credit and effective rate

Group tax charge and effective rate 

2023
£m

(205.6)
(662.3)

(867.9)
(164.9)

(41.6)
(1.6)
–
448.8
(6.7)
(27.5)
(7.4)
79.7
0.1
(0.1)
(5.1)
(16.7)
(2.3)

254.7
34.3
1.6
(448.8)
6.7
27.5
(12.8)
7.0
9.0
1.9
8.9

(364.7)

(110.0)

2023
%

2022
£m
(restated*)

2022
%

3,476.3
(109.8)

3,366.5
639.6

(121.6)
1.1
(14.8)
(393.3)
(5.8)
(22.7)
(9.7)
35.3
(6.2)
(6.2)
(6.0)
(5.9)
1.6

85.4
129.4
(1.1)
393.3
5.8
22.7
0.1
(2.2)
244.7
6.0
(2.8)

795.9

881.3

19.0

4.8
0.2
–
(51.7)
0.8
3.2
0.9
(9.3)
–
–
0.6
1.9
0.3

(29.3)
(4.0)
(0.2)
51.7
(0.8)
(3.2)
1.5
(0.8)
(1.0)
(0.2)
(1.0)

42.0

12.7

19.0

(3.6)
–
(0.4)
(11.7)
(0.2)
(0.7)
(0.3)
1.0
(0.2)
(0.2)
(0.2)
(0.2)
–

2.5
3.8
–
11.7
0.2
0.7
–
(0.1)
7.3
0.2
(0.1)

23.6

26.2

Included within ‘Expenses not deductible for tax purposes’ is £65m in respect of impairment of investments in joint ventures.

286

SSE plc  Annual Report 2023

SSE plc  Annual Report 2023

287

Financial StatementsStrategic ReportDirectors’ ReportAccompanying information continued

A2. Taxation continued
Reconciliation of tax charge to adjusted underlying current tax continued
As noted at note 3 to the accounts, the Group’s results are reported on an ‘adjusted’ basis in order to allow focus on underlying business 
performance. The following table explains the adjustments that are made in order to arrive at adjusted profit before tax. This is the measure 
utilised in calculation of the Group’s ‘adjusted effective rate of tax’.

(Loss)/profit before tax
Add/(less):
Exceptional items and certain re-measurements
Share of tax from jointly controlled entities and associates before exceptional items and certain  

re-measurements

Depreciation charge on fair value uplifts
Share of profit attributable to non-controlling interests
Adjustment to Gas Production decommissioning provision
Interest income on pension scheme assets/(liabilities)

Adjusted profit before tax  APM

The adjusted current tax charge can therefore be reconciled to the adjusted profit before tax as follows:

Adjusted profit before tax
Tax on profit on ordinary activities at standard UK corporation tax rate
Tax effect of:

Capital allowances in excess of depreciation
Non-taxable gain on sale of assets
Non-qualifying depreciation
Adjustment for profit on internal trading
Movement in restructuring and settlement provisions
Pension movements
Relief for capitalised interest and revenue costs
Hybrid equity coupon payments
Expenses not deductible for tax purposes
Permanent benefit of super-deduction capital allowances
Losses carried back to earlier years
Adjustments to tax charge in respect of previous years
Impact of foreign tax rates
Other

2023
£m

2,183.6
414.9

(41.7)
(0.6)
5.7
6.3
6.0
(3.6)
(12.7)
(7.4)
24.1
(7.0)
3.9
(22.0)
(9.4)
2.3

2023
%

19.0

(1.9)
–
0.2
0.3
0.3
(0.2)
(0.6)
(0.3)
1.1
(0.3)
0.2
(1.1)
(0.4)
0.1

Adjusted current tax charge and effective rate  APM

358.8

16.4

*  The comparatives have been restated. See note 2.1.

2023
£m

(205.6)

2022
£m
(restated*)

3,476.3

2,312.8

(2,390.6)

143.1
28.8
(28.8)
(50.5)
(16.2)

46.3
20.6
–
13.1
(7.6)

2,183.6

1,158.1

2022
£m
(restated*)

1,158.1
220.0

(79.1)
(9.5)
12.0
1.7
1.1
(5.8)
(9.9)
(9.7)
4.2
(6.1)
(0.8)
(6.7)
(5.7)
1.4

107.1

2022
%

19.0

(6.8)
(0.8)
1.0
0.1
0.1
(0.5)
(0.9)
(0.8)
0.4
(0.5)
(0.1)
(0.6)
(0.5)
0.1

9.2

The above reconciling adjustments differ from those analysed in the Group tax charge reconciliation above because they include SSE’s 
share of associates and joint ventures, and are based on adjusted profit before tax.

The majority of the Group’s profits are earned in the UK, with the standard rate of UK corporation tax being 19% for the year to 31 March 
2023 (2022: 19%). The Group’s Gas Production business, which was presented as a discontinued operation in the prior year (until the 
business was disposed on 14 October 2021) was taxed at a UK corporation tax rate of 30% plus a supplementary charge of 10% (combined 
40%). Profits earned by the Group in the Republic of Ireland are taxable at either 12.5% or 25%, depending upon the nature of the income.

Capital allowances are tax reliefs provided in law for the expenditure the Group makes on property, plant and equipment. The rates are 
determined by Parliament annually and spread the tax relief due over a number of years. This contrasts with the accounting treatment for 
such spending, where the expenditure on property, plant and equipment is treated as an asset with the cost being depreciated over the 
useful life of the asset, or impaired if the value of such assets is considered to have reduced materially. 

The different accounting treatment of property, plant and equipment for tax and accounting purposes means that the taxable income  
of the Group is not the same as the profit reported in the financial statements. The substantial reversals of impairments and impairments 
undertaken in previous years in relation to certain property, plant and equipment assets, result in the depreciation or impairment charge 
to profit for the year differing to the amount of capital allowances due to the Group.

288

SSE plc  Annual Report 2023

Short term temporary differences arise on items such as provisions for restructuring costs and onerous contracts, and retirement benefit 
obligations, because the treatment of such items is different for tax and accounting purposes. These differences usually reverse in the 
year following that in which they arise, as is reflected in the deferred tax charge in these financial statements. Where interest charges  
or other costs are capitalised in the accounts, tax relief is either given as the charges are incurred or when the costs are taken to the 
income statement. 

As explained at Accompanying Information A1 and A6 , the Group measures its operating and financing derivatives at fair value under 
IFRS 9. As a result of the Group’s subsidiaries applying the HMRC’s ‘disregard regulations’, the re-measurement movements have no 
current tax effect impacting only the deferred tax position.

As detailed at note 22 and explained in the Accompanying Information A1 , the Group has issued Hybrid equity securities which are 
treated as a component of equity. While the coupon payments relating to these securities are treated as distributions to the holders of 
the equity instruments, tax relief is allowed on the amount paid in the year. These tax credits are linked to the past transactions or events 
that support the coupon payments and consequently the tax credits are reported in the income statement.

A3. Related undertakings
A3.1.1 Subsidiary undertakings
Details of the Group’s subsidiary undertakings at 31 March are as follows: 

Company

Country of incorporation

Registered 
address  
(key)

2023 
Holding 
%

2022 
Holding 
%

Principal activity

Aberarder Wind Farm (Scotland) Limited
Aberarder Wind Farm LLP
Abernedd Power Company Limited
Aichi Offshore Wind Power No. 1 G.K.
Aichi Offshore Wind Power No. 2 G.K.
Airtricity Windfarm Finance Limited
Arklow Offshore Phase II Company Limited
Beithe (HK) Limited
Beithe AG
Berwick Bank A Limited 
Berwick Bank B Limited
Berwick Bank C Limited 
Berwick Bank Holdings A Limited 
Berwick Bank Holdings B Limited 
Berwick Bank Holdings C Limited 
Berwick Bank Wind Farm Limited
Bhlaraidh Wind Farm Limited
Bindoo Windfarm (ROI) Limited
BOC1234 Limited (formerly Aberader Wind Farm 

(Scotland) Limited
Brickmount Limited
Building Automation Solutions Limited
By-Pass Farm Solar Limited
Coire Glas Hydro Pumped Storage Limited 
Comhlacht Gaoithe Teoranta
Coomacheo Wind Farm Limited
Coomatallin Windfarm (ROI) Limited
Curragh Mountain Windfarm Limited
Dedondo Limited
Dromada Windfarm (ROI) Limited
Drumnahough Wind Farm Designated  

Activity Company

Scotland
England and Wales
England and Wales
Japan
Japan
Ireland
Ireland
Hong Kong
Switzerland
England and Wales
England and Wales
England and Wales
England and Wales
England and Wales
England and Wales
Scotland
Scotland
Ireland
Scotland

Ireland
England and Wales
England and Wales
Scotland
Ireland
Ireland
Ireland
Ireland
Ireland
Ireland
Ireland

Eastern Green Link 2 Limited
Enerfarm 3 Single Member SA Renewable Energy 

England and Wales
Greece 

Sources

Energia Levante S.r.l.
Energiaki Kleidi Single Member S.A.
Energiaki Mavrovouniou Single Member Private 

Italy 
Greece 
Greece 

Company

Energiaki Mesovouniou Single Member S.A.
Energiaki Platorrachis Single Member S.A.
Energiaki Velanidias Single Member S.A.
Energiaki Voursana Single Member S.A.
Enshunada Offshore Wind Power No. 1 G.K.
Fibre Fuel Limited
Fibre Power (Slough) Limited

Greece 
Greece 
Greece 
Greece 
Japan
England and Wales
England and Wales

A
B
B
Y
Y
C
C
V
T
B
B
B
B
B
B
A
A
C
A

C
D
B
A
C
C
C
C
C
C
C

AI
AB

AC
AB
AB

AB
AB
AB
AB
Y
B
B

100.0
100.0
100.0
80.0
80.0
100.0
100.0
100.0
–
100.0
100.0
100.0
100.0
100.0
100.0
100.0
100.0
100.0
100.0

100.0
100.0
100.0
100.0
100.0
100.0
100.0*
100.0
100.0
100.0
100.0

75.0
100.0

100.0
100.0
100.0*

100.0
100.0*
100.0
100.0
80.0
100.0
100.0

– Renewable Development
– Renewable Development

100.0 Holding Company
80.0 Renewable Development
80.0 Renewable Development
100.0 Holding Company
100.0 Dormant
100.0 Holding Company
100.0 Holding Company
100.0 Renewable Development
100.0 Renewable Development
100.0 Renewable Development
100.0 Holding Company
100.0 Holding Company
100.0 Holding Company
100.0 Renewable Development
100.0 Power Generation
100.0 Power Generation

– Dormant

100.0 Power Generation
100.0 Dormant

– Power Generation
100.0 Power Generation
100.0 Power Generation
100.0 Power Generation
100.0*
Power Generation
100.0 Power Generation
100.0 Power Generation
100.0 Power Generation
100.0 Power Generation

– Power Transmissions
– Renewable Development

– Renewable Development
– Renewable Development
– Renewable Development

– Renewable Development
– Renewable Development
– Renewable Development
– Renewable Development
80.0 Renewable Development
100.0 Dormant
100.0 Power Generation

SSE plc  Annual Report 2023

289

Financial StatementsStrategic ReportDirectors’ ReportAccompanying information continued

A3. Related undertakings continued
A3.1.1 Subsidiary undertakings continued

Company

Fusion Heating Limited
Galway Wind Park Phase 3 Designated  

Activity Company

Country of incorporation

Northern Ireland
Ireland

Ireland
Ganderoy Limited
Gartnaneane Limited
Ireland
Glenora Wind Farm Designated Activity Company Ireland
Japan
Goto-Fukue Offshore Wind Power G.K.
Ireland
Green Wind Energy (Wexford) Limited
Scotland
Griffin Wind Farm Limited
Scotland
Hadyard Hill Wind Farm Limited
Scotland
Hydro Electric Pension Scheme Trustees Limited
Japan
Izu Islands Offshore Wind Power No. 1 G.K.
England and Wales
Keadby Developments Limited
England and Wales
Keadby Generation Limited
England and Wales
Keadby Wind Farm Limited 
Ireland
Leanamore Wind Farm Limited 
Ireland
Limerick West Windfarm Limited 
England and Wales
Littleton Pastures Solar Limited
Ireland
March Winds Limited
England and Wales
Medway Power Limited
Ireland
Meentycat Limited
Ireland
Milane Holdings Limited
Japan
Minami-Izu Offshore Wind Power No. 1 G.K.
Ireland
Mullananalt Wind Farm (ROI) Limited
Japan
Niigata Offshore Wind Power No.1 G.K.
Japan
Oki Islands Offshore Wind Power G.K.
England and Wales
Optimal Power Networks Limited 

Platin Power Limited
Power from Waste Limited
Richfield Windfarm (ROI) Limited
Scottish and Southern Energy Power Distribution 

Ireland
England and Wales
Ireland
Scotland

Limited

Scottish Hydro Electric Power Distribution plc
Scottish Hydro Electric Transmission plc
Sheskin South Renewables Power  
Designated Activity Company

Sistemas Energéticos Ábrego S.L.U.
Sistemas Energéticos Ariel S.L.U.
Sistemas Energéticos Boreas S.L.U.
Sistemas Energéticos Carril S.L.U.
Sistemas Energéticos Céfiro S.L.U.
Sistemas Energéticos del Sur S.A.U.
Sistemas Energéticos Eolo S.L.U.
Sistemas Energéticos Erbania 1 S.L.U.
Sistemas Energéticos Erbania 2 S.L.U.
Sistemas Energéticos Gregal S.L.U.
Sistemas Energéticos Júpiter S.L.U.
Sistemas Energéticos Ladera Negra, S.A. U.
Sistemas Energéticos Loma del Reposo S.L.U.
Sistemas Energéticos Marte S.L.U.
Sistemas Energéticos Mercurio S.L.U.
Sistemas Energéticos Neptuno S.L.U.
Sistemas Energéticos Oberón S.L.U.
Sistemas Energéticos Plutón S.L.U.
Sistemas Energéticos Tablero Tabordo, S.L.U.
Sistemas Energéticos Terral S.L.U.
Sistemas Energéticos Titán S.L.U.
Sistemas Energéticos Tomillo S.A. U.
Sistemas Energéticos Urano S.L.U.
Slough Domestic Electricity Limited

290

SSE plc  Annual Report 2023

Scotland
Scotland
Ireland

Spain
Spain
Spain
Spain
Spain
Spain
Spain
Spain
Spain
Spain
Spain
Spain
Spain
Spain
Spain
Spain
Spain
Spain
Spain
Spain
Spain
Spain
Spain
England and Wales

Registered 
address  
(key)

Q
C

C
C
C
Y
C
A
A
A
Y
E
E
B
C
C
B
C
B
C
C
Y
C
Y
Y
B

C
B
C
A

A
A
C

AD
AD
AD
AD
AD
AD
AD
AD
AD
AD
AD
AD
AD
AD
AD
AD
AD
AD
AD
AD
AD
AD
AD
B

2023 
Holding 
%

100.0
100.0

100.0
100.0*
100.0
80.0
100.0*
100.0
100.0
100.0
80.0
100.0
100.0
100.0
100.0
100.0
100.0
100.0
100.0
100.0
100.0
80.0
100.0
80.0
80.0
100.0

100.0
100.0
100.0
100.0

100.0
75.0
100.0

100.0
100.0
100.0
100.0
100.0
100.0
100.0
100.0
100.0
100.0
100.0
100.0
100.0
100.0
100.0
100.0
100.0
100.0
100.0
100.0
100.0
100.0
100.0
100.0

2022 
Holding 
%

Principal activity

100.0 Energy Related Services
100.0 Renewable Development

100.0 Power Generation
100.0* Power Generation
100.0 Renewable Development
80.0 Renewable Development
100.0* Renewable Development
100.0 Power Generation
100.0 Dormant
100.0 Dormant
80.0 Renewable Development
100.0 Dormant
100.0 Power Generation
100.0 Power Generation
100.0 Power Generation
100.0 Power Generation
100.0 Power Generation
100.0 Power Generation
100.0 Power Generation
100.0 Power Generation
100.0 Dormant
80.0 Renewable Development
100.0 Power Generation
80.0 Renewable Development
80.0 Renewable Development
100.0 Construction of 

utility projects

100.0 Dormant
100.0 Dormant
100.0 Power Generation
100.0 Holding Company

100.0 Power Distribution
100.0 Power Transmission
100.0 Renewable Development

– Renewable Development
– Renewable Development
– Renewable Development
– Renewable Development
– Renewable Development
– Renewable Development
– Renewable Development
– Renewable Development
– Renewable Development
– Renewable Development
– Renewable Development
– Renewable Development
– Renewable Development
– Renewable Development
– Renewable Development
– Renewable Development
– Renewable Development
– Renewable Development
– Renewable Development
– Renewable Development
– Renewable Development
– Renewable Development
– Renewable Development

100.0 Dormant

Company

Slough Electricity Contracts Limited
Slough Energy Supplies Limited
Slough Heat & Power Limited
Slough Utility Services Limited
Société d’Exploitation du Parc Eolien  

de Broyes SARL

Société d’Exploitation du Parc Eolien  

de Chaintrix Bierges SARL

Société d’Exploitation du Parc Eolien  

de Champeaux SARL

Société d’Exploitation du Parc Eolien  

de Germainville SAS

Société d’Exploitation du Parc Eolien  

de la Belle Dame SARL

Société d’Exploitation du Parc Eolien  

de la Brie des Etangs SARL

Société d’Exploitation du Parc Eolien  

de la Monchot SARL

Country of incorporation

England and Wales
England and Wales
England and Wales
England and Wales
France

France

France

France

France

France

France

Société d’Exploitation du Parc Eolien de la Pièce  

France

du Moulin SARL

Société d’Exploitation du Parc Eolien de la  

France

Tête des Boucs SARL

Société d’Exploitation du Parc Eolien de Moulins  

France

du Puits SAS

Société d’Exploitation du Parc Eolien de  

Pringy SARL

Société d’Exploitation du Parc Eolien de  

Saint Loup de Saintonge SAS

Société d’Exploitation du Parc Eolien de  

Souvans SARL

Société d’Exploitation du Parc Eolien de 

Vernierfontaine SARL

Société d’Exploitation du Parc Eolien de  

Villiers aux Chênes SARL

Société d’Exploitation du Parc Eolien  

des Fontaines SARL

France

France

France

France

France

France

Société d’Exploitation du Parc Eolien des  

France

Six Communes SARL

Société d’Exploitation du Parc Eolien des  

France

Voies de Bar SARL

Société d’Exploitation du Parc Eolien d’Orchamps 

France

SARL

Société d’Exploitation du Parc Eolien  

France

du Mont Égaré SARL

Société d’Exploitation du Parc Eolien du Vireaux 

France

SAS

Southern Electric Power Distribution plc
SPV Parco Eolico Libeccio S.r.l.
SPV Parco Eolico Maestrale S.r.l.
SPV Parco Eolico Tramontana S.r.l.
SSE Airtricity Distributed Energy Limited
SSE Airtricity Energy Services Limited
SSE Airtricity Energy Supply (NI) Limited
SSE Airtricity Gas Limited
SSE Airtricity Gas Supply (NI) Limited
SSE Airtricity Limited
SSE Battery Monk Fryston Limited (formerly  

England and Wales
Italy
Italy
Italy
Ireland
Ireland
Northern Ireland
Ireland
Northern Ireland
Ireland
England and Wales

UKPA EnergyMF Limited)
SSE Battery Salisbury Limited
SSE Beatrice Offshore Windfarm Holdings Limited Scotland
SSE BTM HoldCo Limited
SSE Contracting Group Limited
SSE Cumarsáid Teoranta
SSE DE Battery Holdco Limited
SSE DE EV Holdco Limited

England and Wales
England and Wales
Ireland
England and Wales
England and Wales

England and Wales

Registered 
address  
(key)

2023 
Holding 
%

2022 
Holding 
%

Principal activity

B
B
B
B
AE

AE

AE

AE

AE

AE

AE

AE

AE

AE

AE

AE

AE

AE

AE

AE

AE

AE

AE

AE

AE

B
AC
AC
AC
C
C
F
C
F
C
B

B
A
B
B
C
B
B

100.0
100.0
100.0
100.0
100.0

100.0

100.0

100.0

100.0

100.0

100.0

100.0

100.0

100.0

100.0

100.0

100.0

100.0

100.0

100.0

100.0

100.0

100.0

100.0

100.0

100.0
100.0
100.0
100.0
100.0
100.0
100.0
–
100.0
100.0
100.0

100.0
100.0
100.0
100.0
100.0
100.0
100.0

100.0 Electricity Contracting
100.0 Dormant
100.0 Power Generation
100.0 Distribution of Electricity
– Renewable Development

– Renewable Development

– Renewable Development

– Renewable Development

– Renewable Development

– Renewable Development

– Renewable Development

– Renewable Development

– Renewable Development

– Renewable Development

– Renewable Development

– Renewable Development

– Renewable Development

– Renewable Development

– Renewable Development

– Renewable Development

– Renewable Development

– Renewable Development

– Renewable Development

– Renewable Development

– Renewable Development

100.0 Power Distribution

– Renewable Development
– Renewable Development
– Renewable Development

100.0 Power Distribution
100.0 Energy Supply
100.0 Energy Supply
100.0 Energy Supply
100.0 Energy Supply
100.0 Energy Supply

– Power Generation

100.0 Power Generation
100.0 Holding Company
– Holding Company
100.0 Holding Company
100.0 Telecommunications
100.0 Holding Company
– Holding Company

SSE plc  Annual Report 2023

291

Financial StatementsStrategic ReportDirectors’ ReportAccompanying information continued

A3. Related undertakings continued
A3.1.1 Subsidiary undertakings continued

Company

Country of incorporation

Registered 
address  
(key)

2023 
Holding 
%

2022 
Holding 
%

Principal activity

SSE DE Solar Holdco Limited
SSE Digital Services Limited
SSE Energy Supply Limited
SSE Enterprise Limited
SSE EPM Limited
SSE EV M7 Limited
SSE EV Operational Assets Limited  

(formerly EV Operational Assets Limited)

SSE Ferrybridge Battery Limited
SSE Fiddlers Ferry Battery Limited
SSE Foxholes Solar Limited (formerly  

Foxholes Solar Limited) 

England and Wales
England and Wales
England and Wales
England and Wales
England and Wales
England and Wales
England and Wales

England and Wales
England and Wales
England and Wales

SSE Galloper Offshore Windfarm  

England and Wales

Holdings Limited

SSE Generation Ireland Limited
SSE Generation Limited
SSE Group Limited
SSE Heat Networks (Battersea) Limited
SSE Heat Networks Limited
SSE Hornsea Limited
SSE Imperial Park PN Limited
SSE Insurance Limited
SSE Knapthorpe Solar Limited (formerly  

Knapthorpe Solar Limited)

SSE Maple Limited
SSE Medway Operations Limited
SSE Micro Renewables Limited 
SSE Multifuel Generation Holdings Limited
SSE Muskham Solar Limited (formerly  

Muskham Solar Limited)
SSE OWS Glasgow Limited
SSE Pacifico K.K.
SSE Production Services Limited
SSE Renewables (Ireland) Limited 
SSE Renewables (Netherlands) Holdings B.V.
SSE Renewables Developments  

(Germany) GmbH

SSE Renewables Generation Ireland Limited
SSE Renewables Holdings (Europe) Limited 
SSE Renewables Holdings (UK) Limited
SSE Renewables Holdings Germany GmbH
SSE Renewables Holdings Limited
SSE Renewables International  

Holdings Limited

SSE Renewables Limited
SSE Renewables North America Inc.
SSE Renewables North America Offshore  

Wind LLC.

SSE Renewables North America Services Inc
SSE Renewables Off Shore Limited 
SSE Renewables Offshore Windfarm  

Holdings Limited

Ireland
England and Wales
Scotland
England and Wales
Scotland
England and Wales
England and Wales
Isle of Man
England and Wales

England and Wales
England and Wales
Scotland
England and Wales
England and Wales

Scotland
Japan
England and Wales
Ireland
Netherlands
Germany

Ireland
Ireland
Northern Ireland
Germany
Ireland
Scotland

Scotland
United States
United States

United States
Ireland
Scotland

SSE Renewables Onshore Windfarm  

Northern Ireland

Holdings Limited

SSE Renewables Poland Holdings Limited
SSE Renewables Poland sp z.o.o.  

(formerly Virtomille Investments sp z.o.o.)

SSE Renewables Services (UK) Limited 
SSE Renewables UK Limited
SSE Renewables Wind (Ireland)  

Holdings Limited

292

SSE plc  Annual Report 2023

Scotland
Poland

Northern Ireland
Northern Ireland
Ireland

B
B
B
B
B
B
B

B
B
B

B

C
B
A
B
A
B
B
G
B

B
B
A
B
B

A
Y
B
C
AA
AJ

C
C
F
H
C
A

A
W
W

W
C
A

F

A
X

F
F
C

100.0
100.0
100.0
100.0
100.0
100.0
100.0

100.0
100.0
100.0

– Holding Company
– Holding Company

100.0 Energy Supply
100.0 Corporate Services
100.0 Energy Trading

– Power Generation
– Power Generation

– Power Generation
– Power Generation
– Power Generation

100.0

100.0 Holding Company

100.0
100.0
100.0
100.0
100.0
100.0
100.0
100.0
100.0

100.0
100.0
100.0
100.0
100.0

100.0
80.0
100.0
100.0
100.0
100.0

100.0
100.0
100.0
100.0
100.0
100.0

100.0
100.0
100.0

100.0
100.0
100.0

100.0 Power Generation
100.0 Power Generation
100.0 Dormant
100.0 Dormant
100.0 Utility Services
100.0 Gas Storage

– Power Generation

100.0 Insurance

– Power Generation

100.0 Investment Holding
100.0 Holding Company
100.0 Energy Related Services
100.0 Holding Company
– Power Generation

100.0 Property Holding
80.0 Renewable Development
100.0 Maintenance Services
100.0 Holding Company
100.0 Holding Company
100.0 Renewable Development

100.0 Power Generation
100.0 Holding Company
100.0 Holding Company
100.0 Dormant
100.0 Holding Company
100.0 Holding Company

100.0 Holding Company
100.0 Renewable Development
100.0 Renewable Development

– Renewable Development

100.0 Holding Company
100.0 Holding Company

100.0

100.0 Holding Company

100.0
100.0

100.0
100.0
100.0

100.0 Holding Company
100.0 Renewable Development

100.0 Renewable Development
100.0 Power Generation
100.0 Holding Company

Company

SSE Renewables Wind Farms (Ireland) Limited 
SSE Renewables Wind Farms (UK) Limited
SSE Retail Limited
SSE Seabank Investments Limited
SSE Seabank Land Investments Limited
SSE Services plc
SSE Southern Group Trustee Limited 
SSE Staythorpe Battery Limited (formerly 

Staythorpe Battery Limited)

Country of incorporation

Ireland
Scotland
Scotland
England and Wales
England and Wales
England and Wales
England and Wales
England and Wales

SSE Staythorpe Power Limited (formerly  

England and Wales

Staythorpe Power Limited)

SSE Staythorpe SGT Limited (formerly  

England and Wales

Staythorpe SGT Limited)

SSE Staythorpe Solar Limited (formerly  

England and Wales

Staythorpe Solar Limited)

SSE Stock Limited
SSE Sunflower Offshore Wind Holdco B.V.
SSE Sunflower Offshore Wind Limited  

Partner 1 B.V.

Scotland
Netherlands
Netherlands

SSE Sunflower Offshore Wind Limited  

Netherlands

Partner 2 B.V.

SSE Sunflower Offshore Wind Limited  

Netherlands

Partner 3 B.V.

SSE Thermal Energy Holdings Limited
SSE Thermal Energy Operations Limited
SSE Thermal Generation (Scotland) Limited
SSE Thermal Generation Holdings Limited
SSE Toddleburn Limited 
SSE Trading Limited
SSE Trustees Limited
SSE Tulip Offshore Wind Holdco B.V.
SSE Tulip Offshore Wind Limited Partner 1 B.V.
SSE Tulip Offshore Wind Limited Partner 2 B.V.
SSE Tulip Offshore Wind Limited Partner 3 B.V.
SSE Utility Services Limited
SSE Utility Solutions Limited
SSE Venture Capital Limited
SSE Viking Limited
SSE(SE) Quest Trustee Limited 
SSEN Distribution Limited
SSEPG (Operations) Limited
Strathy Wind Farm Limited
Sure Partners Limited
Tealing Solar Park Limited 
TESGL Limited

England and Wales
England and Wales
Scotland
England and Wales
Scotland
England and Wales
England and Wales
Netherlands
Netherlands
Netherlands
Netherlands
England and Wales
England and Wales
Scotland
England and Wales
England and Wales
Scotland
England and Wales
Scotland
Ireland
England and Wales
England and Wales

The Energy Solutions Group Bidco Limited
The Energy Solutions Group Midco Limited
The Energy Solutions Group Topco Limited
Tournafulla Windfarm (ROI) Limited
Viking Energy (Scottish Partnership)
Viking Energy Wind Farm LLP
Wakayama-West Offshore Wind Power No. 1 G.K. Japan
Japan
Wakayama-West Offshore Wind Power No.2 G.K.

England and Wales
England and Wales
England and Wales
Ireland
Scotland
Scotland

Registered 
address  
(key)

2023 
Holding 
%

2022 
Holding 
%

Principal activity

C
A
A
B
B
B
B
B

B

B

B

A
AA
AA

AA

AA

B
B
A
B
A
B
B
AA
AA
AA
AA
B
B
A
B
B
A
B
A
C
B
D

D
D
D
C
I
Z
Y
Y

100.0
100.0
100.0
100.0
100.0
100.0
100.0
100.0

100.0

100.0

100.0

100.0
100.0
100.0

100.0

100.0

100.0
100.0
100.0
100.0
100.0
100.0
100.0
100.0
100.0
100.0
100.0
–
100.0
100.0
100.0
100.0
100.0
100.0
100.0
100.0
100.0
100.0

100.0
100.0
100.0
100.0
100.0
100.0
80.0
80.0

100.0 Power Generation
100.0 Power Generation
100.0 Energy Related Services
100.0 Dormant
100.0 Dormant
100.0 Corporate Services
100.0 Dormant

– Power Generation

– Power Generation

– Power Generation

– Power Generation

100.0 Stock Holding
100.0 Renewable Development
– Renewable Development

– Renewable Development

– Renewable Development

100.0 Holding Company
100.0 Power Generation
100.0 Power Generation
100.0 Holding Company
100.0 Power Generation
100.0 Energy Trading
100.0 Dormant
100.0 Renewable Development
– Renewable Development
– Renewable Development
– Renewable Development

100.0 Dormant
100.0 Utility Services
100.0 Investment Holding
100.0 Renewable Development
100.0 Dormant

– Holding Company
100.0 Power Generation
100.0 Power Generation
100.0 Renewable Development
100.0 Power Generation 
100.0 Building Energy 

Management

100.0 Dormant
100.0 Dormant
100.0 Dormant
100.0 Power Generation
100.0 Renewable Development
100.0 Renewable Development
80.0 Renewable Development
80.0 Renewable Development

All shares in subsidiary companies are ordinary share capital, unless otherwise stated.

* 

100% of voting rights held.

SSE plc  Annual Report 2023

293

Financial StatementsStrategic ReportDirectors’ ReportAccompanying information continued

A3. Related undertakings continued
A3.1.1 Subsidiary undertakings continued
Statutory audit exemptions
SSE plc parent company has provided guarantees under section 479C of the Companies Act 2006 over the liabilities of the following 
companies, which are therefore exempt from audit under the requirements of s479A-479C of the Companies Act 2006.

Company

Aberarder Wind Farm LLP
Bhlaraidh Wind Farm Limited
Fibre Power (Slough) Limited 
Fusion Heating Limited
Keadby Wind Farm Limited
Slough Utility Services Limited
SSE Beatrice Offshore Windfarm Holdings Limited
SSE DE Battery Holdco Limited
SSE DE EV Holdco Limited
SSE Enterprise Limited
SSE Imperial Park PN Limited 
SSE Maple Limited
SSE Medway Operations Limited
SSE Micro Renewables Limited
SSE OWS Glasgow Limited
SSE Production Services Limited
SSE Renewables Holdings (UK) Limited
SSE Renewables Offshore Windfarm Holdings Limited
SSE Renewables Onshore Windfarm Holdings Limited
SSE Renewables Poland Holdings Limited
SSE Renewables UK Limited
SSE Renewables Wind Farms (UK) Limited
SSE Retail Limited
SSE Seabank Investments Limited
SSE Seabank Land Investments Limited
SSE Thermal Energy Holdings Limited
SSE Toddleburn Limited
SSE Viking Limited
SSEPG (Operations) Limited
Strathy Wind Farm Limited
Tealing Solar Park Limited

A3.1.2 Joint arrangements (incorporated)

Registered number

OC398487
SC663027
02902170
NI056373
06852112
03486590
SC436255
13561962
14278443
10060563
02631510
10604848
02647585
SC386017
SC228283
02499702
NI043239
SC436251
NI049557
SC723844
NI048447
SC654502
SC213458
02631512
07877772
12650549
SC259104
06021053
02764438
SC663103
08783684

Company

AtlasConnect Limited
Baglan Pipeline Limited
Beatrice Offshore Windfarm Holdco Limited
Beatrice Offshore Windfarm Limited
Cloosh Valley Wind Farm Designated  

Activity Company

Country of incorporation

Scotland
England and Wales
Scotland
Scotland
Ireland

Cloosh Valley Wind Farm Holdings  

Ireland

Designated Activity Company

Clyde Windfarm (Scotland) Limited**
DB Operational Base Limited

Deeside Power (UK) Limited
Deeside Power Operation Limited
Digital Reach Partners Limited
Doggerbank Offshore Wind Farm Project 1 

Holdco Limited

Scotland
England and Wales

England and Wales
England and Wales
Scotland
England and Wales

Doggerbank Offshore Wind Farm Project 1 

England and Wales

Projco Limited

Doggerbank Offshore Wind Farm Project 2 

England and Wales

Holdco Limited

Doggerbank Offshore Wind Farm Project 2 

England and Wales

Projco Limited

Doggerbank Offshore Wind Farm Project 3 

England and Wales

Holdco Limited

294

SSE plc  Annual Report 2023

Registered 
address (key)

2023 
Holding 
%

2022 
Holding 
%

Principal activity

A
K
A
A
L

L

A
J

AF
AF
A
B

B

B

B

B

50.0
50.0
40.0
40.0
25.0

25.0

50.1
40.0

50.0
50.0
50.0
40.0

40.0

40.0

40.0

40.0

50.0 Dormant
50.0 Dormant
40.0 Holding Company
40.0 Power Generation
25.0 Power Generation

25.0 Holding Company

50.1
Power Generation 
40.0 Warehousing and 

storage facilities
– Power Generation
– Power Generation
50.0 Telecommunications
40.0 Holding Company

40.0 Renewable Development

40.0 Holding Company

40.0 Renewable Development

40.0 Holding Company

Company

Country of incorporation

Registered 
address (key)

2023 
Holding 
%

2022 
Holding 
%

Principal activity

Doggerbank Offshore Wind Farm Project 3 

England and Wales

B

40.0

40.0 Renewable Development

Projco Limited

Dunmaglass Wind Farm Limited
Everwind Limited
Gatroben Offshore Developments 1 Limited
Gatroben Offshore Developments 2 Limited
Gatroben Offshore Developments 3 Limited
Greater Gabbard Offshore Winds Limited***
Green Energy Company Limited
Green H2 Developments Hold Co Limited
Green H2 Developments Project Co Limited
Green Way Energy Limited
Indian Queens Power Limited
Kerry Power Limited
Lenalea Wind Farm Designated  

Activity Company

Marchwood Power Limited
Marron Activ8 Energies Limited
Midas Energy Limited
Neos Networks Limited 
NNXYZ Limited
North Falls Offshore Wind Farm  

Holdco Limited***

Scotland
Ireland
England and Wales
England and Wales
England and Wales
England and Wales
Ireland
England and Wales
England and Wales
Ireland
England and Wales
Ireland
Ireland

England and Wales
Ireland
Ireland
Scotland
England and Wales
England and Wales

North Falls Offshore Wind Farm Limited***
Ossian Offshore Wind Farm Holdings Limited 

England and Wales
Scotland

(formerly Scohoco 1 Limited)

Ossian Offshore Wind Farm Limited  

Scotland

(formerly Scoprojco 1 Limited)

England and Wales
England and Wales
England and Wales
England and Wales
England and Wales
England and Wales
England and Wales
England and Wales
England and Wales
England and Wales
England and Wales
England and Wales
Scotland

Saltend Cogeneration Company Limited
Saltend Operations Company Limited
SCCL Holdings Limited
Seabank Power Limited
Seagreen 1A (Holdco) Limited
Seagreen 1A Limited
Seagreen Alpha Wind Energy Limited
Seagreen Bravo Wind Energy Limited
Seagreen Holdco 1 Limited
Seagreen Wind Energy Limited
SSE Slough Multifuel Holdco Limited
SSE Slough Multifuel Limited
Stronelairg Wind Farm Limited
Sunflower Offshore Wind General Partner B.V. Netherlands
Netherlands
Sunflower Offshore Wind Projectco C.V. 
Jersey
Triton Power Holdings Limited
Jersey 
Triton Power Intermediate Holdings Limited
Jersey
Triton Power Limited
Netherlands
Tulip Offshore Wind General Partner B.V.
Netherlands
Tulip Offshore Wind Projectco C.V. 

A
S
B
B
B
B
M
B
B
M
AF
M
C

N
R
M
A
B
AG

AG
A

A

AF
AF
AF
O
B
B
B
B
B
B
B
B
A
AA
AA
AH
AH
AH
AA
AA

50.1
49.0
50.0
50.0
50.0
50.0
47.5
50.0
50.0
50.0
50.0
49.0
50.0

50.0
50.0
49.0
50.0
50.0
50.0

50.0
40.0

40.0

50.0
50.0
50.0
50.0
49.0
49.0
49.0
49.0
49.0
49.0
50.0
50.0
50.1
50.0
50.0
50.0
50.0
50.0
50.0
50.0

50.1
Power Generation
49.0 Power Generation
50.0 Renewable Development
50.0 Renewable Development
50.0 Renewable Development
50.0 Power Generation
47.5 Dormant

– Holding Company
– Renewable Development

50.0 Holding Company
– Power Generation
49.0 Power Generation

100.0 Renewable Development

50.0 Power Generation
50.0 Energy Related Services
49.0 Power Generation
50.0 Telecommunications
50.0 Telecommunications
50.0 Holding company

50.0 Renewable Development
40.0 Holding company

40.0 Renewable Development

– Power Generation
– Power Generation
– Holding Company
50.0 Power Generation
49.0 Holding company
49.0 Renewable Development
49.0 Renewable Development
49.0 Renewable Development
49.0 Holding company
49.0 Renewable Development
50.0 Holding company
50.0 Power Generation
Power Generation
50.1

– Renewable Development
– Renewable Development
– Holding company
– Holding company
– Power Generation
– Renewable Development
– Renewable Development

**  50.1% of voting rights held.
*** Joint Operation.

A3.1.3 Associates

Company

Country of incorporation

Registered 
address (key)

2023 
Holding 
%

2022 
Holding 
%

Principal activity

St Clements Services Limited

England and Wales

P

25.0

25.0 Utilities Software

SSE plc  Annual Report 2023

295

Financial StatementsStrategic ReportDirectors’ ReportAccompanying information continued

A3. Related undertakings continued
A.3.1.4 Registered address key

Reference

Company registered address

A
B
C
D
E
F
G
H
I
J
K
L
M
N
O
P
Q
R
S
T
U
V
W
X
Y
Z
AA
AB
AC 
AD
AE
AF
AG
AH
AI
AJ

Inveralmond House, 200 Dunkeld Road, Perth PH1 3AQ
No 1 Forbury Place, 43 Forbury Road, Reading RG1 3JH
Red Oak South, South County Business Park, Leopardstown, Dublin 18
Ocean Court, Caspian Road, Atlantic Street, Altrincham, WA14 5HH
Keadby Power Station, Trentside, Keadby, Scunthorpe, North Lincs DN17 3AZ
3rd Floor, Millennium House, 17-25 Great Victoria Street, Belfast, BT2 7AQ
Tower House, Loch Promenade, Douglas, Isle of Man
Büro München, Elektrastrasse 6, 81925, München, Germany
The Gutters’ Hut, North Ness Business Park, Lerwick, Shetland ZE1 0LZ
One Kingdom Street, London, United Kingdom, W2 6BD
10 Fleet Place, London, EC4M 7QS
6th Floor, South Bank House, Barrow Street, Dublin 4
Lissarda Industrial Park, Lissarda, Macroom, County Cork
Oceanic Way, Marchwood Industrial Park, Marchwood, Southampton SO40 4BD
Severn Road, Hallen, Bristol, BS10 7SP
4-6 Church Walk, Daventry, NN11 4BL
Unit 14 Maryland Industrial Estate, Ballygowan Road, Belfast
Dunoge, Carrickmacross, Co. Monaghan, Ireland
Gorthleahy, Macroom, Co. Cork, Ireland
c/o Fiduservice SA, Route de Beaumont 20, 1701 Freiburg, Switzerland
c/o CMS Hasche Sigle, Stadthausbrücke 1-3, 20355 Hamburg
Rm 1901, 19/F, Lee Garden One, 33 Hysan Avenue, Causeway Bay, Hong Kong
3411 Silverside Road, Tatnall Building #104, Wilmington, New Castle, Delaware, 19810
Towarowa no.28, suite 00-839, Warsaw, Poland
Roppongi Grand Tower, 3-2-1 Roppongi, Minato-ku, Tokyo, Japan
Stewart Building Esplanade, Lerwick, Shetland, Scotland, ZE1 0LL
Hofplein 20, Rotterdam, 3032 AC, Netherlands
16 Kifissias Ave, 11526, Athens, Greece
Viale Luca Gaurico, 9/11, 00143, Rome, Italy
Spain: calle Buenos Aires, 12, 48.001, Bilbao, Spain
97 allée Alexandre Borodine, Immeuble Cèdre 3, 69800, Saint Priest, France
Saltend Power Station Saltend Chemicals Park, Hedon Road, Hull, East Riding of Yorkshire, England, HU12 8GA
Windmill Hill Business Park, Whitehill Way, Swindon, Wiltshire, United Kingdom, SN5 6PB
22 Grenville Street, St Helier, Jersey, JE4 SPX
Cannon Place, 78 Cannon Street, London, United Kingdom, EC4N 6AF
c/o Bird & Bird LLP, Maximiliansplatz 22, Munich, 80333, Germany

A4. Joint ventures and associates
The Directors have assessed that the investments in the following equity accounted joint ventures and associates are of a sufficiently 
material impact to warrant additional disclosure on an individual basis. Details of the financial position and financial results of the Group:

Company

Principal activity

Country 
of incorporation

Class of 
shares held

Proportion 
of shares 
held %

Group 
Interest
%

Year end date

Consolidation 
basis

Power Generation UK
Seabank Power Limited
Power Generation UK
Marchwood Power Limited
Power Generation UK
SSE Slough Multifuel Limited
Power Generation UK
Clyde Windfarm (Scotland) Limited
Seagreen Wind Energy Limited
Power Generation UK
Beatrice Offshore Windfarm Limited Power Generation UK
Power Generation UK
Dunmaglass Wind Farm Limited
Power Generation UK
Stronelairg Wind Farm Limited
Power Generation
Triton Power Holdings Limited
Telecoms
Neos Networks Limited 

Jersey
UK

Ordinary
Ordinary
Ordinary
Ordinary
Ordinary
Ordinary
Ordinary
Ordinary
Ordinary
Ordinary

50.0
50.0
50.0
50.1
49.0
40.0
50.1
50.1
50.0
50.0

50.0 31 December Equity
50.0 31 December Equity
Equity
50.0 31 March
Equity
31 March
50.1
Equity
49.0 31 March
Equity
40.0 31 March
Equity
31 March
50.1
50.1
Equity
31 March
50.0 31 December Equity
Equity
50.0 31 March

Summary information for material joint ventures and associates from unaudited financial statements is as follows:

Seabank 
Power 
Limited
2023
£m

Marchwood 
Power 
Limited
2023
£m

SSE 
Slough 
Multifuel 
Limited
2023
£m

Clyde 
Windfarm 
(Scotland) 
Limited
2023
£m

Seagreen 
Wind 
Energy 
Limited
2023
£m

Beatrice 
Offshore 
Windfarm 
Limited 
2023
£m

Dunmaglass 
Wind Farm 
Limited
2023
£m

Stronelairg 
Wind Farm 
Limited
2023
£m

Triton 
Power 
Holdings 
Limited
2023
£m

Neos 
Networks 
Limited
2023
£m

297.5
–

95.2
–

376.5
25.5

68.7
–

151.5
–

1,628.7
–

159.2
–

Other
2023
£m

62.3
–

Total
2023
£m

3,217.9
25.5

Revenue
Other income

274.5
–

103.8
–

  Depreciation and 

amortisation
  Other operating 

(6.9)

(30.7)

costs

(216.5)

(21.0)

  Operating profit

Interest expense

Profit before tax
Corporation tax

Profit after tax

Recognised in other 
comprehensive 
income

Actuarial gain on 

retirement benefit 
schemes

Taxation
Cash flow hedges
Taxation

51.1

(0.7)

50.4
(10.6)

39.8

–
–
–
–

–

52.1

(5.2)

46.9
(6.1)

40.8

–
–
–
–

–

Total comprehensive 

income/(loss)

39.8

40.8

–
–

–

–

–

–

–
–

–

–
–
6.2
(1.6)

4.6

4.6

(29.1)

(17.9)

(89.6)

(7.7)

(13.7)

(84.0)

(95.0)

(30.4)

(405.0)

(56.8)

(40.8)

(94.8)

(12.6)

(28.0)

(415.1)

(80.3)

(40.1)

(1,006.0)

211.6

36.5

217.6

(18.4)

(20.7)

(65.4)

193.2
(35.6)

15.8
(3.8)

152.2
(26.0)

157.6

12.0

126.2

48.4

(6.1)

42.3
(8.1)

34.2

109.8

1,129.6

(16.1)

(8.2)

1,832.4

(12.1)

97.7
(19.1)

(2.4)

(20.7)

(3.0)

(154.7)

1,127.2
(179.2)

(36.8)
–

(11.2)
(4.2)

1,677.7
(292.7)

78.6

948.0

(36.8)

(15.4)

1,385.0

–
–
–
–

–

–
–
141.0
(35.3)

–
–
152.4
(38.1)

105.7

114.3

–
–
–
–

–

–
–
–
–

–

–
–
–
–

–

–
–
–
–

–

–
–
807.6
(201.8)

–
–
1,107.2
(276.8)

605.8

830.4

157.6

117.7

240.5

34.2

78.6

948.0

(36.8)

590.4

2,215.4

SSE share of profit 

(based on % 
equity)

Dividends paid to 
shareholders

Non-current assets
Current assets
Cash and cash 
equivalents
Current liabilities
Non-current 
liabilities

Net assets

Group equity 

interest

Net assets
Group’s share of 

47.0
96.2
48.8

69.3
(19.1)

(61.6)

133.6

50%

133.6

ownership interest

Other adjustments

66.8
(20.3)

19.9

20.4

–

78.9

5.9

50.5

17.1

39.3

474.0

(18.4)

(24.0)

663.6

22.4
154.1
53.5

–
353.5
10.0

169.1
560.4
119.0

–
3,229.8
19.4

146.5
1,906.0
50.5

32.8
(38.3)

8.4
(23.6)

83.4
(20.4)

86.4
(57.2)

91.3
(176.3)

35.2
175.0
27.5

19.0
(4.6)

93.6
330.2
58.2

101.4
189.6
507.0

–
626.2
41.9

2.0
6,288.3
59.9

617.2
13,909.3
995.7

48.3
(19.8)

16.7
(301.7)

23.3
(144.0)

86.1
(246.8)

565.0
(1,051.8)

(65.9)

(265.2)

(437.3)

(2,870.7)

(1,800.4)

(139.3)

(259.0)

(18.0)

(353.1)

(5,241.9)

(11,512.4)

136.2

83.1

305.1

407.7

71.1

77.6

157.9

393.6

194.3

945.6

2,905.8

50%

136.2

68.1
0.3

50%

83.1

41.5
30.9

50.1%

49%

305.1

407.7

152.8
27.2

199.8
141.8

40%

71.1

28.4
(15.3)

50.1%

50.1%

50%

50%

77.6

157.9

393.6

194.3

945.6

2,905.8

38.8
68.1

79.1
214.7

196.8
57.1

97.2
(22.5)

376.4
109.3

1,345.7
591.3

Carrying value of 
Group’s equity 
interest

46.5

68.4

72.4

180.0

341.6

13.1

106.9

293.8

253.9

74.7

485.7

1,937.0

296

SSE plc  Annual Report 2023

SSE plc  Annual Report 2023

297

Financial StatementsStrategic ReportDirectors’ ReportSSE 
Slough 
Multifuel 
Limited
2022
£m

Clyde 
Windfarm 
(Scotland) 
Limited
2022
£m

Seagreen 
Offshore 
Windfarm 
Limited
2022
£m

Beatrice 
Offshore 
Windfarm 
Limited 
2022
£m

Dunmaglass 
Wind Farm 
Limited
2022
£m

Stronelairg 
Wind Farm 
Limited
2022
£m

Neos 
Networks 
Limited
2022
£m

111.6
281.3

59.6

142.0
–

156.8
–

Total 
continuing 
operations
2022
£m

SGN- 
discontinued 
operation
2022
£m

1,142.1
281.3

181.3
–

Other
2022
£m

42.7
–

–

–

–

–

–

–
–

–

–
–

–
–

–

(90.6)

(8.0)

(14.1)

(84.0)

(30.5)

(294.9)

(33.3)

(84.3)

(10.8)

(25.3)

(102.6)

(16.5)

(545.2)

(85.0)

218.0

40.8

102.6

(29.8)

(4.3)

583.3

63.0

(69.0)

(6.2)

(12.5)

(24.0)

(13.5)

(150.2)

(46.9)

149.0
(55.8)

93.2

34.6
(13.8)

20.8

90.1
(25.4)

64.7

(53.8)
(4.0)

(57.8)

(17.8)
–

(17.8)

433.1
(170.6)

262.5

16.1
(259.3)

(243.2)

–
–

131.9
(25.1)

106.8

–
–

–
–

–

–
–

–
–

–

–
–

–
–

–

–
–

–
–

267.1
(50.4)

406.2
(76.9)

216.7

329.3

6.3
(7.1)

(1.9)
4.8

2.1

Accompanying information continued

A4. Joint ventures and associates continued

Seabank 
Power 
Limited
2022
£m

260.9
–

Marchwood 
Power 
Limited
2022
£m

97.6
–

(5.7)

(32.2)

(235.6)

(21.2)

19.6

44.2

(0.1)

(6.6)

19.5
(9.8)

9.7

37.6
(7.6)

30.0

–
–

–

–

–

–

–
–

–

270.9
–

(29.8)

(48.9)

192.2

(18.3)

173.9
(54.2)

119.7

–
–

–
–

–

–
–

–
–

–

–
–

7.2
(1.4)

5.8

–
–

–
–

–

4.8

15.0

–

29.2

–

–

Revenue
Other income

  Depreciation 

and 
amortisation

  Other 

operating 
costs

  Operating 

profit

Interest 

expense

Profit before 

tax

Corporation tax

Profit after tax

Recognised  
in other 
compreh-
ensive 
income

Actuarial gain 

on retirement 
benefit 
schemes

Taxation
Cash flow 
hedges
Taxation

Total 

compreh-
ensive 
income/(loss)

SSE share of  

profit (based  
on % equity)

Dividends paid 

to 
shareholders

Non-current 

assets

Current assets
Cash and cash 
equivalents

Current 

liabilities
Non-current 
liabilities

9.7

30.0

5.8

119.7

–

200.0

20.8

64.7

(57.8)

198.9

591.8

(241.1)

60.0

–

37.3

10.4

32.5

(29.0)

(20.3)

110.7

(81.0)

105.9

–

183.2

21.7

47.5

4.4

–

391.9

105.8
58.0

194.2
39.7

177.3
4.6

599.5
110.8

2,253.8 2,018.7
44.0

6.1

186.3
23.7

350.1
52.6

445.5 3,716.5 10,047.7
460.3
41.4

79.4

29.0

21.5

4.9

69.9

73.7

130.7

13.8

47.5

20.0

93.7

504.7

(4.4)

(38.2)

(7.2)

(16.9)

(151.1)

(167.3)

(4.2)

(18.1)

(145.0)

(200.9)

(753.3)

(64.8)

(100.4)

(146.9)

(429.2)

(2,129.3) (1,892.8)

(135.5)

(253.5)

(278.4) (3,402.9) (8,833.7)

Net assets

123.6

116.8

32.7

334.1

53.2

133.3

84.1

178.6

121.5

247.8

1,425.7

Group equity 

interest

Net assets
Group’s share 

of ownership 
interest

Other 

50%

123.6

50%

116.8

50%

32.7

50.1%

334.1

49%

53.2

40%

133.3

50.1%

50.1%

50%

–

–

84.1

178.6

121.5

247.8

1,425.7

61.8

58.4

16.4

167.4

26.1

53.4

42.1

89.5

60.7

99.4

675.2

adjustments

(11.7)

0.8

56.5

25.2

220.2

(53.4)

69.2

224.4

(5.4)

38.5

564.3

Carrying value 
of Group’s 
equity interest

50.1

59.2

72.9

192.6

246.3

–

111.3

313.9

55.3

137.9

1,239.5

–

–
–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

In addition to the above at 31 March 2023, the Group was owed the following loans from its principal joint ventures: Marchwood Power 
Limited £25.7m (2022: £39.1m); Triton Power Holdings Limited £nil (2022: £nil); Clyde Windfarm (Scotland) Limited £127.1m (2022: 
£127.1m); Dunmaglass Wind Farm Limited £46.6m (2022: £46.5m); Stronelairg Wind Farm Limited £88.7m (2022: £88.2m) Neos Networks 
Limited £56.0m (2022: £90.2m); Seagreen Offshore Windfarm Limited £593.1m (2022: £271.1m) and Slough Multifuel Limited £128.0m 
(2022: £62.5m).

This represents 96% (2022: 99%) of the loans provided to equity-accounted joint ventures and associates. 

A5. Related party transactions
The immediate parent and ultimate controlling party of the Group is SSE plc (incorporated in Scotland). Balances and transactions between 
the Company and its subsidiaries, which are related parties of the Company, have been eliminated on consolidation and are not disclosed in 
this note. Details of transactions between the Group and other related parties are disclosed below.

Trading transactions
The following transactions took place during the year between the Group and entities which are related to the Group, but which are not 
members of the Group. Related parties are defined as those in which the Group has control, joint control or significant influence over. 

Joint ventures:
Seabank Power Limited
Marchwood Power Limited
Scotia Gas Networks Limited
Clyde Windfarm (Scotland) Limited
Beatrice Offshore Windfarm Limited
Stronelairg Windfarm Limited
Dunmaglass Windfarm Limited
Neos Networks Limited
Seagreen Wind Energy Limited
Doggerbank A, B and C
Triton Power Holdings Limited
Other Joint Ventures

2023
Sale of 
goods and 
services
£m

2023
Purchase of 
goods and 
services
£m

2023
Amounts 
owed from
£m

2023
Amounts 
owed to
£m

2022
Sale of 
goods and 
services
£m

2022
Purchase of 
goods and 
services
£m

2022
Amounts 
owed from
£m

2022
Amounts 
owed to
£m

–
122.4
–
4.8
4.7
2.4
1.1
3.8
35.2
25.4
–
14.0

–
(228.5)
–
(280.5)
(176.5)
(146.2)
(66.4)
(23.8)
(44.4)
–
–
(219.2)

–
–
–
0.1
1.0
–
–
46.2
22.9
7.6
–
1.1

–
(16.8)
–
(49.5)
(8.7)
(21.7)
(9.1)
(5.8)
(7.5)
–
–
(50.8)

51.9
104.3
42.9
4.6
5.0
2.1
1.0
31.2
24.9
21.2
–
8.2

(49.1)
(229.3)
(10.1)
(259.3)
(163.7)
(138.5)
(57.9)
(27.1)
(0.4)
–
–
(195.9)

–
–
–
0.1
0.9
–
–
52.2
6.0
8.5
–
1.3

–
(7.6)
–
(74.2)
(20.6)
(36.7)
(13.7)
(13.8)
(0.3)
–
–
(23.6)

The transactions with Seabank Power Limited and Marchwood Power Limited relate to the contracts for the provision of energy or the 
tolling of energy under power purchase arrangements. 

Details of the Group’s 15-year Affiliate Contract for Difference agreement with Seagreen Wind Energy Limited are included in note A7.2 .

On 22 March 2022 the Group completed its disposal of its interest in Scotia Gas Networks Limited (‘SGN’). In the prior year, the table 
above included the Group’s gas supply activity which included gas distribution charges and services the Group provided to SGN in the 
form of a management services agreement for corporate and shared services.

The amounts outstanding are trading balances, are unsecured and will be settled in cash. No guarantees have been given or received. 
No provisions have been made for doubtful debts in respect of the amounts owed by related parties. Aggregate capital loans to joint 
ventures and associates are shown in note 16.

298

SSE plc  Annual Report 2023

SSE plc  Annual Report 2023

299

Financial StatementsStrategic ReportDirectors’ ReportAccompanying information continued

A6. Financial risk management
This note presents information about the fair value of the Group’s financial instruments, the Group’s exposure to the risks associated with 
those instruments, the Group’s objectives, policies and processes for measuring and managing risk, and the Group’s management of 
capital. Further qualitative disclosures are included throughout these consolidated financial statements. 

The Group has exposure to the following risks from its use of financial instruments:
•  Credit risk 
•  Liquidity risk
•  Commodity risk
•  Currency risk
• 

Interest rate risk

The Board has overall responsibility for the establishment and oversight of the Group’s risk management framework. The Group’s 
policies for risk management are established to identify the risks faced by the Group, to set appropriate risk limits and controls, and to 
monitor risks and adherence to limits. Exposure to commodity, currency and interest rate risks arise in the normal course of the Group’s 
business and derivative financial instruments are entered into to hedge exposure to these risks.

SSE has a Group wide Risk Committee reporting to the Group Executive Committee, which is responsible for reviewing the strategic, 
market, credit, operational and liquidity risks and exposures that arise from the Group’s operating activities. In addition, the Group has 
two dedicated Energy Market risk committees reporting to the Group Executive Committee and Board respectively, with the Group 
Executive Sub-committee chaired by the Group Finance Director (the ‘Group Energy Markets Exposures Risk Committee’) and the Board 
Sub-committee chaired by non-Executive Director Tony Cocker (the ‘Energy Markets Risk Committee (EMRC)’). These Committees 
oversee the Group’s management of its energy market exposures, including its approach to hedging.

During the year ended 31 March 2023, the Group was exposed to exceptional volatility in energy markets impacting the primary 
commodities to which it is exposed (Gas, Carbon and Power) due to the ongoing impacts from the war in Ukraine and other global 
factors. The Group’s approach to hedging, and the diversity of its energy portfolios (across Wind, Hydro, Thermal and Customers) has 
provided significant certain mitigation of these exposures. Exceptional rises and volatility in commodity prices have created a particular 
challenge in managing counter-party credit and collateral exposures and requirements. Market access to energy markets to enable 
hedging and prompt optimisation has been maintained by a combination of three key actions. Firstly, bilateral counterparty limits have 
been increased (subject to Executive Director authorisation) and SSE has continued to utilise market access provided by exchange 
platforms and auctions. Secondly, the SSE Group Parent Company Guarantee has been increased appropriately to reflect the impact of 
market volatility on counterparty exposures. Finally, since March 2022, SSE Treasury facilities have been increased by circa £730m with 
relationship banks and insurance companies in order to facilitate letters of credit to be posted as collateral instead of cash to support the 
route to market of the Group.

At 31 March, the Group’s collateral position was as follows:

Collateral posted included within trade and other receivables

Net collateral posted/(received)

Note

18

2023
£m

316.3

316.3

2022
£m

74.7

74.7

Exposure to the commodity, currency and interest rate risks noted arise in the normal course of the Group’s business and derivative 
financial instruments are entered into to hedge exposure to these risks. The objectives and policies for holding or issuing financial 
instruments and similar contracts, and the strategies for achieving those objectives that have been followed during the year are 
explained below. 

A6.1 Credit risk 
Credit risk is the risk of financial loss to the Group if a customer or counterparty fails to meet its contractual obligations.

Credit risk arising from the Group’s normal commercial operations is controlled by individual business units operating in accordance with 
Group policies and procedures. Generally, for significant contracts, individual business units enter into contracts or agreements with 
counterparties having investment grade credit ratings only, or where suitable collateral or other security has been provided. Counterparty 
credit validation is undertaken prior to contractual commitment.

Credit risk management for the Group’s SSEN Transmission and SSEN Distribution businesses is performed in accordance with industry 
standards as set out by the Regulator and is financially controlled by the individual business units. The Group’s greatest credit risks lie 
with the operations of the Customers business, the wholesale procurement activities conducted by Energy Portfolio Management 
(‘EPM’) under a trust arrangement and the activities carried out by the Group’s Treasury function. In all cases, specific credit risk controls 
that match the risk profile of those activities are applied. Exposure to credit risk in the retail supply of electricity and gas to end user 
customers arises from the potential of a customer defaulting on their invoiced payables. The Group exposure to retail supply customers 
is limited to customers of the Group’s Airtricity business. The creditworthiness of these customers is reviewed from a variety of internal 
and external information. The financial strength and creditworthiness of business customers is assessed prior to commencing, and for 
the duration of, their contract of supply. 

Exposure to credit risk in the procurement of wholesale energy and fuel is managed by reference to agreed transaction credit limits 
which are determined by whether the counterparty:
•  holds an investment grade credit rating; or
•  can be assessed as adequately creditworthy in accordance with internal credit rules using information from other external credit 

agencies; or

•  can provide a guarantee from an investment grade rated entity or post suitable collateral or provide other acceptable assurances in 

accordance with group procedures where they have failed to meet the above conditions; or

•  can be allocated a non-standard credit limit approved by the relevant authority as delegated by the Group Board.

Credit support clauses and Master Netting Agreements are typically included or entered into in order to mitigate the impact to the Group 
against counterparty failure or non-delivery. As part of its normal activities, EPM transacts significant volumes of commodity derivative 
products through cleared exchanges to mitigate credit risk. Such exchanges are subject to strict regulation by the UK Financial Conduct 
Authority (FCA) and participants in these exchanges are obliged to meet rigorous capital adequacy requirements.

Individual counterparty credit exposures are monitored regularly and are subject to approved limits. At 31 March 2023, EPM had pledged 
£443.6m (2022: £545.9m) of cash collateral and letters of credit and had received £110.8m (2022: £95.8m) of cash collateral and letters 
of credit principally to reduce exposures on credit risk. 

Bank credit exposures, which are monitored and reported on daily, are calculated on a mark-to-market basis and adjusted for future 
volatility and probability of default. Any issues relating to these credit exposures are presented for discussion and review by the Tax and 
Treasury Committee.

Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash in hand and deposits which are readily convertible to cash. These are subject to insignificant 
risk of change in value or credit risk. 

Derivative financial instruments are entered into to cover the Group’s market risks – commodity risk, interest rate risk, currency risk – and 
are consequently covered elsewhere in this note.

Trade receivables represent the most significant exposure to credit risk and are stated after an allowance for impairment.

300

SSE plc  Annual Report 2023

SSE plc  Annual Report 2023

301

Financial StatementsStrategic ReportDirectors’ ReportAccompanying information continued

A6. Financial risk management continued
A6.2 Concentrations of risk
Trade receivables recorded by reported segment held at the 31 March were:

SSEN Transmission
SSEN Distribution

SSE Renewables 

SSE Thermal 
Gas Storage

Energy Customer Solutions

Business Energy 
SSE Airtricity

Distributed Energy

EPM

Corporate Unallocated 

Total SSE Group

2023
£m

8.0
137.2

88.3

41.0
1.5

386.9
125.1

31.8

567.5

16.7

1,404.0

2022
£m

7.9
122.3

84.1

21.2
1.4

231.3
231.6

38.4

679.3

16.4

1,433.9

Energy Customers Solution (Business Energy and SSE Airtricity) accounts for 36.5% (2022: 32.3%) of the Group’s trade receivables from 
continuing operations. Trade receivables associated with the Group’s 1.2 million electricity and gas customers are recorded within this 
business unit. The Group also has significant trade receivables associated with its EPM activities which are generally settled within two to 
four weeks from invoicing. The Group’s exposure to credit risk is therefore subject to diversification with no exposure to individual retail 
customers totalling >10% of trade receivables. The largest customer balance, due from an EPM customer (also an EPM supplier), is 8% 
(2022: 7%) of the total trade receivables.

The ageing of trade receivables at the reporting date was:

Not past due
Past due but not individually impaired:
0 – 30 days
31 – 90 days
Over 90 days

Less: allowance for impairment

Net trade receivables

2023
£m

1,229.0

116.3
65.6
162.3

1,573.2
(169.2)

1,404.0

2022
£m

1,167.7

185.3
60.8
98.3

1,512.1
(78.2)

1,433.9

The Group has past due debt which has not had an impairment allowance set aside to cover potential credit losses. The Group has certain 
procedures to pursue customers in significant arrears and believes its impairment policy in relation to such balances is appropriate. The 
increased ageing of the trade receivables results in an increase in provisions held in respect of them under the provision matrix approach 
employed. The Group also considers various risk factors when assessing the level of provision to recognise. Trade receivables and contract 
assets are written off when there is no reasonable expectation of recovery.

The Group has other receivables which are financial assets totalling £12.8m (2022: £4.9m). 

The movement in the allowance for impairment of trade receivables (continuing operations only) was:

Balance at 1 April
Increase/(decrease) in allowance for impairment
Impairment losses recognised

Balance at 31 March

2023
£m

78.2
116.8
(25.8)

169.2

2022
£m

77.1
(16.8)
17.9

78.2

At the end of each reporting period a review of the allowance for impairment of trade receivables (or bad debt provision) is performed  
by the respective businesses. Trade receivables do not contain a significant financing element, and therefore expected credit losses are 
measured using the simplified approach permitted by IFRS 9, which requires lifetime expected credit losses to be recognised on initial 
recognition. A provision matrix is utilised to estimate the lifetime expected credit losses, based on the age, status and risk of each class  
of receivable, which is updated periodically to include changes to both forward-looking and historical inputs.

302

SSE plc  Annual Report 2023

A6.3 Liquidity risk and Going Concern
Liquidity risk, the risk that the Group will have insufficient funds to meet its liabilities, is managed by the Group’s Treasury function. The 
Group can be exposed to significant movements in its liquidity position due to changes in commodity prices, working capital requirements, 
the impact of the seasonal nature of the business and phasing of its capital investment and recycling programmes.

Treasury is responsible for managing the banking and liquidity requirements of the Group, risk management relating to interest rate and 
foreign exchange exposures, and for managing the credit risk relating to the banking counterparties with which it transacts. Short term 
liquidity is reviewed daily by Treasury, while the longer-term liquidity position is reviewed on a regular basis by the Board. The department’s 
operations are governed by policies determined by the Board and any breaches of these policies are reported to the Tax and Treasury 
Committee and Audit Committee. 

In relation to the Group’s liquidity risk, the Group’s policy is to ensure, as far as possible, that it will always have sufficient liquidity to meet 
its liabilities when due, under both normal and stressed conditions, without incurring unacceptable losses or risking damage to the 
Group’s reputation.

During the year, the Group’s internal approach to managing liquidity was to seek to ensure that the Group had available committed 
borrowings and facilities equal to at least 105% of forecast borrowings over a rolling 6 month period.

The Group uses cash flow forecasts to monitor its ongoing borrowing requirements. Typically, the Group will fund any short-term 
borrowing positions by issuing commercial paper or borrowing from committed and uncommitted bank lines and will invest in money 
market funds when it has a cash surplus. Details of the Group’s borrowings are disclosed at note 21. In addition to the borrowing facilities 
listed at note 21.3, the Group has £50m of uncommitted bank lines and a £15m overdraft facility.

The refinancing requirement in the 23/24 financial year is £1.6bn, being the £35m and £120m of US Private Placement maturing 28 April 
2023 and 6 September 2023 respectively; £929m of short-term Commercial Paper that matures between April and June; €700m (£514m) 
Eurobond maturing 8 September 2023; £50m of EIB loans maturing in August 2023. The directors are confident in the ability of the Group 
to maintain a funding level above 105% for the going concern assessment period based on the strong credit standing and borrowing 
history of the Group for both fixed debt and commercial paper, as discussed more fully below.

Given the committed bank facilities of £3.5bn, £2.75bn excluding Scottish Hydro Electric Transmission plc facilities, maintained by the 
Group and the current commercial paper market conditions, the Directors have concluded that both the Group and SSE plc as parent 
company have sufficient headroom to continue as a going concern. In coming to this conclusion, the Directors have taken into account 
the Group’s credit rating and the successful issuance of £14.4bn of medium to long term debt and Hybrid equity since February 2012, 
including £1.6bn of long term funding in the 22/23 financial year being a €1bn NC6 Hybrid at 4% in April 2022 to re-finance the $900m 
and £300m Hybrids whose first call date was 16 September 2022, a 7 year €650m Eurobond at a coupon of 2.875% with an all-in cost of 
funding rate of just below 3% once fees and cost of pre-hedging have been included and a £350m dual tranche US Private Placement 
with Pricoa Capital being a £175m 10-year at 3.13% and a £175m 15-year at 3.24% giving an all-in average rate of 3.185% across both 
tranches.

The Group’s period of Going Concern assessment is performed to 31 December 2024, 21 months from the balance sheet date, which is 
at least 12 months from the filing deadline of its subsidiary companies. As well as taking account of the factors noted, the Going Concern 
conclusion is arrived at after applying stress testing sensitivities to the Group’s cash flow and funding projections including removal of 
proceeds from unconfirmed future divestments, negative and positive sensitivities on operating cash flows and uncommitted capex and 
other adjustments. The Group has also considered its obligations under its debt covenants. There have been no breaches of covenant in 
the year and the Group’s projections support the expectation that there will be no breach of covenants over the period to 31 December 
2024. The statement of going concern is included in the Audit Committee Report.

As at 31 March 2023, the value of outstanding cash collateral posted in respect of mark-to-market related margin calls on exchange 
traded positions was £316.3m (2022: cash posted £74.7m).

SSE plc  Annual Report 2023

303

Financial StatementsStrategic ReportDirectors’ ReportAccompanying information continued

A6. Financial risk management continued
A6.3 Liquidity risk and Going Concern continued
The contractual cash flows shown in the following tables are the contractual undiscounted cashflows under the relevant financial 
instruments. Where the contractual cashflows are variable based on a price, foreign exchange rate or index in the future, the contractual 
cashflows in the following tables have been determined with reference to the relevant price, foreign exchange rate, interest rate or index 
as at the balance sheet date. In determining the interest element of contractual cashflows in cases where the Group has a choice as to 
the length of interest calculation periods and the interest rate that applies varies with the period selected, the contractual cashflows have 
been calculated assuming the Group selects the shortest available interest calculation periods. Where the holder of an instrument has a 
choice of when to redeem, the amounts in the following tables are on the assumption the holder redeems at the earliest opportunity.

The following are the undiscounted contractual maturities of financial liabilities, including interest and excluding the impact of 
netting agreements: 

Liquidity risk

Financial liabilities
Loans and borrowings
Commercial paper and cash advances
Loans – floating
Loans – fixed
Unsecured bonds – fixed
Fair value adjustment

Lease liabilities

Derivative financial liabilities
Operating derivatives designated at fair value
Interest rate swaps used for hedging 
Interest rate swaps designated at fair value
Forward exchange contracts held for hedging
Forward exchange contracts designated  

at fair value

Other financial liabilities
Trade payables

2023
Carrying value
£m

2023
Contractual 
cash flows
£m

2023
0-12 months
£m

2023
1-2 years
£m

2023
2-5 years
£m

2023
> 5 years
£m

1,019.2
200.0
1,574.7
5,705.5
154.6

8,654.0
405.9

(1,029.8)
(253.4)
(2,064.5)
(7,596.0)
–

(10,943.7)
(613.0)

(1,029.8)
(10.7)
(96.5)
(182.8)
–

(1,319.8)
(94.5)

–
(10.7)
(194.3)
(681.3)
–

(886.3)
(55.8)

–
(232.0)
(917.7)
(2,040.7)
–

(3,190.4)
(146.6)

–
–
(856.0)
(4,691.2)
–

(5,547.2)
(316.1)

9,059.9

(11,556.7)

(1,414.3)

(942.1)

(3,337.0)

(5,863.3)

1,152.8
37.4
55.2
11.5

(1,841.9)
(37.4)
(55.2)
(337.7)

(1,770.2)
(8.5)
(5.0)
(292.0)

7.4

2.0

(50.7)

1,264.3

(2,270.2)

(2,126.4)

694.6

694.6

(694.6)

(694.6)

(694.6)

(694.6)

(97.5)
(8.5)
(4.9)
(42.3)

66.4

(86.8)

–

–

1.0
(17.2)
(13.2)
(3.4)

(13.7)

(46.5)

–

–

24.8
(3.2)
(32.1)
–

–

(10.5)

–

–

Total

11,018.8

(14,521.5)

(4,235.3)

(1,028.9)

(3,383.5)

(5,873.8)

Derivative financial assets
Financing derivatives 
Operating derivatives designated at fair value

(239.3)
(765.9)

638.9
1,445.5

518.2
970.5

(1,005.2)

2,084.4

1,488.7

82.1
40.9

123.0

37.0
127.9

164.9

1.6
306.2

307.8

Net total(i)

10,013.6

(12,437.1)

(2,746.6)

(905.9)

(3,218.6)

(5,566.0)

Liquidity Risk

Financial liabilities
Loans and borrowings
Commercial paper and cash advances
Loans – floating
Loans – fixed
Unsecured bonds – fixed
Fair value adjustment

Lease liabilities

Derivative financial liabilities
Operating derivatives designated at fair value
Interest rate swaps used for hedging 
Interest rate swaps designated at fair value
Forward exchange contracts held for hedging
Forward exchange contracts designated  

at fair value

Other financial liabilities
Trade payables

2022
Carrying value
£m

2022
Contractual 
cash flows
£m

2022
0-12 months
£m

2022
1-2 years
£m

2022
2-5 years
£m

2022
> 5 years
£m

506.1
200.0
1,508.1
6,425.4
31.6

8,671.2
393.5

(507.1)
(209.7)
(1,913.7)
(8,392.3)
–

(11,022.8)
(581.2)

(507.1)
(1.6)
(358.9)
(1,529.7)
–

(2,397.3)
(88.7)

–
(1.6)
(240.5)
(681.1)
–

(923.2)
(61.7)

–
(4.9)
(905.4)
(1,985.5)
–

(2,895.8)
(162.0)

–
(201.6)
(408.9)
(4,196.0)
–

(4,806.5)
(268.8)

9,064.7

(11,604.0)

(2,486.0)

(984.9)

(3,057.8)

(5,075.3)

828.7
129.2
246.2
43.4

(3,079.0)
(129.0)
(246.2)
(521.8)

(2,790.0)
(55.3)
(16.1)
(347.9)

3.6

(208.2)

(194.4)

1,251.1

(4,184.2)

(3,403.7)

919.7

919.7

(919.7)

(919.7)

(919.7)

(919.7)

(178.0)
(19.0)
(15.6)
(137.2)

(13.8)

(363.6)

–

–

(111.0)
43.3
(46.0)
(36.7)

–
(98.0)
(168.5)
–

–

–

(150.4)

(266.5)

–

–

–

–

Total

11,235.5

(16,707.9)

(6,809.4)

(1,348.5)

(3,208.2)

(5,341.8)

Derivative financial assets
Financing derivatives 
Operating derivatives designated at fair value

(182.9)
(3,130.5)

441.3
3,057.3

382.4
2,597.6

(3,313.4)

3,498.6

2,980.0

41.6
311.1

352.7

15.6
148.6

164.2

1.7
–

1.7

Net total (i)

7,922.1

(13,209.3)

(3,829.4)

(995.8)

(3,044.0)

(5,340.1)

(i)  The Group believes the liquidity risk associated with out-of-the-money operating derivative contracts needs to be considered in conjunction with the profile of 
payments or receipts arising from derivative financial assets. It should be noted that cash flows associated with future energy sales and commodity contracts 
which are not IFRS 9 financial instruments are not included in this analysis, which is prepared in accordance with IFRS 7 ‘Financial Instruments: Disclosures’.

A6.4 Commodity risk
The Group’s Energy Portfolio Management (‘EPM’) business implements the hedging policy through trading in the commodity markets 
and manages the requirement for the delivery of the Group’s physical commodity needs as part of its normal course of business. The risk 
management activity carried out by EPM arises from the Group’s requirement to source gas, electricity or other commodities such as 
renewable obligation certificates for Business Energy and SSE Airtricity, and to procure fuel and other commodities and provide a 
route-to-market for SSE Renewables, SSE Thermal, Gas Storage and the now disposed and discontinued Gas Production business. 

304

SSE plc  Annual Report 2023

SSE plc  Annual Report 2023

305

Financial StatementsStrategic ReportDirectors’ ReportAccompanying information continued

A6. Financial risk management continued
A6.4 Commodity risk continued
Current hedging approach
The Group has traded in three principal commodities during the year, as well as the spreads between two or more commodity prices: 
power (baseload and other products); gas; and carbon (emissions allowances). Each commodity has different liquidity characteristics, 
which impacts on the degree of hedging possible. Similarly, each of the Group’s assets carries different exposures to the commodity 
market and thus requires a different approach to hedging. As such, the Group’s current hedging approach varies by each class of asset 
as follows:

Asset class

GB Wind

Hydro

GB Thermal

Gas Storage

Minimum Hedge Target

Target to hedge less than 100% of anticipated wind energy output for the coming  
12 months, progressively establishing the hedge over the 36 months prior to delivery.  
From May 2021, this has been around 90%.

Principal Commodity Exposures

Power, Gas, Carbon

85% of forecast generation 12 months in advance of delivery, progressively established 
over the 36 months prior to delivery.

Power, Gas, Carbon

100% of expected output 6 months in advance of delivery, progressively established  
over the 18 months prior to delivery.

Power, Gas, Carbon

The annual auction to offer gas storage capacity contracts from Atwick for the  
2020/21 (and 21/22) financial year resulted in no third party contracts being secured.  
The assets were commercially operated throughout the year and the business managed 
its exposure to changes in the spread between summer and winter prices, market 
volatility and plant availability.

Gas

Business Energy

Sales to contract customers are 100% hedged: at point of sale for fixed, upon  
instruction for flexi and on a rolling basis for tariff customers.

Power, Gas

However, there are three principal areas where significant variations in earnings cannot be fully mitigated through hedging:
•  The impact of the weather on the volume of electricity produced from renewable sources;
•  The impact of operational matters such as unplanned outages; and
•  The ability of flexible thermal power stations to earn extrinsic income by providing services to the electricity system and by 

responding to shorter-term electricity market conditions.

Hedging is carried out by each asset class trading internally with EPM to effect these hedges and EPM then trading onwards with external 
counterparties and markets. EPM is only able to accept internal trades when there is sufficient liquidity to offset them in the external market 
or they can be offset with internal trades from other asset classes. In this way, the commodity risks to which EPM is individually exposed,  
are minimised.

The volumetric extent to which assets are hedged are reported monthly to the Group Energy Markets Exposures Risk Committee, and to 
the Energy Markets Risk Committee (‘EMRC’) on at least a quarterly basis. Variations to the hedging approach above will be required as 
markets and other factors (such as asset disposals) change. The EMRC also receives reporting on credit risk, other risk measures, and 
market liquidity in assessing whether any variations to the hedging approach are required. 

The Group measures and manages the Commodity Risk associated with the financial and non-financial commodity contracts it is exposed 
to. However, within the Group’s financial statements only certain commodity contracts are designated as financial instruments under IFRS 9. 
As a result, it is only the fair value of those IFRS 9 financial instruments which represents the exposure of the Group’s commodity price risk 
under IFRS 7. This is a consequence of the Group’s accounting policy which stipulates that commodity contracts which are designated  
as financial instruments under IFRS 9 should be accounted for on a fair value basis with changes in fair value reflected in profit or equity. 
Conversely, commodity contracts that are not designated as financial instruments under IFRS 9 will be accounted for as ‘own use’ contracts. 
As fair value changes in own use contracts are not reflected through profit or equity, these do not represent the IFRS 7 commodity price 
risk. Furthermore, other physical contracts can be treated as the hedging instrument in documented cash flow hedging relationships where 
the hedged item is the forecast future purchase requirement to meet production or customer demand. The accounting policies associated 
with financial instruments are explained in the Accompanying Information section A1 .

Sensitivity analysis
The Group’s exposure to commodity price risk according to IFRS 7 is measured by reference to the Group’s IFRS 9 commodity contracts. 
IFRS 7 requires disclosure of a sensitivity analysis for market risks that is intended to illustrate the sensitivity of the Group’s financial 
position and performance to changes in market variables impacting upon the fair value or cash flows associated with the Group’s 
financial instruments. 

Therefore, the sensitivity analysis provided discloses the effect on profit or loss and equity at the balance sheet date assuming that a 
reasonably possible change in the relevant commodity price had occurred and been applied to the risk exposures in existence at that 
date. The reasonably possible changes in commodity prices used in the sensitivity analysis were determined based on calculated or 
implied volatilities where available, or historical data.

The sensitivity analysis has been calculated on the basis that the proportion of commodity contracts that are IFRS 9 financial instruments 
remains consistent with those at that point. Excluded from this analysis are all commodity contracts that are not financial instruments 
under IFRS 9. 

Commodity prices
UK gas (p/therm)
UK power (£/MWh)
UK carbon (£/tonne)
EU emissions (€/tonne)
UK oil (US$/bbl)
IRL power (€/MWh)

2023

2022

Reasonably 
possible 
increase/
decrease in 
variable

+90/-71
+89/-72
+54/-39
+69/-54
+290/-244
+138/-108

Base Price(i)

113
149
74
98
597
172

Reasonably 
possible 
increase/
decrease in 
variable

+190/-190
+119/-119
+73/-73
+76/-76
+145/-145
+120/-120

Base Price(i)

313
250
76
79
260
310

(i)  The base price represents the weighted average forward market price over the duration of the active market curve used to calculate the sensitivity analysis. The 

reasonably possible increase/decrease in market prices has been determined via SSE EPM price model simulations and the volatility assumptions of the model have 
been calibrated from a look-back analysis over the previous five year period.

The impacts of reasonably possible changes in commodity prices on profit after taxation based on the rationale described are as follows:

Incremental profit/(loss)

Commodity prices combined – increase
Commodity prices combined – decrease

2023
Impact on profit 
and equity 
(£m)

2022
Impact on profit 
and equity 
(£m)

399.3
(306.3)

2,349.8
(2,349.8)

The sensitivity analysis provided is hypothetical and is based on the exposure to energy-related commodities, and their corresponding 
valuation under IFRS 9, that the Group has at each period end. This analysis should be used with caution as the impacts disclosed are not 
necessarily indicative of the actual impacts that would be experienced given it does not consider all interrelationships, consequences 
and effects of such a change in those prices.

A6.5 Currency risk
The Group publishes its consolidated financial statements in Sterling but also conducts business in foreign currencies. As a result, it is 
subject to foreign currency exchange risk arising from exchange rate movements which will be reflected in the Group’s transaction costs 
or in the underlying foreign currency assets of its foreign operations.

The Group’s policy is to use forward contracts, swaps and options to manage its exposures to foreign exchange risk. All such exposures 
are transactional in nature, and relate primarily to procurement contracts, commodity purchasing and related freight requirements, 
commodity hedging, long term plant servicing and maintenance agreements and the purchase and sale of carbon emission certificates. 
The policy is to seek to hedge 100% of its currency requirements arising under all committed contracts excepting commodity hedge 
transactions, the requirements for which are significantly less predictable. The policy for these latter transactions is to assess the Group’s 
requirements on a rolling basis and to enter into cover contracts as appropriate.

The Group has foreign operations with significant Euro-denominated and JPY-denominated net assets. The Group’s policy is to hedge  
its net investment in its foreign operations by ensuring the net assets whose functional currency cash flows are denominated in foreign 
currencies are matched by borrowings in the same currency. For SSE Pacifico, whose functional currency is JPY but which presently has 
limited capital commitments, SSE has no JPY denominated borrowings and hence has no current net investment hedge. For the acquired 
net assets whose functional cash flows are in Sterling, the Group will ensure Sterling denominated borrowings are in place to minimise 
currency risk. 

Significant exposures are reported to, and discussed by, the Tax and Treasury Committee on an ongoing basis and additionally form part 
of the bi-annual Treasury report to the Audit Committee.

306

SSE plc  Annual Report 2023

SSE plc  Annual Report 2023

307

Financial StatementsStrategic ReportDirectors’ ReportAccompanying information continued

A6. Financial risk management continued
A6.5 Currency risk continued
At the balance sheet date, the total nominal value of outstanding forward foreign exchange contracts that the Group has committed 
to is:

Forward foreign exchange contracts

The Group’s exposure to foreign currency risk was as follows: 

2023
£m

2022
£m

2,516.5

4,176.4

Loans and borrowings
Purchase and commodity contract 

commitments

Gross exposure

Forward exchange/swap contracts

Net exposure (in currency)
Net exposure (in £m)

2023

2022

SEK 
(million)

$ 
(million)

€ 
(million)

CNH 
(million)

SEK 
(million)

$ 
(million)

€ 
(million)

CHF 
(million)

–

564.0

3,700.0

–

–

1,719.0

3,625.0

420.9

420.9

420.9

–
–

7.9

123.9

334.2

1,694.8

17.8

713.3

571.9

3,823.9

334.2

1,694.8

1,736.8

4,338.3

571.9

2,266.1

334.2

1,694.8

1,736.8

3,163.8

–
–

1,557.8
1,369.6

–
–

–
–

–
–

1,174.5
990.7

–

58.3

58.3

58.3

–
–

This represents the net exposure to foreign currencies, reported in pounds Sterling, and arising from all Group activities. All sensitivity 
analysis has been prepared on the basis of the relative proportions of instruments in foreign currencies being consistent as at the balance 
sheet date. This includes only monetary assets and liabilities denominated in a currency other than Sterling and excludes the translation 
of the net assets of foreign operations but not the corresponding impact of the net investment hedge.

The sensitivity analysis is indicative only and it should be noted that the Group’s exposure to such market rate changes is continually 
changing. The calculations are based on linear extrapolations of rate changes which may not reflect the actual result which would 
impact upon the Group.

A 10% change in foreign currency exchange rates would have had the following impact on profit after taxation, based on the 
assumptions presented above:

US Dollars
Euro
SEK
CHN
CHF

Equity

Income statement

At 31 March 
2023
£m

At 31 March 
2022
£m

At 31 March 
2023
£m

At 31 March 
2022
£m

–
98.9
–
–
–

98.9

–
89.2
–
–
–

89.2

–
24.4
–
–
–

24.4

–
–
–
–
–

–

The impact of a decrease in rates would be an identical reduction in the annual charge.

A6.6 Interest rate risk
Interest rate risk derives from the Group’s exposure to changes in the value of an asset or liability or future cash flows through changes in 
interest rates. 

The Group’s policy is to manage this risk by stipulating that a minimum of 50% of Group borrowings be subject to fixed rates of interest, 
either directly through the debt instruments themselves or through the use of derivative financial instruments. The floating rate borrowings 
are provided by banks including the European Investment Bank (EIB). Such instruments include interest rate swaps and options, forward rate 
agreements and, in the case of debt raised in currencies other than Sterling, cross currency swaps. These practices serve to reduce the 
volatility of the Group’s financial performance.

Although interest rate derivatives are primarily used to hedge risk relating to current borrowings, under certain circumstances they may 
also be used to hedge future borrowings. Any such pre-hedging is unwound at the time of pricing the underlying debt, either through 
cash settlement on a net present value basis or by transacting offsetting trades. The floating rate borrowings mainly comprise cash 
advances from the European Investment Bank (EIB), however the Group is currently carrying a surplus cash position of £891.8m.

The impact of a change in interest rates is dependent on the specific details of the financial asset or liability in question. Changes in fixed 
rate financial assets and liabilities, which account for the majority of cash, loans and borrowings, are not measured at fair value through 
the income statement. In addition to this, changes to fixed-to-floating hedging instruments which are recorded under cash flow hedge 
accounting also do not impact the income statement. Changes in hedged items and hedging instruments recorded under fair value 
hedge accounting are recorded through the income statement. The exposure measured is therefore based on variable rate debt and 
instruments.

The net exposure to interest rates at the balance sheet date can be summarised thus: 

Interest bearing/earning assets and liabilities:
– fixed
– floating

Represented by:
Cash and cash equivalents
Derivative financial liabilities
Loans and borrowings
Lease liabilities

2023
Carrying
amount
£m

(8,473.9)
441.0

(8,032.9)

891.8
135.2
(8,654.0)
(405.9)

(8,032.9)

2022
Carrying
amount
£m

(8,543.6)
328.9

(8,214.7)

1,049.3
(199.3)
(8,671.2)
(393.5)

(8,214.7)

Following from this, the table below represents the expected impact of a change of 100 basis points in short term interest rates at the 
reporting date in relation to equity and income statement. The analysis assumes that all other variables, in particular foreign currency 
rates, remain constant. An increase in exchange rates would be a change to either the income statement or equity. The assessment is 
based on a revision of the fair value assumptions included in the calculated exposures in the previous table.

All sensitivity analysis has been prepared on the basis of the proportion of fixed to floating instruments being consistent as at the balance 
sheet date and is stated after the effect of taxation. 

The sensitivity analysis is indicative only and it should be noted that the Group’s exposure to such market rate changes is continually 
changing. The calculations are based on linear extrapolations of rate changes which may not reflect the actual result which would 
impact upon the Group.

Income statement

2023
£m

3.7

2022
£m

2.5

The impact of a decrease in rates would be an equal reduction in the annual charge. There is no impact on equity as the analysis relates 
to the Group’s net exposure at the balance sheet date. Contracts qualifying for hedge accounting are, by definition, part of the Group’s 
covered position. 

308

SSE plc  Annual Report 2023

SSE plc  Annual Report 2023

309

Financial StatementsStrategic ReportDirectors’ ReportAccompanying information continued

A7. Fair value of financial instruments
A7.1 Fair value of financial instruments within the group
The fair values of the primary financial assets and liabilities of the Group together with their carrying values are as follows:

Financial assets
Current
Trade receivables
Other receivables
Cash collateral and other short term loans
Cash and cash equivalents
Derivative financial assets

Non-current
Unquoted equity investments
Loan note receivable
Loans to associates and jointly controlled 

entities

Derivative financial assets

Financial liabilities
Current
Trade payables
Outstanding liquid funds
Loans and borrowings
Lease liabilities
Derivative financial liabilities

Non-current
Loans and borrowings 
Lease liabilities
Derivative financial liabilities

2023
Amortised 
cost(i) 
£m

2023
FVTPL/
FVTOCI(ii) 
£m

2023
Total 
carrying 
value 
£m

2023
Fair value
£m

2022
Amortised 
cost(i) 
£m

2022
FVTPL/
FVTOCI(ii)
£m

2022
Total 
carrying 
value
£m

2022
Fair value 
£m

1,404.0
12.7
316.3
891.8
–

2,624.8

–
–
–
–
759.2

1,404.0
12.7
316.3
891.8
759.2

1,404.0
12.7
316.3
891.8
759.2

1,433.9
4.9
83.8
1,049.3
–

–
–
–
–
2,941.8

1,433.9
4.9
83.8
1,049.3
2,941.8

1,433.9
4.9
83.8
1,049.3
2,941.8

759.2

3,384.0

3,384.0

2,571.9

2,941.8

5,513.7

5,513.7

–
149.5

27.4
–

27.4
149.5

27.4
149.5

1,114.6
–

–
246.0

1,114.6
246.0

1,114.6
246.0

1,264.1

273.4

1,537.5

1,537.5

–
136.4

736.9
–

873.3

8.7
–

–
371.7

8.7
136.4

736.9
371.7

8.7
136.4

736.9
371.7

380.4

1,253.7

1,253.7

3,888.9

1,032.6

4,921.5

4,921.5

3,445.2

3,322.2

6,767.4

6,767.4

(694.6)
–
(1,738.5)
(82.1)
–

–
–
–
(243.3)
(243.3)

(694.6)
–
(1,738.5)
(82.1)
(243.3)

(694.6)
–
(1,747.8)
(82.1)
(243.3)

(919.7)
(9.1)
(1,118.7)
(72.1)
–

–
–
–
–
(701.5)

(919.7)
(9.1)
(1,118.7)
(72.1)
(701.5)

(919.7)
(9.1)
(1,162.4)
(72.1)
(701.5)

(2,515.2)

(243.3)

(2,758.5)

(2,767.8)

(2,119.6)

(701.5)

(2,821.1)

(2,864.8)

(6,760.9)
(323.8)
– 

(154.6)
– 
(1,021.0)

(6,915.5)
(323.8)
(1,021.0)

(6,458.4)
(323.8)
(1,021.0)

(7,520.9)
(321.4)
– 

(31.6)
– 
(549.6)

(7,552.5)
(321.4)
(549.6)

(8,133.7)
(321.4)
(549.6)

(7,084.7)

(1,175.6)

(8,260.3)

(7,803.2)

(7,842.3)

(581.2)

(8,423.5)

(9,004.7)

(9,599.9)

(1,418.9)

(11,018.8)

(10,571.0)

(9,961.9)

(1,282.7)

(11,244.6)

(11,869.5)

Net financial liabilities

(5,711.0)

(386.3)

(6,097.3)

(5,649.5)

(6,516.7)

2,039.5

(4,477.2)

(5,102.1)

(i)  Financial assets and liabilities that are measured at amortised cost.
(ii)  Financial assets and liabilities that are measured at either Fair Value through Profit and Loss (Derivative Financial Assets and Liabilities) or Fair Value through Other 

Comprehensive Income (Unquoted Equity Investments).

A7.1.1 Basis of determining fair value
Certain assets and liabilities have been classified and carried at amortised cost on inception in line with IFRS 9 criteria. The carrying value 
of these assets are approximately equivalent to fair value due to short term maturity aside from loans and borrowings which are subject 
to longer maturity dates. 

All other financial assets and liabilities are measured at either Fair Value through Profit and Loss (‘FVTPL’) or Fair Value through Other 
Comprehensive Income (‘FVTOCI’). Fair values for energy derivatives are based on unadjusted quoted market prices, where actively 
traded. For energy derivatives that are not actively traded, interest rate instruments, foreign currency hedge contracts and cross currency 
swap contracts associated with foreign currency denominated long-term fixed rate debt, the fair values are determined by reference to 
closing rate market prices for similar instruments. Fair values for unquoted equity instruments are derived from venture capital or growth 
equity firm valuation statements.

The fair values are stated at a specific date and may be different from the amounts which will actually be paid or received on settlement 
of the instruments. The fair value of items such as property, plant and equipment, internally generated brands or the Group’s customer 
base are not included as these are not considered financial instruments. 

A7.2 Fair value hierarchy
The following table provides an analysis of financial instruments that are measured subsequent to initial recognition at fair value, grouped 
into Levels 1 to 3 based on the degree to which the fair value is observable.
•  Level 1 fair value measurements are those derived from unadjusted quoted market prices for identical assets or liabilities.
•  Level 2 fair value measurements are those derived from inputs other than quoted prices included within level 1 that are observable for 

the asset or liability, either directly (i.e. as prices) or indirectly (i.e. derived from prices)

•  Level 3 fair value measurements are those derived from valuation techniques that include inputs for the asset or liability that are not 

based on observable market data.

Financial assets
Energy derivatives
Interest rate derivatives
Foreign exchange derivatives
Unquoted equity investments

Financial liabilities
Energy derivatives
Interest rate derivatives
Foreign exchange derivatives
Loans and borrowings

2023
Level 1
£m

–
–
–
–

–

(189.6)
–
–
–

(189.6)

2023
Level 2
£m

743.9
227.8
11.5
–

983.2

(939.4)
(92.6)
(18.9)
(154.6)

(1,205.5)

2023
Level 3
£m

22.0
–
–
27.4

49.4

(23.8)
–
–
–

(23.8)

2023
Total
£m

765.9
227.8
11.5
27.4

1,032.6

(1,152.8)
(92.6)
(18.9)
(154.6)

(1,418.9)

There were no significant transfers out of Level 1 into Level 2 and out of Level 2 into Level 1 during the year ended 31 March 2023. There 
were no significant transfers out of Level 2 into Level 3 or out of Level 3 into Level 2 during the year ended 31 March 2023.

During the year, the Group entered a 15-year Affiliate Contract for Difference (‘ACfD’) agreement with Seagreen Wind Energy Limited 
(‘SWEL’). SWEL is a wholly owned subsidiary of Seagreen Holdco 1 Limited, a joint venture between the Group (49%) and TOTAL SE (51%). 
The Group also has some smaller commercial CfD arrangements entered into with non-government third parties that are also classified 
as derivatives. The ACfD and the commercial CfDs meet the definition of financial instruments and are classified as Level 3 on the fair 
value hierarchy due to significant unobservable inputs in the determination of fair value.

The fair value measurement impact in the income statement attributable to Level 3 CfDs was a loss of £1.8m (2022: £nil). The fair value 
was determined using the income approach with reference to future market prices which are beyond the liquid period in the forward 
market.

The non-government CfDs were issued for £nil consideration, being the deemed transaction price. The Group has calculated that the 
contracts had a fair value on day 1, being the difference between the strike price per the contract and the forward market spot price. This 
valuation is based on unobservable inputs and is considered judgemental. Key assumptions applied when deriving the fair value are related to 
discount rates; electricity volumes; and electricity prices. In line with IFRS 9, the Day 1 gain is deferred and will be recognised over the life of 
the contract.

The Group’s remaining Level 3 instruments are unquoted equity investments to which the Group made cash contributions of £19.1m to 
in the year. The remaining movement (£0.4m) was recognised in other comprehensive income. 

310

SSE plc  Annual Report 2023

SSE plc  Annual Report 2023

311

Financial StatementsStrategic ReportDirectors’ ReportAccompanying information continued

A7. Fair value of financial instruments continued
A7.2 Fair value hierarchy continued
The following table represents the difference between the Level 3 financial instruments at fair value at the start of the reporting period 
and at the reporting date:

Level 3 financial instrument fair value as at 31 March 2022
Additions (cash contributions)
Remeasurement loss recognised in income statement
Remeasurement loss recognised in other comprehensive income
Additions – new instruments entered in the year 
Deferred Day 1 gains on instruments entered in the year

Level 3 financial instrument fair value as at 31 March 2023 

£m

8.7
19.1
(1.8)
(0.4)
400.1
(400.1)

25.6

The following table details the valuation technique, significant unobservable inputs and the range of values for the energy derivative 
measured at fair value on a recurring basis and classified as Level 3.

Carrying value 
(net) 
£m

Valuation 
technique

Significant 
unobservable 
input

Market price 
range (min-max) 
£/MwH

31 March 2023

Deferred measurement differences

Deferred measurement difference as at 31 March 2022
Deferred measurement difference arising during the year on new instruments

Deferred measurement difference as at 31 March 2023 

Discounted
cash flow

1.8

Electricity 
prices, 
Generation 
volumes

68 – 147

£m

–
400.1

400.1

The following table shows the impact on the fair value of the Level 3 energy derivative when applying reasonably possible alternative 
assumptions to the valuation obtained using the discounted cash flow model.

Assumption

Discount rate
Increase in volumes
Prices

Financial assets
Energy derivatives
Interest rate derivatives
Foreign exchange derivatives
Unquoted equity investments

Financial liabilities
Energy derivatives
Interest rate derivatives
Foreign exchange derivatives
Loans and borrowings

At 31 March 2023

Increase/decrease  

in assumption

+1%/-1%
+10%/-10%
+10%/-10%

Effect on fair value of deferred 
measurement differences  

£m

(29.5)/35.3
39.8/(39.8)
108.7/(108.7)

2022
Level 1
£m

884.1
–
–
–

884.1

–
–
–
–

–

2022
Level 2
£m

2,246.4
176.8
6.1
–

2,429.3

(828.7)
(376.1)
(46.3)
(31.6)

(1,282.7)

2022
Level 3
£m

–
–
–
8.7

8.7

–
–
–
–

–

2022
Total
£m

3,130.5
176.8
6.1
8.7

3,322.1

(828.7)
(376.1)
(46.3)
(31.6)

(1,282.7)

A8. Hedge accounting
A8.1 Cash flow hedges
The Group designates contracts which qualify as hedges for accounting purposes either as cash flow hedges or fair value hedges. Cash 
flow hedges are contracts entered into to hedge a forecast transaction or cash flow risk generally arising from a change in interest rates 
or foreign currency exchange rates and which meet the effectiveness criteria prescribed by IFRS 9. The Group’s accounting policy on 
cash flow hedges is explained in the Accompanying Information section A1 .

The following table indicates the contractual maturities of the expected transactions and the qualifying cash flow hedges associated. 
Non-Sterling denominated contractual cash flows have been converted at the forward foreign exchange rate. 

Cash flow hedges

Interest rate swaps:
Assets
Liabilities

Cross currency 

swaps:

Assets
Liabilities

Forward exchange 

contracts:

Assets
Liabilities

2023
Carrying 
amount

2023
Expected 
cash 
flows

2023
0 – 12 
months

2023
1-2 years

2023
2-5 years

2023
> 5 years

2022
Carrying 
amount

2022
Expected 
cash 
flows

2022
0 – 12 
months

2022
1-2 years

2022
2-5 years

2022
> 5 years

25.2
–

25.2

28.1
–

28.1

6.5
–

6.5

5.5
–

5.5

15.8
–

15.8

0.3
–

0.3

5.7
–

5.7

6.1
–

6.1

–
–

–

2.3
–

2.3

3.4
–

3.4

178.9
(37.4)

194.0
(30.3)

110.1
(17.8)

56.0
(17.6)

27.9
(10.6)

141.5

163.7

92.3

38.4

17.3

–
15.7

15.7

160.5
(132.7)

169.9
(127.9)

27.8

42.0

27.8
(54.2)

(26.4)

96.5
(19.0)

77.5

45.6
(47.7)

(2.1)

2.4
(11.5)

(120.4)
(337.7)

(106.9)
(292.0)

(11.7)
(42.3)

(9.1)

(458.1)

(398.9)

(54.0)

(1.8)
(3.4)

(5.2)

–
–

–

0.6
(43.4)

9.6
521.8

9.6
348.0

(42.8)

531.4

357.6

–
137.1

137.1

–
36.7

36.7

0.4
–

0.4

–
(7.0)

(7.0)

–
–

–

A8.2 Net investment hedge
The Group’s net investment hedge consists of debt issued in the same currency (€) as the net investment in foreign subsidiaries with  
€ denominated functional currencies being the Airtricity Supply business, the thermal plants in Ireland and wind farms in Ireland and 
Southern Europe. The hedge compares the element of the net assets whose functional cash flows are denominated in € to the matching 
portion of the € borrowings held by the Group. This therefore provides protection against movements in foreign exchange rates. There  
is no net investment hedge in relation to SSE Pacifico as the Group has no JPY denominated debt.

Gains and losses in the hedge are recognised in equity and will be transferred to the income statement on disposal of the foreign operation 
(2023: £43.1m loss, 2022: £9.4m gain). Gains and losses on the ineffective portion of the hedge are recognised immediately in the income 
statement (2023: £nil, 2022: £nil). 

There were no significant transfers out of level 1 into level 2 and out of level 2 into level 1 during the year ended 31 March 2022. 

312

SSE plc  Annual Report 2023

SSE plc  Annual Report 2023

313

Financial StatementsStrategic ReportDirectors’ Report 
Company balance sheet
As at 31 March 2023

Assets
Equity investments in joint ventures and associates
Loans to joint ventures and associates
Investments in subsidiaries
Trade and other receivables
Derivative financial assets
Retirement benefit assets

Non-current assets

Trade and other receivables
Current tax asset
Cash and cash equivalents
Derivative financial assets

Current assets

Total assets

Liabilities
Loans and other borrowings
Trade and other payables
Provisions
Derivative financial liabilities

Current liabilities

Loans and other borrowings
Deferred tax liabilities
Provisions
Derivative financial liabilities

Non-current liabilities

Total liabilities

Net assets

Equity:
Share capital 
Share premium
Capital redemption reserve
Hedge reserve
Retained earnings

Equity attributable to ordinary shareholders of the parent 
Hybrid equity 

Total equity

Company statement of changes in equity
For the year ended 31 March 2023

Note

2023
£m

2022
£m

Statement of changes in equity

3
3
4
5
11
10

5
7
8
11

8
6
13
11

8
7
13
11

9

9

50.4
81.6
1,904.1
11,382.6
48.2
366.6

13,833.5

1,002.1
1.4
788.9
167.1

1,959.5

12.7
129.2
1,883.6
9,365.5
64.6
517.5

11,973.1

720.1
3.8
1,006.7
112.0

1,842.6

15,793.0

13,815.7

1,588.5
2,667.1
5.3
13.5

4,274.4

4,307.8
78.3
196.5
79.2

4,661.8

8,936.2

6,856.8

547.0
821.2
52.6
(3.0)
3,556.6

4,974.4
1,882.4

6,856.8

968.7
2,035.3
84.0
70.6

3,158.6

5,284.7
65.0
242.9
301.1

5,893.7

9,052.3

4,763.4

536.5
835.1
49.2
13.3
2,278.3

3,712.4
1,051.0

4,763.4

Share 
premium 
account
£m

Capital 
redemption
reserve
£m

At 1 April 2022
Profit for the year
Other comprehensive income

Total comprehensive income for the 
year
Dividends to shareholders
Scrip dividend related share issue
Issue of treasury shares
Distributions to Hybrid equity holders
Redemption of Hybrid equity
Issue of Hybrid
Share buy back
Credit in respect of employee share 
awards
Investment in own shares(i)

Share 
capital 
£m

536.5
–
–

–
–
13.9
–
–
–
–
–

–
(3.4)

835.1
–
–

–
–
(13.9)
–
–
–
–
–

–
–

At 31 March 2023

547.0

821.2

49.2
–
–

–
–
–
–
–
–
–
–

–
3.4

52.6

At 1 April 2021
Profit for the year
Other comprehensive income

Total comprehensive income for the year
Dividends to shareholders
Scrip dividend related share issue
Issue of treasury shares
Distributions to Hybrid equity holders
Redemption of Hybrid equity
Credit in respect of employee  
share awards
Investment in own shares(i)

Share 
capital 
£m

524.5
–
–

–
–
12.0
–
–
–

–
–

Share 
premium 
account
£m

Capital 
redemption
reserve
£m

847.1
–
–

–
–
(12.0)
–
–
–

–
–

49.2
–
–

–
–
–
–
–
–

–
–

Hedge 
reserve
£m

13.3
–
(16.3)

(16.3)
–
–
–
–
–
–
–

Retained 
earnings 
£m

2,278.3
1,960.6
(113.7)

1,846.9
(955.8)
481.5
18.0
–
–
–
(107.6)

Total 
attributable 
to ordinary 
shareholders
£m

3,712.4
1,960.6
(130.0)

1,830.6
(955.8)
481.5
18.0
–
–
–
(107.6)

Hybrid 
Capital
£m

1,051.0
38.8
–

38.8
–
–
–
(38.8)
–
831.4
–

Total 
£m

4,763.4
1,999.4
(130.0)

1,869.4
(955.8)
481.5
18.0
(38.8)
–
831.4
(107.6)

–
–

18.7
(23.4)

18.7
(23.4)

–
–

18.7
(23.4)

(3.0)

3,556.6

4,974.4

1,882.4

6,856.8

Total 
attributable 
to ordinary 
shareholders
£m

3,378.9
852.2
(20.5)

831.7
(862.3)
355.7
6.3
–
(4.6)

Retained 
earnings 
£m

1,972.3
852.2
(48.0)

804.2
(862.3)
355.7
6.3
–
(4.6)

Hybrid 
Capital
£m

1,472.4
50.7
–

50.7
–
–
–
(50.7)
(421.4)

Total 
£m

4,851.3
902.9
(20.5)

882.4
(862.3)
355.7
6.3
(50.7)
(426.0)

20.8
(14.1)

20.8
(14.1)

–
–

20.8
(14.1)

Hedge 
reserve
£m

(14.2)
–
27.5

27.5
–
–
–
–
–

–
–

At 31 March 2022

536.5

835.1

49.2

13.3

2,278.3

3,712.4

1,051.0

4,763.4

(i) 

Investment in own shares is the purchase of own shares less the settlement of Treasury shares for sharesave schemes.

Result for the year
The profit for the year attributable to ordinary shareholders dealt with in the financial statements of the Company was £1,999.4m (2022: 
£902.9m) including dividends received from subsidiaries of £1,669.7m.

These financial statements were approved by the Board of Directors on 23 May 2023 and signed on their behalf by 

Gregor Alexander   
Finance Director 

Sir John Manzoni
Chairman

SSE plc 
Registered No: SC117119

314

SSE plc  Annual Report 2023

SSE plc  Annual Report 2023

315

Financial StatementsStrategic ReportDirectors’ Report 
 
 
Notes to the Company financial statements
For the year ended 31 March 2023

1. Principal accounting policies
1.1 General information
SSE plc (the Company) is a company domiciled in Scotland. The address of the registered office is given on the back cover. The Company 
financial statements present information about the Company as a separate entity and not about the Group. 

1.2 Basis of preparation
The financial statements have been prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice (United 
Kingdom Accounting Standards and applicable law) including Financial Reporting Standard 101, ‘Reduced Disclosure Framework’.

Under section 408 of the Companies Act 2006 the Company is exempt from the requirement to present its own income statement and 
related notes. 

It has also taken advantage of the following disclosure exemptions available under FRS 101.
•  A Cash flow statement and related notes;
•  Related party disclosures;
•  Disclosures in respect of capital management; and
•  The effects of new but not yet effective IFRSs.

As the consolidated financial statements of SSE plc include the equivalent disclosure, the Company has also taken advantage of the 
exemptions, under FRS 101, available in respect of the following disclosure:
•  Certain disclosures required by IFRS 13 Fair value measurement and the disclosures required by IFRS 7 Financial instrument disclosures

The Company previously assessed that, on the basis of materiality, the disclosures required under IFRS 2 Share-based Payment 
should be removed. The Company has assessed that at 31 March 2023 these disclosures continue to be immaterial to the Company’s 
financial statements.

Going concern
The Directors consider that the Company has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future  
(further details are contained in A6  Accompanying Information of the consolidated financial statements). The financial statements  
are therefore prepared on a going concern basis. 

Basis of measurement
The financial statements of the Company are prepared on the historical cost basis except for derivative financial instruments, available-
for-sale financial assets and assets of the Company pension scheme which are stated at their fair value, and liabilities of the Company 
pension scheme which are measured using the projected unit credit method. The directors believe the financial statements present a 
true and fair view. The financial statements of the Company are presented in pounds sterling.

Critical accounting judgements and estimation uncertainty
In the process of applying the Company’s accounting policies, management necessarily makes judgements and estimates that have a 
significant effect on the amounts recognised in the financial statements. Changes in the assumptions underlying the estimates could 
result in a significant impact to the financial statements. The Group’s key accounting judgement and estimation areas are noted in note 
4.1 of the consolidated financial statements, with the most significant financial judgement areas as specifically discussed by the Audit 
Committee being highlighted separately. In particular, note 4.1(ii) Retirement benefit obligations, and the related disclosures in note 23, 
note 4.1(iv) Valuation of other receivables and note 4.3(ii) Decommissioning costs, of the consolidated financial statements are relevant 
to the Company.

Significant accounting policies
The significant accounting policies applied in the preparation of these individual financial statements are set out below. These policies 
have been applied consistently to all the years presented, unless otherwise stated.

Investments
Investments in subsidiaries are carried at cost less any impairment charges. 

Interests in joint arrangements and associates 
Associates are those investments over which the Company has significant influence but neither control nor joint control. 

The Company’s joint ventures and associates are stated at cost less any impairment. 

Applicable Group accounting policies
The following significant accounting policies are consistent with those applied for the Group consolidated financial statements:
•  Equity and equity-related compensation benefits (Supplementary information A1.2 )
•  Defined benefit pension scheme (Supplementary information A1.2 )
•  Taxation (Supplementary information A1.2 )
•  Financial instruments (Supplementary information A1 and A6 )

2. Supplementary financial information
2.1 Auditor remuneration
The amounts paid to the Company’s auditor in respect of the audit of these financial statements was £0.4m (2022: £0.4m).

Amounts paid to the Company’s auditor in respect of services to the Company other than the audit of the Company’s financial 
statements have not been disclosed as the information is required instead to be disclosed on a consolidated basis. 

2.2 Employee numbers
The average number of people employed by the Company (including Executive Directors) during the year was 3 (2022: 3).

The costs associated with the employees of the Company, who are the Executive Directors of the Group, are borne by Group 
companies. No amounts are charged to the Company.

2.3 Directors’ remuneration and interests
Information concerning Directors’ remuneration, shareholdings, options, long term incentive schemes and pensions is shown in the 
Remuneration Report on pages 166 to 187 . No Director had, during or at the end of the year, any material interest in any other 
contract of significance in relation to the Group’s business.

3. Investments in associates and joint ventures

Share of net assets/cost
At 1 April 
Additions
Disposal
Transfers
Repayment of shareholder loans
Impairment

At 31 March

Equity
£m

12.7
19.5
–
50.0
–
(31.8)

50.4

2023

Loans
£m

129.2
15.8
–
(50.0)
(13.4)
–

81.6

Total
£m

141.9
35.3
–
–
(13.4)
(31.8)

132.0

Equity
£m

139.2
–
(126.5)
–
–
–

12.7

2022

Loans
£m

226.8
29.3
(118.8)
–
(8.1)
–

129.2

Total
£m

366.0
29.3
(245.3)
–
(8.1)
–

141.9

The transfer in the year related to a Neos Networks Limited debt for equity swap of £50.0m. The impairment recognised in the year 
related to the equity investment in Neos Networks Limited (see note 15). The disposal recognised during the prior year of £245.3m 
related to the disposal of Company’s investment in SGN, which completed on 22 March 2022.

4. Subsidiary undertakings
Details of the Company’s subsidiary undertakings are disclosed in the Accompanying Information section (A3 ).

Investment in subsidiaries

At 1 April
Increase/(decrease) in existing investments(i)

At 31 March 

2023
£m

1,883.6
20.5

1,904.1

2022
£m

2,004.5
(120.9)

1,883.6

(i)  The overall increase in investments held by the Company primarily relates to equity shares in the Company awarded to the employees of the subsidiaries of the 

Group under the Group’s share schemes, which are recognised as an increase in the cost of investment in those subsidiaries as directed by IFRIC 11 (2023: £20.7m; 
2022: £18.8m (both before tax)). The movement in the year also includes the transfer of ownership of Scottish and Southern Energy Power Distribution Limited to 
the Company at a carrying value of £423.0m from wholly owned subsidiary Beithe AG. The transfer represented a return of capital from Beithe AG reducing the 
Company’s investment in this subsidiary by £423.0m prior to its liquidation. In the year ended 31 March 2022 the Company’s decrease in investments also related to 
the transfer of SSE Generation Limited investment to another Group company and the disposal of its Gas Production investment on 14 October 2021, which was 
carried at a £nil value. 

316

SSE plc  Annual Report 2023

SSE plc  Annual Report 2023

317

Financial StatementsStrategic ReportDirectors’ ReportNotes to the Company financial statements continued
For the year ended 31 March 2023

5. Trade and other receivables
The balances of current and non-current trade and other receivables in the current and prior financial year predominantly consists of 
amounts owed by subsidiary undertakings. At 31 March 2023 the Company assessed its exposure to expected credit losses on related 
party receivables under IFRS 9 and held a provision against future losses of £137.8m (2022: £126.5m).

6. Trade and other payables
The balances of current trade and other payables in the current and prior financial year predominantly consists of amounts due to 
subsidiary undertakings. 

7. Taxation
Current tax asset

Corporation tax asset

2023
£m

1.4

2022
£m

3.8

Deferred taxation
The following are the deferred tax liabilities and assets recognised by the Company and movements thereon during the current and prior 
reporting periods:

At 31 March 2021
Credit to income statement
Charge to other comprehensive income/(loss)
Credit to equity

At 31 March 2022
Charge to income statement
Credit to other comprehensive income/(loss)
Charge to equity

At 31 March 2023

Fair value gains/
(losses) on 
derivatives
£m

Retirement 
benefit 
obligations
£m

(51.7)
(10.2)
5.2
–

(56.7)
50.0
(0.9)
–

(7.6)

103.2
(0.2)
26.4
–

129.4
0.2
(38.0)
–

91.6

Other 
£m

(2.4)
(0.2)
–
(5.1)

(7.7)
–
–
2.0

(5.7)

Total
£m

49.1
(10.6)
31.6
(5.1)

65.0
50.2
(38.9)
2.0

78.3

Certain deferred tax assets and liabilities have been offset, including the asset balances analysed in the tables above. The following is an 
analysis of the deferred tax balances (after offset) for financial reporting purposes:

Deferred tax liabilities
Deferred tax assets

Net deferred tax liability

2023
£m

92.1
(13.8)

78.3

2022
£m

129.4
(64.4)

65.0

The deferred tax assets/liabilities disclosed include the deferred tax relating to the Company’s pension scheme liabilities.

8. Loans and borrowings

Current
Other short-term loans

Non-current 
Loans 

Total loans and borrowings

Cash and cash equivalents 

Unadjusted Net Debt

Add:
Hybrid equity (note 9)

Adjusted net debt and hybrid capital

2023
£m

1,588.5

1,588.5

4,307.8

4,307.8

5,896.3

2022
£m

968.7

968.7

5,284.7

5,284.7

6,253.4

(788.9)

(1,006.7)

5,107.4

5,246.7

1,882.4

6,989.8

1,051.0

6,297.7

8.1 Borrowing facilities
The Company has an established €1.5bn Euro commercial paper programme (paper can be issued in a range of currencies and swapped 
into Sterling) and as at 31 March 2023 there was £919m commercial paper outstanding (2022: £507m). 

During the year to 31 March 2023 SSE plc issued a 7 year €650m Eurobond at a coupon of 2.875% with an all-in cost of funding rate of 
just below 3% once fees and cost of pre-hedging have been included. The bond will be left in Euros as part of the Group’s net investment 
hedge of Euro denominated businesses. In April 2022 SSE plc issued a €1bn NC6 equity accounted Hybrid bond at 4% to re-finance the 
dual tranche debt accounted Hybrid bonds whose first call date occurred on 16 September 2022, with SSE taking advantage of the 3 
month par call option on these Hybrid bonds meaning the bonds were repaid on 16 June 2022.

The Company also has £2.5bn of revolving credit facilities (see note 21.3). These facilities continue to provide back-up to the commercial 
paper programme and, as at 31 March 2023 these facilities were undrawn (2022: undrawn).

Analysis of borrowings

Current
Other short term loans – non-amortising(ii)
US Private Placement 16 April 2022
5.875% Eurobond repayable 22 September 2022
US Private Placement 28 April 2023
US Private Placement 6 September 2023
1.75% €700m Eurobond repayable  

8 September 2023(iv)

Total current borrowings

Non-current
Bank loans – non-amortising(i)
US Private Placement 28 April 2023
US Private Placement 6 September 2023
US Private Placement 16 April 2024
1.75% €700m Eurobond repayable  

8 September 2023(iv)

1.25% Eurobond Repayable 16 April 2025(v)
0.875% €600m Eurobond Repayable 

8 September 2025(ix)

US Private Placement 8 June 2026
US Private Placement 6 September 2026
US Private Placement 6 September 2027
1.375% €650m Eurobond repayable  

4 September 2027(vii)(ix)

Between two and five years

Bank loans – non-amortising(i)
US Private Placement 6 September 2027
1.375% €650m Eurobond repayable  

4 September 2027(vii)

8.375% Eurobond repayable on  

20 November 2028

2.875% Eurobond repayable on 1 August 2029(ix)
1.750% Eurobond Repayable 16 April 2030(viii)
6.25% Eurobond repayable on 27 August 2038
4.75% $900m NC5.5 Hybrid maturing 

16 September 2077(vi)

3.625% NC5.5 Hybrid maturing  

16 September 2077

Over five years

Fair value adjustment(iii)

2023
Weighted 
average 
interest 
rate 

2023
Face 
value

2023
Fair 
value

2023
Carrying 
amount

2022
Weighted 
average 
interest 
rate

4.5%
–
–
2.8%
2.9%

929.4
–
–
35.0
120.0

933.5
–
–
35.3
118.8

919.2
–
–
35.0
119.8

0.8%
4.3%
5.9%
–
–

2022
Face 
value
£m

507.1
162.7
300.0
–
–

2022
Fair 
value
£m

2022
Carrying 
amount
£m

507.5
197.8
306.1
–
–

506.1
162.7
299.9
–
–

1.8%

514.6

510.8

514.5

–

–

–

–

1,599.0

1,598.4

1,588.5

969.8

1,011.4

968.7

5.3%
–
–
4.4%

–
1.3%

0.9%
3.1%
3.2%
3.2%

100.0
–
–
204.1

–
531.4

527.5
64.0
247.1
35.0

102.4
–
–
259.6

–
508.3

495.3
59.9
257.4
31.7

100.0
–
–
204.1

–
531.4

526.2
63.5
245.0
34.7

–
2.8%
2.9%
4.4%

1.8%
1.3%

0.9%
3.1%
3.2%
–

–
35.0
120.0
204.1

514.6
531.4

510.9
64.0
247.1
–

–
35.4
120.1
250.6

524.0
533.4

504.3
63.8
258.7
–

–
34.9
119.4
204.0

514.3
531.4

504.2
63.3
244.3
–

1.4%

591.4

545.8

590.5

–

–

–

–

2,300.5

2,260.4

2,295.4

2,227.1

2,290.3

2,215.8

–
–

–

8.4%
2.9%
1.8%
6.3%

–

–

–
–

–

–
–

–

–
–

–

0.8%
3.2%

100.0
35.0

100.4
34.8

100.0
34.6

1.4%

591.4

588.7

590.2

500.0
571.5
442.9
350.0

575.0
548.3
388.1
372.0

497.6
569.8
442.9
347.5

8.4%
–
1.8%
6.3%

500.0
–
442.9
350.0

659.0
–
439.6
473.3

497.2
–
442.9
347.4

–

–

–

–

–

–

4.8%

725.4

727.6

725.1

3.6%

300.0

301.6

299.9

1,864.4

1,883.4

1,857.8

3,044.7

3,325.0

3,037.3

154.6

31.6

Total non-current borrowings

4,164.9

4,143.8

4,307.8

5,271.8

5,615.3

5,284.7

Total borrowings

5,763.9

5,742.2

5,896.3

6,241.6

6,626.7

6,253.4

Cash and cash equivalents (which are presented as a single class of assets in the face of the balance sheet) comprise cash at bank and 
short term highly liquid investments with a maturity of three months or less.

318

SSE plc  Annual Report 2023

SSE plc  Annual Report 2023

319

Financial StatementsStrategic ReportDirectors’ ReportNotes to the Company financial statements continued
For the year ended 31 March 2023

8. Loans and borrowings continued
8.1 Borrowing facilities continued
Analysis of borrowings continued
(i)  Balances include term loans and EIB debt and is a mixture of fixed and floating rate debt.
(ii)  Balances include Commercial Paper and facility advances (£919m of Commercial Paper outstanding at 31 March 2023).
(iii)  The fair value adjustment relates to the change in the carrying amount of the borrowings as a result of fair value hedges that are in place. The movement in the fair 

value adjustment is recognised in the income statement with a corresponding movement on the hedging instrument also being recognised in the income statement.

(iv)  The 1.75% €700m Eurobond maturing 8 September 2023 has been swapped to Sterling giving an effective interest rate of 3.16%.
(v)  The 1.250% €600m Eurobond maturing 16 April 2025 has been swapped to Sterling giving an effective interest rate of 2.43%.
(vi)  The 4.75% $900m NC5.5 Hybrid maturing 16 September 2077 has been swapped to Euros ($605m) and Sterling ($295m) giving an effective interest rate of 2.25% 
and 3.29% respectively. This and the 3.625% NC5.5 Hybrid maturing 16 September 2077 were the Group’s debt-accounted Hybrids, both were redeemed on 
16 June 2022 using a 3 month par call option.

(vii) The 1.375% €650m Eurobond maturing 4 September 2027 has been swapped to Sterling giving an effective interest rate of 2.56%.
(viii) The 1.750% €500m Eurobond maturing 16 April 2030 has been swapped to Sterling giving an effective interest rate of 2.89%.
(ix)  Bonds have been issued under the Group’s Green Bond Framework.

9. Equity
Share capital 

Allotted, called up and fully paid:
At 1 April 2021
Issue of shares(i)

At 31 March 2022
Issue of shares(i)
Share repurchases(ii)

At 31 March 2023

Number
(millions)

1,049.1
24.0

1,073.1
27.7
(6.9)

1,093.9

£m

524.5
12.0

536.5
13.9
(3.4)

547.0

The Company has one class of ordinary share which carries no right to fixed income. The holders of ordinary shares are entitled to 
receive dividends as declared and are entitled to one vote per share at meetings of the Company.

(i)  Shareholders were able to elect to receive ordinary shares in place of the final dividend of 60.2p per ordinary share (in relation to year ended 31 March 2022) and 
the interim dividend of 29.0p (in relation to the current year) under the terms of the Company’s scrip dividend scheme. This resulted in the issue of 18,241,941 and 
9,413,103 new fully paid ordinary shares respectively (2022: 122,201,443 and 1,782,473). In addition, the Company issued 1.9m (2022: 0.6m) shares during the year 
under the savings-related share option schemes (all of which were settled by shares held in Treasury) for a consideration of £18.0m (2022: £6.3m).

(ii)  Under the share buyback programme announced on 28 September 2022 6.9m of shares were repurchased and cancelled in the year to 31 March 2023 for a total 

consideration of £107.6m (including stamp duty and commission). The nominal value of share capital repurchased and cancelled is transferred out of share capital 
and into the capital redemption reserve. 

Of the 1,093.9m shares in issue, 3.6m are held as treasury shares. These shares will be held by the Group and used to award shares to 
employees under the Sharesave scheme in the UK. 

During the year, on behalf of the Company, the employee share trust purchased 1.4m shares for a total consideration of £23.4m (2022: 
0.9m shares, consideration of £14.1m) to be held in trust for the benefit of employee share schemes. At 31 March 2023, the trust held 
6.5m shares (2022: 6.3m) which had a market value of £118.0m (2022: £110.0m).

Capital redemption reserve
The capital redemption reserve comprises the value of shares redeemed or purchased by the Company from distributable profits.

Hedge reserve
The hedge reserve comprises the effective portion of the cumulative net change in the fair value of cash flow hedge derivative 
instruments related to hedged transactions that have not yet occurred.

Hybrid equity

GBP 600m 3.74% perpetual subordinated capital securities
EUR 500m 3.125% perpetual subordinated capital securities
EUR 1,000m 4.00% perpetual subordinated capital securities

2023
£m

598.0
453.0
831.4

2022
£m

598.0
453.0
–

1,882.4

1,051.0

Further details regarding the hybrid equity can be found in note 22 of the Group consolidated financial statements.

10. Retirement benefit obligations
Defined benefit scheme
The Company has a funded final salary pension scheme (‘Scottish Hydro Electric Pension Scheme’) which provides defined benefits 
based on final pensionable pay. The scheme is subject to an independent valuation at least every three years. The future benefit 
obligations are valued by actuarial methods on the basis of an appropriate assessment of the relevant parameters. 

Pension summary:

Scottish Hydro Electric 

Net actuarial loss

Defined benefit

2023
£m

(152.0)

(152.0)

2022
£m

(24.6)

(24.6)

2023
£m

366.6

366.6

2022
£m

517.5

517.5

Scheme type

Net actuarial loss recognised in 
respect of the pension asset in the 
statement of comprehensive income

Net pension asset 

IFRIC 14 surplus restrictions
The value of Scottish Hydro Electric Pension Scheme assets recognised was previously impacted by the asset ceiling test which restricts 
the surplus that can be recognised to assets that can be recovered through future refunds or reductions in future contributions to the 
schemes, and may increase the value of scheme liabilities where there are minimum funding liabilities in relation to agreed contributions. 

In 2016/17 the Group agreed with the trustees to the Scottish Hydro Electric Pension Scheme an amendment to the scheme rules to 
clarify that the Company has a clear right to any surplus upon final winding up of the scheme. This amendment removes the previous 
restriction on recognition of any surplus. The net pension asset of the Scottish Hydro Electric Pension Scheme at 31 March 2023 was 
equal to £366.6m (2022: £517.5m).

The individual pension scheme details based on the latest formal actuarial valuations are as follows:

Latest formal actuarial valuation
Valuation carried out by
Value of assets based on valuation
Value of liabilities based on valuation
Valuation method adopted
Average salary increase
Average pension increase
Value of fund assets/accrued benefits

Scottish Hydro Electric

31 March 2021
Hymans Robertson
£2,050.5m
£1,782.2m
Projected Unit
RPI +0.5%
RPI
115.1%

10.1 Pension scheme assumptions
The scheme has been updated to 31 March 2023 by qualified independent actuaries. The valuations have been prepared for the 
purposes of meeting the requirements of IAS 19. The major assumptions used by the actuaries in the scheme were:

Rate of increase in pensionable salaries
Rate of increase in pension payments
Discount rate
Inflation rate

At 
31 March 
2023

3.5%
3.2%
4.8%
3.2%

At 
31 March 
2022

4.2%
3.7%
2.7%
3.7%

320

SSE plc  Annual Report 2023

SSE plc  Annual Report 2023

321

Financial StatementsStrategic ReportDirectors’ ReportNotes to the Company financial statements continued
For the year ended 31 March 2023

10. Retirement benefit obligations continued
10.1 Pension scheme assumptions continued
The assumptions relating to longevity underlying the pension liabilities at 31 March 2023 are based on standard actuarial mortality tables, 
and include an allowance for future improvements in longevity. The assumptions, equivalent to future longevity for members in normal 
health at age 65, are as follows:

Currently aged 65 
Currently aged 45 

At 
31 March 
2023
Male

22
24

At 
31 March 
2023
Female

24
26

At 
31 March 
2022
Male

22
24

At 
31 March 
2022
Female

24
27

The impact on the scheme’s liabilities of changing certain of the major assumptions is as follows:

Rate of increase in pensionable salaries
Rate of increase in pension payments
Discount rate
Longevity

At 31 March 2023

At 31 March 2022

Increase/
decrease in 
assumption

0.1%
0.1%
0.1%
1 year

Effect on 
scheme 
liabilities

+/-0.1%
+/-0.7%
+/-0.7%
+/-1.9%

Increase/
decrease in 
assumption

Effect on 
scheme liabilities

0.1%
0.1%
0.1%
1 year

+/-0.1%
+/-0.9%
+/-1.0%
+/-2.0%

These assumptions are considered to have the most significant impact on the scheme valuations. 

Asset buy-in
On 1 October 2019, the Scottish Hydro Electric Pension Scheme entered into an asset buy-in, transferring the risk of volatility in the 
assumptions used to calculate the obligation for 1,800 pensioners and 567 dependents (covering c.£800m of the scheme’s liabilities) to  
a third party. The asset buy-in is valued under the accounting principles of IFRS 13 and is considered a Level 3 instrument in the fair value 
hierarchy. This is in addition to a previous buy-in completed during the year ended 31 March 2018 when c.£250m of the scheme’s assets 
and liabilities related to 617 pensioners and 190 dependents were transferred to a third party. The Company has now insured against 
volatility in obligations related to all pensioners to third parties (insurer PIC) and is now only exposed to valuation fluctuations related to 
active and deferred members. 

10.2 Valuation of pension scheme

Equities
Government bonds
Insurance contracts
Other investments

Total fair value of plan assets
Present value of defined benefit obligation

Surplus in the scheme
Deferred tax thereon(i) 

Net pension asset

Quoted
£m

34.3
441.8
–
381.0

Unquoted
£m

Value at 
31 March 2023
£m

–
–
532.4
–

34.3
441.8
532.4
381.0

1,389.5
(1,022.9)

366.6
(91.7)

274.9

Quoted
£m

39.5
719.1
–
448.9

Unquoted
£m

Value at 
31 March 2022
£m

–
–
713.5
–

39.5
719.1
713.5
448.9

1,921.0
(1,403.5)

517.5
(129.4)

388.1

(i)  Deferred tax is recognised at 25% (2022: 25%) on the surplus.

10.3 Movements in the defined benefit assets and obligations during the year:

At 1 April

Included in income statement
Current service cost
Past service cost
Interest income/(cost)

Included in other comprehensive income
Actuarial (loss)/gain arising from:
Demographic assumptions
Financial assumptions
Experience assumptions
Return on plan assets excluding  

interest income

Other
Contributions paid by the employer
Benefits paid

Assets
£m

2023

Obligations 
£m

1,921.0

(1,403.5)

–
–
51.0

51.0

–
–
–

(518.0)

(518.0)

1.0
(65.5)

(64.5)

(11.1)
(2.8)
(37.0)

(50.9)

23.3
416.9
(74.2)

–

366.0

–
65.5

65.5

Total
£m

517.5

(11.1)
(2.8)
14.0

0.1

23.3
416.9
(74.2)

(518.0)

(152.0)

1.0
–

1.0

Assets
£m

1,974.1

–
–
38.8

38.8

–
–
–

(19.6)

(19.6)

1.0
(73.3)

(72.3)

2022

Obligations 
£m

(1,431.0)

(12.9)
–
(27.9)

(40.8)

13.1
72.5
(90.6)

–

(5.0)

–
73.3

73.3

Total
£m

543.1

(12.9)
–
10.9

(2.0)

13.1
72.5
(90.6)

(19.6)

(24.6)

1.0
–

1.0

Balance at 31 March

1,389.5

(1,022.9)

366.6

1,921.0

(1,403.5)

517.5

10.4 Pension scheme contributions and costs
Charges/(credits) recognised:

Current service cost (charged to operating profit)
Past service cost

Charged/(credited) to finance costs:

Interest from pension scheme assets
Interest on pension scheme liabilities

The return on pension scheme assets is as follows:

Return on pension scheme assets

2023
£m

11.1
2.8

13.9

(51.0)
37.0

(14.0)

2023
£m

(467.0)

2022
£m

12.9
–

12.9

(38.8)
27.9

(10.9)

2022
£m

19.2

Employer financed retirement benefit (‘EFRB’) pension costs 
The decrease in the year in relation EFRB was £8.9m (2022: decrease of £1.1m). This is included in other provisions.

Further discussion of the pension scheme assets, liabilities, polices, risk and strategy can be found in note 23 of the Group consolidated 
financial statements.

322

SSE plc  Annual Report 2023

SSE plc  Annual Report 2023

323

Financial StatementsStrategic ReportDirectors’ ReportNotes to the Company financial statements continued
For the year ended 31 March 2023

11. Financial instruments
For financial reporting purposes, the Company has classified derivative financial instruments as financing derivatives. Financing derivatives 
include all fair value and cash flow interest rate hedges, non-hedge accounted (mark-to-market) interest rate derivatives, cash flow foreign 
exchange hedges and non-hedge accounted foreign exchange contracts. Non-hedge accounted contracts are treated as held for trading. 

The derivative financial assets and liabilities are represented as follows:

Derivative Assets
Non-current
Current

Total derivative assets
Derivative Liabilities

Non-current
Current

Total derivative liabilities

Net asset/(liability)

2023
£m

48.2
167.1

215.3

(79.2)
(13.5)

(92.7)

122.6

2022
£m

64.6
112.0

176.6

(301.1)
(70.6)

(371.7)

(195.1)

Information on the Group’s Financial risk management and the fair value of financial instruments is available at A6 and A7 .

12. Commitments and contingencies
Guarantees, indemnities and other contingent liabilities
SSE plc has provided guarantees on behalf of subsidiary, joint venture and associated undertakings as follows:

Bank borrowing
Performance of contracts 

2023

SSE on behalf of 
subsidiary
£m

SSE on behalf of 
joint operations  
and ventures
£m

SSE on behalf of 
3rd parties
£m

452.9
2,451.9

–
1,247.7

–
139.4

2022

Total
£m

604.6
4,640.7

Total
£m

452.9
3,839.0

Subsidiaries have provided guarantees on behalf of the Company as follows:

Bank borrowing

2023
£m

811.6

2022
£m

1,286.5

During the year a £705m guarantee provided in relation to the Seagreen Offshore Wind Farm Projects; £330m of guarantees in relation 
to the Keadby 2 project; and a guarantee in respect of a £300m loan facility all expired. 

The Company provided new guarantees in the year of £411m. £250m has been guaranteed on behalf of Saltend Cogeneration Company 
Limited a joint arrangement acquired as part of Triton Power 50% equity accounted joint venture. 

The Company provided unlimited guarantees on behalf of subsidiary undertakings in relation to ten contracts in respect of performance of 
work and any liabilities arising. Two unlimited guarantees are provided on behalf of SSE Renewables Developments (UK) Limited, a wholly 
owned subsidiary of the Company, both in favour of Total Gas and Power Infrastructure Limited in respect of a Share Purchase Agreement 
and payment obligations for Seagreen Wind Energy Limited. SSE Services plc, a wholly owned subsidiary of the Company, has provided a 
guarantee to Group Trustee Independent Trustees in respect of Southern Electric Group of the Electricity Supply Pension Scheme in respect 
of funding required by the Scheme. 

On behalf of Scottish Hydro Electric Transmission plc, SSE plc has provided a guarantee to ABB Limited in connection with the use of 
HVDC Replica Control Panels for Caithness-Moray Project. 

On behalf of SSE Contracting Limited (which was disposed on 30 June 2021), SSE plc continues to provide a guarantee to Tay Street 
Lighting (Leeds) Limited, Tay Valley Lighting (Newcastle & North Tayside) Limited and Tay Valley Lighting (Stroke on Trent) Limited in 
respect of provision and maintenance of public street lighting and illuminated traffic signage. Furthermore, on behalf of SSE E&P (UK) 
Limited, previously a wholly owned subsidiary of the Company, now owned by a third party, SSE plc has provided the following 3 
guarantees: a guarantee to Hess Limited in respect of decommissioning liabilities, a guarantee to Britoil Limited and Arco British Limited 
in respect of the acquisition of the Sean Field and also a guarantee to Perenco UK Limited in respect of a Sale and Purchase Agreement 
for the Minerva, Apollo and Mercury Fields. 

Where the Company enters into financial guarantee contracts to guarantee indebtedness of the other companies within its Group,  
the Company considers these to be insurance arrangements, and accounts for them as such. In this respect, the Company treats the 
guarantee contract as a contingent liability until such time as it becomes probable that the Company will be required to make payment 
under the guarantee. The Company is continuing to assess the impact of the adoption of IFRS 17 to this treatment, which will be effective 
from 1 April 2023. 

324

SSE plc  Annual Report 2023

13. Provisions 

At 31 March 2021
Charged in the year
Utilised during the year

At 31 March 2022
Charged in the year
Decrease in decommissioning provision
Unwind of discount
Released during the year
Utilised during the year

At 31 March 2023

At 31 March 2023
Non-current 
Current

At 31 March 2022
Non-current 
Current

Decommissioning
£m

Legal and 
restructuring
£m

–
251.3
(1.9)

249.4
–
(50.5)
6.7
–
(4.2)

201.4

196.5
4.9

201.4

241.8
7.6

249.4

20.3
57.2
–

77.5
–
–
–
(38.3)
(38.8)

0.4

–
0.4

0.4

1.1
76.4

77.5

Total
£m

20.3
308.5
(1.9)

326.9
–
(50.5)
6.7
(38.3)
(43.0)

201.8

196.5
5.3

201.8

242.9
84.0

326.9

Decommissioning provision
The Company recognises a provision for the estimated net present value of decommissioning of Gas Production assets (retained as  
part of the disposal agreement for this business). Estimates are based on the forecast remediation or clean-up costs at the projected  
date of decommissioning and are discounted for the time value of money. Within the agreement for the disposal of its Gas Production 
assets to Viaro Energy on 14 October 2021 (see note 12), the Company agreed to retain 60% (£238.2m) of the decommissioning 
provision within the business. £50.5m (2022: £13.1m) has been released for decommissioning during the current year due to a post 
disposal reassessment and movements in inflation and discounting assumptions. It is expected that the costs associated with 
decommissioning of these Gas Production assets will be incurred between 2023 and 2038.

Legal and restructuring provisions
The Company holds provisions related to reorganisation of the Group and certain provisions arising on disposal of subsidiaries or 
investments. In the year the Company released provisions in total of £38.3m, of which £35.0m for a tax indemnity provided to RockRose 
Energy Limited following the disposal of SSE E&P Limited on 14 October 2021 was released. In the year the Company utilised £38.8m of 
the provision relating to restructuring and disposals. The remainder of this provision is expected to be settled in the next financial year. 

SSE plc  Annual Report 2023

325

Financial StatementsStrategic ReportDirectors’ ReportIndependent auditor’s report to the members of SSE plc

Opinion
In our opinion:
•  SSE plc’s group financial statements and parent company financial statements (the ‘financial statements’) give a true and fair view  

of the state of the group’s and of the parent company’s affairs as at 31 March 2023 and of the group’s profit for the year then ended;
the group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with UK adopted international accounting standards; 
the parent company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted 
Accounting Practice, including FRS101 ‘Reduced Disclosure Framework’; and
the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006.

• 
• 

• 

We have audited the financial statements of SSE plc (the ‘parent company’) and its subsidiaries (the ‘group’) for the year ended 31 March 
2023 which comprise:

Group

Parent company

Consolidated income statement for the year ended 31 March 2023

Consolidated statement of comprehensive income for the year then ended

Consolidated balance sheet as at 31 March 2023

Balance sheet as at 31 March 2023

Consolidated statement of changes in equity for the year then ended

Statement of changes in equity for the year then ended

Consolidated cash flow statement for the year then ended

Related notes 1 to 26 and A1 to A8 to the group financial statements,  
including a summary of significant accounting policies

Related notes 1 to 13 to the company financial statements 
including a summary of significant accounting policies

The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the group financial statements is applicable law and UK 
adopted international accounting standards. The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the parent 
company financial statements is applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting Standards, including FRS 101 ‘Reduced Disclosure 
Framework’ (United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice).

Basis for opinion 
We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing (UK) (ISAs (UK)) and applicable law. Our responsibilities 
under those standards are further described in the Auditor’s responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements section of our report. 
We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion.

Independence
We are independent of the group and parent in accordance with the ethical requirements that are relevant to our audit of the financial 
statements in the UK, including the FRC’s Ethical Standard as applied to listed public interest entities, and we have fulfilled our other 
ethical responsibilities in accordance with these requirements. 

The non-audit services prohibited by the FRC’s Ethical Standard were not provided to the group or the parent company and we remain 
independent of the group and the parent company in conducting the audit.

Conclusions relating to going concern
In auditing the financial statements, we have concluded that the directors’ use of the going concern basis of accounting in the preparation 
of the financial statements is appropriate. Our evaluation of the directors’ assessment of the group and parent company’s ability to continue 
to adopt the going concern basis of accounting included:
•  Confirming our understanding of management’s Going Concern process as well as the review controls in place over the preparation 

of the group’s Going Concern model and the memoranda on going concern;

•  Engaging early with management to ensure all key matters were considered in their assessment;
•  Obtaining management’s board approved forecast cash flows, covenant forecasts and sensitivities prepared by management to 

31 December 2024, ensuring the same forecasts are used elsewhere within the group for accounting estimates and that the forecasts 
reflect the spend to come on the £12.5bn committed as part of the NZAP Plus programme. We tested the models for arithmetical 
accuracy, as well as checking the net debt position at the year-end date which is the starting point for the model. We assessed the 
reasonableness of the cashflow forecast by analysing management’s historical forecasting accuracy. We also ensured climate change 
considerations were factored into future cash flows. We performed reverse stress testing to understand how severe the downside 
scenarios would need be to result in negative liquidity or a covenant breach and how plausible were the scenarios. The EY assessment 
included consideration of all maturing debt through to 31 March 2025;

•  Reviewing management’s assessment of mitigating options potentially available to the group to reduce cash flow spend in the Going 
Concern period, to determine their plausibility and whether such actions could be implemented by management. We have obtained 
support to determine whether these were within the control of management and evaluated the impact of these mitigations in light of 
our understanding of the business and its cost structures;

•  Reading the borrowing facilities agreements to assess their continued availability to the group and to ensure completeness of 

covenants identified by management; 

•  Reviewing market data for indicators of potential contradictory evidence to challenge the company’s going concern assessment 
including review of profit warnings within the sector and review of industry analyst reports. We held discussions with the Audit 
Committee to confirm the going concern position prepared by management; and

•  Considering whether management’s disclosures in the financial statements sufficiently and appropriately reflect the going concern 

assessment and outcomes.

326

SSE plc  Annual Report 2023

The audit procedures performed in evaluating the director’s assessment were performed by the Group audit team. We also considered 
the financial and non-financial information communicated to us from our component teams for sources of potential contrary indicators 
which may cast doubt over the going concern assessment. 

Our key observations
The group is forecast to continue to be profitable and generate positive cashflows during the going concern period. Our reverse stress 
test scenario indicated that the group would need to be exposed to severe downside events impacting profitability and cash flows in 
order to breach liquidity or covenants. The severe downside scenario assumed full repayment of debt maturing over the going concern 
period, no new refinancing over the going concern period, no uncommitted disposal proceeds, a £500m group contingency to mitigate 
any downside performance against budget, offset by mitigating actions within managements control. We consider such a scenario to be 
highly unlikely, however, in unlikely events, including the business not performing in line with budget, management consider that the 
impact can be mitigated by further cash and cost saving measures, which are within their control, or through external fund raising,  
or a combination of both during the going concern period.

The group’s principal source of funding (the revolving credit facility) extends beyond the going concern period (to 2025/2026). Having 
considered our severe downside and reverse stress test scenarios, we have not identified a plausible scenario where the Group would be 
unable to maintain cash flow liquidity and covenant headroom during the going concern period.

We found the capital commitments in the cash flow forecasts to be reflective of the spend to come on the £12.5bn committed as part of 
the NZAP Plus programme. 

Going concern conclusion
Based on the work we have performed, we have not identified any material uncertainties relating to events or conditions that, individually 
or collectively, may cast significant doubt on the group and parent company’s ability to continue as a going concern for a period to 
31 December 2024.

In relation to the group and parent company’s reporting on how they have applied the UK Corporate Governance Code, we have nothing 
material to add or draw attention to in relation to the directors’ statement in the financial statements about whether the directors considered 
it appropriate to adopt the going concern basis of accounting.

Our responsibilities and the responsibilities of the directors with respect to going concern are described in the relevant sections of this 
report. However, because not all future events or conditions can be predicted, this statement is not a guarantee as to the group’s ability 
to continue as a going concern.

Overview of our audit approach

Audit scope

•  We performed an audit of the complete financial information of 19 components and audit procedures on 

specific balances for a further 21 components.

•  The components where we performed full or specific audit procedures accounted for 95% of Adjusted Profit 

before tax, 95% of Revenue and 94% of Total assets.

Key audit matters

Impairment and reversal of impairment of certain power stations and gas storage assets;

• 
•  Group and parent pension obligations;
•  Accounting for estimated revenue recognised.

Materiality

•  Overall Group materiality of £85.2m, which represents 5% of normalised adjusted profit before tax.

An overview of the scope of the parent company and group audits
Tailoring the scope
Our assessment of audit risk, our evaluation of materiality and our allocation of performance materiality determine our audit scope for  
each company within the Group. Taken together, this enables us to form an opinion on the consolidated financial statements. We take into 
account size, risk profile, the organisation of the group and effectiveness of group-wide controls, changes in the business environment, the 
potential impact of climate change and other factors such as recent Internal audit results when assessing the level of work to be performed 
at each company.

In assessing the risk of material misstatement to the Group financial statements, and to ensure we had adequate quantitative coverage  
of significant accounts in the financial statements, of the 220 (2022: 149) reporting components of the Group, we selected 38 (2022: 35) 
components covering entities within the UK and Ireland, which represent the principal business units within the Group.

Of the 38 components selected, we performed an audit of the complete financial information of 19 (2022: 19) components (‘full scope 
components’) which were selected based on their size or risk characteristics. For the remaining 21 (2022: 16) components (‘specific scope 
components’), we performed audit procedures on specific accounts within that component that we considered had the potential for the 
greatest impact on the significant accounts in the financial statements either because of the size of these accounts or their risk profile. 

SSE plc  Annual Report 2023

327

Financial StatementsStrategic ReportDirectors’ ReportIndependent auditor’s report to the members of SSE plc continued

An overview of the scope of the parent company and group audits continued
Tailoring the scope continued
The reporting components where audit procedures were performed accounted for 95% (2022: 98%) of the Group’s adjusted profit 
before tax, 95% (2022: 96%) of the Group’s Revenue and 94% (2022: 93%) of the Group’s Total assets. For the current year, the full scope 
components contributed 82% (2022: 78%) of the Group’s adjusted profit before tax, 94% (2022: 94%) of the Group’s Revenue and 48% 
(2022: 77%) of the Group’s Total assets. The specific scope component contributed 13% (2022: 20%) of the Group’s adjusted profit before 
tax, 1% (2022: 2%) of the Group’s Revenue and 46% (2022: 16%) of the Group’s Total assets. The audit scope of these components may 
not have included testing of all significant accounts of the component but will have contributed to the coverage of significant accounts 
tested for the Group. We also instructed 3 locations to perform specified procedures over certain aspects of Cash & Bank, Goodwill and 
Equity Investments in associates and jointly controlled entities, due to significant balances held within each location.

Of the remaining 182 (2022: 114) components that together represent 9% (2022: 2%) of the Group’s adjusted profit before tax, none are 
individually greater than 1% (2022: 1%) of the Group’s adjusted profit before tax. For these components, we performed other procedures, 
including analytical review, intercompany eliminations and obtaining audit evidence to respond to any potential risks of material 
misstatement to the Group financial statements.

The charts below illustrate the coverage obtained from the work performed by our audit teams.

ADJUSTED PROFIT BEFORE TAX  

REVENUE

TOTAL ASSETS

  82% Full scope components
  13% Specific scope components
  5% Other procedures

  94% Full scope components
  1% Specific scope components
  5% Other procedures

  48% Full scope components
  46% Specific scope components
  6% Other procedures

Changes from the prior year 
There have been minimal changes in scoping from the prior year, other than scoping in the acquisition of Triton (allocated as a full scope 
component). There have been some modifications to specific scope entities to reflect higher levels of trading within certain entities 
compared to the prior period to maintain appropriate coverage. 

Involvement with component teams 
In establishing our overall approach to the Group audit, we determined the type of work that needed to be undertaken at each of the 
components by us, as the primary audit engagement team, by component auditors from other EY global network firms operating under our 
instruction, or by third party auditors where we issued instructions. Of the 19 full scope components, audit procedures were performed on 
2 of these directly by the primary audit team. For the 17 full scope and 21 specific scope components, where the work was performed by 
component auditors, we determined the appropriate level of involvement to enable us to determine that sufficient audit evidence had been 
obtained as a basis for our opinion on the Group as a whole.

The majority of full and specific scope components were led by the lead audit engagement partner, Annie Graham. For the remaining 
entities there were regular calls held between the lead audit engagement partner and component partners, with either file reviews 
performed by the primary team over audit documentation that has not been retained within the group audit file, or retention of key audit 
documentation on the group audit file.

This was the first year where a non-EY auditor was involved in a specific scope component, following the acquisition of Triton. We issued 
instructions, held regular calls with them and attended an on site file review and closing meeting. Other than the Irish Airtricity and Triton 
entities in scope, all other entities in scope were based within Scotland (Perth and Glasgow), where lead audit partner Annie Graham 
visited UK divisions throughout the year-end audit. Management meetings were held in person and remotely throughout the year across 
both the UK and Ireland. Annie also visited the non-EY component auditors of Triton.

The division and non-EY component visits involved discussion of audit approach, attending planning and closing meetings (some of 
which were held virtually), meeting with local management and reviewing relevant audit working papers on risk areas. The primary team 
interacted regularly with the component teams where appropriate during various stages of the audit, reviewed relevant working papers 
and were responsible for the scope and direction of the audit process. This, together with the additional procedures performed at Group 
level, gave us appropriate evidence for our opinion on the Group financial statements.

Climate change 
The financial statement and audit risks related to climate change and the energy transition remain an area of audit focus in FY23. There 
continues to be increasing interest from stakeholders as to how climate change will impact SSE plc. The energy sector has a critical role 
to play in decarbonisation, by removing carbon from electricity which in turn will support other sectors. SSE operates principally within 
the UK and Ireland and both are seeking to achieve net zero across their economies by 2050. 

328

SSE plc  Annual Report 2023

This year saw the government make targets and policy actions to tackle the UK energy crises on climate impacts, affordability and 
supply. The UK Governments targets include plans to decarbonise the UK’s power system by 2035, support for up to 59,000 jobs in 2024 
and up to 120,000 jobs in 2030 and mobilisation of additional public and private investment of £150-270 billion in line with their 2037 
delivery pathway. The importance of cheap, clean and homegrown energy has become more important in order to reduce the UKs 
reliance on expensive and volatile overseas gas markets. In addition to the UK, governments across Europe and the world looked to 
recalibrate and expedite their renewable energy ambitions including publishing their carbon neutral pathways to meet 2050 targets. 

During the year, SSE has continued to make progress against their Net Zero Acceleration Plan and updated their strategy in November 2022 
to take account of feedback from shareholders and other stakeholders. The changes involved the inclusion of scope 3 investments to 
recognise SSE’s joint acquisition of Triton Power, the addition of cross-cutting issues to recognise the importance that climate adaptation 
and resilience play in the transition to net zero and further enhancement of the definition of net zero to SSE. As part of the 31 March 23 
results, SSE announced a £5.5bn increase to the committed capital pathway through NZAP Plus to further accelerate target delivery.

SSE’s long-term net zero ambitions are supported by a series of interim targets approved by the Science Based Targets Initiative (SBTi),  
as referenced by SSE within page 40 . The Group committed to a £12.5bn five-year investment plan. SSE intend to cut absolute scope 1 
and 2 emissions by 72.5% between 2017 and 2030, are targeting net zero for scopes 1 and 2 by 2040 and net zero for all remaining scope 
3 emissions by 2050, providing the appropriate policy mechanisms are in place to support security of supply for customers as noted on 
page 39 .

In FY23, for the first time, SSE is compliant with the TCFD recommendations and recommended disclosures. The Group has determined 
that the most significant future impacts from climate change on its operations will be from variable wind generation risk caused by 
changes in climate patterns, storm damage network risk through increased severity of extreme weather events, accelerated gas closure 
risk through climate change and wind-capture market risk where the average wholesale power prices are lower as a result of more zero 
marginal cost wind generation coming on to the electricity system. These are explained on pages 42 to 45  in the required Task Force  
for Climate related Financial Disclosures and on pages 68 to 69  in the principal risks and uncertainties, which form part of the ‘Other 
information,’ rather than the audited financial statements. Our procedures on these disclosures therefore consisted solely of considering 
whether they are materially inconsistent with the financial statements or our knowledge obtained in the course of the audit or otherwise 
appear to be materially misstated. As described in note 4, the financial statement impact of climate is considered to have most impact on 
impairment, decommissioning, going concern & viability and decommissioning estimates. 

Government and societal responses to climate change risks are still developing, and are interdependent upon each other, and consequently 
financial statements cannot capture all possible future outcomes as these are not yet known. The degree of certainty of these changes may 
also mean that they cannot be taken into account when determining asset and liability valuations and the timing of future cash flows under 
the requirements of IAS 36. Budgets and forecasts for SSE plc reflect the spend to come on the £12.5bn investment programme. In notes 15 
and 20 to the financial statements supplementary sensitivity disclosures reflecting the impact of climate with regards to valuation of property, 
plant and equipment, impairment assessment of goodwill and valuation of decommissioning provisions and the impact of reasonably 
possible changes in key assumptions have been provided and significant judgements and estimates relating to climate change have been 
described within the aforementioned notes. We have ensured the completeness of climate consideration as part of our impairment audit 
procedures, including those referred to within our impairment KAM below. 

In order to respond to the impact of climate change, we ensured we had the appropriate skills and experience on the audit team. Our audit 
team included professionals with significant experience in climate change and energy valuations. Our audit procedures were carried out by 
the group and component teams, with the component teams working under the direction of the group team. Our audit effort in considering 
climate change focused on ensuring that the effects of material climate risks disclosed on pages 42 to 45  have been appropriately reflected 
in asset values and useful life and associated disclosures where values are determined through modelling future cash flows, being impairment 
considerations over Intangible assets and PP&E, and in the timing and nature of liabilities recognised, being decommissioning provisions. In 
addition, we performed detailed testing of the sensitivities noted in the accounts. Details of our procedures and findings on impairment are 
included in our key audit matters below. 

In FY23 SSE conducted scenario analysis of its material climate related opportunities and risks. With the support of our climate change 
internal specialists, we considered managements scenario planning and modelling of these four risks and five opportunities disclosed on 
pages 42 to 45 . We reviewed and challenged the impact pathways developed and basis of the key assumptions included within these 
scenarios. We verified the transition risk scenario frameworks used within the modelling to challenge the appropriateness, applicability to 
SSE current and future business model to ensure the accuracy of the financial impact ranges disclosed on pages 42 to 45 . We challenged 
the Directors’ considerations of climate change in their assessment of going concern and viability and associated disclosures. We also  
read the Other information in the annual report, and in doing so, considered whether the Other information, which includes SSE’s climate 
targets, is materially consistent with the financial statements. We also considered consistency to other areas of assumptions, judgements 
and estimates and where applicable the procedures performed have been included within our KAMs below.

Whilst the group have stated their commitment to the Paris Agreement to achieve net zero emissions by 2050, and also to their 
acceleration plan of their net zero ambitions which plans a short term (to 2025), medium term (2025-2035) and long term (2035-2050) 
roadmap, there may still be some areas in which the group currently unable to determine the full future economic impact on their 
business model, operational plans and customers to achieve this and therefore as set out above the potential impacts are incorporated  
to the extent of management’s best estimate at 31 March 2023.

SSE plc  Annual Report 2023

329

Financial StatementsStrategic ReportDirectors’ ReportIndependent auditor’s report to the members of SSE plc continued

Key audit matters
Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional judgment, were of most significance in our audit of the financial statements 
of the current period and include the most significant assessed risks of material misstatement (whether or not due to fraud) that we 
identified. These matters included those which had the greatest effect on: the overall audit strategy, the allocation of resources in the 
audit; and directing the efforts of the engagement team. These matters were addressed in the context of our audit of the financial 
statements as a whole, and in our opinion thereon, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters.

Key observations communicated  
to the Audit Committee 

We confirmed that the 
impairment reversal of £17.8m 
recognised by management for 
Great Island and £45.7m for Gas 
Storage assets (Aldbrough) was 
appropriate and was driven 
predominately by increased 
market driven demand and 
price assumptions and was 
correctly recorded in the 
current period. 

We communicated that the 
pricing assumptions applied 
were appropriate. We concluded 
that, while the discount rates 
used were above the top end  
of EY accepted range, any 
adjustment to bring in line with 
EY independent range would 
only increase the headroom 
(previous impairments have 
already fully reversed). The other 
assumptions were in line with EY 
assessment of expected future 
price movements.

We also noted that we are 
satisfied with the adequacy  
of disclosure within the group 
financial statements including 
climate related disclosures.

Risk

Our response to the risk

Impairment or reversal of 
impairment of certain power 
stations & gas storage assets 
(Impairment reversal 2023: £63.5m, 
Impairment reversal 2022: £428.9m)

Refer to the Audit Committee Report 
(page 155 ); Accounting policies – 
significant judgements (page 212 ); 
and note 15.2 of the Consolidated 
Financial Statements (page 253 )

Forecast based estimate:
Certain power stations and gas storage 
assets are at risk of impairment or 
impairment reversal. This is due to a 
number of global and national factors 
reducing or increasing their value in 
use or fair value less costs of disposal, 
triggering an impairment assessment. 
Our risk focussed on the following 
assets: Great Island, Peterhead, Keadby, 
Keadby 2, Medway, Marchwood and 
Tarbert power plants and Aldbrough 
and Atwick gas storage assets.

The key assumptions include future 
power prices, price volatility, mean 
reversion rate, forecast power 
demand, carbon prices, load factors, 
discount rate, useful economic life  
and operating expenditure.

The estimated recoverable amount  
is subjective due to the inherent 
uncertainty involved in forecasting  
and discounting future cash flows  
as a result of the above factors.

In the current year the risk is against 
both impairment and impairment 
reversals.

Scoping:
Testing was performed over this risk area, covering both  
full and specific scope components (covering seven 
components), which represented 100% of the risk amount. 

All audit work in relation to this key audit matter was 
undertaken by the component audit teams, with oversight 
from the group audit team. 

We obtained management’s assessment of potential 
impairment indicators in accordance with IAS 36 for 
powerplants and for gas storage assets.

Audit procedures included:
We have understood management’s process and 
methodology for assessing assets for indicators of 
impairment, including indicators of reversal and, where 
applicable, we have understood management’s modelling 
of value in use cash flows including the source of the key 
input assumptions. 

We checked the historical accuracy of management’s 
forecasting and verified that the assumptions are consistent 
with those used in other areas such as fixed asset useful life 
and decommissioning provision. 

We considered prior period impairments for indication of 
reversal. This involved considering indicators of reversal, 
focussed on demand, load factors and prices. 

We involved three EY specialists in our assessment: a 
specialist with energy industry experience; a discount rate 
specialist and a specialist with experience of assessing 
forward energy prices. Using our sector experience and our 
specialists, we assessed any unusual or unexpected trends 
identified within the cashflows year on year and assessed 
the impact on the overall forecasted position. 

We considered incremental repairs and committed  
capital expenditure on commenced projects and obtained 
management’s assessment of the technical feasibility of  
the extensions and reviewed the extension to the revised 
contracted power period. 

We embedded modelling expertise within the audit team  
to assess the appropriateness of the model parameters and 
clerical accuracy of the models used. 

We considered load factors relative to the UK Governments 
as yet unlegislated target of no unabated gas post 2030 and 
reviewed impact on carrying values included within the 
disclosures should this legislation arise. 

We applied sensitivities to management’s models to evaluate 
headroom, including sensitivities relating to climate change 
reflecting useful life assessment versus climate commitments 
and price and margin sensitivities. 

Risk

Our response to the risk

Key observations communicated  
to the Audit Committee 

We conclude that 
management’s actuarial 
assumptions are appropriate 
and sit in the centre of our 
independently determined 
range. We are satisfied with the 
adequacy of disclosure within 
the financial statements.

Key assumptions: 
Using our sector experience and our specialists we 
benchmarked to industry sources, where appropriate, the 
directors’ judgement on the key assumptions including, 
future power prices, power volatility, forecast power 
demand, carbon prices, load factors, discount rate,  
useful economic life and operating expenditure.

We verified that the assumptions are consistent with those 
used in other areas.

Disclosures:
We assessed the accuracy and adequacy of the disclosures 
in line with IAS 36, ensuring key assumptions are included 
and that the disclosures adequately reflect the risks inherent 
in the valuation of non-current assets and the impact of 
changes in assumptions on the reversal of impairment 
booked or headroom remaining. 

Scoping:
We performed audit procedures over this risk area centrally 
by the group team, which covered 100% of the risk amount. 
Our procedures included: 

Assessing management process: 
We have understood management’s process and 
methodology for calculating the pension liability for each 
scheme, including discussions with management’s external 
actuaries, walkthrough of the processes, understanding the 
key inputs and the design and implementation of key controls. 
We performed a fully substantive audit approach rather than 
testing the operating effectiveness of key controls. 

For the SEPS scheme we checked the member data used  
in the triennial valuation for consistency with that of the  
IAS 19 valuation and understood the difference in basis  
for key assumptions which we found to be in line with  
our expectations. 

Assessing management experts: 
We have assessed the independence, objectivity and 
competence of the group’s external actuaries, which 
included understanding of the scope of services being 
provided and considering the appropriateness of the 
qualifications of the external actuary. 

Assessing source data: 
We tested a sample of the membership data used by the 
actuaries to the group’s records. We performed an additional 
sample for source data used for the SEPS triennial valuation 
to ensure consistency of source data used. 

Benchmarking assumptions: 
With the support of our pension actuarial specialists, we 
assessed the appropriateness of the assumptions adopted 
by the directors by comparing them to the expectations of 
our pension actuarial specialists which they derived from 
broader market data. 

Disclosure: 
We considered the adequacy of IAS 19 disclosures, including 
presentation of commitments associated with deficit 
recovery plans and in respect of sensitivity of the defined 
benefit obligation to changes in the key assumptions. 

Group and parent pension 
obligation (2023: £541.1m,  
2022: £584.9m)

Refer to the Audit Committee Report 
(page 155 ); Accounting policies – 
significant judgements (page 212 ); 
and note 23 of the group financial 
statements (page 269 )

Subjective valuation: 
Small changes in the assumptions and 
estimates used to value the group and 
parent company pension obligations 
(before deducting scheme assets) 
would have a significant effect on  
the carrying value of those pension 
obligations. 

The effect of these matters is that,  
as part of our risk assessment, we 
determined that the group and parent 
company’s pension obligation has a 
high degree of estimation uncertainty, 
with a potential range of reasonable 
outcomes greater than our materiality 
for the financial statements as a whole. 

Additional focus in FY23 has been 
given to the results of the SEPS pension 
triennial valuation completed in 2023. 

The principal assumptions considered 
include rate of increase in pensionable 
salaries and pension payments, 
discount rate and mortality rates. 

There has been no change in this risk 
from the prior year, however additional 
procedures have been performed to 
consider the results of the triennial 
valuation for SEPS.

330

SSE plc  Annual Report 2023

SSE plc  Annual Report 2023

331

Financial StatementsStrategic ReportDirectors’ ReportKey observations communicated  
to the Audit Committee 

In performing our procedures 
we independently calculated  
an estimated range for accrued 
income of £130m-£144m  
with SSE’s position being  
within the top end of our 
acceptable range.

We independently assessed  
an EBRS reasonable range  
of accrued income of 
£123m-£150m, with SSE’s 
estimate being within the top 
end of our acceptable range.

Overall, through procedures 
performed over accrued 
revenue within the Business 
Energy business, we are 
satisfied that the accrued 
revenue recognised by 
management in relation to 
unbilled revenue and accrued 
government grant EBRS income 
is appropriate.

Independent auditor’s report to the members of SSE plc continued

Key audit matters continued

Risk

Our response to the risk

Accounting for estimated revenue 
recognition & EBRS other income 

Unbilled energy income (2023: 
£666.1m, 2022: £492.7m) and  
GB EBRS claims 2023: £326.7m, 
2022: £nil)

Refer to the Audit Committee Report 
(page 155 ); Accounting policies – 
significant judgements (page 212 ); 
and note 18 of the group financial 
statements (page 259 )

Subjective estimate:
58% of the unbilled revenue (excluding 
EBRS) is recognised within the 
Business Energy division and is based 
on estimates of values and volumes of 
electricity and gas supplied between 
last meter date and year end date. 

The method of estimating such 
revenues is complex, judgemental and 
significant for UK business customers. 
Estimation complexity has increased  
in the year as a result of emerging 
consumption patterns, volumes of 
tariff changes and interplay with EBRS. 
The key estimates and assumptions are 
in relation to: 
1.   the volumes of electricity and gas 

supplied to the customers between 
the meter reading and year-end; 

2.  the value attributed to those 

volumes in the range of tariffs; and 
3.  embedded impairment risk over the 

unbilled revenue. 

As a result of the estimation uncertainty 
this has been identified as a significant 
risk.

Change to this risk from the  
prior year:
The administration of the Government 
backed support scheme, EBRS, within 
the GB Business Energy Division, has 
increased the complexity and level of 
estimation uncertainty of the unbilled 
calculation. We have refined the KAM to 
include the unbilled portion of the GB 
EBRS claim which is £326.7m, recorded 
as other prepayments and accrued 
income at 31 March 2023. The income 
assessment is derived from the same 
underlying source data and models as 
the unbilled judgement.

Scope: 
This balance relates to one component, Business Energy. 
Testing was performed covering 100% of the unbilled and 
EBRS balances in GB Business Energy which accounts  
for 58% of the unbilled balance and 52% of the other 
prepayments and accrued income balance at 31 March 2023. 
Unbilled energy income in Airtricity and EBRS in Northern 
Ireland was not included in the scope of this KAM due to 
reduced estimation complexity and materiality respectively. 

All audit work in relation to this key audit matter was 
undertaken by the component audit teams with oversight 
from the group audit team.

Audit methodology:
Our response to the assessed risk included understanding 
the process for estimating unbilled revenue, testing selected 
IT general and application key controls, substantive audit 
procedures and revenue data analytics. 

Tests of detail: 
We agreed the opening unbilled accrued income to the 
closing 31 March 2022 balance sheet.

We agreed the volume data for customer usage of energy  
in the year used in the calculation to external settlement 
systems and agreed the volume data in relation to customer 
billings for the year to SSE’s internal billing systems to assess 
for consistency and to understand remaining estimation risk. 

We have tested the unbilled unit pricing by agreeing 
historical pricing to sample bills, sensitising the pricing to 
understand the impact of different pricing assumptions, 
tested a sample of billing dates from the listing to confirm 
billing frequency and agreeing to post year end billing prices. 

We have understood and tested the historical accuracy of 
management’s forecasting of unbilled revenue by comparing 
estimates to final billed and settlement amounts.

We considered contra indicators to management’s 
assumptions by assessing the impact of macro-economic 
conditions on demand and consumption volatility and 
benchmarked assumptions in the underlying unbilled 
calculations to external publications from the industry.

Specifically to EBRS:
We validated the eligibility criteria of meters claimed and 
tested a sample of customers tariffs to source documents.

We sample tested volume data to supporting evidence and 
agreed claim amounts to submissions and subsequent 
settled cash receipts.

Using a custom-built analytics tool we recalculated the 
discount applicable under the scheme rules on a meter level 
and applied that to volumes and claims submitted to date.

332

SSE plc  Annual Report 2023

Risk

Our response to the risk

Key observations communicated  
to the Audit Committee 

Analytical Review: 
We set expectations as to the likely level of total unbilled 
revenue, and compared this with actual unbilled revenue 
accrual, obtaining explanation for significant variances. 

We compared the unbilled revenue estimation to 
benchmark expectation. Benchmark expectation was 
derived from the external settlements data combined with 
billing frequency at an MPAN (Meter Point Administration 
Number) level, usage and price movement from last billing 
date to year end. We have analysed and assessed 
explanations for variances arising from the benchmark 
expectation. We also tested the appropriateness of manual 
adjustments made by management. 

Specifically to the EBRS projected claim:
Using our custom-built analytics tool, we prepared an 
independent projection of the total claim forecast to 
31 March 2023 and compared this to the EBRS income 
recognised. We used claims submitted to date as our base 
point and adjusted for extrapolated claimed invoices for the 
remaining claim period, incorporated an estimated range of 
outcomes on circa 18,000 of meters where claims have not 
yet been made; and adjusted for reductions in rebilled 
invoices claimed based on estimated meter reading. 

Disclosure: 
We assessed the adequacy of the group’s disclosures about 
the degree of estimation and judgement involved in arriving 
at the estimated revenue.

We have removed the prior year KAM relating to the SSE disposal programme given this was completed in prior year. 

Our application of materiality
We apply the concept of materiality in planning and performing the audit, in evaluating the effect of identified misstatements on the 
audit and in forming our audit opinion. 

Materiality
The magnitude of an omission or misstatement that, individually or in the aggregate, could reasonably be expected to influence the 
economic decisions of the users of the financial statements. Materiality provides a basis for determining the nature and extent of our 
audit procedures.

We determined materiality for the Group to be £85.2 million (2022: £57.9 million), which is 5% (2022: 5% of adjusted profit before tax)  
of normalised adjusted profit before tax. Our key criterion in determining materiality remains our perception of the needs of SSE’s 
stakeholders. We consider which earnings, activity or capital-based measure aligns best with their expectations. With the volatility in the 
Energy market seen this year, we changed our materiality basis from adjusted profit before tax to normalised adjusted profit before tax.  
We believe that normalised adjusted profit before tax provides us with a consistent measure of underlying year-on-year performance as it 
excludes the impact of non-recurring items which can significantly fluctuate year-on-year and do not provide a true picture of the profit 
benchmark that would affect the decisions of the users of the financial statements. Through applying a normalised earnings approach, 
large year-on-year swings driven primarily by price fluctuations rather than specific structural changes to SSE’s business are minimised.

We determined materiality for the Parent Company to be £137.1 million (2022: £95 million), which is 2% (2022: 2%) of Net Assets.  
The materiality has been capped at the group materiality of £85.2 million. 

Starting basis

Adjustments

Materiality

•  FY23 loss before tax – £205.6m (FY22: £3,482.2m profit)

•  Movement on operating and financing derivatives –  

FY23 £2,351.5m; FY22 (£2,121.4m)

•  Non-recurring exceptional items – FY23 £0.4m; FY22 (£269.2m)
•  JV Tax – FY23 £104m; FY22 £46.3m
•  Variance from forecast to actual PBT FY23 nil; FY22 £21.2m

•  Totals FY23 £2,250.3m adjusted profit before tax; FY22 £1,159m
•  Average to normalise FY23 £1,704.7m
•  Materiality of £85.2m (5% of materaility basis)

SSE plc  Annual Report 2023

333

Financial StatementsStrategic ReportDirectors’ ReportIndependent auditor’s report to the members of SSE plc continued

Materiality continued
Performance materiality
The application of materiality at the individual account or balance level. It is set at an amount to reduce to an appropriately low level the 
probability that the aggregate of uncorrected and undetected misstatements exceeds materiality.

Corporate Governance Statement
We have reviewed the directors’ statement in relation to going concern, longer-term viability and that part of the Corporate Governance 
Statement relating to the group and company’s compliance with the provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code specified for our 
review by the Listing Rules.

On the basis of our risk assessments, together with our assessment of the Group’s overall control environment, our judgement was that 
performance materiality was 75% (2022: 50%) of our planning materiality, namely £63.9 million (2022: £28.9 million). The move from 50% 
to 75% reflects the continued process improvements and a low number and value of corrected and uncorrected errors in the prior year.

Audit work at component locations for the purpose of obtaining audit coverage over significant financial statement accounts is 
undertaken based on a percentage of total performance materiality. The performance materiality set for each component is based on 
the relative scale and risk of the component to the Group as a whole and our assessment of the risk of misstatement at that component. 
In the current year, the range of performance materiality allocated to components was £8.9m to £21.0m (2022: £4.9m to £15.9m).

Reporting threshold
An amount below which identified misstatements are considered as being clearly trivial.

We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to them all uncorrected audit differences in excess of £4.3m (2022: £2.9m), 
which is set at 5% of planning materiality, as well as differences below that threshold that, in our view, warranted reporting on qualitative 
grounds.

We evaluate any uncorrected misstatements against both the quantitative measures of materiality discussed above and in light of other 
relevant qualitative considerations in forming our opinion. 

Other information 
The other information comprises the information included in the annual report set out on pages 1 to 191 , including the strategic report 
and the directors’ report set out on pages 1 to 109 and 110 to 191  respectively, other than the financial statements and our auditor’s 
report thereon. The directors are responsible for the other information contained within the annual report. 

Our opinion on the financial statements does not cover the other information and, except to the extent otherwise explicitly stated in this 
report, we do not express any form of assurance conclusion thereon. 

Our responsibility is to read the other information and, in doing so, consider whether the other information is materially inconsistent with the 
financial statements or our knowledge obtained in the course of the audit or otherwise appears to be materially misstated. If we identify such 
material inconsistencies or apparent material misstatements, we are required to determine whether this gives rise to a material misstatement 
in the financial statements themselves. If, based on the work we have performed, we conclude that there is a material misstatement of the 
other information, we are required to report that fact.

We have nothing to report in this regard.

Opinions on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006
In our opinion, the part of the directors’ remuneration report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the 
Companies Act 2006.

In our opinion, based on the work undertaken in the course of the audit:
• 

the information given in the strategic report and the directors’ report for the financial year for which the financial statements are 
prepared is consistent with the financial statements; and 
the strategic report and the directors’ report have been prepared in accordance with applicable legal requirements.

• 

Matters on which we are required to report by exception
In the light of the knowledge and understanding of the group and the parent company and its environment obtained in the course of the 
audit, we have not identified material misstatements in the strategic report or the directors’ report.

We have nothing to report in respect of the following matters in relation to which the Companies Act 2006 requires us to report to you if, 
in our opinion:
•  adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received 

• 

from branches not visited by us; or
the parent company financial statements and the part of the Directors’ Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement with 
the accounting records and returns; or

•  certain disclosures of directors’ remuneration specified by law are not made; or
•  we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit.

Based on the work undertaken as part of our audit, we have concluded that each of the following elements of the Corporate 
Governance Statement is materially consistent with the financial statements or our knowledge obtained during the audit:
•  Directors’ statement with regards to the appropriateness of adopting the going concern basis of accounting and any material 

uncertainties identified set out on page 91 ;

•  Directors’ explanation as to its assessment of the company’s prospects, the period this assessment covers and why the period is 

appropriate set out on page 71 ;

•  Director’s statement on whether it has a reasonable expectation that the group will be able to continue in operation and meet its 

liabilities set out on page 191 ;

•  Directors’ statement on fair, balanced and understandable set out on page 154 ;
•  Board’s confirmation that it has carried out a robust assessment of the emerging and principal risks set out on page 68 and 158 ;
•  The section of the annual report that describes the review of effectiveness of risk management and internal control systems set out 

on page 158 ; and;

•  The section describing the work of the audit committee set out on page 150 .

Responsibilities of directors
As explained more fully in the directors’ responsibilities statement set out on page 191 , the directors are responsible for the 
preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view, and for such internal control as the 
directors determine is necessary to enable the preparation of financial statements that are free from material misstatement, whether  
due to fraud or error. 

In preparing the financial statements, the directors are responsible for assessing the group and parent company’s ability to continue as  
a going concern, disclosing, as applicable, matters related to going concern and using the going concern basis of accounting unless the 
directors either intend to liquidate the group or the parent company or to cease operations, or have no realistic alternative but to do so.

Auditor’s responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements 
Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements as a whole are free from material misstatement, 
whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an auditor’s report that includes our opinion. Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, 
but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with ISAs (UK) will always detect a material misstatement when it exists. 
Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are considered material if, individually or in the aggregate, they could reasonably be 
expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of these financial statements. 

Explanation as to what extent the audit was considered capable of detecting irregularities,  
including fraud
Irregularities, including fraud, are instances of non-compliance with laws and regulations. We design procedures in line with our 
responsibilities, outlined above, to detect irregularities, including fraud. The risk of not detecting a material misstatement due to fraud is 
higher than the risk of not detecting one resulting from error, as fraud may involve deliberate concealment by, for example, forgery or 
intentional misrepresentations, or through collusion. The extent to which our procedures are capable of detecting irregularities, including 
fraud is detailed below.

However, the primary responsibility for the prevention and detection of fraud rests with both those charged with governance of the 
company and management. 
•  We obtained an understanding of the legal and regulatory frameworks that are applicable to the group and determined that the most 
significant are IFRS, FRS101, the Companies Act 2006 and UK Corporate Governance Code and relevant tax compliance regulations  
in the jurisdictions in which the group operates. We also considered non-compliance of regulatory requirements, including the Office of 
Gas and Electricity Markets (Ofgem) and regulations levied by the UK Financial Conduct Authority and Prudential Regulatory Authority. 
We confirmed our understanding with the Internal Head of Regulation.

•  We understood how SSE plc is complying with those frameworks by making enquiries of management, internal audit, those responsible 
for legal and compliance procedures and the company Secretary. We verified our enquiries through our review of board minutes and 
papers provided to the Audit Committee.

•  We assessed the susceptibility of the group’s financial statements to material misstatement, including how fraud might occur by meeting 

with management from various parts of the business to understand where it considered there was susceptibility to fraud. We also 
considered performance targets and their propensity to influence on efforts made by management to manage earnings. We considered 
the programmes and controls that the group has established to address risks identified, or that otherwise prevent, deter and detect fraud; 
and how senior management monitors those programmes and controls. Where the risk was considered to be higher, we performed audit 
procedures to address each identified fraud risk.

•  Based on this understanding we designed our audit procedures to identify non-compliance with such laws and regulations. Our 
procedures involved: journal entry testing, with a focus on manual consolidation journals and journals indicating large or unusual 
transactions based on our understanding of the business; enquiries of legal counsel, group management, internal audit, business area 
management at all full and specific scope management; and focused testing. In addition, we completed procedures to conclude on 
the compliance of the disclosures in the annual report and accounts with all applicable requirements.

334

SSE plc  Annual Report 2023

SSE plc  Annual Report 2023

335

Financial StatementsStrategic ReportDirectors’ ReportIndependent auditor’s report to the members of SSE plc continued

Consolidated segmental statement
For the year ended 31 March 2023

Explanation as to what extent the audit was considered capable of detecting irregularities,  
including fraud continued
A further description of our responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements is located on the Financial Reporting Council’s 
website at https://www.frc.org.uk/auditorsresponsibilities . This description forms part of our auditor’s report.

Other matters we are required to address
•  Following the recommendation from the audit committee we were appointed by the company on 18 July 2019 to audit the financial 

statements for the year ending 31 March 2020 and subsequent financial periods. 

•  The period of total uninterrupted engagement including previous renewals and reappointments is 4 years, covering the years ending 

31 March 2020 to 31 March 2023.

•  The audit opinion is consistent with the additional report to the audit committee.

Use of our report
This report is made solely to the company’s members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006. 
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the company’s members those matters we are required to state to them in 
an auditor’s report and for no other purpose. To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone 
other than the company and the company’s members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed. 

Annie Graham (Senior statutory auditor)
for and on behalf of Ernst & Young LLP, Statutory Auditor
Glasgow
23 May 2023

Aggregate 
Generation 
business 

Electricity 
supply

Gas supply

Non-domestic Non-domestic

Aggregate 
Supply 
business

SSE consolidated segmental statement for the year ended 31 March 2023

Year ended 31 March 2023

Total revenue
Sales of electricity and gas
Other revenue

Total operating costs
Direct fuel costs
Transportation costs
Environmental and social obligation costs
Other direct costs
Indirect costs

EBITDA
Depreciation and amortisation
EBIT

Volume

WACOF/E/G

Customer numbers

Electricity Generation

Thermal Renewable

5,087.8
4,510.9
576.9

1,228.5
1,113.6
114.9

Unit

£m
£m
£m

£m 3,992.5
£m 2,693.4
150.2
£m
559.1
£m
438.1
£m
151.7
£m

£m
£m
£m

1,095.3
125.2
970.1

482.3
–
136.9
–
64.7
280.7

746.2
189.7
556.5

6,316.3
5,624.5
691.8

4,474.8
2,693.4
287.1
559.1
502.8
432.4

1,841.5
314.9
1,526.6

TWh/
mTherms

15.6

9.7

25.3

£/MWh/p/th

208.9

–

‘000s

3,624.7
2,981.8
642.9

3,664.9
2,486.9
520.1
441.5
10.3
206.1

(40.2)
4.2
(44.4)

12.1

205.4

382.8

469.2
391.1
78.1

406.1
314.4
43.2
0.7
1.9
45.9

63.1
0.8
62.3

4,093.9
3,372.9
721.0

4,071.0
2,801.3
563.3
442.2
12.2
252.0

22.9
5.0
17.9

200.3

212.4

157.0

68.9

451.7

Basis of preparation and disclosure notes
The Group’s operating segments are those used internally by the Board to run the business and make strategic decisions. The types of 
products and services from which each reportable segment derives its revenues are:

Business area

Reported segments

Description

Continuing operations

Transmission

SSEN 
Transmission

Distribution

SSEN 
Distribution

Renewables

SSE Renewables 
(covered by CSS)

Thermal

SSE Thermal 
(covered by CSS)

The economically regulated high voltage transmission of electricity from generating plant to the 
distribution network in the North of Scotland. Revenue earned from constructing, maintaining 
and renovating our transmission network is determined in accordance with the regulatory 
licence, based on an Ofgem approved revenue model and is recognised as charged to National 
Grid. The revenue earned from other transmission services such as generator plant connections 
is recognised in line with delivery of that service over the expected contractual period and at the 
contracted rate. On 25 November 2022 the Group sold a 25.0% non-controlling interest in this 
business to the Ontario Teachers’ Pension Plan.

The economically regulated lower voltage distribution of electricity to customer premises in the 
North of Scotland and the South of England. Revenue earned from delivery of electricity supply to 
customers is recognised based on the volume of electricity distributed to those customers and 
the set customer tariff. The revenue earned from other distribution services such as domestic 
customer connections is recognised in line with delivery of that service over the expected 
contractual period and at the contracted rate.

The generation of electricity from renewable sources, such as onshore and offshore windfarms 
and run of river and pumped storage hydro assets in the UK and Ireland, the development of 
similar wind assets in Japan and Southern Europe and the development of wind, solar and 
battery opportunities. Revenue from physical generation of electricity in Great Britain is sold  
to SSE EPM and in Ireland is sold to Airtricity and is recognised as generated, based on the 
contracted or spot price at the time of delivery. Revenue from national support schemes  
(such as Renewable Obligation Certificates or the Capacity Market in Great Britain or REFIT 
in Ireland) may either be recognised in line with electricity being physically generated or  
over the contractual period, depending on the underlying performance obligation.

The generation of electricity from thermal plant and the Group’s interests in multifuel assets in  
the UK and Ireland. Revenue from physical generation of electricity in Great Britain and Ireland is 
sold to SSE EPM and is recognised as generated, based on the contract or spot price at the time  
of delivery. Revenue from national support schemes (such as the Capacity Market) and ancillary 
generation services may either be recognised in line with electricity being physically generated  
or over the contractual period, depending on the underlying performance obligation.

Gas Storage

The operation of gas storage facilities in Great Britain, utilising capacity to optimise trading 
opportunity associated with the assets. Contribution arising from trading activities is recognised 
as realised based on the executed trades or withdrawal of gas from caverns.

336

SSE plc  Annual Report 2023

SSE plc  Annual Report 2023

337

Financial StatementsStrategic ReportDirectors’ Report 
Consolidated segmental statement continued
For the year ended 31 March 2023

Basis of preparation and disclosure notes continued

Business area

Reported segments

Description

Energy 
Customers 
Solutions

Business Energy
(covered by CSS)

The supply of electricity gas to business customers in Great Britain. Revenue earned from the 
supply of energy is recognised in line with the volume delivered to the customer, based on actual 
and estimated volumes, and reflecting the applicable customer tariff after deductions or discounts.

Airtricity

The supply of electricity, gas and energy related services to residential and business customers  
in the Republic of Ireland and Northern Ireland. Revenue earned from the supply of energy is 
recognised in line with the volume delivered to the customer, based on actual and estimated 
volumes, and reflecting the applicable customer tariff after deductions or discounts. Revenue 
earned from energy related services may either be recognised over the expected contractual period 
or following performance of the service, depending on the underlying performance obligation.

Distributed 
Energy

Distributed
Energy

The provision of services to enable customers to optimise and manage low-carbon energy use; 
development and management of battery storage and solar assets; distributed generation, 
independent distribution, heat and cooling networks, smart buildings and EV charging activities. 

EPM & I

Energy Portfolio 
Management 
(EPM)

The provision of a route to market for the Group’s Renewable and Thermal generation businesses 
and commodity procurement for the Group’s energy supply businesses in line with the Group’s 
stated hedging policies. Revenue from physical sales of electricity, gas and other commodities 
produced by SSE is recognised as supplied to either the national settlements body or the customer, 
based on either the spot price at the time of delivery or trade price where that trade is eligible for 
‘own use’ designation. The sale of commodity optimisation trades is presented net in cost of sales 
alongside purchase commodity optimisation trades.

The Group’s reportable operating segments for ‘Renewables’, ‘Thermal’ and ‘Business Energy’ are substantially aligned to the business 
segments reported in the Consolidated Segmental Statement (CSS). However, it should be recognised that there are differences between 
the two disclosures, primarily driven by the Licence requirements – these are described in the notes below and shown in the table 
reconciling the CSS to the financial statements.

How the accounts are presented
The financial information presented in the CSS is based on operating activities of the Group’s electricity generation businesses 
(‘Renewables’ and ‘Thermal’ segments described above) and the non-domestic electricity and gas supply business (‘Business Energy’ 
segment described above) in Great Britain. The paragraphs that follow describe how SSE’s Renewables, Thermal and Business Energy 
(non-domestic supply) businesses interact with Energy Portfolio Management (EPM), which is the Group’s energy markets business. The 
basis of preparation defines the revenues, costs and profits of each business and describe in more detail the transfer pricing arrangements 
in place for the financial year ended 31 March 2023. The CSS has been prepared on a going concern basis as set out in note A6.3  of  
SSE plc’s Annual Report.

Summary
The Group’s ‘Renewables’ business sells electricity and Renewable Obligation Certificates (ROCs) from onshore and offshore windfarms 
and qualifying hydro to the Group’s EPM business.

‘Thermal’ sells electricity in respect of gas generation to EPM. It also receives external income in respect of ancillary services, balancing 
market participation and other contractual arrangements with third parties including government. It purchases its requirement for gas, 
oil and carbon from EPM. 

Renewable Electricity Generation
The Renewables profit and loss account above is based on the Group’s electricity generation activity derived from natural sources of 
energy to produce electricity which includes wind, hydro and pump storage powered generation.

Renewables as presented in the CSS includes revenue and operating profit for wholly owned renewable generation assets and also a 
proportion of turnover and operating profit in respect of joint ventures, joint operations and associate generation companies1. The 
principal joint ventures, joint operations and associates included are Beatrice Offshore Windfarm Limited, Clyde Windfarm (Scotland) 
Limited, Stronelairg Windfarm Limited, Dunmaglass Windfarm Limited, Greater Gabbard Offshore Winds Limited and Seagreen Wind 
Energy Limited. A full list can be found in note A3  of SSE’s audited financial statements. 

The Renewables profitability statement bears the risks and rewards for plant performance and renewable generation output, changes in 
the power price achieved for renewable generation and the impact of weather.

Individual line items in the Renewables profit and loss account above are comprised of:

Revenue From Sales of Electricity – revenue is recognised as generated and supplied to the national settlements body. Revenue is sold 
to the wholesale market through EPM at either the spot price at the time of delivery, or trade price where that trade is eligible for ‘own 
use’ designation. Revenue includes the sale of ROCs generated from qualifying plant to EPM. Generation volumes are the volume of 
power actually sold to the wholesale market.

Other Revenue – includes ancillary services, capacity income, balancing market participation and other miscellaneous income. 

Transportation Costs – include Use of System charges and market participation costs. 

Other Direct Costs –include power purchase agreement (‘PPA’) costs, site costs and management charges from EPM. 

Indirect Costs – include salaries and other people costs, asset maintenance, rates, corporate costs and IT charges. 

Depreciation and Amortisation – the depreciation shown in the CSS is the underlying charge based on the useful remaining life of the 
assets.

1  The PPA’s that SSE has with its joint venture companies Clyde Windfarm (Scotland) Limited, Stronelairg Windfarm Limited and Dunmaglass Windfarm Limited 

provide SSE with contractual entitlement to 100% of the output of the windfarms. Accordingly, SSE has reported its rights to those volumes within its Renewables 
statistics and has also, as mandated by Ofgem, included 50% of the JV revenue in the CSS.

Thermal Electricity Generation
The Thermal profit and loss account above is based on the Group’s conventional (thermal) electricity generation activity. Conventional 
generation is considered to be any generation where fuel is consumed to produce electricity and includes gas and oil fueled generation. 

Thermal as presented in the CSS includes revenue and operating profit for wholly owned thermal generation assets and also a proportion 
of turnover and operating profit in respect of joint ventures2. The principal joint ventures included are Seabank Power Limited, Marchwood 
Power Limited and Triton Power Holdings Limited (acquired 1 September 2022). A full list can be found in note A3  of SSE’s audited 
financial statements. 

The Thermal profitability statement bears the risks and rewards for plant performance, changes in market ‘spark’ (the marginal profit for 
generating electricity by gas), changes in government and EU policy particularly surrounding emissions.

‘Business Energy’ sells electricity and gas to circa 0.2m business customer accounts in Great Britain and procures electricity, gas REGOS, 
RGGOs and ROCs from EPM.

Individual line items in the Thermal profit and loss account above are comprised of:

EPM acts as a route to market for Renewables and Thermal, and as counterparty with the external market for the procurement of 
electricity and gas for SSE Energy Services and Business Energy. EPM does not form part of the CSS as it is not within the scope defined 
by Ofgem. The policies governing the forward hedging activity undertaken by EPM are overseen by Energy Markets Risk Committee, 
whose responsibilities and roles are described on page 160  of SSE Annual Report for the year ended 31 March 2023.

Revenue From Sales of Electricity – revenue is recognised as generated and supplied to the national settlements body. Revenue is sold 
to the wholesale market through EPM at either the spot price at the time of delivery, or trade price where that trade is eligible for ‘own 
use’ designation. Generation volumes are the volume of power sold to the wholesale market.

Other Revenue – includes ancillary services, capacity income, balancing market participation and other miscellaneous income. 

Direct Fuel Costs – Thermal procures fuel and carbon from EPM at wholesale market prices. The cost of fuel also includes the long term 
external purchase contracts and the impact of financial hedges. The WACOF (weighted average cost of fuel) calculation includes the costs 
of carbon emissions (reported in the environmental and social obligations cost line in the CSS). 

Transportation Costs – include Use of System charges and market participation costs. 

Environmental and Social Costs – include carbon costs. 

2  The tolling arrangements that SSE has with its joint venture Marchwood Power Limited provide SSE with contractual entitlement to 100% of the output of the 

power station. Accordingly, SSE has reported its rights to those volumes within its Thermal statistics and has also, as mandated by Ofgem, included 50% of the JV 
revenue in the CSS.

338

SSE plc  Annual Report 2023

SSE plc  Annual Report 2023

339

Financial StatementsStrategic ReportDirectors’ ReportConsolidated segmental statement continued
For the year ended 31 March 2023

Thermal Electricity Generation continued
Other Direct Costs – include power purchase agreement (‘PPA’) costs, site costs and management charges from EPM. 

Indirect Costs – include salaries and other people costs, asset maintenance, rates, corporate costs and IT charges. 

Depreciation and Amortisation – the depreciation shown in the CSS is the underlying charge based on the useful remaining life of the 
assets and excludes exceptional asset impairments.

Business Energy (Non-Domestic) 
Revenue from Sales of Electricity and Gas – revenues are the value of electricity and gas supplied to business customers in Great Britain 
during the year and includes an estimate of the value of units supplied between the date of the last bill and the year end. Non-domestic 
volumes are expressed at customer meter point. Also included in ‘Other revenue’ is £0.7bn recognised from the Energy Bill Relief 
Government Scheme which commenced in October 2022 to support non-domestic customers.

Direct Fuel Costs – Business Energy does not engage in the trading of electricity and gas and procures all of its electricity and gas  
from EPM. The method by which EPM procures energy is at an arm’s length arrangement on behalf of Business Energy is governed by 
Business Energy’s forward hedging policy. The forward trades between Business Energy and EPM are priced at wholesale market prices 
at the time of execution and any differences in volume and reconciliation at the time of delivery is marked to the spot price on the day. 
WACOG (weighted average cost of gas) also includes all Allocation reconciliations and Unidentified Gas. The WACOE and WACOG also 
consist of trades marked to wholesale prices when committed at the point of sale for fixed price customer contracts or when a customer 
instructs SSE to purchase energy in respect of flexi-priced contracts. This transfer pricing methodology reflects how Business Energy 
actually acquired its energy. There have been no material changes in the transfer pricing policy in respect of Business Energy since the 
CSS for the financial year ending 31 March 2023. 

Transportation Costs – these include transportation, transmission and distribution use of system costs and BSUOS. 

Environmental and Social Obligation Costs – relate to policies designed to modernise and decarbonise the energy system in Great 
Britain and include ROCs, Feed in Tariff, charges under the Capacity Mechanism and CfD schemes and charges in relation to ‘assistance 
for areas with high electricity distribution costs’ (AAHEDC). REGO, RGGOs and GOO costs related to these schemes are also included in 
this section of the CSS. Industry Mutualisation costs have also been allocated to this element of the statement.

Other Direct Costs – include: industry settlement costs, management and market access charges from EPM and other miscellaneous costs.

Indirect Costs – include: sales and marketing, customer service, bad debts and collections, metering costs, commercial costs, central 
costs – including information technology, property, corporate, telecoms costs and costs incurred to meet Smart Metering rollout 
obligations for the year. Where costs cannot be directly allocated to a fuel (electricity/gas), they have been allocated using costing 
models based on activity, customer revenue or customer numbers – whichever is the most appropriate. 

Business Energy’s profit and loss account bears the risk and rewards arising from the volatility in demand for energy, caused by the 
weather, consumption per customer and customer churn. It is also exposed to swings in wholesale costs and the uncertainty 
surrounding its share of government environmental and social schemes.

EPM
EPM is responsible for optimising the Group’s electricity, gas and other commodity requirements. The hedging activity undertaken by 
EPM is governed by the Group’s Energy and Markets Risk Committee in accordance with the Statement on SSE’s Approach to Hedging 
published in November 2018. 

Business Functions
The business functions in SSE have already been described in this document. The column headed ‘Not included in the CSS’ principally 
relates to EPM.

Business function

Operates and maintains generation assets
Responsible for scheduling decisions
Responsible for interactions with the Balancing Market
Responsible for determining hedging policy
Responsible for implementing hedging policy/makes decisions to buy/sell energy
Interacts with wider market participants to buy/sell energy
Holds unhedged positions (either short or long)
Procures fuel for generation
Procures allowances for generation
Holds volume risk on positions sold (either internal or external)
Matches own generation with own supply
Forecasts total system demand
Forecasts wholesale price
Forecasts customer demand
Determines retail pricing and marketing strategies
Bears shape risk after initial hedge until market allows full hedge
Bears short term risk for variance between demand and forecast

Key:
3     
P/L   
F 

function and P&L impacting that area;
profit/losses of function recorded in that area;
function performed in that area.

Note Generation

Supply

Not 
included in 
CSS

3
P/L
P/L
3
P/L

3
P/L
P/L
3

P/L
P/L

P/L

1
2
3
4
5
3

6
7

8

9
10

3
P/L

3

3

P/L
P/L
P/L
3
P/L
3

F
F

F
3
3
F
F

3
F
F
F

F

‘Scheduling decisions’ means the decision to run individual power generation assets.
‘Responsible for interactions with the Balancing Market’ means interactions with the Balancing Mechanism in electricity. 

Glossary and notes
1 
2 
3  Hedging policy was the responsibility of the Energy Markets Risk Committee which is a sub committee of the SSE Executive Committee. 
4  SSE EPM implements the hedging policy determined by the Energy Markets Risk committee on behalf of Renewables, Thermal, Business Energy and SSE Energy 

5 

6 

7 
8 
9 

Services. 
‘Interacts with wider market participants to buy/sell energy’ means the business unit responsible for interacting with wider market participants to buy/sell energy, 
not the entity responsible for the buy/sell decision itself, which falls under ‘Responsible for implementing hedging policy/makes decisions to buy/sell energy’. 
‘Matches own generation with own supply’ means where there is some internal matching of generation and supply before either generation or supply interact with 
the wider market. The total electricity demand for Business Energy and SSE Energy Services (expressed at NBP) was 13.1TWh and the total UK Generation output 
was 23.0TWh (57%). 
‘Forecasts total system demand’ means forecasting total system electricity demand or total system gas demand. 
‘Forecasts customer demand’ means forecasting the total demand of own supply customers. 
‘Bears shape risk after initial hedge until market allows full hedge’ means the business unit which bears financial risk associated with hedges made before the 
market allows fully shaped hedging. 

10  ‘Bears short term risk for variance between demand and forecast’ means the business unit which bears financial risk associated with too little or too much supply 

for own customer demand.

340

SSE plc  Annual Report 2023

SSE plc  Annual Report 2023

341

Financial StatementsStrategic ReportDirectors’ Report   
Consolidated segmental statement continued
For the year ended 31 March 2023

Independent auditor’s report to the Consolidated Segmental Statement

Reconciliation of CSS to SSE Financial Statements 2022/23
The table below shows how the CSS reconciles with the adjusted earnings before tax in the SSE financial statements (note 5 of SSE’s 
financial statements):

Reconciliation of CSS to Financial Statements

Business Energy
CSS Supply – Business Energy
Government support scheme income

Total Business Energy in SSE Financial Statements

Generation Business

Renewables
CSS Renewables Electricity Generation
Non-GB Generation
JVs/Associates revenue in CSS

Total Renewables in SSE Financial Statements

Thermal
CSS Thermal Electricity Generation
Non-GB Generation
JVs/Associates revenue in CSS

Total Thermal in SSE Financial Statements

Note

1

2
3

4
3

Revenue
£m

4,093.9
(721.0)

3,372.9

1,228.5
175.7
(466.7)

937.5

5,087.8
519.9
(1,003.5)

4,604.2

EBIT
£m

17.9
–

17.9

556.5
23.5
–

580.0

976.0
61.8
–

1,031.9

There are some differences between SSE’s financial statements and the CSS. There are items which are in the financial statements and 
not in the CSS; and also there are items which Ofgem has requested be included in the CSS which are not in the financial statements.

Notes
1 

Income from the Energy Bill Relief Government Scheme which commenced in October 2022 to support non-domestic customers, recognised in ‘Other operating 
income’ in the SSE Financial Statements;

2  Non-GB Electricity Generation relates to SSE’s Renewables business in the Republic of Ireland and Northern Ireland;
3   SSE applies equity accounting for the majority of its investments in JVs and Associates (which means it only includes its share of the profits/losses), in accordance 
with International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS). The Ofgem mandated basis of preparation of the CSS requires that the proportionate share of revenue, 
costs and profits are shown in the CSS. The revenue shown in the CSS for JVs and Associates is not present in the financial statements and is therefore a 
reconciling item. The share of profits however are present in both CSS and financial statements, therefore no reconciliation is necessary;

4  Non-GB Electricity Generation relates to SSE’s Thermal business in the Republic of Ireland.

Adjustments to reported profit before tax
SSE focuses its internal and external reporting on ‘adjusted profit before tax’ which excludes exceptional items, re-measurements arising 
from IFRS 9, depreciation on fair value uplifts and removes taxation on profits of joint ventures and associates, because this reflects the 
underlying profits of SSE, reflects the basis on which it is managed and avoids the volatility that arises out of IFRS 9. Therefore, these 
items have been excluded from the CSS.

Opinion
We have audited the Consolidated Segmental Statement financial statements of SSE plc (the Company) for the year ended 31 March 2023, 
which comprise the Consolidated Segmental Statement (CSS), Basis of preparation, Reconciliation of CSS to the Annual Report of SSE plc  
and the related disclosure notes. The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their preparation is a special purpose framework 
comprising the financial reporting provisions of Ofgem’s Standard condition 16B of Electricity Generation licences and Standard 19A of 
Electricity and Gas Supply Licenses. 

In our opinion, the accompanying CSS of the Company for the year ended 31 March 2023 is prepared, in all material respects, in 
accordance with the requirements of Standard condition 16B of Electricity Generation licences and Standard 19A of Electricity and  
Gas Supply Licenses and the basis of preparation on pages 337 to 341 .

Basis for Opinion
We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing (UK) (ISAs (UK)) including ‘ISA (UK) 800 (Revised) Special 
Considerations – Audits of Financial Statements Prepared in Accordance with Special Purpose Frameworks’. Our responsibilities under 
those standards are further described in the Auditor’s Responsibilities for the Audit of the Financial Statements section of our report.  
We are independent of the Company in accordance with the ethical requirements that are relevant to our audit of the CSS financial 
statements in the UK, including the FRC’s Ethical Standard, and we have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with 
these requirements.

We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion.

Conclusions relating to going concern
In auditing the CSS, we have concluded that the directors’ use of the going concern basis of accounting in the preparation of the CSS  
is appropriate.

Based on the work we have performed, we have not identified any material uncertainties relating to events or conditions that, individually 
or collectively, may cast significant doubt on the Company’s ability to continue as a going concern for a period of 19 months through to 
31 December 2024. 

Our responsibilities and the responsibilities of the directors with respect to going concern are described in the relevant sections of this 
report. However, because not all future events or conditions can be predicted, this statement is not a guarantee as to the group’s ability 
to continue as a going concern.

Emphasis of Matter – Basis of Accounting and Restriction on Distribution and Use
We draw attention to pages 337 to 341  of the CSS, which describes the basis of accounting. The CSS is prepared to assist the Company 
in complying with the financial reporting provisions of the contract referred to above. As a result, the CSS may not be suitable for another 
purpose. Our report is intended solely for the Company, in accordance with our engagement letter dated 14 April 2023, and should not be 
distributed to or used by parties other than the Company. Our opinion is not modified in respect of this matter.

Other information 
The other information comprises the information included in the annual report, other than the CSS and our auditor’s report thereon.  
The directors are responsible for the other information contained within the annual report.

Our opinion on the CSS does not cover the other information and, except to the extent otherwise explicitly stated in this report, we do 
not express any form of assurance conclusion thereon. 

Our responsibility is to read the other information and, in doing so, consider whether the other information is materially inconsistent  
with the CSS or our knowledge obtained in the course of the audit or otherwise appears to be materially misstated. If we identify such 
material inconsistencies or apparent material misstatements, we are required to determine whether there is a material misstatement in 
the CSS itself. If, based on the work we have performed, we conclude that there is a material misstatement of the other information,  
we are required to report that fact.

We have nothing to report in this regard.

Responsibilities of directors
Management is responsible for the preparation of the CSS in accordance with the financial reporting provisions of Section Z of the 
contract, and for such internal control as management determines is necessary to enable the preparation of the CSS that is free from 
material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error.

In preparing the CSS, management is responsible for assessing the Company’s ability to continue as a going concern, disclosing,  
as applicable, matters relating to going concern and using the going concern basis of accounting unless management either intends  
to liquidate the Company or to cease operations, or has no realistic alternative but to do so.

Those charged with governance are responsible for overseeing the Company’s financial reporting process.

342

SSE plc  Annual Report 2023

SSE plc  Annual Report 2023

343

Financial StatementsStrategic ReportDirectors’ ReportIndependent auditor’s report to the Consolidated Segmental Statement continued

Shareholder information

Auditor’s Responsibilities for the Audit of the Financial Statements
Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the CSS as a whole is free from material misstatement, whether due  
to fraud or error, and to issue an auditor’s report that includes our opinion. Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a 
guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with ISAs (UK) will always detect a material misstatement when it exists. Misstatements 
can arise from fraud or error and are considered material if, individually or in the aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence 
the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of the CSS.

Explanation as to what extent the audit was considered capable of detecting irregularities,  
including fraud 
Irregularities, including fraud, are instances of non-compliance with laws and regulations. We design procedures in line with our 
responsibilities, outlined above, to detect irregularities, including fraud. The risk of not detecting a material misstatement due to fraud  
is higher than the risk of not detecting one resulting from error, as fraud may involve deliberate concealment by, for example, forgery  
or intentional misrepresentations, or through collusion. The extent to which our procedures are capable of detecting irregularities, 
including fraud is detailed below. However, the primary responsibility for the prevention and detection of fraud rests with both those 
charged with governance of the entity and management. 

•  We obtained an understanding of the legal and regulatory frameworks that are applicable to the Company and determined that  

the most significant to the CSS is consideration of any non-compliance of regulatory requirements, including the Office of Gas and 
Electricity Markets (Ofgem) and regulations levied by the UK Financial Conduct Authority and Prudential Regulatory Authority. We 
have spoken with the SSE head of regulation to confirm our understanding. 

•  We understood how SSE plc is complying with those frameworks by making enquiries of management, internal audit, those responsible 
for legal and compliance procedures and the company Secretary. We verified our enquiries through our review of board minutes and 
papers provided to the Audit Committee. 

•  We assessed the susceptibility of the Company’s CSS to material misstatement, including how fraud might occur by meeting with 

management from various parts of the business to understand where it considered there was susceptibility to fraud. We also considered 
performance targets and their prosperity to influence on efforts made by management to manage earnings. We considered the 
programmes and controls that the Group has established to address risks identified, or that otherwise prevent, deter, and detect fraud; 
and how senior management monitors those programmes and controls. Where the risk was considered to be higher, we performed 
audit procedures to address each identified fraud risk. 

•  Based on this understanding we designed our audit procedures to identify noncompliance with such laws and regulations. Our 

procedures involved: enquiries of legal counsel, Group management, internal audit, and focused testing. In addition, we completed 
procedures to conclude on the compliance of the disclosures in the CSS with all applicable requirements.

A further description of our responsibilities for the audit of the CSS financial statements is located on the Financial Reporting Council’s 
website at https://www.frc.org.uk/auditorsresponsibilities . This description forms part of our auditor’s report.

Other matter
We have reported separately on the statutory financial statements of SSE plc.

Ernst & Young LLP
Glasgow
23 May 2023

Shareholder enquiries
The Company’s register of members is maintained by our appointed 
Registrar, Link Group. Shareholders with queries relating to their 
shareholdings should contact Link directly:

Link Group  
Central Square
29 Wellington Street 
Leeds
LS1 4DL

Telephone: 0345 143 4005 
Email: SSE@linkgroup.co.uk

Financial calendar

Publication of Annual Report

Q1 Trading Statement

AGM

Ex-dividend date for final dividend

Record date for final dividend

Final date for Scrip elections

Payment date

Notification of Close Period by  
for six months to 30 September

16 June 2023 

20 July 2023

20 July 2023

27 July 2023

28 July 2023

24 August 2023 

21 September 2023

4 October 2023

Results for six months to 30 September

15 November 2023

Website
SSE maintains its website, www.sse.com , to provide ease  
of shareholder access to information about the Company and
its performance. It includes a dedicated Investors section where 
you can find electronic copies of Company reports and further 
information about shareholder services including:
•  share price information;
•  dividend history and trading graphs;
• 
• 
•  downloadable shareholder forms.

the Scrip dividend scheme;
telephone and internet share dealing; and

Digital news
SSE uses a dedicated news and views website (available at  
www.sse.com/news-and-views ) and Twitter (www.twitter.com/
sse ) to keep shareholders, investors, journalists, employees and 
other interested parties up-to-date with news from the Company.

Sustainable communications
SSE’s sustainable communications strategy aims to reduce  
the volume of paper being used in its communications with 
shareholders and other stakeholders. Shareholders are able to 
access a wide range of shareholder documentation, including 
Annual Reports, the Notice of Annual General Meeting and  
useful forms through the Investors section of SSE’s website,  
www.sse.com/investors . We encourage shareholders to  
accept electronic formats as the default method for accessing 
shareholder documentation and dividend information.

All new shareholders are automatically registered as opting to 
access shareholder documentation through the ‘Investors’ area  
of our website. These shareholders receive a notification, by  
post, when new relevant documentation has been placed on the 
website. Shareholders who wish to opt for printed documentation 
and communication should confirm this in writing to Link Group.

Shareholder portal
www.sse-shares.com 
This free online service, provided by Link Group, allows 
shareholders to easily manage their share portfolios, including:
•  View, update and calculate the market value of their 

shareholdings.

•  Change address details and dividend payment instructions.
•  View share price histories and trading graphs of listed 

companies.

E-communications programme
You can also choose to go a step further and sign-up to SSE’s 
eCommunication programme which allows you to receive 
notification of the availability of new shareholder documentation.

Simply register on our shareholder portal www.sse-shares.com . 
You will require your Investor Code (IVC), which can be found on 
any recent shareholder communications from SSE.

Where delivery of an email fails, we will attempt to contact
you by post to update your details. Keep us informed of  
changes to your email address through our shareholder portal
www.sse-shares.com .

Dividends
The Company typically pays dividends twice yearly. Interim 
dividends are paid in March, and final dividends are paid in 
September once approved by shareholders at the AGM. With 
significant focus on payment methods for dividends in recent 
years, in terms of efficiency, cost and security, SSE plc made  
the decision that from September 2019, it would no longer be 
paying dividends by cheque. All dividends are now credited to a 
shareholder’s nominated UK bank/building society account. If you 
haven’t already registered your UK bank/building society account 
details with Link Registrar or would like to amend the details on 
your account, you can do this by:
• 

logging in to the dedicated Shareholder Portal at 
www.sse-shares.com ; or

•  calling Link on 0345 143 4005* and speaking to one of  

the team.

If you do not have a UK bank or building society account, your 
dividends can be paid directly into a bank account outside of  
the UK using the International Payment service. Please visit  
https://ww2.linkgroup.eu/ips  for further information.

Scrip dividend
Alternatively, shareholders may want to join the Scrip dividend 
scheme and receive future dividends in the form of additional  
new shares. Further details of the Scrip dividend scheme can be 
found at https://www.sse.com/investors/shareholder-services/
dividends-and-scrip-scheme . You should still complete a bank 
mandate to enable future dividend payments should you ever 
withdraw from the Scrip scheme.

Share dealing
Share dealing services are available from Link Share Dealing Services.

Telephone dealing
For information on the telephone dealing service call  
0371 664 0445
Lines are open Monday-Friday, 8.00am – 4.30pm  
Please have your Investor Code (IVC) ready.

344

SSE plc  Annual Report 2023

SSE plc  Annual Report 2023

345

Financial StatementsStrategic ReportDirectors’ ReportShareholder information continued

Glossary

Internet dealing
For information on the internet dealing service log on to:  
https:// ww2.linkgroup.eu/share-deal/. Information provided on 
these services should not be construed as a recommendation to 
buy, sell or hold shares in SSE plc, nor to use the services of Link 
Share Dealing Services. Link Share Dealing Services is a trading 
name of Link Market Services Trustees Limited which is authorised 
and regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority. If you live  
in a country where the provisions of such services would be 
contrary to local laws or regulations, this should be treated for 
information only.

Dissentient shareholders
Scottish and Southern Energy plc (now known as SSE plc) was 
formed in 1998 following the merger of Scottish Hydro Electric plc 
and Southern Electric plc. The terms of the offer through which 
the merger was effected was that for every Southern Electric plc 
ordinary share held, shareholders received one Scottish and 
Southern Energy plc (now SSE plc) ordinary share. A number of 
shareholders did not respond to the original merger offer, resulting 
in subsequent tracing communications over the following years.
In 2017, more than 12 years after the formation of SSE, a complete 
tracing programme was initiated through the asset reunification 
company Capita Employee Benefits (Consulting) Limited (Capita 
Tracing), to locate dissentient shareholders and reunite them with 
their funds. The steps agreed were designed to enable the best 
possible outcome for dissentient shareholders and provided clear 
details of the actions required to claim their asset entitlement.
Following the completion of all reasonable steps over £2m (in a 
combination of shares and accrued dividends) was returned to 
dissentient shareholders. As required by the Companies Act 2006, 
the remainder totaling over £9m was transferred to the Chancery 
Division of the High Court of Justice. Unclaimed monies can still 
be claimed through direct application to the Chancery Division
of the High Court of Justice. The process for making such an 
application was provided to outstanding claimants and further 
details are provided at www.sse.com/investors/shareholder-
services/useful-information/southern-electric-unclaimed-
dividends/

AIP

APM

ASTI

CAGR

CCGT

CCS

CfD

COP27

DNO

DSO

EBITDA

EBRS

EGL

EPS

EV

FID

FFO

GHG

GW

HVDC

HVO

IEA

IRA

kV

MW

Annual Incentive Plan, a short-term salary incentive plan that all personal contract employees are eligible for

Alternative Performance Measures used to track financial performance

Ofgem’s Accelerated Strategic Transmission Investment framework

Combined Annual Growth Rate

Combined Cycle Gas Turbine

Carbon capture and storage 

Contract for Difference

The 27th Conference of Parties climate summit held in Egypt in November 2022

Distribution Network Operator

Distribution System Operator

Earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation, and amortisation

The UK Government’s Energy Bill Relief Scheme

The UK Government’s Energy Generator Levy

Earnings Per Share

Electric Vehicle

Final Investment Decision

Funds From Operations

Greenhouse gas, used in relation to GHG emissions

Gigawatt

High Voltage Direct Current 

Hydrotreated Vegetable Oil, a fossil-free alternative to diesel

International Energy Agency

The US Government’s $250bn Inflation Reduction Act

Kilovolt

Megawatt

Net zero

Cutting greenhouse gas emissions to a level that is equal to or less than the emissions removed from the 
environment

NZAP

OCGT

ORESS

PSP

PSR

RAV

RCF

REFIT

REMA

RIIO

SSE’s Net Zero Acceleration Programme, updated in May 2023 to ‘NZAP Plus’

Open-cycle Gas Turbine

Ireland’s Offshore Renewable Energy Support Scheme

Performance Share Plan, the Executive Directors’ long-term incentive plan

Priority Services Register

Regulated Asset Value as applies to SSE’s networks businesses

Retained Cash Flow

Renewable Energy Feed-in Tariffs

The UK Government’s Review of Electricity Market Arrangements

The ‘Revenue = Incentives + Innovation + Outputs’ regulatory framework by which SSE’s networks businesses are 
remunerated

Scope 1, 2 and 3 
emissions

Scope 1 and 2 are those emissions that are owned or controlled by SSE. Scope 3 emissions are from sources not 
directly owned or controlled by SSE

Spark spread

The difference between the price received by SSE for electricity produced and the cost of the natural gas needed 
to produce that electricity

TCFD

Totex

TWh

VaR

WACC

Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures

Total expenditure

Terawatt-hour

Value at Risk

Weighted Average Cost of Capital 

346

SSE plc  Annual Report 2023

SSE plc  Annual Report 2023

347

Financial StatementsStrategic ReportDirectors’ ReportS

S

E

p

l

c

A

n

n

u

a

l

R

e

p

o

r

t

2

0

2

3

For further information about SSE,  
please contact:

SSE plc
Corporate Affairs
Inveralmond House
200 Dunkeld Road
Perth PH1 3AQ
UK
+44 (0)1738 456000
info@sse.com 
Registered in Scotland No. 117119

sse.com
Follow the latest news from SSE  
on Twitter at: twitter.com/sse 

@SSE

 
 
 
 
