A sustainable approach continued
Ensuring a just transition continued

Providing affordable and clean energy

Avoiding the next energy crisis 
SSE recognises the hugely challenging 
circumstances faced by energy consumers 
in 2022/23. SSE Airtricity responded through 
a combination of keeping tariffs as low as 
possible for all consumers through not 
passing through the full impact of wholesale 
costs, a price freeze for financially vulnerable 
consumers and customer support funds. 
The business also honoured its commitment 
not to make a profit in the year. Residual 
profits of €8.6m were distributed to ROI 
domestic customers in full, after the year- 
end in April 2023, amounting to a credit of 
€35 per customer.

Short-term measures, however, are not a 
long-term solution to high energy costs 
and a reliance on unpredictable sources of 
energy. Therefore, the need to accelerate 
the delivery of renewable energy generation 

and accelerated energy efficiency rollout for 
homes and businesses is more important 
now than ever. It is this multi-track approach, 
supporting customers in the short-term, with 
industry and government working together 
in the medium-term for a secure, clean and 
affordable future energy system.

plans to deliver up to 40,000 installations 
over the next 10 years. This activity is also 
helping to support local jobs, with the 
creation of 200 highly skilled green jobs 
over the next two years announced by 
Activ8 in 2022, supporting a just transition 
towards net zero.

Energy Affordability remains a Principal 
Risk to the Group, for further details 
please see page 73 .

Powering greener homes  
and businesses 
SSE Business Energy helps business 
customers of all sizes across the UK to 
reduce their carbon emissions through its 
green electricity offering. All SSE Business 
Energy green electricity is backed by 
Renewable Energy Guarantees of Origin 
(REGOs) and is independently verified. 
In addition to this, SSE Airtricity has a 50% 
ownership share in Activ8 Solar Energies, 
which carried out over 1,500 domestic 
solar installations in 2022/23, with further 

Engagement in action
Energy customers

Supporting customers  
through exceptional times

SSE Airtricity provided a holistic range  
of practical measures up to the value  
of €25m, including targeting families  
who are struggling financially. This has 
included:

•  Price promise: SSE Airtricity held 
energy costs at June 2022 levels  
until the end of March 2023, for  
up to 60,000 financially vulnerable 
customers.

•  Discretionary fund: a €1m 

discretionary fund was created to 
provide direct support to customers  
in difficulty.

•  Energy efficiency measures: to  

vulnerable households, at no cost,  
and a €2.5m donation to not-for-profit 
organisation EnergyCloud, which will 
help divert surplus renewable energy 
to up to 10,000 fuel poor homes 
across Ireland.

•  Working with partners to support 
households: over 2022/23, SSE 
Airtricity made donations to trusted 
charity partners to support households 
in need of financial assistance across 
the island of Ireland, regardless of who 
their supplier is. This included a €1m 
donation to St Vincent de Paul (SVP) 
and donations totalling £2m to Bryson 
Charitable Group.

help tackle one of the root causes of 
fuel poverty, SSE Airtricity supported 
vulnerable households with energy 
efficiency. This has included delivering 
home energy upgrades for up to 600 

•  Energy Bill Relief Scheme: Airtricity 
also applied discounts to the value  
of £116m in the year to customers 
under the UK Government’s Energy 
Bill Relief Scheme. 

The number of customers 
benefiting from Airtricity holding 
prices at June 2022 levels was 

60,000

next two decades with technology rapidly 
advancing and high-carbon heating and 
transport being phased out. 

In addressing these critical issues,  
SSEN Distribution has created an action 
plan for delivering a just transition for 
energy consumers. With 10 commitments, 
it will progress alongside further 
recommendations for the energy industry 
and policy makers to help unlock the 
benefits of net zero for all consumers.

SSEN Distribution’s commitments cover  
a range of areas, including: supporting 
knowledge-sharing and collaboration; 
addressing emerging vulnerabilities resulting 
from the transition to net zero; ensuring 
equal access to electricity infrastructure; and, 
supporting remote and rural communities, 
which may be off-grid, to benefit from the 
electricity system of the future. 

The full report can be found at  
ssen.co.uk . 

A FAIR ENERGY
FUTURE

Unlocking a just transition  
for consumers

March 2023

Providing an inclusive service  
to network customers
SSEN Distribution’s Priority Service Register 
(PSR) is the mechanism to target support 
for people in vulnerable situations. The  
PSR provides support for customers who 
require adapted services, or who may need 
additional support, particularly in the event 
of power cuts. It is therefore critical that the 
Register is comprehensive, accurate and 
captures all those in need. 

To achieve that aim, in March 2023 a  
new website thepsr.co.uk  was created 
through a collaborative initiative led  
by SSEN Distribution and including 10 
Distribution Network Operators (DNOs) 
and Gas Distribution Network Operators 
(GDNs). This website brings together 
individual registers from DNOs and GDNs, 
making it easier to raise awareness of the 
additional support available nationwide. 
Furthermore, the website supports external 
partners such as local and national charities 
and NHS Trusts to promote the PSR to their 
customer base through a clear process. 

Unlocking a just transition  
for network customers 
SSEN Distribution is at the forefront of 
enabling net zero at a local level, operating 
the electricity distribution network that will 
facilitate new forms of heating, battery 
storage and many more electric vehicles.  
In March 2023, it published a report which 
explores how net zero can be delivered 
fairly for consumers, ensuring people  
can participate in and benefit from the 
energy transition. 

The report, titled A Fair Energy Future , 
details the partnerships and innovation 
projects SSEN Distribution has undertaken 
to explore and understand the new energy 
challenges that consumers will face in the 

Creating new standards  
in equal EV access

In October 2020 SSEN Distribution 
established ‘Equal EV’, a collaboration 
with Disabled Motoring UK (DMUK)  
to identify the unique enablers  
and barriers faced by drivers with 
vulnerabilities adopting electric 
vehicles (EVs) and the role of 
technologies and Distribution 
Network Operators in removing 
barriers. The insights gained from  
the work have been instructive and 
have supported the inclusion of a 
commitment to improve accessibility 
at public charge points for disabled 
users in the UK Government’s Electric 
Vehicle Infrastructure Strategy.

In 2022, the Equal EV project fed into 
the creation of the British Standard 
Institution (BSI) PAS 1899, a new 
specification on accessible public 
charge points for EVs covering the 
design of charge points, including 
the location spacing and surrounding 
environment, as well as the 
appropriate information, signals  
and indicators to be provided. 

In addition, Disabled Motoring  
UK (DMUK) launched a parking 
standard called the Disabled Parking 
Accreditation (DPA) which signposts 
off-street car parks that are 
accessible to disabled people and  
will soon include a dedicated section 
on EV charge point provision. 

64

SSE plc  Annual Report 2023

SSE plc  Annual Report 2023

65

Financial StatementsStrategic ReportDirectors’ ReportA sustainable approach continued
Ensuring a just transition continued

Non-financial information statement

Supporting a sustainable supply chain

An increasing focus on 
contractor safety
In 2022/23 there was a significant rise  
in contractor hours worked on SSE’s  
large capital projects, which represent a 
higher-risk environment than for SSE’s 
operational activity. SSE’s contractor TRIR 
increased slightly compared to 2021/22 
performance and there was a contractor 
fatality on Shetland in June 2022. See  
the Safety, Sustainability, Health and 
Environment Advisory Committee report 
on pages 162 to 165  of this report for 
more information around SSE’s response  
to this incident.

Given the rise in contractor hours worked in 
SSE’s current growth phase, there is a need 
for a strategy that builds stronger, more 
collaborative relationships with supply chain 
partners to keep everyone safe. 

A dedicated, Group-level contractor safety 
team was established in early 2023 to 
ensure partners are fully supported and 
performance is monitored across all of 
SSE’s large capital projects.

Mitigating modern slavery 
in the supply chain
Over 2022/23, SSE continued to deliver  
its Modern Slavery Action Plan. Key 
developments over the year included  
the rolling out its updated modern slavery 
clause and Living Hours clause into supplier 
contracts, and completion of onsite 
modern slavery audits. 

SSE finalised the programme of onsite 
modern slavery audits for three of its key 
sites, which have been undertaken by third 
party organisation Stronger Together since 
2021/22. Findings showed that health, 
safety, and labour standards were very high 
on all three sites assessed and that risk of 
modern slavery was very low. The gap 
analysis highlighted key improvement 
areas, including around risk identification, 
supplier due diligence and training, which 
have been embedded in SSE’s Action Plan. 

Deep dive assessments for high risk areas 
of SSE’s business activities continued. Work 
was undertaken with Slave Free Alliance  
to identify risk associated with Solar and 

Battery projects, and mitigation actions are 
ongoing. SSE Renewables increased focus 
on high-risk areas such as vessels which 
service offshore wind farms to identify  
key risk areas and ensure additional due 
diligence is put in place where required. 

In addition, SSE continued to actively 
participate in a number of industry  
working groups and initiatives that seek to 
develop best practice and industry-wide 
approaches to addressing modern slavery. 

More information on SSE’s actions to 
mitigate the risk of human rights abuses 
and modern slavery, and the industry 
collaboration being undertaken, can  
be found in SSE’s Sustainability Report  
2023 . 

Healthy supply chains influence SSE’s 
exposure to the Principal Risks of Large 
Capital Projects Management and Speed 
of Change – further details on how these 
are managed can be found on pages 75 
and 77 .

Engagement in action
Suppliers, contractors and partners 

Supply chain learnings from COP27

SSE participated in climate debates on the 
fringe of COP27 in Egypt in November 
2022. SSE’s objective in its attendance 
was to further the case for net zero 
through the practical demonstration  
and example of its investments in 
low-carbon infrastructure in the UK, 
Ireland and beyond. 

One further objective was to learn from 
international experiences in relation  
to the mining and extraction of metals 
and minerals critical to the technology 
required by SSE’s investments. 

SSE actively participated in discussions 
and panels on the just transition, 
considering issues through the lens of 
indigenous communities, many of whom 
host the commercial mining of minerals 
such as cobalt, lithium and silicon. 

The result of the engagement was an 
understanding of the importance of 
‘FPIC’ principles (free, prior and informed 
consent) and an imperative to work more 
closely with the most strategic suppliers 
on efforts to ensure components 
contained within the manufactured 
capital assets SSE procures are sourced 
from responsible sources. 

The engagement at COP27 was 
particularly instructive to SSE and has  
led to the development of a workstream 
that can deliver a transition to net zero in 
a responsible and ethical way. This work, 
directly with suppliers, is in addition to 
ongoing human rights work with the 
Sustainability Supply Chain School and 
industry collaborations including Utilities 
Against Modern Slavery and Scotland 
Against Modern Slavery.

SSE has reported extensively on its non-financial impacts within its Annual Report for a number of years and welcomes continued 
increasing focus from regulators, shareholders and other stakeholders. This table outlines how SSE meets the Non-Financial Reporting 
requirements contained within the Companies Act 2006. Further disclosure can also be found in SSE’s Sustainability Report 2023 .

Reporting requirement and  
SSE’s material areas of impact

Relevant Group Principal  
Risks, pages 72 to 77 

Relevant Group Policies  
on sse.com

Policy embedding, due diligence, 
outcomes and key performance indicators

Climate Change

Group Climate Change Policy

Safety and the Environment

Group Environment Policy

People and Culture

Group Employment Policy

Safety and the Environment

Group Safety and  
Health Policy

People and Culture

Group Sustainability Policy

Speed of Change

Group Taxation Policy

Energy Affordability

Group Procurement Policy

2030 Goals progress,  
pages 22 to 23 

A year of strategic progress, 
pages 18 to 21 

Accelerating climate action, 
pages 36 to 51 

Protecting the natural 
environment, pages 52 to 55 

Safety, Sustainability, Health 
and Environment Advisory 
Committee Report, 
pages 162 to 165 

2030 Goals progress,  
pages 22 to 23 

Ensuring a just transition,  
pages 56 to 66 

Focusing on culture,  
pages 59 and 137 to 138 

Empowering the employee 
voice, pages 134 to 136 

Safety, Sustainability, Health 
and Environment Advisory 
Committee Report,  
pages 162 to 165 

2030 Goals progress,  
pages 22 to 23 

Ensuring a just transition,  
pages 56 to 66 

People and Culture

Group Human Rights Policy

Large Capital Projects 
Management

Group Corruption and 
Financial Crime Prevention 
Policy

Group Whistleblowing Policy

SSE’s social contribution, 
pages 58 to 59 

Focusing on culture, 
pages 59 and 137 and 138 

Environmental matters 
•  Delivering net zero 
•  Managing climate-related 

issues 

•  Carbon performance, 
metrics and targets

•  Responsible resource use  
– water and energy use,  
air emissions

•  Managing impacts on the 
natural environment and 
biodiversity

Employees 
•  Protecting health, safety 

• 

and wellbeing
Investing in training  
and learning

•  Culture and ethics
•  Reward and benefits
•  Employee voice
•  Promoting inclusion  

and diversity

Social matters 
•  Ensuring a just transition
•  Contributing to jobs  

and GDP

•  Sustainable procurement 

and supporting local supply 
chains

•  Paying a fair share of tax
•  Supporting customers 
through the cost of  
living crisis

•  Sharing value with local 

communities

Human rights,  
anti-corruption  
and anti-bribery 
•  Reinforcing an ethical 

business culture
•  Speaking up against 

wrongdoing

•  Prevention of bribery  

and corruption

•  Approach to human rights 

and modern slavery

66

SSE plc  Annual Report 2023

SSE plc  Annual Report 2023

67

Financial StatementsStrategic ReportDirectors’ Reportreview of SSE’s Principal Risks that took 
place during the financial year.

way that reflects the expectations of SSE’s 
key stakeholder groups.

Risk-informed decision making
Managing SSE’s risks

The execution of SSE’s strategy and the creation of value from 
the opportunities arising from net zero are dependent on the 
effective identification, understanding and mitigation of the 
Group’s Principal Risks.

Throughout 2022/23 SSE has met and 
managed unprecedented challenge  
in the markets in which it operates. As 
highlighted in the Chair’s Statement on 
pages 4 and 5 , issues such as safety 
programmes, affordability, sectoral risks 
(such as extremely volatile commodity 
prices and inflationary pressures), extreme 
weather and climate change have featured 
heavily in strategic risk discussions.

While managing these external challenges, 
SSE has continued to make substantial 
progress on the execution and delivery  
of it’s Net Zero Acceleration Programme 
(NZAP), with in excess of £2.8bn of capital 
investment including acquisitions delivered 
during the course of the year. Supporting  
a just transition through continuing to 
create options for investment and growth 
by boosting energy security, supporting 
communities and creating green jobs, 
coupled with its balanced mix of 
businesses, uniquely positions SSE for  
the transition to net zero and resilience 
against volatility. These factors along  
with the ongoing geopolitical crisis in 
Ukraine having a significant impact on 
energy affordability and security of supply 
concerns, formed the basis of the full 

SSE’s risk management process is 
comprised of four main stages summarised 
in the diagram below. Continued maturity 
and refinement of our risk management 
framework ensures that it remains aligned 
with SSE’s strategy and this year included 
the review and redrafting of the Group Risk 
Management Policy which is available to 
view on sse.com . 

SSE’s sector review on pages 12 to 15  
provides more detail on the range of external 
factors that influenced the risk exposures to 
the Group over the course of the year.

Board considerations
Effective identification, understanding  
and mitigation of Principal Risks underpins 
the Board’s approach to setting strategic 
objectives for SSE and informing strategic 
decision making (please see page 124  for 
SSE’s decision making context). The Board 
aims to consider all material influencing 
factors and key external trends in the energy 
market, including those relating to climate 
change, technological developments and 
government policy and aims to do so in a 

Principal Risk assessment processes

Individual risk 
reviews

Outputs:  
Actions  
and risk  
disclosures

Committee  
self-assessments

Risk  
monitoring

Risk  
identification

Risk  
response

Risk  
assessment

Board  
assessment

Executive 
Committee 
assessment

68

SSE plc  Annual Report 2023

These material influencing factors also 
have an impact on the nature and extent  
of risks the Board is willing to take to meet 
these objectives, and related mitigation 
strategies adopted by the Group. Material 
changes in the nature, proximity and 
potential impacts of SSE’s Group Principal 
Risks are regularly assessed by the 
oversight committees and the Business 
Unit executive committees with appropriate 
mitigations implemented where necessary.

Overseeing risk
The Group Executive Committee and its 
subcommittees (as detailed on page 122 ) 
have responsibility for overseeing SSE’s 
Principal Risks. During the third quarter of 
SSE’s financial year, an assessment of each 
Principal Risk is completed by the assigned 
oversight committee. This assessment 
requires committee members to provide 
commentary on contextual changes to the 
risks, consider whether over the course of 
the year the risks have become more or less 
material based on impact and likelihood 
and to confirm effective mitigations are in 
place for controlling risks. Consideration is 
also given to emerging risks and whether 
any of those identified have the potential  
to become a Principal Risk to the business 
in the medium to long-term.

These responses are then consolidated  
into reports, one for each Principal Risk, 
which are presented back to the committees 
along with the results of provisional viability 
testing and analysis of relevant, current 
management information and key 
information relating to Business Unit 
Principal Risks and controls. These reports 
form the basis for the committees to discuss 
and confirm the risk trend (more, less or 
equally material), overall effectiveness of the 
risk control and monitoring environment, 
and whether any additional control 
improvement actions are required. This is  
an inclusive and iterative process that results 
in considered and objective outputs and a 
robust assessment of the Principal Risks. The 
outputs from these committee assessments 
are then presented to the Group Executive 
Committee for full review.

Group Principal Risks
As reflected throughout the Strategic Report, this year exposures to a number of external factors, 
particularly those driven by macro-economic and geopolitical events, have increased materially.  
This, in turn, has increased the residual exposures of a number of the Group Principal Risks set  
out on the following pages, primarily Energy Affordability, Cyber Security and Resilience, Portfolio 
Exposure and Political and Regulatory Change. 

The graphic below illustrates SSE’s 11 Group Principal Risks positioned to highlight the residual risk 
impact scores against residual likelihood scores following completion of the Principal Risk Self 
Assessment process. 

Change to individual risk rating
Change to individual risk rating

Risk trend key

Increased in materiality 

Not changed significantly

Reduced in materiality

1.  Climate Change

2. 

 Cyber Security  
and Resilience

3.  Energy Affordability

4. 

 Energy Infrastructure 
Failure

5.  Financial Liabilities

6. 

 Large Capital Projects 
Management 

7.  People and Culture

8. 

 Political and  
Regulatory Change

9.  Portfolio Exposure

10.   Safety and the 
Environment

11.  Speed of Change

h
g
H

i

d
o
o
h

i
l

e
k
L

i

l

a
u
d
i
s
e
R

w
o
L

1

3

8

7

6

10

11

2

9

4

5

*  Safety remains SSE’s most important value, and management of this risk remains SSE’s highest priority.
**  It should be noted that Energy Affordability is particularly closely linked to – and therefore impacted by – Political and Regulatory Change and  

Less

Residual Impact

More

Portfolio Exposure.

This year, due to the pace of change in  
the markets in which SSE operates, an 
additional assessment of the Principal Risks 
was undertaken by the relevant subject 
matter experts and the Group Executive 
Committee during the last quarter of the 
financial year. The output of this was then 
considered, with any emerging risks or 
additional material changes resulting from 
this being proposed to the Board.

2022/23 Review Outcome
Following the 2022/23 annual review 
process, the number of Principal Risks to 
the Group remains at 11 with two revisions 
of note. The previously named Group 
Principal Risk of ‘Commodity Prices’ has 

been redefined and renamed ‘Portfolio 
Exposure’. The second revision relates to 
the previously named Group Principal Risk 
of ‘Politics, Regulation and Compliance’ 
which has been redefined and renamed 
‘Political and Regulatory Change’, both  
of these revisions have been made in order 
to better reflect and articulate the risk 
exposures to the Group.

An essential tenet of SSE’s Risk Management 
process is the consideration of potential 
emerging risks and whether any of those 
identified have the potential to become a 
Group Principal Risk in the medium to long 
term. While no new emerging Principal 
Risks have been identified this year 

important revisions have been made to  
the descriptions of each of the Principal 
Risks to take account of key changes  
and corresponding mitigations that were 
introduced during the year. 

Full details of the Group Principal Risks  
are available on pages 72 to 77 . Key 
developments that have influenced the  
risk exposures to the Group have also  
been highlighted in detail throughout the 
Strategic Report.

SSE plc  Annual Report 2023

69

Financial StatementsStrategic ReportDirectors’ Report 
Risk-informed decision making continued
Managing SSE’s risks continued

Risk Appetite Statement
The Group risk appetite remains aligned  
to the achievement of SSE’s strategic 
objectives. SSE will however only accept  
risk where it is consistent with its core 
purpose, strategy and values; is well 
understood; can be effectively managed;  
is in line with stakeholder expectations  
and offers commensurate reward.

The sectors in which SSE operate are part of 
a rapidly changing industry subject to a high 
degree of political, regulatory and legislative 
change as well as risk arising from other 
developments including technology, the 
impact of competition, stakeholders’ 
evolving expectations and climate change. 
Furthermore, each of SSE’s Business Units 
have differing levels of exposure to additional 
risks. For example, the Transmission and 
Distribution businesses are economically 
regulated and are characterised by relatively 
stable, inflation linked cash flows while the 
SSE Renewables business benefits from cash 
flows linked to government-mandated 
renewables subsidies. Those Business Units 
that generate and trade energy are also 
exposed to significant medium- to long-
term energy market and commodity risks in 
operational and investment decision making. 

The key elements of SSE’s Strategic 
Framework – including SSE’s Purpose, 
Strategy, Goals and Values, as well as  
the focus of its business model, are fully 
reflective of its risk appetite (see pages 8 
and 9  for further details). 

Fundamentally: 

In determining its appetite for specific risks, 
the Board is guided by three key principles: 

1.  Risks should be consistent with SSE’s 
core purpose, financial objectives, 
strategy and values; 

2.  Risks should only be accepted where 
relevant approvals have been attained 
through the Governance Framework  
to confirm appropriate reward is 
achievable on the basis of objective 
evidence and in a manner that is 
consistent with SSE’s purpose, strategy 
and values; and 

3.  Risks should be actively controlled and 
monitored through the appropriate 
allocation of management and  
other resources, underpinned  
by the maintenance of a healthy 
business culture. 

The Board has overall responsibility for 
determining the nature and extent of the 
risk it is willing to take to achieve strategic 
objectives and for ensuring that risks are 
managed effectively across the Group.

•  SSE has a clear strategy to create value 

for shareholders and society in a 
sustainable way by developing, building, 
operating, and investing in the electricity 
infrastructure and businesses needed in 
the transition to net zero.

•  SSE has a good understanding of the 
risks and opportunities in the Great 
Britain and Ireland energy markets  
and a strong associated knowledge  
of adjacent EU markets, augmented by 
its acquisitions. UK and Irish markets, 
alongside EU markets therefore provide 
the Group’s geographic focus, with 
expansion into other new international 
markets being subject to rigorous 
scrutiny and ensuring the appropriate 
governance arrangements which are 
consistent with the Group’s values and 
strategic goals are in place. 

•  Safety is SSE’s first value and it has no 

appetite for risks brought on by unsafe 
actions, nor does it have any appetite 
for risks brought on by insecure actions 
including those relating to cyber security. 
In areas where SSE is exposed to risks  
for which it has little or no appetite,  
even though it has implemented high 
standards of control and mitigation, the 
nature of these risks mean that they 
cannot be eliminated completely. 

Viability Statement
SSE provides the energy needed today 
while building a better world of energy  
for tomorrow through creating value for 
shareholders and society in a stainable  
way by developing, building, operating and 
investing in the electricity infrastructure 
and businesses needed in the transition  
to net zero. The delivery of SSE’s purpose 
and execution of its strategy depends on 
the skills and talent of a diverse workforce, 
the quality of its assets and the effective 
identification, understanding and mitigation 
of risk.

As required within provision 31 of the UK 
Corporate Governance Code, the Board 
has formally assessed the prospects of  
the Company over the next four financial 
years to the period ending March 2027.  
The Directors have determined that as this 
time horizon aligns with the Group’s Net 
Zero Acceleration Programme Plus, which 
includes a fully funded capital investment 
programme to 2027, a greater degree  
of confidence over the forecasting 
assumptions modelled can be established.

In making this statement the Directors  
have considered the resilience of the Group 
taking into account its current position,  
the Principal Risks facing the Group and  
the control measures in place to mitigate 
each of them. The Directors recognise the 
significance of the strong balance sheet 
with total undrawn committed lending 
facilities as shown above:

Matures

Comment

SSE plc

SSE plc

SSE plc

£bn

1.30

0.20

1.00

March 2026

October 2026

February 2024

SSEN Transmission* 0.75

November 2025

SSEN Distribution

0.25

November 2025

3.50

* The Transmission facility is available to that Business Unit only.

Collateral facility with 1 year 
extension option (in favour  
of the banks)

2, 1 year extension options  
(in favour of the Group)

2, 1 year extension options  
(in favour of the Group)

The Group is an owner and operator of 
critical national infrastructure and has  
a proven ability to maintain access to 
capital markets during stressed economic 
conditions. The Group has demonstrated 
this through securing £3.0bn of funding 
since April 2021 including the issuance of  
a 1bn Euro Hybrid bond in April 2022 and 
€650m bond in July 2022. Further detail 
relating to planned funding is available in 
A6.3  Accompanying Information to the 
Financial Statements in the Annual Report 
and Accounts.

The Group has a number of highly 
attractive and relatively liquid assets – 
including a regulated asset base which 
benefits from a strong regulated revenue 
stream as well as the operational wind 
portfolio – which provide flexibility of 
options. This has been demonstrated 
through the success of the programme  
of disposals set out by the Group in June 
2020 and with the recent sale of a 25% 
stake in the Transmission business.

To help support this Statement, over the 
course of the year a suite of severe but 
plausible scenarios has been developed  
for each of SSE’s Principal Risks. These 
scenarios are based on relevant real life 

events that have been observed either  
in the markets within which the Group 
operates or related markets globally. 
Examples include critical asset failure to 
generation assets (for Energy Infrastructure 
Failure); changes to key government  
energy policies (for Political and Regulatory 
Change); and the physical impacts of 
climate change on distribution assets 
through more frequent and increasingly 
severe storm events (for Climate Change). 

Scenarios are stress tested against forecast 
available financial headroom and in 
addition to considering these in isolation, 
the Directors also consider the cumulative 
impact of different combinations of 
scenarios, including those that individually 
have the highest impact.

Upon the basis of the analysis undertaken, 
and on the assumption that the fundamental 
regulatory and statutory framework of the 
markets in which the Group operates does 
not substantively change, and the Group 
continues to be able to refund its debt at 
maturity, the Directors have a reasonable 
expectation that the Group will be able to 
continue to meet its liabilities as they fall  
due in the period to March 2027.

70

SSE plc  Annual Report 2023

SSE plc  Annual Report 2023

71

Financial StatementsStrategic ReportDirectors’ Report 
 
Group Principal Risks

Risk trend key

Link to strategy

Increased in 
materiality 

Not changed 
significantly

Reduced in 
materiality

Develop

Operate

Build

Invest

Climate Change

What is the risk?
The risk that SSE’s strategy, 
investments or operations  
are deemed to have an 
unacceptable future impact  
on the natural environment  
and on national and 
international targets to  
tackle climate change.

Oversight
Group Risk Committee

Link to strategy

Material influencing factors
•  The impact of physical risks associated 
with climate change, such as severe 
adverse weather that causes damage or 
interrupts energy supply or generation.

•  The speed of technological 

developments. 

•  Transitional risks relating to developments 
in political and regulatory requirements 
related to the products and services that 
SSE provides. 

•  Ensuring the continuation of Large 

Capital Projects which are fundamental 
to Group net zero targets.

•  Global and domestic policies including 
those published by the UK’s Committee 
on Climate Change relating to the 6th 
carbon budget for the period 2032 and 
2037.

•  Political and regulatory engagement.
•  Plans to transition to a decarbonised 

energy system.

•  Geopolitical events relating to the 
security of supplies and macro-
economic stress.

Risk trend

Cyber Security and Resilience

Risk trend

Key mitigations
•  Policy link: SSE Climate Change Policy and SSE 

Sustainability Policy. 

•  SSE is investing on average £10m a day on 

decarbonising infrastructure over a five-year  
period to FY27 as part of its Net Zero Acceleration 
Programme Plus. 

•  SSE provides transparent disclosures of its 

governance around climate-related risks and 
opportunities to allow its stakeholders to properly 
assess its performance in managing climate related 
issues.

•  The Group Executive Committee is responsible  
for implementing the Group strategy set by the 
Board and driving climate-related performance 
programmes across the organisation. The Chief 
Sustainability Officer is responsible for advising the 
Board, Group Executive Committee and businesses 
on climate related matters and provides support  
in the implementation of relevant initiatives across 
the Group.

•  The TCFD Steering Group, which consists of 

representatives from Finance, Group Risk and 
Sustainability conducts an annual review of the 
outputs of the climate-related risk and opportunity 
assessment process and assesses the potential 
financial impact of key risks and opportunities in  
a fair, balanced and understandable way. This is then 
reviewed and approved by the Group Risk Committee.

•  SSE’s approach to executive remuneration reflects 

the role of sustainability and climate-related 
considerations within SSE’s purpose and strategy, 
with sustainability-linked metrics and targets an 
element of performance related pay. As part of  
the 2022 Directors’ Remuneration Policy review,  
the Remuneration Committee further strengthened 
the link between sustainability and executive pay  
by introducing sustainability measures in the 
long-term incentive (PSP) for the first time. 
Performance is assessed against SSE’s 2030 Goals 
and also against strategic performance in relation  
to the implementation of the NZAP strategy.  
These measures are worth a combined 30%  
of the overall award.

What is the risk?
The risk that key infrastructure, 
networks or core systems are 
compromised or are otherwise 
rendered unavailable.

Oversight
Group Risk Committee

Link to strategy

Material influencing factors
•  Software or hardware issues, including 
telecoms networks, connectivity and 
power supply interruption.

•  Heightened threat of cyber-attacks  

• 

• 
• 

due to geopolitical events. 
Increased sophistication and likelihood 
of ransomware attacks. 
International expansion.
Ineffective operational performance,  
for example, breach of information 
security rules or poor management  
of resilience expertise.

•  Employee and contractor understanding 
and awareness of information security 
requirements.

•  Malicious cyber attack.

Key mitigations
•  Policy link: SSE Cyber Security Policy and SSE  
Data and Information Management Policy.
•  Key technology and infrastructure risks are 

incorporated into the design of systems and  
are regularly appraised with risk mitigation  
plans recommended.

•  SSE conducts regular internal and third-party testing 
of the security of its information and operational 
technology networks and systems.

•  Continued strengthening and embedding of the 

cyber risks and controls framework to continue to 
identify threats and reduce exposures through, for 
example, improved use of data analytics and further 
migration from unsupported systems.

•  Significant longer term Security Programme 

• 

investment and planning which seeks to strengthen 
the resilience of the systems on which SSE relies.
IT Service Assurance works with individual Business 
Units to form and agree appropriate service level 
agreements for business-critical IT services.

•  Business continuity plans are reviewed in response 
to changes in the threat to the Group and regularly 
tested.

•  Over the course of the year an updated Cyber 

Security Culture Strategy was launched. This has 
been designed to continue to improve the cyber 
security maturity across the Group and build 
positively on the existing, strong cyber culture.  
The implementation of this strategy will be assessed 
and monitored to measure its impact on the levels 
of cyber security awareness and culture across  
the Group.

Energy Affordability

Risk trend

What is the risk?
The risk that energy customers’ 
ability to meet the costs of 
providing energy, or their ability 
to access energy services is 
limited, giving rise to negative 
political or regulatory 
intervention that has an impact 
on SSE’s regulated networks 
and energy businesses.

Oversight
Group Executive Committee

Link to strategy

Material influencing factors
•  Technology changes and innovations  
to develop sustainable infrastructure  
and energy solutions.

•  Supply chain cost management.
•  Public policies, including those aimed  
at reducing carbon emissions and 
energy consumption.

Key mitigations
•  Policy link: SSE Sustainability Policy.
•  SSE Airtricity established the largest customer 

support fund in Ireland, with provision for up to  
€25m in affordability funding, and SSE Business 
Energy has implemented the Energy Bill Relief 
Scheme.

•  Robust stakeholder engagement across 

•  Accessibility to energy and related 

government, regulators and relevant counterparties.

• 

services for all.
Increased focus on energy security in 
response to current geopolitical events.
•  Required investment in the upgrading of 
the UK’s energy infrastructure to achieve 
net zero.

•  Political interventions.
•  Fluctuations in the cost of fuels.
•  Supplier and customer failures and 

related bad debt.

•  SSE is focused on fixing the long-term causes, not 
the short-term symptoms of the current energy 
crisis, as such it continues to advocate for 
progressive policies that will help bring forward 
necessary investment in low-carbon infrastructure 
at lowest cost to reduce customers’ exposure to gas 
price volatility and deliver net zero affordability.

72

SSE plc  Annual Report 2023

SSE plc  Annual Report 2023

73

Financial StatementsStrategic ReportDirectors’ ReportGroup Principal Risks continued

Risk trend key

Link to strategy

Increased in 
materiality 

Not changed 
significantly

Reduced in 
materiality

Develop

Operate

Build

Invest

Energy Infrastructure Failure

Risk trend

Large Capital Projects Management 

Risk trend

What is the risk?
The risk of national energy 
infrastructure failure, whether  
in respect of assets owned by 
SSE or those owned by others 
which SSE relies on, that 
prevents the Group from 
meeting its obligations.

Oversight
Group Executive Committee

Link to strategy

Material influencing factors
•  Longer term changes in climate patterns 
cause sustained higher temperatures 
that may result in lower rainfall and 
reduced wind impacting renewable 
generation output.

•  Government policy regarding the 
operation of the energy network  
which relates to security of supply.

•  Failures in any aspect of the Great Britain 

national critical infrastructure.

•  Appropriate asset management and 
necessary upgrading works of both 
generation and network assets.

•  Malicious attack on the Great Britain 

energy infrastructure.

•  Energy network balancing mechanisms. 
•  Continued availability of competent 

personnel. 

•  Continued availability of key systems.

Key mitigations
•  Policy link: Business Unit Asset Management 

Policies.

•  SSE assesses the climate impact on its operations 
over the short, medium and long term from the 
perspective of market, policy or regulatory transition 
risks and opportunities and the physical risks of a 
changed climate.

•  SSE’s dedicated Engineering Centres of Excellence 
review and develop plans to ensure the ongoing 
integrity of its generation assets is maintained.
•  Targeted investment plans to ensure the ongoing 

health and integrity of network assets.

•  Crisis management and business continuity plans 
are in place across the Group. These are tested 
regularly and are designed for the management of, 
and recovery from, significant energy infrastructure 
failure events. Where there are material changes in 
infrastructure (or the management of it) additional 
plans are developed.

•  SSE continues to be an active participant in national 

security forums such as the Centre for the 
Protection of National Infrastructure (CPNI).
•  Flexible and reliable power will continue to be 
required to back up wind and solar generation, 
ensuring security of supply across the UK. In line 
with its commitment to a net-zero future, SSE is 
actively progressing plans to deliver new low-
carbon capacity to play this critical role, with CCS 
and pumped storage hydro projects in development. 

Financial Liabilities

Risk trend

What is the risk?
The risk that funding is not 
available to meet SSE’s financial 
liabilities, including those 
relating to its defined benefit 
pension schemes, as these fall 
due under both normal and 
stressed conditions without 
incurring unacceptable costs or 
risking damage to its reputation.

Oversight
Group Risk Committee

Link to strategy

Material influencing factors
•  Ongoing commitment to an investment 

grade credit rating.

•  Global macroeconomic changes and 

subsequent volatility in foreign exchange 
markets.

•  Fluctuations in interest rates and inflation 

which influence borrowing costs.
•  Defined benefit pension scheme 

performance including the impact of 
fluctuations in gilt yields on the value  
of scheme liabilities.

Key mitigations
•  Policy link: SSE Financial Management Policy.
•  Committed borrowings and facilities are always 

available equal to at least 105% of forecast 
borrowings over a rolling 6-month period.

•  Detailed and continuous financial modelling and 
forecasting on a Group and Business Unit basis.
•  SSE seeks to maintain a diverse and innovative 

portfolio of debt to avoid over-reliance on any one 
market. This allows it to build relationships with, and 
create competition between, debt providers.
•  Each of SSE’s defined benefit pension schemes  

•  Counterparty credit limit exposures.
•  Operational and trading collateral 

has a Board of Trustees which acts independently  
of the Group.

requirements.

•  The approval of all material counterparty credit 

limits is a matter reserved for the Board. 

•  The newly formed Collateral Committee meet 

weekly to monitor ongoing collateral requirements.
•  SSE has a proven ability to maintain access to capital 
markets during stressed economic conditions. The 
Group has demonstrated this through securing 
£3.0bn of funding since April 2021 including the 
issuance of a 1bn Euro Hybrid bond in April 2022 
and €650m bond in July 2022.

What is the risk?
The risk that SSE develops and 
builds major assets that do not 
realise intended benefits or 
meet the quality standards 
required to support economic 
lives of typically 25 to 60 years 
within forecast timescales  
and budgets.

Oversight
Group Large Capital Projects 
Committee

Link to strategy

Material influencing factors
•  Appropriate contractual arrangements 
which meet the requirements of any 
jurisdiction in which SSE operates.

•  New or unproven technology.
•  Appropriate and effective budget 

management.

•  All aspects of supply chain management, 
including those relating to human rights, 
modern slavery and labour standards as 
well as supply chain impacts associated 
with new entities, new assets and a new 
network structure created by joint 
ventures and Brexit.

•  Availability and capacity of competent 
contractors in any jurisdiction in which 
SSE operates.

Key mitigations
•  Policy link: SSE’s Large Capital Projects Governance 
Framework manual ensures that all major capital 
investment projects for the Group are governed, 
developed, approved and executed in a consistent 
and effective manner, with full consideration of  
best practice project delivery. The manual, which 
was reviewed and updated in detail during 2022, 
provides common standards across the Group and 
incorporates continuous improvement practices.
•  The Large Capital Project Services function employs 
dedicated quality and assurance teams who perform 
in-depth quality reviews, the outputs of which are 
presented to the Board where appropriate.

•  Ongoing interaction with key suppliers through 

• 

SSE’s Supplier Relationship Management 
Programme.
In major projects, SSE generally manages insurance 
placement by organising owner-controlled insurance. 
This strategy allows it to have greater control and 
flexibility over the provisions in place. SSE also sees 
the insurance market as an important source of 
information on the reliability of technology and uses 
this to inform the design process of major projects.
•  Appropriate governance arrangements, including 

those relating to Joint Venture and Partner 
Management.

People and Culture

Risk trend

What is the risk?
The risk that SSE is unable to 
attract, develop and retain an 
appropriately skilled, diverse 
and responsible workforce and 
leadership team, and maintain  
a healthy business culture 
which encourages and  
supports ethical behaviours  
and decision making.

Oversight
Group Executive Committee

Link to strategy

Material influencing factors
•  Rewarding employee contributions 

Key mitigations
•  Policy link: SSE Employment Policy and SSE 

through fair pay and benefits.

Whistleblowing Policy.

•  Acquisition of competent skills and 

•  SSE has a detailed Inclusion and Diversity  

resources to support growth plans in 
international markets.

•  SSE embraces cultural diversity in the 

workplace and recognition of the value 
and benefit of having an inclusive and 
diverse workforce.

•  A responsible employer ethos. For full 
details please see the Sustainability 
Report .

•  Clearly defined roles, responsibilities and 

accountabilities for all employees.
•  Availability of career development 

opportunities and appropriate succession 
planning that recognises potential future 
skills shortages.

•  Clear personal objectives and 

communication of the SSE set of values.
•  A focus on ethical business conduct and 
creating a culture in which employees 
feel confident to speak up when they 
suspect wrongdoing.

•  The health and wellbeing of all employees 

(see the Sustainability Report  for 
further detail).

•  Clear and well-structured employee 
engagement and communications.

plan, progress against which is reviewed and 
monitored by SSE’s Group Executive Committee  
on a regular basis. Further details are available  
on pages 60 to 62  and on page 136  of the 
Directors’ report.

•  SSE Governance arrangements, including those 

relating to JV and Partner Management.
•  There are a wide range of tools and services 

available to all employees to support mental health 
and wellbeing, including those provided as part  
of the Employee Assistance Programme. Further 
details on careers sse.com/employee-benefits .
•  “Doing the Right Thing, a guide to ethical business 
conduct”, explicitly outlines the steps employees 
should take to ensure their day-to-day actions and 
decisions are consistent both with SSE’s values and 
ethical business principles. All SSE employees can 
report incidents of wrongdoing through both 
internal and external mechanisms. SSE uses an 
independent ‘Speak Up’ phone line and email 
service, hosted externally by SafeCall, through 
which incidents can be reported.

•  SSE’s business leaders are required to undertake 
regular succession planning reviews. At a Group 
level, SSE continues to develop its approach to the 
management of talent.

74

SSE plc  Annual Report 2023

SSE plc  Annual Report 2023

75

Financial StatementsStrategic ReportDirectors’ ReportGroup Principal Risks continued

Risk trend key

Link to strategy

Increased in 
materiality 

Not changed 
significantly

Reduced in 
materiality

Develop

Operate

Build

Invest

Political and Regulatory Change

Risk trend

Safety and the Environment 

Risk trend

What is the risk?
The risk associated with 
operating in a fast-paced,  
highly regulated environment 
which is subject to constantly 
changing political, regulatory 
and legislative expectations  
and interventions.

Oversight
Group Executive Committee

Link to strategy

Material influencing factors
•  SSE’s most significant contribution is  
to align with the Paris Agreement goal 
and aim to achieve net zero greenhouse 
gas emissions by at least 2050.
•  Material changes to regulatory 

frameworks in any jurisdiction in which 
SSE operates.

•  Government intervention into the 

structure of the energy sector in any 
jurisdiction in which SSE operates.
•  Constitutional uncertainty in any 
jurisdiction in which SSE operates.
•  Changes in financial, employment, 

safety and consumer legislation and/or 
regulation and the impact of these 
changes on business-as-usual activities 
in any jurisdiction in which SSE operates.

Key mitigations
•  Policy link: SSE Political and Regulatory  

Engagement Policy.

•  The Group has dedicated Corporate Affairs, 

Regulation, Legal and Compliance departments  
that provide advice, guidance and assurance to  
each business area regarding the interpretation of 
political, regulatory and legislative change. These 
teams take the lead in engagement with regulators, 
politicians, officials, and other such stakeholders. 
Full details of SSE’s Stakeholder Engagement can be 
found on page 26 to 33 .

•  SSE has a clear Political Engagement Policy that  
sets out principles for any employees who make 
representations to institutions of governments  
or to legislatures on the Company’s behalf.

•  SSE Governance arrangements, including those 

relating to JV and Partner Management.

•  The Group puts in place dedicated project teams  
to manage all aspects of significant regulatory and 
legislative change.

•  There is regular engagement with the Board and 
Group Executive Committee on political and 
regulatory developments which may impact SSE’s 
operations or strategy. 

Portfolio Exposure

Risk trend

What is the risk?
The risk to the Group’s  
portfolio value associated  
with fluctuations in both the 
price and physical volume of 
key energy market indices or 
drivers– primarily gas, carbon 
and electricity – as well as 
foreign exchange values, CO2 
permits and oil.

Oversight
Group Risk Committee

Link to strategy

Material influencing factors
•  Global geopolitical events.
•  Fluctuations in demand, supply and 
generation capabilities both in Great 
Britain and globally. Further detail is 
available on page 12  of the Strategic 
Report. 

•  Generation technology advancements.
•  Government intervention into the 

structure of the energy sector in any 
jurisdiction in which SSE operates.
International and national agreements 
on climate change.
International flows of fuel.

• 

• 

Key mitigations
•  Policy link: An asset-by-asset approach to hedging 
strategy that ensures trading positions cannot have  
a material impact on SSE Group earnings. The latest 
update on SSE’s hedging approach can be found on 
sse.com .

•  The Group Energy Markets Exposure Risk 

Committee has operational oversight of commodity 
positions; reporting to the Board Energy Markets 
Risk Committee that has responsibility for 
monitoring the ongoing effectiveness of Group 
hedging arrangements. For further details please  
see pages 160 to 161 . 

•  SSE uses VaR and PaR measures to monitor and 
control exposures. Trading limits are reviewed 
regularly by the Energy Markets Risk Committee, 
with consideration given to changes in the material 
influencing factors noted above, before being 
approved by the Board.

•  SSE’s Energy Economics team provides commodity 
price forecasts which are used to inform decisions 
on trading strategy and asset investment.
•  SSE utilises hedging instruments to minimise 
exposure to fluctuations in foreign exchange 
markets, details of which are available in the 
Financial Statements section of the Annual  
Report and Accounts.

•  SSE monitors the impact from recent reforms in 
Europe (e.g., the European Market Infrastructure 
Regulation (EMIR), Markets in Financial Instruments 
Directive (MiFID) and Regulation on Energy Market 
Integrity and Transparency (REMIT)) and those 
resulting from the Electricity Market Reform  
(EMR) process.

What is the risk?
The risk of harm to people, 
property or the environment 
from SSE’s operations.

Oversight
Group Safety, Health and 
Environment Committee

Link to strategy

Material influencing factors
•  Safety culture and SSE’s commitment to 

Key mitigations
•  Policy link: SSE Safety and Health Policy and  

getting everyone home safe. 

SSE Environment Policy.

•  Clear and appropriately communicated 

safety processes.

•  Regular and documented training.
•  The size, scale, complexity and number 

of projects under way.

•  Adverse weather.
•  Challenging geographic locations.
•  Appropriate task and asset risk 

assessment.

•  Clear, effective and regular 

communications of all relevant safety 
updates.

•  Competent employees and contractors.

•  Safety is the Group’s No. 1 value with Board 
oversight being provided by the Safety, 
Sustainability, Health and Environment Advisory 
Committee (SSHEAC).

•  SSE has formed a new central Contractor Safety 
Team supported by dedicated Contractor SHE 
Managers and Assurance Auditors to improve 
contractor safety performance. For full details 
please see the Sustainability Report .

•  Crisis management and business continuity plans 
are in place across the Group. These are tested 
regularly and are designed for the management  
of, and recovery from, significant safety and 
environmental events.

•  Each business carries out regular SHE assurance 

reviews of the risks faced, the controls in place and 
the monitoring that is undertaken. 

•  SSE’s dedicated Engineering Centres of excellence 

review and develop plans to ensure that the integrity  
of its generation assets is maintained.

Speed of Change 

Risk trend

What is the risk?
The risk that SSE is unable to 
keep pace with the speed of 
change affecting the sector  
and markets in which it 
operates and so fails to meet 
the evolving expectations of  
its stakeholders or achieve its 
strategic objectives.

Oversight
Group Executive Committee

Link to strategy

Material influencing factors
•  Geopolitical events.
•  Fast developing customer needs and 
expectations in relation to efficient, 
innovative and flexible products and 
services.

•  Technological developments and 

innovation.

•  Net-zero strategic goals.
• 

Increased competition from market 
entrants including international oil 
companies.

•  Longer term capital investment plans and 

budgets.

•  The size, scale and number of change 

programmes under way, including those 
relating to regulatory or legislative 
requirements in any jurisdiction in which 
SSE operates.

•  Governance and decision-making 

frameworks, including those relating to 
JV and Partner Management.

Key mitigations
•  Policy link: SSE Operating Model Policy.
•  The Board sets the risk appetite of the Group  

and approves and regularly reviews the Group’s 
commercial strategy, business development initiatives 
and long-term options ensuring alignment of risk 
appetite and strategic objectives.

•  SSE’s Group operating model has been designed  
to ensure dynamic and efficient decision-making, 
empowered and accountable delivery of Business 
Unit strategies and to fulfil SSE’s purpose to provide 
energy needed today while building a better world 
of energy for tomorrow. Details of SSE’s decision-
making context are available on page 124  of the 
Directors Report.

•  The Group Executive Committee is responsible for 

ensuring that Business Unit strategies are consistent 
and compatible with the overarching Group strategy 
and its vision to be a leading energy provider in a net 
zero world.

76

SSE plc  Annual Report 2023

SSE plc  Annual Report 2023

77

Financial StatementsStrategic ReportDirectors’ ReportFinancial Review

Platform  
for 
growth.

Balance and strategic focus in a year of strong financial 
performance provide the foundations of long-term growth  
and shareholder value creation. 

In networks, SSEN Transmission had a  
year of solid financial performance with 
operating profit broadly flat as higher 
allowed revenues were offset by lower-
than-expected volumes, higher operating 
costs, and the 25% minority interest which 
is excluded from adjusted metrics for part 
of the year. SSEN Distribution earnings  
were up year-on-year on higher tariffs and 
reduced operating and fault costs when 
compared to the previous year when Storm 
Arwen had an impact.

SSE’s performance in 2022/23 showed yet 
again the real value of a balanced portfolio 
of businesses, with 65% of Group adjusted 
operating profit contributed by our 
market-facing generation businesses and 
30% from our index-linked regulated 
electricity networks.

Delays on the Seagreen project and the 
impact of the UK Electricity Generator  
Levy meant SSE Renewables was broadly 
flat year-on-year, but this was more than 
offset by our thermal, flexible hydro and 
gas storage assets which were rewarded  
for providing timely backup to the market 
when it was needed. 

78

SSE plc  Annual Report 2023

While market conditions played a part in 
this year’s results, we anticipate a degree of 
continuing volatility which, combined with 

Gregor Alexander
Finance Director, SSE plc
23 May 2023 

the rise in variable wind capacity  
coming onto the system, presents an 
opportunity for ongoing value creation 
for our large-scale flexible assets.

Solid strategic progress in the year, 
including execution of spending plans 
under the Net Zero Acceleration 
Programme (NZAP), saw £2.8bn invested 
in critical national infrastructure – an 
all-time record level of capex and 
investment for SSE which represented  
a 37% increase on 2021/22.

Our balance sheet continues to be 
underpinned by high-quality assets  
and credit ratings compare favourably 
with our peers. In the context of the 
Group’s strong FY23 earnings, net debt 
to EBITDA fell to 2.7x – well below our 
4.5x ceiling. 

We expect to report adjusted EPS  
of more than 150p for 2023/24, 
dependent upon market conditions, 
plant availability and weather conditions. 
And – as announced in May 2022 – our 
recent performance, financial strength 
and growth opportunities give us 
confidence in the ‘NZAP Plus’ plans 
outlined on pages 16 and 17  and  
in the following Financial Review. 

Our revised plans mean more value for 
shareholders and society, more financial 
strength, more investment, more jobs, 
and more growth to come over the next 
decade. The NZAP Plus is the platform 
for around £18bn of investment in the 
decarbonising infrastructure needed  
for a cleaner, more secure and more 
affordable future energy system.

In closing, this being my last contribution 
to an SSE Annual Report, I would like  
to express my thanks to the many 
colleagues – past and present – who 
have so ably supported me throughout 
my 21 years as Finance Director. It has 
been an absolute privilege and honour 
working for 32 years in a company that 
has such a strong purpose and heritage, 
driving forward its net zero ambitions. 

I leave in the knowledge that the 
Company’s finances are in the safe 
hands of Barry O’Regan who brings a 
wealth of energy experience to the role 
and is ideally placed to help seize the 
wealth of opportunities coming SSE’s 
way as net zero draws closer. 

Financial Review
Year ended 31 March 2023
This Group Financial Review sets out the financial performance of the SSE Group for the year ended 31 March 2023. See also the 
separate sections on Group Financial Outlook, 2023/24 and beyond and Supplemental Financial Information.

The definitions SSE uses for adjusted measures are consistently applied and are explained in the Alternative Performance Measures 
section of this document before the Financial Statements.

Key financial metrics
(continuing operations) 

Operating profit/(loss)
Net Finance (costs)/income
Profit/(loss) before tax
Current tax (charge)/credit
Effective current tax rate (%)
Profit/(loss) after tax
Less: hybrid equity coupon payments
Less: profits attributable to minority interests
Profit/(loss) after tax attributable to ordinary shareholders

Adjusted

Reported

March  
2023  
£m

2,529.2
(345.6)
2,183.6
(358.8)
16.4
1,824.8
(38.8)
–
1,786.0

March  
2022 
£m

1,530.9
(372.8)
1,158.1
(107.1)
9.2
1,051.0
(50.7)
–
1,000.3

March  
2023  
£m

(146.3)
(59.3)
(205.6)
110.0
12.7
(95.6)
(38.8)
(23.6)
(158.0)

March  
2022 
£m

3,749.5
(273.2)
3,476.3
(881.3)
26.2
2,595.0
(50.7)
–
2,544.3

Earnings/(loss) per share (pence)

166.0

94.8

(14.7)

241.2

Number of shares for basic/reported and adjusted EPS (million)
Shares in issue at 31 March (million)*

1,075.6
1,090.3

1,055.0
1,067.6

1,075.6
1,090.3

1,055.0
1,067.6

*  Excludes treasury shares.
2021/22 numbers above restated to recognise Keadby 2 pre-commissioning revenues and costs in Income Statement following adoption of amendments to IAS 16 
Property, Plant and Equipment – Proceeds Before Intended Use.

Dividend Per Share (pence) 

Interim dividend
Final dividend
Full Year dividend

Impact from market volatility 
The Group’s balanced mix of economically 
regulated and market-based businesses 
provides a natural hedge against short-term 
commodity price volatility. Nevertheless, 
the volatile commodity price environment 
throughout the year combined with the 
continued higher power price, gas price 
and inflation rate environment, will have  
a continued impact on SSE’s businesses 
which can be summarised as follows:

SSEN Transmission and SSEN Distribution 
operate under a regulatory price control 
framework which is set by Ofgem. Returns 
under this framework have no direct 
relationship to power and gas market 
prices. However, both allowed revenues 
and Regulated Asset Values are index linked 
(Transmission to CPI(H) for the RIIO-T2 
price control period which lasts from 1 April 
2021 to 31 March 2026, and Distribution to 
RPI (for RIIO-ED1 which ended on 31 March 
2023) and CPI(H) (for RIIO-ED2 which lasts 
from 1 April 2023 to 31 March 2028).

Within SSE Renewables, the established 
hedging approach generally reduces  
its broad exposure to commodity price 
variation at least 12 months in advance  
of delivery. This approach secures  
value for the business, by reducing 
exposure to short-term commodity price 
movements which would drive variable 
financial performance.

Hedges may be achieved either through  
the forward sale of power or gas and 
carbon equivalents. This approach aims to 
reduce the exposure of these wind assets to 
volatile spot power market outcomes whilst 
still providing an underlying commodity 
price hedge. When gas-and-carbon  
hedges are converted into electricity 
hedges a ‘spark spread’ is realised which 
can lead to changes in the average hedge 
price expected. This can increase the 
previously published average hedge price, 
as has been seen in 2022/23, or decrease it.

March  
2023

March  
2022

29.0
67.7
96.7

25.5
60.2
85.7

Whilst this hedging approach provides 
relatively stable realised power prices, 
market volatility in periods where wind 
volumes are significantly lower than 
expected can necessitate ‘buy-backs’ of 
excess forward sales contracts at higher 
prices, which would reduce the trading 
result, as has also been seen in 2022/23.

For SSE Thermal (as well as the Hydro plant 
within SSE Renewables), value has come 
from the ability of the plant to respond  
to market conditions and provide vital 
balancing services to support security  
of supply through flexibility provision in  
less predictable market conditions.

The last twelve months has seen the 
Thermal business navigate extreme 
volatility in the forward power markets. 
Whilst some of this volatility is directly 
attributable to the war in Ukraine and 
ensuing gas crisis, there are other more 
fundamental drivers relating to price 
uncertainty which are longstanding. 

SSE plc  Annual Report 2023

79

Financial StatementsStrategic ReportDirectors’ ReportFinancial Review continued

These longer-term price drivers include 
liquidity, carbon price basis risk, regulatory 
or political interventions, and the availability 
of risk capital and collateral within the 
markets. This business therefore aims to 
reduce earnings volatility by establishing a 
hedge for the expected economic output 
in the six months prior to delivery, although 
this approach is closely monitored for any 
unexpected changes in exposures as a 
result of current market conditions, such as 
the plant availability exposure, counterparty 
credit risk, and changes to cost of capital 
for collateral.

Higher power and gas prices are generally 
more economically favourable for these 
businesses, driving premiums over forward 
peak spark prices which includes market-
based income from other sources outside of 
the simple spark spread such as Balancing 
Mechanism and ancillary Grid contracts. 
Income from Capacity Mechanism is known 
ahead of each delivery year and is unrelated 
to current market conditions.

However, if plant is unavailable at times  
of system stress then excess forward sales 
contracts would again need to be ‘bought 
back’ in the market which would negatively 
impact the trading result.

The Gas Storage assets are operated on a 
merchant basis, to optimise value arising 
from changes in the spread between 
summer and winter prices, market volatility 
and plant availability. As such, volatile  
gas prices are generally positive for this 
business, to the extent that the assets  
can respond to volatility and capture the 
positive gas price spreads arising. To the 
extent that gas remains in storage at the 
period end, a remeasurement gain or loss 
may also be recognised with reference to 
the forward month market price.

Energy Portfolio Management, as the 
market-facing commodity trader for each 
business unit, holds the Group’s direct 
exposure to unsettled commodity contracts 
and therefore may experience significant 
unrealised mark-to-market remeasurement 
gains or losses in periods of volatility. 
However, these revaluations are unrelated 
to operating performance with traded 
volumes backed by SSE’s future generation 
output or expected customer demand. 
Whilst EPM is permitted to take small 
positions in the market to manage the 
Group’s trading requirements and execute 
optimisation opportunities, this is contained 
within strict Value at Risk (‘VAR’) limits that 
limits trading exposure in volatile markets.

During the year, market volatility and 
increased margining requirements resulted 
in a significant increase in the collateral 

80

SSE plc  Annual Report 2023

required for trade with counterparties and 
on exchanges, this was monitored closely 
by the Group and effectively managed  
with more than sufficient levels of liquidity 
maintained. The level of collateral required 
has decreased over the second six months 
of the financial year as older trades have 
been settled and newer trades have 
experienced lower levels of volatility.

SSE Business Energy and SSE Airtricity 
(aside from Northern Ireland, where SSE 
Airtricity’s gas supply business is subject  
to a regulatory pricing mechanism) are  
not subject to a regulated price cap and 
therefore variable tariffs are adjusted 
dynamically and fixed tariff rates are reset 
for new customers as wholesale costs 
increase or decrease. Although the 
businesses are insulated against gas price 
rises insofar as they are hedged, there  
are external circumstances that would 
result in hedge adjustments such as 
weather, supplier failures and broader 
economic conditions. Due to the difficult 
affordability circumstances created by 
escalating wholesale prices across the year, 
a decision was made to protect domestic 
customers in Ireland from the full impact  
of these increases; tariff changes therefore 
did not fully reflect increases in wholesale 
prices. A dynamic forecasting approach has 
been implemented to help the business 
respond quickly to volume changes. 

Both businesses have administered 
government-backed support schemes 
during the year, intended to protect 
domestic and non-domestic customers 
from the full impact of the heightened power 
and gas price environment. These schemes 
provide discounts to customers based on 
estimated usage and recover amounts from 
government based on actual customer 
usage – the most material of these being  
the Energy Bills Relief Scheme (‘EBRS’).

In relation to Airtricity, vertical integration 
of generation and customer businesses  
in the Irish market limits commodity 
exposures with some benefit received 
through Renewable Energy Feed-in Tariffs 
(‘REFIT’) receipts on legacy wind assets. 

Finally, SSE Group is well funded with a 
strong investment grade credit rating; a 
high proportion of the £8.9bn adjusted  
net debt (c.92%) is fixed rate and the 
average maturity of SSE’s debt is 6.4 years. 
The Group has been successful despite 
challenging debt markets, issuing €1bn of 
Hybrid Bonds, a £350m Private Placement 
and a €650m Eurobond earlier in the 
financial year at well-below current market 
prices. SSE’s balance sheet strength allows 
the Group to meet additional collateral 
requirements on higher and more volatile 

commodity contracts, while the high 
proportion of fixed-rate debt provides 
robust financing in an inflationary 
environment.

Operating profit 
Adjusted and reported operating profits/
losses in SSE’s business segments for the 
year to 31 March 2023 are set out below; 
comparisons are with the same period to 
31 March 2022 unless otherwise stated.

SSEN Transmission: Adjusted operating 
profit decreased by 2% to £372.7m,  
which includes a £(32.8)m minority interest 
adjustment following completion of the 
25% divestment on 30 November 2022. 
SSEN Transmission’s significantly higher 
allowed revenues in the year were partially 
offset by a combination of a negative 
timing impact on lower-than-expected 
Transmission Network Use of System 
‘TNUoS’ volumes, and increases in 
operating costs and depreciation charges, 
as the business continues to grow the asset 
base and develop its operational capacity.

Reported operating profit increased  
by 7% to £405.5m, reflecting all of the 
adjustments above except for the £(32.8)m 
minority interest adjustment, as minority 
interests are fully consolidated for all profit 
metrics except for Earnings Per Share 
under IFRS.

SSEN Distribution: Adjusted and reported 
operating profit increased by 9% to  
£382.4m in the period. Higher allowed 
revenues including previously under-
recovered allowances following the  
impact of coronavirus on Distribution  
Use of System ‘DUoS’ volumes in 2020/21, 
were broadly offset by a negative timing 
impact on lower-than-expected volumes  
in 2022/23. In addition, 2022/23 operating 
costs were lower than prior year mainly 
driven by a reduction in fault costs, given 
the impact of severe weather on the 
network during 2021/22. 

SSE Renewables: Adjusted operating profit 
increased by 2% to £580.0m in the year. 
Having experienced exceptionally still and 
dry weather in he prior year, volumes 
increased 0.7TWh or 7% in the current  
year but were still around 1.5TWh or  
13% behind planned levels due to less 
favourable weather than the long-term 
average and delays to construction of the 
Seagreen project. 

In line with SSE’s hedging approach, SSE 
Renewables entered the financial year with 
around 40% of its wind volume hedged  
in gas and carbon equivalents, rather than 
electricity. The conversion of those gas  
and carbon trades into electricity ahead  

Operating profit performance for the year to 31 March 2023
Business-by-business segmental 

Operating profit/(loss)
SSEN Transmission
SSEN Distribution
Electricity networks total

SSE Renewables

SSE Thermal
Gas Storage
Thermal total

SSE Business Energy (GB)
SSE Airtricity (NI and Ire)
Energy Customer Solutions total

Adjusted

Reported

March  
2023  
£m

March  
2022  
£m

March  
2023  
£m

March  
2022  
£m

372.7
382.4
755.1

380.5
351.8
732.3

405.5
382.4
787.9

380.5
351.8
732.3

580.0

568.1

446.3

427.8

1,031.9
212.5
1,244.4

300.4
30.7
331.1

1,089.5
249.2
1,338.7

17.9
5.6
23.5

(21.5)
60.4
38.9

17.9
5.2
23.1

624.2
125.4
749.6

(21.5)
60.4
38.9

Energy Portfolio Management

80.4

(16.8)

(2,626.0)

2,083.6

Distributed Energy

Neos Networks

Corporate unallocated

(27.4)

(10.9)

(33.5)

(29.2)

(39.8)

(16.1)

(56.0)

(140.0)

(87.0)

(95.7)

(26.8)

(113.5)

Total operating profit/(loss) from continuing operations

2,529.2

1,530.9

(146.3)

3,749.5

Net finance (costs)/income

(345.6)

(372.8)

(59.3)

(273.2)

Profit/(loss) before tax from continuing operations

2,183.6

1,158.1

(205.6)

3,476.3

Notes: Table above excludes any result from discontinued operations, being the Group’s investment in Scotia Gas Networks Limited which was disposed on 22 March 
2022 (2022/23: £nil; 2021/22: adjusted operating profit of £21.0m) and the Group’s Gas Production operations which were disposed on 14 October 2021 (2022/23: 
adjusted operating profit of £nil; FY2021/22: adjusted operating profit of £101.4m).

2021/22 restated to recognise Keadby 2 pre-commissioning revenues and costs in Income Statement following adoption of amendments to IAS 16 Property, Plant and 
Equipment – Proceeds Before Intended Use.

In order to present the financial results and performance of the Group in a consistent and meaningful way, SSE applies a number of adjusted 
accounting measures throughout this financial report. These adjusted measures are used for internal management reporting purposes and 
are believed to present the underlying performance of the Group in the most useful manner for shareholders and other stakeholders.

Following the acquisition in the year of Triton Power Limited (JV with Equinor, SSE’s share 50%), the definitions SSE uses for adjusted 
measures have been refined to consider the treatment of fair value gains arising from acquisition of a business or a joint venture interest. 
Aside from this refinement, the definitions are consistently applied and a reconciliation of adjusted operating profit by segment to 
reported operating profit by segment can be found in note 5.1(ii) to the Financial Statements.

Segmental EBITDA results are included in note 5.1(v) to the Financial Statements.

of delivery in the year – combined with an 
unusually high and volatile electricity price 
attributable to factors such as the war in 
Ukraine and French nuclear outages – 
drove a significant uplift in the achieved 
price on hedged volumes in the year, with 
approximately £216m additional benefit 
captured. This uplift more than offset a 
£(143)m net loss from Seagreen which 
mainly reflected the buy-back costs of 
undelivered hedged volumes in a higher 
price environment.

Elsewhere, the higher and more volatile 
price environment was beneficial for 
flexible hydro and pumped storage,  
as those assets efficiently responded to 
capture peak prices in the market. Finally, 
the adjusted result also includes a net  
£43m charge relating to the Electricity 
Generator Levy, which came into effect 
from 1 January 2023 and is charged  
on receipts generated from eligible 
generation sources which are in excess  
of a £75/MWh benchmark.

Reported operating profits have increased 
by 4% to £446.3m in the year. In addition  
to the factors noted above, the reported 
result also reflects a £18.6m reduction in 
exceptional charges mainly as a £28.6m 
exceptional tax charge recognised in  
the prior year – driven by the impact on 
Joint Venture deferred tax balances from  
the substantive enactment of the UK 
Corporation Tax rate change, which  
– was non-recurring. 

SSE plc  Annual Report 2023

81

Financial StatementsStrategic ReportDirectors’ ReportOperating Review continued

Energy Customer Solutions
SSE Business Energy in GB (non-domestic) and SSE Airtricity on the island of Ireland (domestic 
and non-domestic) provide a shopfront and route to market for SSE’s generation, renewable 
green products and low-carbon energy solutions. Across Great Britain and Ireland, focus 
remains on supporting customers to reduce energy consumption, modernise systems and 
expand the green energy product offering to ensure the business grows its position as a trusted 
partner to customers on their net zero journey.

Who Energy Customer 
Solutions serves 
700,000 domestic and business 
customers in the all-island Ireland 
energy supply market, and around 
469,000 non-domestic customers  
in GB.

How it supports SSE’s strategy
By responding to the climate 
emergency through the provision of 
green energy solutions to customers 
who are increasingly focused on the 
transition to net zero.

How it is remunerated
By competing for customers and 
direct billing to them and third party 
intermediaries (in GB) and through 
state-supported schemes (in ROI).

 “In response to the cost 
inflation associated with 
events of the past year, SSE’s 
customer businesses have 
focused on managing risk  
to ensure the best possible 
outcomes for our customers, 
supporting those that are 
vulnerable and working  
with governments on 
assistance packages.”

Nikki Flanders
Managing Director,  
Energy Customer Solutions

SSE Business Energy key performance indicators

SSE Business Energy
Business Energy adjusted and reported operating profit/(loss) – £m
Electricity sold – GWh
Gas sold – mtherms
Aged debt (60 days past due) – £m
Bad debt expense – £m
Energy customers’ accounts – m

March  
2023

March  
2022

17.9
12,108
200
167
108
0.43

(21.5)
12,645
218
79.3
18.5
0.47

SSE Airtricity key performance indicators

SSE Airtricity
Airtricity adjusted operating profit – £m
Airtricity reported operating profit – £m
Aged debt (60 days past due) – £m
Bad debt expense – £m
Airtricity electricity sold – GWh
Airtricity gas sold – mtherms
All Ireland energy market customers (Ire) – m

March  
2023

March  
2022

5.6
5.2
11.0
7.8
5,795
193
0.74

60.4
60.4
7.3
4.6
5,219
177
0.70

SSE Business Energy
Operational delivery
The primary focus of the last year has been 
on delivering support to customers during 
a period of extreme market instability. This 
included implementing government bill 
supports for customers at an administrative 
cost of £2m that the business absorbed. 

Targeted support for customers included 
reducing contract lengths to help manage 
customers’ exposure to high prices and 
providing flexible repayment options for 
customers struggling to pay. Under the UK 
Government’s Energy Bill Relief Scheme, 
Business Energy applied customer 
discounts to the value of £721m in the year 
and was compensated for the reduction  
in wholesale gas and electricity unit prices 
that was passed on. In other support 
measures, in October 2022, the business 
voluntarily implemented a disconnection 
ban for businesses (with a cumulative debt 
of £5m) where end-users were either 
vulnerable or living in a residential setting 
aligned to a non-domestic contract. 

Additional supports included the decision 
not to pass on £12m of non-commodity 
costs to some customers with flexible 
contract terms.

Business Energy has continued to make 
progress on our Smart programme in 
2022/23 installing more smart meters in 
proportion to our market share. Focus 
remains on driving Smart adoption 
throughout 2023/24, building on our 
engaging smart propositions and incentives 
to encourage adoption and helping 
customers to manage and reduce demand.

The business launched a suite of new and 
enhanced digital offerings in the period to 
improve the customer journey, including  
a small business sustainability content hub, 
providing help to customers with net zero 
guidance, and a free and easy-to-use 
carbon footprint calculator. 

For financial performance commentary 
please refer to the Financial Review. 

Growth opportunities 
Business Energy will continue to focus on 
giving customers increased choice and 
flexibility to improve their green credentials 
and help with their paths to net zero. This 
includes extending its product range and 
giving customers greater transparency  
over the provenance of their renewable 
energy supply. 

microgeneration solar offering via our joint 
venture with Activ8 Solar Energies. Through 
its pioneering Generation Green Home 
Upgrade home retrofit proposition the 
business completed 1,500 solar installs, 
supplied over 300 batteries and retrofitted 
650 homes this financial year, representing 
an estimated carbon saving of 8.9GWh. 

Partnerships with RTÉ’s DIYSOS, increasing 
our support for the women’s game through 
partnership with the Football Association of 
Ireland, and funding LGBT Ireland’s advice 
helpline are examples of Airtricity’s values 
and active community support.

For additional financial performance 
commentary please refer to the  
Financial Review.

Growth opportunities 
SSE Airtricity has laid solid foundations and 
led the way in proposition innovation to 
more easily enable customers to reduce 
carbon emissions and energy usage. It has 
ambitions plans for energy services across 
the island of Ireland, aiming to deliver 
45,000 home retrofits by 2030 and 
expanding the offering into the (ROI)  
B2B and NI markets. 

SSE Airtricity
Operational delivery
The primary focus of 2022/23 has been on 
supporting customers, resulting in the 
establishment of the most comprehensive 
customer support fund of any supplier in 
Ireland, up to the value of €25m. Measures 
included a €2.5m donation made to 
non-profit organisation EnergyCloud, 
which promotes system efficiency, utilising 
surplus renewable energy to supply 
fuel-poor households. Airtricity also 
applied discounts to the value of £116m  
in the year to customers under the UK 
Government’s Energy Bill Relief Scheme. 
Furthermore, as referenced in the Group 
Financial Review, SSE Airtricity honoured  
its commitment not to make a profit in the 
year in recognition of the cost-of-living 
crisis. Residual profits of €8.6m were 
distributed to domestic customers in full, 
with accounts credited after the year-end 
in April 2023. The cost of the rebate will be 
reflected in financial results for 2023/24.

The business continued to enhance service 
offerings as customer engagement levels 
tripled year-on-year at their peak. The 
introduction of enhanced digital service 
capabilities such as Live Chat resulted in a 
greater than 90% reduction in customer 
wait times below peak levels.

During the period SSE Airtricity continued 
to evolve product offerings to support 
demand reduction including the launch of 
a market-leading premium 

106

SSE plc  Annual Report 2023

SSE plc  Annual Report 2023

107

Financial StatementsStrategic ReportDirectors’ ReportOperating Review continued

SSE Distributed Energy
Distributed Energy brings low-carbon energy solutions to business-to-business markets – 
including major regional and partnership opportunities. With private wires, heat networks, 
behind-the-meter solar and battery, EV charging and competitive networks all part of the  
UK’s net zero plans it is well positioned for future growth. As mentioned on previous pages, 
grid-scale Solar and Battery will report under the SSE Renewables segment from 1 April 2023,  
but progress in 2022/23 is outlined below.

Who SSE Distributed Energy 
serves
For the public sector and commercial 
markets in GB and Ireland. It provides 
smart digital solutions for assets 
deployed and for businesses, 
buildings, and cities. 

How it supports SSE’s strategy
Distributed energy, solar and battery 
storage assets have an increasingly 
important role to play in the GB 
energy system as electrification 
accelerates and generation is 
increasingly led by intermittent  
wind output. They also provide 
valuable diversity and optionality  
to the SSE portfolio.

How it is remunerated
By competing for customers and 
direct billing to them and third party 
intermediaries (in GB) and through 
state-supported schemes (in ROI).

 “Enterprise continues to identify 
and grow new ventures that 
complement SSE’s core 
portfolio both to public sector 
and commercial markets. The 
success of Solar and Battery  
is proof of our key role for SSE 
Group in incubating new areas 
of growth that will help drive 
net zero.”

Neil Kirkby
Managing Director,  
SSE Enterprise 

SSE Distributed Energy key performance indicators

SSE Distributed Energy
SSE Distributed Energy adjusted operating (loss) – £m
SSE Distributed Energy reported operating (loss) – £m
SSE Heat Network customer accounts
Biomass, heat network and other capacity – MW1
Biomass, heat network and other output – GWh

March  
2023

March  
2022

(27.4)
33.5
11,431
26
96

(10.9)
(29.2)
11,291
33
104

1  Capacity in March 2023 reflects sale of 8MW Chippenham gas-fired power station and changes to 

capacity installed on heat networks.

Operational delivery
SSE’s Distributed Energy team has opened 
its first EV charging hub in Glasgow with 
plans to roll out a further 300 such hubs 
across the UK and Ireland. It has also 
launched its ‘Enhance’ technology platform 
which schedules, dispatches, and controls 
flexible assets to facilitate trading or Grid 
balancing actions.

SSE announced significant milestones in  
its solar and battery storage business in the 
reporting period which now has a 1.2GW 
solar and battery pipeline secured and a 
further 1.3GW of other prospective sites 
under development. These milestones 
include breaking ground in September  
at its first 50MW battery storage project  
at Salisbury with construction starting this 
summer at a 30MW solar farm at Littleton  
in Worcestershire. Construction of a  
new 150MW battery storage project at 
Ferrybridge in Yorkshire is also getting 
under way with the assets expected to  
be fully operational in late 2024.

For financial performance commentary 
please refer to the Financial Review.

Growth opportunities 
Distributed Energy has significant growth 
opportunities including supporting 
gigafactories and landmark redevelopment 
projects like Teesside. It is also developing 
heat network technologies including a  
new £25m low-carbon district heating and 
electricity scheme in Aire Valley, Leeds. 

Following its acquisition of the Imperial 
Park private wire network in Wales; 
Distributed Energy will continue to explore 
opportunities to help businesses cut 
carbon and costs as well as supporting  
the transition to net zero at a local level.

Transferring the Solar and Battery business 
to SSE Renewables allows it to scale up and 
develop opportunities both domestically 
and internationally, as well as take on 
co-location projects. Solar is a cost-
effective low-carbon technology and  
the UK Government has reaffirmed its 
commitment to its 70GW target by 2035; 
whilst battery storage is a key part of the 
net zero jigsaw with its ability to rapidly 
store and discharge energy when needed 
most by the grid.

Energy Portfolio Management (EPM)
Energy Portfolio Management (EPM) trades commodities for SSE’s market-based Business Units, 
securing value on behalf of SSE’s asset portfolios in wholesale energy markets and managing 
volatility through risk managed trading of energy-related commodities for SSE’s market-based 
Business Units. SSE trades the principal commodities to which its asset portfolios are exposed, 
as well as the spreads between two or more commodity prices (e.g. spark spreads): power 
(baseload and other products); gas; and carbon (emissions allowances). Each commodity  
has different risk and liquidity characteristics, which impacts the quantum of hedging possible  
(see also SSE’s hedging Position in the Financial Review).

EPM key performance indicators

EPM
EPM adjusted operating profit/(loss) – £m
EPM reported operating (loss)/profit – £m

Operational delivery
EPM navigated continued energy market 
volatility, with winter 2022/23 seeing a 
reduction in volatility. EPM ensures the SSE 
portfolio was hedged in accordance with 
the Group’s approach to hedging and then 
optimised through prompt periods. The 
value EPM secured for SSE’s asset portfolio 
continues to be reported against individual 
Business Units.

For financial performance commentary 
please refer to the Financial Review.

March  
2023

March  
2022

80.4
(2,626.0)

(16.8)
2,083.6

Growth opportunities 
Transformation of the EPM Business Unit 
continues with further recruitment and 
changes in systems and processes.  
Focus has been on core delivery in the 
exceptional market environment, alongside 
developments in market modelling, 
assurance, data governance and analytics, 
and wind balancing. 

European trading continues in small 
volumes with the intention to increase this 
through 23/24. 

Energy Economics, SSE’s long-term price 
forecasting and market analysis team, 
moved into EPM at the end of the financial 
year providing significant synergies and 
enhanced opportunities to share 
knowledge across the teams. 

Who EPM serves 
SSE’s individual Business Units and 
the SSE Group.

How it supports SSE’s strategy
The work EPM does is key to 
managing risk associated with the 
operations behind SSE’s Net Zero 
Acceleration Programme. It trades 
the principal commodities to which 
SSE’s asset portfolios are exposed,  
as well as the spreads between two  
or more commodity prices (e.g. spark 
spreads); power (baseload and other 
products); gas; and carbon (emissions 
allowances). Each commodity  
has different risk and liquidity 
characteristics, which impacts  
the quantum of hedging possible. 

How it is remunerated
It receives fees for providing energy 
trading services to the constituent 
parts of the SSE group.

 “The core strengths of the  
EPM team in prompt and  
curve trading have served us 
well in navigating the market 
turbulence of the past year.  
We have an eye to the future, 
reinforcing our existing 
expertise while rapidly growing 
our capabilities in advanced 
data analytics and international 
markets to support the Group’s 
growth ambitions.”

Gordon Bell
Managing Director,  
Energy Portfolio Management

108

SSE plc  Annual Report 2023

SSE plc  Annual Report 2023

109

Financial StatementsStrategic ReportDirectors’ ReportIn this section

Chair’s introduction 

Governance at a glance 

Board at a glance 

Board of Directors 

Group Executive Committee 

 Our corporate governance 

Considered decision-making 

Setting strategy 

Guiding strategic progress 

Governing SSE for long-term success 

Understanding shareholder views 

Empowering the employee voice 

Focusing on culture 

Defining Board responsibilities 

Assessing Board performance 

Nomination Committee Report 

Audit Committee Report 

Energy Markets Risk Committee Report 

 Safety, Sustainability, Health and  
Environment Advisory Committee Report 

Remuneration Committee Report 

– Remuneration Committee Chair’s statement 

– Remuneration at a glance 

– Annual report on remuneration 

– Directors’ Remuneration Policy – a summary 

Other statutory information 

Statement of Directors’ responsibilities in respect  
of the Annual Report and the Financial Statements 

112

114

115

116

121

122

124

125

126

130

132

134

137

139

140

142

150

160

162

166

166

168

170

185

188

191

Directors’  
Report

Good governance and a strong corporate culture are  
the foundations of SSE’s purpose, vision and strategy.  
The Board gives close consideration to the views of all 
stakeholders in its decision making and understands the 
importance of clear disclosure of this, and other material 
issues, in reporting how its work supports the long-term 
success of the Company.

110

SSE plc  Annual Report 2023

SSE plc  Annual Report 2023

111

Financial StatementsStrategic ReportDirectors’ ReportChair’s introduction

Leading 
for the 
long 
term.

The ultimate measure of effective and  
responsible corporate governance is how  
it stands up in periods of challenge. SSE  
was tested in 2022/23 by unprecedented  
volatility, and the Board supported decisions  
and actions that considered the issues of 
affordability, security, sustainability and fairness. 

Supported by the clarity of our purpose and 
a strong Net Zero Acceleration Programme 
(NZAP) the objectives of work in the year 
was clear; to provide sharp focus to the 
strategic agenda, engage constructively  
on a fair policy framework for its delivery, 
and ensure SSE is positioned to deliver  
for its stakeholders in the long term. This 
encompasses our responsibility, as a Board, 
to understand and represent stakeholder 
views and material issues arising from the 
current economic backdrop.

Leading the correct response
Through the strategic agenda, we have 
overseen and positively challenged the 
pace and progress of large capital projects, 
continuing to assess whether the NZAP 
pursues the right actions in the changing 
external context. Our strategy days in 
Summer 2022 supported in-depth analysis 
of how the environment has evolved since 
November 2021, and throughout the year 
the clear targets we set have been tracked 
through dialogue with senior leadership, 
strategic deep dives, and the introduction 
of an NZAP dashboard. This covers 
pipelines, project construction and options 
for further growth. The confidence we have 
in our growth strategy and the value it will 
create is reflected in the NZAP Plus plans 
announced in May 2023. More details are 
available on page 125 . 

Significant progress has been made in  
the year. We sold a minority stake in SSEN 
Transmission, and have a clear path for SSEN 
Distribution to make increased investment 
under the RIIO-ED2 price control. SSE 
Renewables progressed flagship projects 
and continues to pursue opportunities at 
home and internationally. SSE Thermal 
enhanced the CCS and hydrogen potential 
of its portfolio, supported by the partnership 
acquisition of Triton Power for which we 
updated our Net Zero Transition Plan. Energy 
Customer Solutions remains dynamic in its 
response to cost of living and customer 
support, and we are providing flexibility for 
the future through distributed energy, solar 
and battery technologies. More on Board 
strategy work is on pages 125 to 129 .

Managing sector impacts 
The risks presented through inflationary 
pressure, volatile commodity prices, 
increased competition and the totemic 
issue of climate change are subject to 
defined governance through standing 
Board and Committee work.

On capital investment, we have reviewed 
decision-making criteria at regular intervals 
to ensure opportunities are appraised in 
line with our view of acceptable returns,  
an input which is complemented by Audit 
Committee feedback on our funding and 
treasury policy. 

Our approach to hedging has provided a 
baseline to manage portfolio exposures, 
and we have reviewed the governance and 
risk metrics overseen by the Energy Markets 
Risk Committee (EMRC) to ensure controls 
remain appropriate in the current climate. 

Specific updates have allowed Board  
and Remuneration Committee input on 
employee cost of living support and SSE’s 
overall employee value proposition, to 
ensure actions are considered holistically 
and support those most deeply impacted. 

Climate change and a just transition to  
net zero sit at the core of SSE’s strategy,  
and focus continues to be provided to  
our science-based targets, supporting 
sustainability strategies and transparent 
reporting of our social, environmental and 
economic impacts. Accordingly, separate 
Sustainability and Net Zero Transition 
Reports accompany this Annual Report. 

Validating our actions 
Our analysis of the operating context is  
not conducted in isolation, and we value 
additional perspectives to foster unbiased 
discussion and challenge our view of the 
long term. Methods to gather insights have 
included stakeholder soundings of our 
strategy, guest speaker sessions, and 
internally facilitated deep dives. Given the 
speed of change on both a national and 
international level, a vast array of topics has 
been covered through external sessions, 
including the political and economic 
outlook, policy developments, and the 
geo-political context. 

On behalf of the Board, I confirm the 
continued value we place on conversations 
with shareholders, which take place through 
investor meetings and events, and questions 
across the year and around the AGM. We 
hosted two additional initiatives in 2022/23, 
an ESG seminar focused on our Net Zero 
Transition Report, and a two-day session in 
Inverness which provided the opportunity  
to meet management teams and visit key 
sites. Our engagement approach in 2023/24 
will continue to support understanding of 
shareholder opinion and we will respond to 
the feedback we receive. For the 2023 AGM 
we again offer inclusive participation through 
a hybrid meeting and we encourage virtual 
participation if you cannot attend in person. 

Our people and safety
Our people and their safety are paramount, 
and I reiterate how saddened we were by 
the death of Liam Macdonald, a contractor 
working on Shetland in June 2022. The 
Board and Safety, Sustainability, Health  
and Environment Advisory Committee 
(SSHEAC) apply sharp focus to our safety 
performance and continue to monitor the 

level of rigour and support provided. With  
a rise in contractor hours worked across 
large capital projects a central Contractor 
Safety Team is now also in place. 

We look forward to working with Barry,  
who brings depth of financial and energy 
expertise having been actively involved in 
SSE’s strategic growth.

This was the first year, since Covid-19, 
where the Board conducted a full schedule 
of site visits. Virtual large-scale engagement 
complements this approach, and I am 
extremely pleased it was a record year  
for employee participation across SSE  
with in-person and virtual events attended 
more than 40,000 times. Collectively  
we have been able to reach 32 locations 
across the UK and Ireland, with over 3,500 
employees participating in the post-AGM 
engagement sessions alone.

Dame Sue Bruce established the direct link 
between the Board and employee voice 
through the Non-Executive Director for 
Employee Engagement role, and I would 
like to extend my thanks to Sue for the 
thoughtful agenda she passes on to Lady 
Elish Angiolini to lead. We know colleagues 
value discussing topics of importance  
with senior leaders and we will support 
continued and open conversations. 

Engagement is supported by the Cultural 
Dashboard we review twice a year. This  
has again matured and through purposeful 
design it prompts thinking of the individual 
strands which contribute to, or have the 
potential to influence, our culture. More  
on employee listening and culture is on 
pages 134 to 138 .

Assessing performance 
In 2021/22 the external Board evaluation 
was conducted by Lintstock, following  
two consecutive internal processes in the 
preceding years. To provide a measured 
assessment of progress, we re-engaged 
Lintstock to complete follow-up reviews in 
2022/23 and 2023/24, for which the format 
will reflect that of our internal evaluation 
approach. I am pleased the 2022/23 report 
confirmed our effective operation, and that 
additional actions have been identified for 
our plan of Board work. More on the 
evaluation is on pages 140 to 141 .

Balanced leadership
In April 2023, we announced the retirement 
of Gregor Alexander and his stepping down 
from the Board on 1 December 2023, after 
what will be 21 years as Finance Director. 
Gregor has been with SSE since its inception, 
joining Scottish Hydro-Electric in 1990, and 
has been instrumental to the transformation 
of the Group. His financial leadership and 
counsel are evident in the strong position in 
which he leaves SSE. Following an external 
recruitment process, Barry O’Regan, current 
Finance Director, SSE Renewables, will 
succeed him as Chief Financial Officer.  

As reported previously, and in line with 
succession plans, Dame Sue Bruce stepped 
down from the Board on 31 March 2023 and 
Peter Lynas will not seek re-election at the 
2023 AGM. We extend our thanks for the 
commitment and experience they will have 
provided to the Board over the last nine 
years, and Melanie Smith, John Bason and 
Lady Elish Angiolini bring their own depth of 
expertise to the Board roles they assume 
following these non-Executive changes. 

Standing Nomination Committee work,  
in conjunction with 2021/22 evaluation 
findings, sees one new addition to the 
Board, with the appointment of Maarten 
Wetselaar as a non-Executive Director from 
1 September 2023. Maarten is a leader in 
the energy transition and I look forward to 
welcoming him when he joins.

Inclusion and diversity are priority areas for 
the Board and Nomination Committee, and 
we commit to reporting transparently on 
progress. After the above Board changes, 
membership will comprise 42% women; this 
is above our 40% ambition and we continue 
to work within the enduring policy aim of 
gender parity. In line with the FCA Listing 
Rule, we explain that the roles of Chair, 
Senior Independent Director, Chief Executive 
and Finance Director are all held by men. 

Within senior leadership, we are pleased 
with the improvement in gender diversity 
compared to 31 March 2022 but there  
is more work to do. The reset of our 
internal ambitions in 2022 sets a minimum 
standard, not an endpoint, and we continue 
work to understand the levers for change. 
We further welcome the Parker Review’s 
recommendation for voluntary ethnicity 
targets at the same level and will ascertain 
a challenging yet credible position to work 
towards for 2027. More on Nomination 
Committee work is on pages 142 to 149 .

I hope you find the Directors’ Report which 
follows a transparent and engaging 
account of work across 2022/23. 

Sir John Manzoni
Chair, SSE plc 
23 May 2023

112

SSE plc  Annual Report 2023

SSE plc  Annual Report 2023

113

Financial StatementsStrategic ReportDirectors’ ReportGovernance at a glance 

Board at a glance 

Key activities in 2022/23

Appraised strategic 
delivery

Overseeing NZAP progress and 
approving the NZAP Plus 
pages 125 to 129 

Assessed external 
context 

Conducting deep dives and external 
speaker sessions 
page 125 

Fully-funded capital investment plan 

Knowledge sessions held 

£18bn

19

Enhanced shareholder 
dialogue 

Amplified employee 
listening

Continuing the Chair’s shareholder 
roadshow as a standing event 
pages 132 to 133 

Participating in diverse events across 
all areas of the Group 
pages 134 to 136 

Number of Chair roadshow meetings 

Board-employee engagements 

20

58

Progressed Board 
succession 

Considered Board 
diversity 

Approving the appointment of a new 
non-Executive Director and Finance 
Director succession plans
pages 144 to 145 

Confirming the difference across 
Board membership including gender, 
ethnicity and broader characteristics 
pages 148 to 149 

Number of Board members 

Female Board membership

12

42%

114

SSE plc  Annual Report 2023

UK Corporate  
Governance Code 

The Board continues to assess  
its approach to corporate 
governance through application  
of the FRC’s UK Corporate 
Governance Code (the Code)  
and reports against the 2018  
Code for the year ended 31 March 
2023. A copy can be found at  
www.frc.org.uk .

For 2022/23, the Board confirms 
compliance against the Code 
Provisions. The assessment of 
independence which supported the 
time limited extension to the tenure 
of Dame Sue Bruce and Peter Lynas 
is set out on page 146 .

The spirit of the Code continues to 
be upheld through the work of the 
Board and its Committees, which 
includes application of the Code’s 
Principles. The below confirms 
where disclosures to evidence  
this approach are located, and 
cross-references are used where 
supporting information is located 
outside of the Directors’ Report.

Board Leadership and  
Company Purpose 

See pages 122 to 138 

Division of Responsibilities

See page 139 

Composition, Succession and 
Evaluation 

See pages 140 to 149 

Audit, Risk and Internal Control

See pages 150 to 165 

Remuneration 

See pages 166 to 187 

Planned Director changes

•  Dame Sue Bruce stepped down from the Board on 31 March 2023.
•  Peter Lynas steps down from the Board on 20 July 2023.
•  Maarten Wetselaar joins the Board on 1 September 2023.
•  Gregor Alexander to be succeeded by Barry O’Regan on 1 December 2023.

Board composition

Board gender balance (as at 23 May 2023)

Rolling three-year female representation

42% 

female membership

43%

female

Women

Men

42%

5

58%

7

30%

37%

43%

31 March 
2021

31 March 
2022

31 March 
2023

Board independence (as at 23 May 2023)

Board ethnicity (as at 23 May 2023)

73% 

independent

Independent non-
Executive Directors 

Executive Directors  

3

Non-Executive 
Chair   

1

1

ethnic minority background

8

White British 

11

Māori  1

9
y
e
a
r
s

Average non-Executive Director tenure 
(as at 23 May 2023)

3.98 

years

Sir John 
Manzoni

Lady Elish
Angiolini

John Bason

Debbie Crosbie

Tony Cocker

Peter Lynas

Helen Mahy

Melanie Smith

Dame Angela 
Strank

0

1

2

3

4

5

6

7

8

9

Skills to support long-term success 
The below skills matrix sets out the expertise the non-Executive Directors have assimilated outside of their SSE Board role. The collective 
position is enhanced by the innate differences in approach and thinking styles, which results from the diverse background and experience 
of each individual as set out in the biographies on pages 116 to 120 .

Sir
John 
Manzoni

Lady
Elish 
Angiolini

John 
Bason

Tony 
Cocker

Debbie 
Crosbie

Tenure (years)

Experience of operating context and disruptive trends

Energy sector, energy regulation and energy 
markets 
Government and public policy
Clean energy, renewables and climate science
Global business, scale and complexity 
Digital and data 
Stakeholders and social impact

Skills to challenge and set a sustainable strategy

Large capital project management 
Financing, economics and capital markets
Partnering, M&A and transactions
Risk management
Consumer insight

Responsible leadership of a large organisation

Corporate governance and leadership
Culture, safe working and people development 

2

















1

<1





























5

















1













Peter 
Lynas

8













Helen 
Mahy

Melanie 
Smith

Dame
Angela 
Strank

7














4














3

















SSE plc  Annual Report 2023

115

Financial StatementsStrategic ReportDirectors’ Report 
Board of Directors

C H A I R

E X E C U T I V E 

D I R E C T O R S

I N D E P E N D E N T 

N O N - E X E C U T I V E 

D I R E C T O R S

Sir John Manzoni 
Chair

NC

ER

SHE

RC

Alistair Phillips-Davies
Chief Executive

Gregor Alexander 
Finance Director

ER

Martin Pibworth 
Chief Commercial Officer

Tony Cocker 
Senior Independent Director 

ER

SHE

NC

AC

ER

SHE

Date of appointment

Date of appointment

Date of appointment

Date of appointment

Date of appointment

Non-Executive Director since September 2020  
and Chair from April 2021

Executive Director since January 2002 and  
Chief Executive from July 2013

Executive Director and Finance Director  
since October 2002

Executive Director since September 2017  
and Chief Commercial Officer from  
November 2020

Non-Executive Director since May 2018 and Senior 
Independent Director from October 2020

Board tenure

2 years

Board tenure

21 years

Board tenure

20 years

Board tenure

5 years

Board tenure

5 years

Career and experience 

Career and experience 

Career and experience 

Career and experience 

Career and experience 

Sir John has wide-ranging experience across the 
energy industry and both the private and public 
sectors. Through an executive career at BP which 
spanned 24 years, he held a number of senior roles 
including Chief Executive, Refining and Marketing 
in which he was a Main Board member. This was 
followed by President and Chief Executive Officer 
at Talisman Energy Inc before a move to UK 
Government where he spent six years as Chief 
Executive of the Civil Service and Permanent 
Secretary of the Cabinet Office. He has previously 
been a non-Executive Director of SABMiller plc 
and Chair of Leyshon Energy Limited. 

Alistair joined SSE in 1997 and possesses extensive 
knowledge of the Group, having held senior roles 
across multiple business areas. Prior to joining the 
Board in 2002 as Energy Supply Director, Alistair 
was Director of Corporate Finance and Business 
Development. In 2010, he became Generation  
and Supply Director, before his appointment  
as Deputy Chief Executive in 2012 then Chief 
Executive in 2013. Alistair is a fellow of the  
Energy Institute and a Chartered Accountant. 

Gregor joined SSE in 1990 and has been Finance 
Director on the Board since 2002. Prior to being 
appointed as Finance Director, Gregor worked  
in senior finance roles and led specialist teams 
including as Group Treasurer and Tax Manager. 
Gregor has also served on the Boards of SSE’s 
networks businesses over a number of years.  
He is a Chartered Accountant and member  
of the Accounting for Sustainability (A4S) CFO 
Leadership Network. 

Skills and attributes which support strategy  
and long-term success

Skills and attributes which support strategy  
and long-term success

Skills and attributes which support strategy  
and long-term success

•  Dynamic and engaging leadership style  
with diverse perspectives gained across 
multiple sectors, organisational settings  
and geographies, which complement the 
responsibilities of SSE Chair.

•  Experienced in the governance of large-scale 
business operations, leading reform and the 
management of complex projects to drive 
commercial performance, skills key to the 
fulfilment of SSE’s vision and purpose. 

•  Strong communicator with insight into  
the management and development of 
stakeholder relations aligned with SSE’s 
approach to decision-making. 

•  Working knowledge of energy regulation, 

government and policy considerations which 
underpin the success of a net zero transition.

•  Brings sharp focus to people leadership, 
succession planning and inclusion and 
diversity. 

•  Sound executive leadership and a considered 
approach to strategy; evidenced through 
continued delivery under the Group operating 
model, Net Zero Acceleration Programme, 
and sustainability plans and targets.

•  Broad knowledge of the energy markets in 

Great Britain and Ireland and across Europe, 
which informs views of long-term direction. 

•  Proactive approach to understanding 

stakeholder priorities including the impact of 
the energy crisis, SSE’s societal response to 
net zero and the pace, focus and investment 
needed to deliver a clean, secure and 
cost-effective energy system. 

•  Detailed understanding of policy, politics,  
and regulation, enabling constructive 
engagement in these areas.

•  Focused on people development to support 
culture and capabilities for future growth.

•  Extensive knowledge of financial markets as 

leader of SSE’s financial strategy, including  
the approach to sustainable financing and 
long-term performance, and the link between 
financial, social and environmental factors. 
•  Experienced in directing significant corporate 
projects and major transactions, including 
SSE’s approach to investments, divestments 
and partnering to create strategic value. 
•  Oversees governance in the management  
of Group risks including those emerging  
from the net zero transition and external 
economic environment, with a focus on 
capital investment, resilient supply chains, 
project delivery and digital. 

•  Deep appreciation of shareholder views  
and ESG matters including the continued 
commitment to lead on fair tax, fair work  
and sharing economic value through of SSE’s 
2030 Goals. 

Martin joined SSE in 1998 as an energy trader, 
which was followed by a series of commercial 
roles before becoming Managing Director, Energy 
Portfolio Management, and a member of SSE’s 
then Management Board in 2012. In 2014, he was 
appointed Managing Director, Wholesale, and a 
member of SSE’s Group Executive Committee.  
In 2017 he joined the Board as Group Energy 
Director, a role which was expanded to Group 
Energy and Commercial Director in November 
2020. This role was re-titled Chief Commercial 
Officer in March 2022. 

Tony possesses detailed knowledge of the energy 
sector through a 20-year career with E.ON SE and 
Powergen plc, encompassing responsibility for: 
thermal generation; onshore and offshore wind 
(including Scroby Sands and the London Array, 
the world’s largest offshore wind farm when 
built); commodity trading and risk management; 
and retail. Latterly, he held the position of CEO 
and Chair of E.ON UK plc, comprising the main 
businesses in the UK. Previous roles include CEO 
of E.ON Energy Trading SE and Managing Director 
of E.ON UK Energy Wholesale. He has served on 
the Board of Energy UK.

Skills and attributes which support strategy  
and long-term success

Skills and attributes which support strategy  
and long-term success

•  Literacy in complex energy and commodity 
markets which is supported by technical  
and operational expertise.

•  Extensive CEO and MD experience across 

renewables, generation, commodity portfolio 
management and energy trading. 

•  End-to-end experience in large capital 

•  Wide-ranging technical and operational 

projects including joint venture engagement 
and governance, which has been applied  
in the development of SSE’s diverse and 
flexible generation portfolio, including the 
renewables pipeline. 

•  Commercially minded in seeking future 

growth within SSE’s market-based businesses, 
including internationally, having supported 
key capital recycling opportunities and 
transactions to refine SSE’s business mix and 
secure optimum value from investments. 
•  Understanding of change management and 
sources of commercial risk, having overseen 
SSE’s monitoring and response to recent 
market volatility. 

insight, surrounding energy infrastructure  
and assets including the delivery of major 
thermal and renewable energy projects. 

•  UK and European energy industry and 

non-Executive experience enhances Board 
understanding of trends relevant to SSE’s 
operations and of utilities regulation. 
•  A balanced sounding board with additive 
experience in strategic consultancy and 
energy and utility stakeholder management. 

Key external appointments and changes 

Key external appointments and changes 

Key external appointments and changes 

Key external appointments and changes 

Key external appointments and changes 

•  Non-Executive Director of Diageo. 
•  Chair of the Atomic Weapons Establishment. 
•  Non-Executive Director of KBR Inc. 

•  Chair of SSEN Distribution Board from  

•  Chair of SSEN Transmission Board from 

•  Member of Energy UK Board. 

April 2023. 

•  Non-Executive Director of Anglian Water 
Services Limited from November 2022.
•  Member of the Scottish Energy Advisory 

Board.

•  Member of the UK Government’s Hydrogen 

Advisory Council.

October 2022.

•  Director of Neos Networks Limited from 

February 2023.

•  Stepped down as non-Executive Director  
of Stagecoach Group plc in June 2022.

•  Chair of Infinis Energy Management Limited.
•  Visiting Professor at Aston University.
•  Chair of Future Biogas Limited from March 

2023. 

Key

Committee membership 

NC    Nomination Committee

AC    Audit Committee

ER    Energy Markets Risk Committee

SHE    Safety, Sustainability, Health and Environment 

Advisory Committee

RC    Remuneration Committee

   Committee Chair

External appointments

The Board considered and approved 
the additional external commitments 
taken on by Alistair Phillips-Davies, 
Tony Cocker, Debbie Crosbie, Helen 
Mahy and Melanie Smith during the 
period, confirming there would be  
no impact on the time commitment 
required for their respective roles. 
For the non-Executive Directors,  
an additional assessment of 
independence and objectivity  
was conducted, with no concerns 
identified. The resultant position  
is believed to be consistent with 
recognised proxy advisor guidelines.

116

SSE plc  Annual Report 2023

SSE plc  Annual Report 2023

117

Financial StatementsStrategic ReportDirectors’ Report 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Board of Directors continued

I N D E P E N D E N T 

N O N - E X E C U T I V E 

D I R E C T O R S

Lady Elish Angiolini QC
Non-Executive Director

John Bason 
Non-Executive Director 

Debbie Crosbie
Non-Executive Director

Peter Lynas 
Non-Executive Director

Helen Mahy CBE 
Non-Executive Director

NC

SHE

RC

NC

AC

RC

NC

AC

ER

NC

AC

RC

NC

AC

SHE

Melanie Smith CBE 
Non-Executive Director

NC

ER

RC  

Date of appointment

Date of appointment

Date of appointment

Date of appointment

Date of appointment

Date of appointment

Non-Executive Director since September 2021

Non-Executive Director since June 2022

Non-Executive Director since September 2021

Non-Executive Director since July 2014

Non-Executive Director since March 2016

Non-Executive Director since January 2019

Board tenure

1 year

Board tenure

Under 1 year

Board tenure

1 year

Board tenure

8 years

Board tenure

7 years

Board tenure

4 years

Career and experience 

Career and experience 

Career and experience 

Career and experience 

Career and experience 

Career and experience 

Lady Elish has an extensive public sector legal 
career, serving as Lord Advocate of Scotland  
from 2006 to 2011, across two government 
administrations, having previously been Solicitor 
General for Scotland. Since then, she has carried 
out independent public inquiries and reviews  
for the UK and Scottish Governments and held 
positions in academia, serving as Principal of  
St Hugh’s College Oxford since 2012. She is also  
a Pro-Vice Chancellor of Oxford University and 
previous Chancellor of the University of West of 
Scotland. She is Chair of the Board of Trustees for 
the legal action non-governmental group Reprieve 
and a patron of several charities.

John brings significant listed company and recent 
and relevant financial and international experience 
through a career in global businesses. He joined 
Associated British Foods plc (ABF) as Finance 
Director in 1999 and held this position until 
stepping down in April 2023. Whilst in post, ABF’s 
diverse food, ingredients and retail businesses 
employed 128,000 people and operated in 53 
countries across Europe, Asia, the Americas, 
Australia and Africa. Prior to this, John was  
Finance Director of the international distribution 
and services group Bunzl plc. Non-Executive 
experience includes Senior Independent Director 
and Audit Committee Chair of Compass Group 
PLC. John is a Chartered Accountant. 

Debbie brings over 25 years of experience in 
financial services leadership and became the  
first female Chief Executive of Nationwide  
Building Society in 2022. Prior to this appointment, 
Debbie served as CEO of TSB from May 2019 and 
was previously an Executive Director and Chief 
Operating Officer of Clydesdale Bank, where  
she led preparations for its successful demerger 
from National Australia Bank and subsequent IPO. 
Debbie is a fellow of the Chartered Institute of 
Bankers and a member of the Glasgow Economic 
Leadership Board and the Strathclyde University 
Business School Advisory Board.

Peter has over 30 years of business experience 
spanning all areas of finance. He retired from the 
role of Group Finance Director of BAE Systems plc 
in March 2020, prior to which he was Director, 
Financial Control, Reporting and Treasury. His early 
career involved roles within GEC Marconi, where 
he was appointed Finance Director of Marconi 
Electronic Systems before the completion  
of the British Aerospace/Marconi merger.  
He is a Fellow of the Chartered Association  
of Certified Accountants. 

Helen is a former Company Secretary and General 
Counsel of National Grid plc. She is an experienced 
non-Executive Director with previous directorships 
at Bonheur ASA, Aga Rangemaster plc, Stagecoach 
Group plc, SVG Capital plc, Chair of MedicX Fund 
Limited, Deputy Chair and Senior Independent 
Director of Primary Health Properties PLC, and 
Chair of The Renewables Infrastructure Group 
Limited. She was a member of the Parker Review 
steering committee into the Ethnic Diversity of  
UK Boards. She is a patron of the Social Mobility 
Business Partnership, Co-chair of the Employers 
Social Mobility Alliance and Chair of the Global 
Media Campaign to end FGM. 

Melanie has over 20 years of strategy and 
transformation experience. Most recently, she  
built the Ocado Retail joint venture – the world’s 
largest pureplay online grocer and the UK’s fastest 
growing grocer, of which she was CEO until 2022. 
Prior to this she was Strategy Director for Marks & 
Spencer with responsibility for group strategy, M&S 
Bank and M&S Services. Earlier roles include Global 
Strategy and Marketing Director at Bupa, Chief 
Operating Officer at TalkTalk and a Partner in 
McKinsey’s Consumer practice.

Skills and attributes which support strategy and 
long-term success

Skills and attributes which support strategy and 
long-term success

Skills and attributes which support strategy and 
long-term success

Skills and attributes which support strategy and 
long-term success

Skills and attributes which support strategy and 
long-term success

Skills and attributes which support strategy and 
long-term success

•  Possesses significant understanding of 
Scottish governance and has practical 
experience of working with the UK and 
Scottish governments through involvement  
in independent public reviews, whilst 
maintaining no political affiliation.
•  Strong ambassadorial skills developed 

through an international stakeholder network 
in judicial, governmental, diplomatic, and 
academic fields. 

•  Exercises a strong sense of social purpose 
and adds depth of perspective to Board 
considerations, including as an advocate  
for employee views in the Boardroom; 
reinforcing SSE’s approach to wider  
value creation. 

•  Extensive leadership experience and 

•  Extensive experience of the implementation 

international perspective, gained from global 
companies and complex operations, which 
will be invaluable to SSE’s growth and entry 
into new markets.

•  A proven track record in developing financial 
and commercial strategy, including M&A, 
corporate transactions and large capital 
projects, which complements SSE’s Net  
Zero Acceleration Programme Plus, and 
supports appointment to the role of Audit 
Committee Chair from 21 July 2023.

•  Understanding of the listed company context 
with practical experience of investor relations 
and ESG strategy, placing upmost importance 
on the role of sustainability.

of strategy, including execution of far-
reaching transformation projects within  
large consumer-facing organisation,  
and the critical role of digital and data. 

•  Understanding of capital allocation, 

optimisation, and investment appraisal 
frameworks central to SSE’s growth plans. 

•  Responsible for efficient and effective 

operations in high profile organisations  
in a heavily regulated sector, requiring a 
compliance-driven approach and proficiency 
in IT and cyber security, risk management and 
internal controls. 

•  Business leader with expert understanding  
of the wider organisational responsibilities  
to employees and society. 

•  Brings recent and relevant financial 
experience to the Board and strong  
direction to the Audit Committee, as Chair  
of which, he drives focus on the risk and 
control environment including Group 
resilience, cyber security and the ethics  
and compliance culture. 
International business perspective and  
an applied understanding of long-term 
project management and delivery, including 
investment appraisal, contracting and supply 
chain experience. 

• 

•  Up-to-date investor relations experience 
through his executive career at BAE and 
pensions insight having been Chair of the 
trustee Board of a major UK scheme.

•  Long-standing energy and regulatory 

expertise, including understanding of the 
legal, compliance, governance and risk 
frameworks in which SSE’s businesses operate 
and a decade of experience overseeing 
renewables infrastructure investment. 
Insight into a broad range of investor and 
stakeholder perspectives and trends from 
cross-sectoral, international and external 
Board interests that enable wider discussion 
and debate. 

• 

•  Advocate of a strong safety and employee 
wellbeing culture, extensive knowledge of 
sustainability, and applies a wide focus to 
social equity including social mobility and 
inclusion and diversity. 

•  Highly qualified to appraise strategy 
development and execution, having  
advised and led growth, brand and business 
transformation in the consumer and retail 
sectors worldwide. 

•  Deep commercial and digital experience 

across multiple goods and services categories, 
including insurance, telco and energy that 
furthers Board understanding of the customer.

•  Has a people centric style and wide-ranging 
experience in a global context including a 
strong cultural appreciation. 

•  An entrepreneurial organisational leader, 
actively engaging with stakeholder views  
to create high performing organisations.

Key external appointments and changes 

Key external appointments and changes 

Key external appointments and changes 

Key external appointments and changes 

Key external appointments and changes 

Key external appointments and changes 

•  Pro-Vice Chancellor of the University  

•  Non-Executive Director of Bloomsbury 

•  Chief Executive of Nationwide Building 

•  Senior Independent Director of First Group plc. 

•  Non-Executive Director of Gowling WLG  

of Oxford.

Publishing Plc.

Society. 

•  Principal of St Hugh’s College Oxford.
•  Chair of the Sarah Everard Inquiry.
•  Chair of Board of Trustees of Reprieve.
•  Stepped down as Chair of the Discipline 

•  Chair of the charity FareShare.
•  Primark Strategic Advisory Board Chair from 

•  Member of the Glasgow Economic 

Leadership Board.

April 2023.

•  Member of the Business School Advisory 

•  Stepped down as Finance Director of 

Board of Strathclyde University.

Board of ICAS in March 2023.

Associated British Foods plc in April 2023. 

•  Member of the FCA Practitioner Panel  

from June 2022. 

•  Director of UK Finance from May 2023.

(UK) LLP.

•  Non-Executive Director of NextEnergy Solar 

Fund from April 2023.

•  Advisory Board member of Manaia.
•  Trustee of Sadler’s Wells.
•  Founder of Mokaraka Trust. 
•  Trustee of Somerset House from  

•  Stepped down as Chair of The Renewables 

December 2022.

Infrastructure Group Limited in October 2022. 

•  Stepped down as CEO of Ocado Retail 

•  Stepped down as Commissioner for The 

Limited in August 2022.

Equality and Human Rights Commission in 
March 2023. 

118

SSE plc  Annual Report 2023

SSE plc  Annual Report 2023

119

Financial StatementsStrategic ReportDirectors’ Report 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Board of Directors continued

I N D E P E N D E N T 

N O N - E X E C U T I V E 

D I R E C T O R S

C O M P A N Y 

S E C R E T A R Y

Dame Angela Strank DBE 
Non-Executive Director

Sally Fairbairn
Company Secretary and Director of Investor 
Relations

NC

SHE

RC

Date of appointment

Date of appointment

Non-Executive Director since May 2020

Company Secretary and Director of Investor 
Relations since December 2014

Board tenure

3 years

Career and experience 

Career and experience 

Sally joined SSE in 1997 as a chartered accountant 
working in the Corporate Finance team. Through 
this role, which included responsibility for 
long-term financial modelling of the SSE Group, 
she developed knowledge of the SSE’s diverse 
operations and the UK energy industry. In 2007, 
Sally became Director of Investor Relations and 
Analysis allowing her to develop extensive 
experience of the shareholder and financial analyst 
community, and through associated engagement, 
has detailed understanding of investor views.  
Sally was appointed to the joint role of Company 
Secretary and Director of Investor Relations in 
December 2014.

Dame Angela brings depth of executive experience 
from a long-standing international career in the 
energy sector, which included 38 years’ service at 
BP. Prior to retirement in December 2020, she was 
a member of BP’s Executive Management team as 
BP Group Chief Scientist and Head of Downstream 
Technology. This followed international business 
and technical leadership positions spanning R&D, 
engineering, digital, product development and 
innovation, business development, finance and 
renewable energy. Angela is a Fellow of the Royal 
Society, the Royal Academy of Engineers, and the 
UK Energy Institute. She was awarded a DBE for 
long-standing services to the energy industry and 
pioneering STEM careers, especially for women.

Skills and attributes which support strategy and 
long-term success

•  Expert understanding of the current and 

future role of technology and science within 
the broader energy and manufacturing 
industries, including the impact of disruptive 
trends and resultant transformation. 

•  Knowledge of leading and collaborating on  
a large scale and with international outlook, 
having worked extensively in culturally diverse 
environments including the Middle East, 
Europe, the Far East, Africa and America.

•  Corporate social responsibility and 

sustainability experience through active 
involvement in climate science research,  
the energy transition, reputation and safety 
management, pioneering women in STEM 
careers, and as a champion of inclusion  
and diversity; having chaired the Corporate 
Sustainability Committee, and Safety,  
Ethics and Sustainability Committee in  
two FTSE 100 companies.

Key external appointments and changes 

•  Non-Executive Director of Rolls Royce plc. 
•  Non-Executive Director of Mondi plc. 

Group Executive Committee

Alistair Phillips-Davies
Chief Executive

Gregor Alexander 
Finance Director 

Martin Pibworth
Chief Commercial Officer

Chris Burchell 
MD, SSEN Distribution

Rob McDonald 
MD, SSEN Transmission

Chris has been MD, SSEN Distribution 
since November 2020, following an 
extensive career in transport where 
he held several MD and Group level 
operational and commercial 
leadership positions, including with 
Arriva, The Go-Ahead Group and 
Railtrack. Chris also brings wider 
sector experience having been a 
non-Executive Director with OFWAT 
and as Chair of the Rail Delivery 
Group trade body. 

Rob has been MD, SSEN Transmission 
since January 2019, having joined 
SSE in 1997 and holding a number  
of senior roles within the Group 
Regulation function. Prior to his 
current position, he was MD, 
Corporate and Business Services 
covering Legal, Regulation, 
Compliance, Safety and Large  
Capital Projects Services across SSE. 

Sam Peacock 
MD, Corporate Affairs, Regulation 
and Strategy

Sam joined the Group Executive 
Committee in April 2020 and leads 
SSE’s teams overseeing corporate 
strategy, government and regulatory 
affairs, communications, brand, and 
local project communications. Prior 
to joining SSE in 2011, he directed 
government affairs at Ofgem and 
worked at leading communications 
agency Edelman, as well as in 
Parliament and in Government.

Catherine Raw 
MD, SSE Thermal

Catherine has been MD, SSE Thermal 
since April 2022, and brings extensive 
operational and commercial 
experience from her previous roles in 
the international mining firm Barrick 
Gold where she was both Chief 
Operating Officer for North America 
and Chief Financial Officer. Prior  
to this, Catherine was a Managing 
Director and Fund Manager at 
BlackRock, one of the world’s largest 
fund management companies.

John Stewart
Director of HR

Liz Tanner 
General Counsel

Stephen Wheeler 
MD, SSE Renewables

John has been Director of HR since 
joining SSE in July 2009. Prior to this 
he worked in a broad range of senior 
management roles in the energy and 
water sectors and has experience of 
working in both the UK and in the US. 
He oversees all areas in relation to 
SSE’s people including talent and 
capability, training and development, 
employee engagement, and 
inclusion and diversity. 

Liz is a barrister and has been Group 
General Counsel since March 2019, 
having joined SSE in 2002 as part of 
the acquisition of Neos Networks. 
Since joining SSE, Liz has held a 
variety of legal and commercial  
roles within a number of different  
SSE Group companies and currently 
oversees the corporate functions of 
Legal, Compliance, Data Protection 
and Large Capital Project Services.

Stephen has been MD, SSE 
Renewables since January 2022 
having previously held the roles  
of MD, SSE Thermal and MD, SSE 
Ireland. Prior to SSE, he was part  
of the management team that grew 
the Airtricity renewable energy 
platform before SSE acquired it in 
2008. Before joining Airtricity, he 
spent over 10 years working with  
ABB and Siemens internationally. 

Sally Fairbairn
Company Secretary and Director  
of Investor Relations, Committee 
Secretary

Biographical details of the Executive 
Directors and Company Secretary 
and Director of Investor Relations. 

More on pages 116 to 120 

120

SSE plc  Annual Report 2023

SSE plc  Annual Report 2023

121

Financial StatementsStrategic ReportDirectors’ Report 
 
 
 
 
Our corporate governance

SSE’s Governance Framework

SSE plc Board

Nomination 
Committee

Audit Committee

Energy Markets  
Risk Committee
(EMRC)

Safety,  
Sustainability,  
Health and 
Environment  
Advisory Committee 
(SSHEAC)

Remuneration 
Committee

See pages 142 to 149 

See pages 150 to 159 

See pages 160 to 161 

See pages 162 to 165 

See pages 166 to 187 

Board Committees

75%

SSEN Transmission Board

SSEN Distribution Board

Group Executive Committee

SSEN
Transmission

SSEN
Distribution

SSE 
Renewables

SSE  
Thermal 

Group Safety, 
Health and 
Environment

Group Risk

Group Large 
Capital 
Projects

Energy 
Customer 
Solutions 

SSE  
Enterprise

Energy 
Portfolio 
Management

Group 
Disclosure

Group 
Investment

Group  
Energy  
Markets 
Exposure Risk

Business Unit Executive Committees

Group Committees

 Dedicated Boards oversee SSE’s economically regulated networks businesses in compliance with applicable regulatory licence conditions. 
SSE Energy Customer Solutions comprises SSE Airtricity and SSE Business Energy. 
SSE Enterprise comprises the business activities within SSE Distributed Energy.

B
o
a
r
d
o
v
e
r
s
i
g
h
t

M
a
n
a
g
e
m
e
n
t
a
c
c
o
u
n
t
a
b

i
l
i
t
y

Our corporate governance 
Corporate governance in SSE can be 
explained as the minimum expectations  
set by the Board surrounding standards, 
responsible conduct and controls.  
SSE’s Board-led Governance Framework 
supports this approach by mapping  
where accountability resides in line with 
delegated authorities, and as such, is a key 
part of SSE’s System of Internal Control.

The Board
The primary role of the Board is to lead SSE 
in a way that ensures its long-term success, 
whilst generating value for shareholders 
and wider stakeholders. This is a broad-
ranging duty and is directed by the 
cornerstones of SSE’s purpose and vision. 
These guiding statements are considered 
on an ongoing basis by the Board, and their 
positioning continues to underpin a strategy 
focused on clean energy infrastructure and 
energy security in the transition to net zero. 

The Board agrees and monitors SSE’s 
strategy through a continuing programme 
of work. In 2021/22, this saw approval  
and announcement of SSE’s Net Zero 
Acceleration Programme (NZAP), which 

122

SSE plc  Annual Report 2023

was further updated in May 2023 as 
explained on page 83 . Overseeing 
execution of the NZAP has been a key 
Board focus in 2022/23 and complemented 
by strategic review work to confirm its 
continued applicability as the optimum 
pathway for all stakeholders. Details of  
how SSE’s businesses and associated 
business model provide the best possible 
balance to deliver this long-term value is 
set out on pages 2 to 11 . 

The Group Executive Committee 
and Business Units
Once set by the Board, the implementation 
of strategy is the responsibility of the Group 
Executive Committee and management 
across SSE’s Business Units. Oversight  
of performance is achieved through 
structured operational and financial 
reporting from the Executive Directors  
at each Board meeting, in addition to 
presentations from each Business Unit 
across the year. These presentations 
comprise strategic updates and approvals 
in line with SSE’s Governance Framework. 
Operational and financial performance for 
2022/23 is covered across the Strategic 
Report on pages 1 to 109 .

Supporting Committees
Areas of importance to the Board and  
SSE’s operations influence the features  
of the Governance Framework, this is 
illustrated in part by the Committees which 
support the Board and the Group Executive 
Committee. The Board Committees are 
delegated a specific area of focus by  
the Board, while the Group Executive 
Committee establishes and oversees the 
Committees needed at Group and Business 
Unit level to achieve strategic delivery. 
Clarity surrounding the responsibilities  
of each Committee is ensured through 
approved Terms of Reference. 

Monitoring of delegated matters is 
supported by formal reporting channels. 
For Board Committees, this is a personal 
account from the non-Executive Director 
who chairs the Committee following each 
Committee meeting. On executive matters, 
the Chief Executive, Finance Director and 
Chief Commercial Officer are responsible 
for providing full updates at each Board 
meeting. These mechanisms are in addition 
to sub-Committee minutes, written reports 
and agreed KPIs to monitor financial and 
non-financial performance.

Board reserved matters 
To safeguard the areas material to the 
delivery of SSE’s purpose, vision and 
strategy, the Board retains a schedule  
of matters reserved for its decision. This 
ensures the necessary framework and 
resources are in place for the Group to 
meet its stated objectives and covers the 
below areas. Examples of how the Board 
has considered these matters are set out  
on pages 125 to 131 .

Strategy and performance
•  Approval and review of commercial 
strategy, business development and 
long-term strategic options.

•  Oversight of performance in line with 
approved strategy and objectives.
•  Review and approval of priorities 

surrounding SSE’s principal sustainability 
impacts, including climate change.
•  Major transactions and any material 
extension or closure of operations. 

Financial management 
•  Approval of annual operating and  

capital expenditure budgets.

•  Approval of dividend policy and key 

financial communications. 

•  Changes in SSE’s capital structure. 

Risk and control
•  Ensuring sound systems of internal 
control and risk management.

•  Oversight of emerging and principal 

risks. 

People and culture
•  Approach to people, succession,  

and inclusion and diversity.

•  Agreement and monitoring of a healthy 
corporate culture including SSE’s values 
and framework of cultural controls. 

Governance
•  Changes to Board and Board 

Committee structure, size and 
composition. 

•  Approval of shareholder 

communications. 

•  Confirmation of stakeholder approach.
•  Approval of Board-level corporate 

governance matters.

Regulation
•  Approval of the electricity distribution 
and transmission price control reviews 
proposed by Ofgem.

Board Charter
The Schedule of Reserved Matters is one of 
a collection of documents which make up 
SSE’s Board Charter. The contents of the 
Board Charter govern Board operations 
and pertinent Group-wide matters and  
is subject to annual Board review and 
approval. The Board Charter contains:

•  SSE plc’s Articles of Association.*
•  Board’s Schedule of Reserved Matters.*
•  SSE’s guide to good business ethics.*
•  SSE’s Guide to Governance.
•  Board Committee Terms of Reference.*
•  Non-Audit Services Policy.*
•  Procedure for Taking Independent 

Advice.

•  Non-Executive Directors’ Shareholding 

Policy.

•  Board Inclusion and Diversity Policy.*
•  Responsibilities of key Board roles.*

* Documents available in full on sse.com .

Board operations
The Board, led by the Chair, seeks to 
nurture a culture in which informed and 
transparent decision-making takes place. 
This is supported by clearly defined Board 
roles and constructive dialogue within  
and outside of meetings. The division  
of responsibilities across the Board is 
explained on page 139 .

As one of the key responsibilities of the 
non-Executive Directors is to challenge and 
provide counsel, it is deemed appropriate 
that relationships can be built across SSE. 
The Board therefore has unfettered access 
to senior leadership, their teams and 

specialist functions, with individuals from 
different levels across the organisation 
invited to present at Board meetings and 
deep dive sessions. For details of employee 
engagement and knowledge development in 
2022/23 see pages 134 to 136 and 147 .

Meeting agendas are developed by the Chair, 
Chief Executive and Company Secretary. 
These are structured around a pre-agreed 
annual plan of Board business and the status 
of projects, strategic workstreams and the 
overarching operating context. Adequate 
time is allocated to support effective and 
constructive discussion, and guidance is 
available to authors and presenters of Board 
materials. An electronic meeting portal 
allows efficient navigation of papers, 
information and requests. 

Before or after every Board meeting, the 
non-Executive Directors meet without the 
Executive Directors present. This allows any 
issues surrounding meeting business to be 
raised separately from full Board discussion. 

Board meetings in 2022/23 
In the period to 31 March 2023, there  
were six scheduled meetings of the  
Board with update calls in alternate  
months to maintain coverage of key 
business developments, emerging issues 
and opportunities. Arrangements remain in 
place should a Board decision or approval 
be required outside of these times. Where 
an individual is unable to attend a meeting, 
feedback is sought in advance by the 
relevant Board or Committee Chair and 
Secretary, and a debrief offered thereafter.

Board

Nomination 
Committee1 

Audit 
Committee

EMRC SSHEAC2 

Remuneration 
Committee3

Number of meetings held 

Sir John Manzoni

Alistair Phillips-Davies 

Gregor Alexander 

Martin Pibworth 

Tony Cocker 

Lady Elish Angiolini 

John Bason4 

Dame Sue Bruce

Debbie Crosbie 

Peter Lynas 

Helen Mahy

Melanie Smith 

Dame Angela Strank 

6

6/6

6/6

6/6

6/6

6/6

6/6

5/5

6/6

6/6

6/6

6/6

6/6

6/6

8

8/8

–

–

–

8/8

7/8

5/5

7/8

8/8

7/8

8/8

8/8

7/8

4

–

–

–

–

4/4

–

3/3

–

4/4

4/4

4/4

–

–

4

4/4

–

4/4

4/4

4/4

–

–

–

4/4

–

–

4/4

–

5

3/5

–

–

5/5

5/5

5/5

–

–

–

–

5/5

–

5/5

4

4/4

–

–

–

–

4/4

–

4/4

–

4/4

–

3/4

4/4

1  Nomination Committee. Dame Sue Bruce and Dame Angela Strank were unable to attend an additional short-notice meeting due to prior engagements. Lady Elish 

Angiolini was unable to attend one meeting due to illness. Peter Lynas was unable to attend one meeting due to a prior commitment which was notified upon the 
meeting date being set. 

2  SSHEAC. Sir John Manzoni was unable to attend one meeting due to travel disruption, with the other an additional short-notice meeting which conflicted with a 

prior commitment. 

3  Remuneration Committee. Melanie Smith was unable to attend an additional short-notice meeting due to a prior commitment. 
4  John Bason joined the Board, Nomination and Audit Committee on 1 June 2022.

SSE plc  Annual Report 2023

123

Financial StatementsStrategic ReportDirectors’ Report 
 
Considered decision-making

Setting strategy

Decision-making context

Stakeholder views 

Employees

Shareholders  
and debt providers

Energy  
customers

Government  
and regulators

NGOs, communities 
and civil society

Suppliers, 
contractors and 
partners

Our purpose
To provide energy needed today, 
while building a better world of 
energy for tomorrow.

Our vision
To be a leading energy company  
in a net zero world.

Our strategy
To create value for shareholders  
and society in a sustainable way  
by developing, building, operating 
and investing in the electricity 
infrastructure and businesses 
needed in the transition to  
net zero.

Our culture 
See pages 137 to 138 .

Decision-making context 
The Board has a duty to lead by example 
and set the correct tone to ensure fair and 
responsible decision-making across SSE. 
SSE’s Governance Framework represents 
the backdrop to this, through which the 
Board confirms ambitions, parameters and 
expectations to drive long-term success. 
These expectations are further embodied 
across SSE’s purpose, vision, strategy, and 
culture, and the belief that stakeholder 
views should be considered within 
long-term plans and day-to-day operations. 

Engaging with stakeholders
The approach to stakeholder engagement 
is directed by a Board-agreed framework. 
This confirms SSE’s key stakeholder groups; 
the purpose of meaningful stakeholder 
relations; and how stakeholder views should 
be considered at Business Unit and Group 
level. These principles are explained in the 
Section 172 Statement on pages 26 to 27 .

Given the societal impact and scale of SSE’s 
business operations, breadth and depth  
of stakeholder engagement is required, to 
ensure decisions demonstrate an appropriate 
degree of stakeholder awareness. A mature 
executive and business-led stakeholder 

network supports this work, with Board 
oversight and understanding of views 
achieved through both direct Board 
engagement and reporting of below-Board 
activity. This allows the timely recognition of 
emerging stakeholder considerations, with 
the Board’s own engagement guiding the 
expectation that senior leadership and SSE’s 
Business Units take demonstrable account  
of stakeholder opinion in their decisions and 
longer-term objectives. 

Addressing stakeholder 
priorities
The response to stakeholder views across 
business plans is depicted across the 
Annual Report, with the pages that follow 
providing insight surrounding the direct 
interaction of stakeholder views with Board 
discussions and decisions in 2022/23. 

It is recognised SSE’s purpose, and the 
issues of energy security and affordability, 
the climate emergency, and the societal 
impact of net zero are of wide stakeholder 
interest. A number of engagement priorities 
based on these topics have therefore  
been identified for 2023/24 and are set  
out opposite. 

Stakeholder engagement 
priorities 
The following priorities have 
been identified by the Board  
for constructive focus and 
assessment across engagement 
work in 2023/24:

•  Progressing and evolving 
the Net Zero Acceleration 
Programme Plus to support 
stakeholder value creation.
•  Continued leadership and 
advocacy surrounding a  
just transition to net zero.
•  Playing a part in addressing 

the energy related 
consequences of the ongoing 
war in Ukraine, with long term 
energy affordability and 
energy security being key 
outputs of Group strategic 
and Business Unit plans.

Read more on SSE’s stakeholders 
and how the priorities above 
been identified through 
supporting engagement  
on pages 26 to 33 .

The Net Zero Acceleration Programme 
(NZAP), published in November 2021, set 
out SSE’s fully-funded capex plan to 2026.  
In the period since then, the NZAP has been 
the platform for investment in low-carbon 
assets and electricity infrastructure. A key 
Board focus across the year was ensuring 
the NZAP remained the correct pathway for 
SSE and that its execution was progressing 
at the correct pace. The growth ambitions 
and science-based climate targets for 
achievement by 2031 underpinning it 
provided a clear framework for decision-
making and assessment of progress. 

Reviewing external context 
The Board’s appraisal and oversight of  
SSE’s situation is supported by an agreed 
strategic agenda embedded across  
its annual plan of work. This includes 
dedicated strategy days, Business Unit-led 
strategic updates at agreed intervals across 
the year, and Board-level approvals linked 
to strategic projects. An NZAP dashboard 
setting out a holistic view of Group-wide 
progress was developed at the request  
of the Board and is reviewed three times  
a year.

Supplementing the above are strategic 
deep dives which examine specific areas  
of growth or material factors on which 
future priorities depend. To bolster the 
Board’s approach to challenge and 
understanding of stakeholder views, 
objective opinions are sought through 
soundings on strategy and by inviting 
external speakers to present views on the 
external operating environment and future 
trends. Details of deep dives and external 
engagements which took place in 2022/23 
are set out opposite.

Following consideration of SSE’s 
opportunities and recent business 
performance, as well as the external 
environment and the acceleration of the 
global green transition, in May 2023, the 
Board approved SSE’s NZAP Plus. This rolls 
forward the original NZAP by 12 months to 
2027 and upgrades the targets, ambitions 
and investment mix to reflect the enhanced 
opportunities SSE has. The Board is clear 
that the NZAP Plus is still a fully-funded 
plan, now including expected capital and 
investment of £18bn over the five year 
period to 2027. For full details of NZAP  
Plus see page 83 .

Strategic deep dives 
9 sessions held covering:
•  Pumped storage and digitalisation 
•  Transmission investment drivers
•  Distribution networks and  

net zero

•  The role of carbon capture  

and storage

•  The future for hydrogen
• 
International energy markets
•  Commodity risk metrics and 

management
•  Digital innovation
•  Sustainability and climate 

reporting

Engaging external opinion 
10 external speakers engaged 
providing diverse perspectives on:
•  UK political and economic 

outlook 

•  Domestic policy environment
•  Global politics and economics  

of the energy transition 

•  Time value of new technologies 

Board strategy days  
2022/23

Purpose

To review changes in the external environment since approval of the NZAP and understand the potential impact on 
long-term direction. Through this assessment, confirm both the risks and opportunities facing SSE and identify key  
topics which should be considered to continue to maximise shareholder and stakeholder value.

Attendees 
across 
sessions

•  The Board 
•  Group Strategy Team 
•  Group Executive Committee
•  Business Unit Leadership Teams 
•  Corporate Finance Team

Reviewing 
the external 
context 

Board debate was set against the backdrop of unprecedented market volatility driven by macro-economic and geo-
political factors, which have played a role in the energy and affordability crises across 2022/23. Within this context, the 
Board considered the short-, medium- and long-term actions required to transition to net zero by 2050 and the following 
influencing external factors material to NZAP execution: 
•  Policy and regulatory frameworks to deliver energy security and market reform for a fair and just transition to net zero.
•  Economic and inflationary pressures on project delivery, supply chains and wider stakeholder experience. 
•  The competitive environment, market share and diversification across geographies. 
•  The growth landscape and risk-adjusted returns of the existing pipeline, new projects and technologies.
•  The role of SSE’s key stakeholder relationships in NZAP delivery. 

Confirming 
strategic 
options

The continued shareholder and societal value of the NZAP and its alignment with SSE’s purpose was tested through 
assessment of the following areas: 
•  The optimum business mix to support net zero and deliver long-term value in an evolving energy sector. 
•  Progress against NZAP targets across each Business Unit and the pathways supporting growth and identification  

of further opportunities. 

•  Financial strategy incorporating the balance of capital allocation and the ways to fund accelerated growth. 
• 
•  The role of SSE’s people, the embedded organisational culture, skills and capabilities. 

Investor priorities and views surrounding strategy and NZAP ambitions.

Outcomes 
and next 
steps

The following represents the outcomes and next steps which were agreed to shape upcoming Board work:
•  Confirmation that SSE’s business mix remains optimal for it to focus on NZAP execution.
•  Approval of the strategic priorities for each Business Unit and agreement on the optimal growth areas within them.
•  Setting an ongoing programme of strategic questions and topics for consideration throughout 2022/23.

124

SSE plc  Annual Report 2023

SSE plc  Annual Report 2023

125

Financial StatementsStrategic ReportDirectors’ ReportGuiding strategic progress

SSE’s 2030 Goals

The following key developments have been the subject and result of the Board’s 
oversight of strategic progress, and form the basis of principal decisions taken  
in the year. Discussion and debate have been underpinned by the NZAP, Board 
strategy work, and SSE’s 2030 Goals, with end outcomes influenced by the 
needs of SSE’s key stakeholder groups.

Key strategic developments 

Growing renewables and system flexibility

Exploring low-carbon technologies

1.  Yellow River wind farm Final Investment Decision.
2.  Southern Europe renewables platform  

acquisition completes.

 3.  Coire Glas exploratory work confirmed.
4.  Ferrybridge battery approval. 
5.  International opportunities and bid parameters.

6.  Triton Power portfolio acquisition with Equinor.
7.  Net Zero Transition Plan updates approved. 
8.  Aldbrough hydrogen pathfinder progresses  
to due diligence in net zero hydrogen fund.
9.  Platin and Tarbet power stations in Ireland 

provisionally secure capacity agreements to  
support development. 

Accelerating transmission network capacity

Increasing investment in local networks

10. SSEN Transmission responds to Ofgem consultation 

13. SSEN Distribution responds to Ofgem RIIO-ED2 

on transmission investments required for 2030 
government targets.

11. SSEN Transmission minority stake sale completes.
12. Ofgem approves transmission investments required 

draft determinations.

14. SSEN Distribution responds to Ofgem RIIO-ED2 

final determinations.

15. SSEN Distribution accepts of Ofgem’s RIIO-ED2 

for 2030 government targets.

final determinations.

Focusing on a fair net zero transition

Advocating for all stakeholders

16. ‘Just transition: measuring progress’ published.

17. ‘Ambition to Action: A Delivery Plan for Cleaner, 

Homegrown Energy’ published.

2022

2023

JUNE

JULY

AUG

SEPT

OCT

NOV

DEC

JAN

FEB

MAR

APR

MAY

1

2

6

10

7

12

11

14

3, 4

8

15

9

16

17

13

5

NZAP Plus 

Balanced capital investment  
in fully-funded plan 

  Renewables 40%

  Thermal/other 10%

  Transmission 30%

  Distribution 20%

126

SSE plc  Annual Report 2023

By 2027

Renewables net 
capacity

>9GW

Networks net gross 
RAV CAGR

£12-14bn

By 2032

Science-based 
targets aligned  
to 1.5°C 

Adjusted EPS CAGR

Net debt/EBITDA 

13-16%

3.5-4.0x

Cut carbon  
intensity by 80%

Increase renewable  
energy output fivefold

Enable low-carbon  
generation and demand

Champion a fair and  
just energy transition

Growing renewables  
and system flexibility

Exploring low-carbon  
technologies

What did the Board review: 1,2,3,4,5
The Board has appraised growth opportunities in  
Great Britain, Ireland and internationally to support  
SSE Renewables’ development pipeline. The strategic 
drivers remain the deployment of end-to-end large 
capital project expertise to address global net zero 
ambitions and enhance portfolio diversity. At home, as 
generation is increasingly led by intermittent wind output, 
the Board confirmed its view of the important role of 
pumped hydro storage and installed battery capacity to 
provide system flexibility and integrate renewable energy.

Section 172 and stakeholder factors
•  Delivering long-term energy affordability. 

Developing and building indigenous renewable energy 
and storage is part of the solution to long-term security 
of supply and affordability.

•  Futureproofing market design. Project decisions and 
bid parameters have been based on an assessment of 
risk-return profiles within current policy frameworks.  
A key focus has been constructive engagement with 
policy makers to ensure the energy system promotes 
investment in net zero-linked projects, whilst delivering 
societal benefit and a fair return for investors. 
•  Safeguarding supply chains. A Board review 

considered procurement and commercial activity  
and engagement, to support supply chain capacity  
and capability for new and future projects. In addition 
to the impact of inflation, commodity exposure, 
material scarcity, and the potential sustainability  
risks of new technologies.

Next steps and future opportunities
•  Exporting expertise. Continuing to apply financial 

discipline to international expansion, building diversity, 
and leveraging SSE’s approach to partnering across 
complementary geographies which align with SSE’s 
culture and values.

•  Promoting system flexibility. Advancing the case  

for policy and market design frameworks that support 
investment in long-duration pumped storage hydro 
technologies which is vital in the transition to net zero. 

What did the Board review: 6,7,8,9
The long-term decarbonisation of the UK power system 
relies on a pipeline of viable low-carbon projects which can 
support security of supply and grid stability. The Board has 
confirmed the platform industrial low-carbon clusters can 
provide for these projects, and underpinned by the principles 
of a just transition to net zero, reviewed opportunities to 
repurpose existing thermal generation sites and partner on 
the new technologies needed to drive change.

Section 172 and stakeholder factors
•  Security of supply for society. Low-carbon thermal 
generation is the flexible back-up to a predominantly 
renewables energy system. The Board commits to 
deploying SSE’s capabilities and partnership expertise to 
deliver these new technologies, which allow employees 
to transfer existing skills to transition to net zero.
•  Reducing environmental impact. SSE has a Board-
approved target to achieve net zero emissions across 
scope 1 and 2 emissions by 2040 at the latest (subject  
to security of supply requirements) and for remaining 
scope 3 emissions by 2050 at the latest. This long-term 
ambition is supported by a series of interim targets 
approved by the Science Based Targets Initiative (SBTi) 
and aligned to a 1.5°C pathway. 

•  Stakeholder expectations. The Triton acquisition 
considered ESG investor views and the long-term 
priority to decarbonise the sites on which the assets 
were situated. Transparency surrounding the impact  
of this decision was ensured through updates to SSE’s 
Net Zero Transition Plan, to confirm the approach  
to managing and reporting on the GHG emissions 
associated with investments.

Next steps and future opportunities
•  Advancing low-carbon thermal. New low-carbon 

flexible generation – using CCS and hydrogen 
technology – is key to reducing emissions and 
transitioning away from unabated gas generation.
•  Supporting local economies. Ongoing engagement 
with local communities will support the creation of 
low-carbon economies in areas impacted by the 
decline of carbon intensive activity. The objective is  
to deliver local benefit and strengthen stakeholder 
relations through open dialogue.

Link to 2030 Goals

Link to NZAP Plus
•  Capital expenditure  

and investment

•  Net installed  

renewable capacity

Link to 2030 Goals

Link to NZAP Plus
•  Capital expenditure  

and investment
•  Net low-carbon  
flexible capacity

SSE plc  Annual Report 2023

127

Financial StatementsStrategic ReportDirectors’ Report 
 
 
 
 
Guiding strategic progress continued

SSE’s 2030 Goals

Cut carbon  
intensity by 80%

Increase renewable  
energy output fivefold

Enable low-carbon  
generation and demand

Champion a fair and  
just energy transition

Accelerating transmission 
network capacity

Increasing investment  
in local networks

Focusing on a fair  
net zero transition

Advocating for 
all stakeholders

What did the Board review: 10,11,12
SSEN Transmission is delivering its Business Plan under 
the RIIO-T2 price control period. The Board has reviewed 
performance against the plan and provided financial 
approvals for projects within its certain view. To support 
growth, the sale of a 25% minority stake in the business 
was approved in November 2022. This was followed  
by confirmation from Ofgem, within its network-wide 
Accelerated Strategic Transmission Investment (ASTI) 
framework, of eight additional investments within SSEN 
Transmission’s network area required to meet the 
Government’s 2030 ambitions. 

Section 172 and stakeholder factors
•  Unlocking value. The stake sale was assessed against 

SSE’s strategic partnership criteria and Ontario 
Teachers’ were deemed to be a strong fit for a minority 
shareholder in SSEN Transmission. The sale parameters 
were confirmed to have no detrimental impact on 
stakeholders, and the proceeds directly supported the 
NZAP and now the NZAP Plus, through net zero-
enabling investment in SSEN Transmission and a 
rebalancing of capex across SSE’s Business Units.

•  Framework for growth. The priorities raised through 
SSEN Transmission’s response to the proposed ASTI 
framework, aligned with the Board’s view of certainty 
over the need for transmission network capacity for 
2030 and informed engagement with stakeholders to 
enable success, including the supply chain. 

•  Powered by people. Updates were considered on 
workforce planning, focusing on critical talent and 
targeted programmes for diversity, pipelines, and 
training and development which supporting the  
pace of required expansion. 

Next steps and future opportunities
•  A network for net zero. Delivery of a price control 

business plan that protects customers’ interests and 
supports the building of national critical infrastructure 
remains a priority.

•  Supply chain management. Ongoing engagement 

with supply chain partners to ensure resource  
capacity and material availability meets SSEN 
Transmission’s needs as it reinforces the network  
in the North of Scotland. 

Link to 2030 Goals

Link to NZAP Plus
•  Capital expenditure  

and investment
•  Net networks RAV
•  Net debt/EBITDA 
consistent with 
investment grade  
rating

128

SSE plc  Annual Report 2023

What did the Board review: 13,14,15
SSEN Distribution’s Business Plan for the RIIO-ED2 price 
control period sets out the investment and targeted 
improvements for the 3.9m customers in communities 
across its network. Following initial submission of  
the Business Plan in November 2022, the Board has 
remained updated on the structured dialogue between 
SSEN Distribution and Ofgem across the determination 
process, which led to final settlement in March 2023. 

Section 172 and stakeholder factors
•  Supported by stakeholders. SSEN’s RIIO-ED2  
Business Plan, co-created through extensive 
stakeholder engagement, remains committed to 
significant improvements in reliability, resilience,  
and services for customers, alongside acceleration  
of investment in local network infrastructure and 
flexible systems to power communities to net zero.

•  Fair outcomes. Considering each stage of SSEN 

Distribution’s finalisation of the Business Plan with 
Ofgem, the Board reviewed the commitment to 
increase investment and commensurate benefits  
for end-users. 

•  Supporting communities. Following the storms  
of winter 2021/22, the Board assessed findings  
from comprehensive reviews which considered  
the business’s response to the exceptional weather 
events and impact on customers. This informed  
the view of system reliability covered by RIIO-ED2 
proposals and saw endorsement of next steps to  
shape future approach. 

Next steps and future opportunities
•  Minority stake sale. While the November 2021  
NZAP assumed a 25% minority stake in the SSEN 
Distribution business, SSE consistently reviews strategic 
options and direction and the NZAP Plus plan now 
reflects retaining 100% of the business. A significant 
strengthening of SSE’s balance sheet and an upgraded 
NZAP Plus investment plan are the main factors 
contributing to the Board assessment that continuing 
to hold 100% of SSEN Distribution is the right strategy 
at this time.

•  A focus on service. Ongoing monitoring of delivery  

of the RIIO-ED2 Business Plan, with focus on 
effectiveness of the system reliability measures  
within it.

Link to 2030 Goals

Link to NZAP Plus
•  Capital expenditure  

and investment
•  Net networks RAV
•  Net debt/EBITDA 
consistent with 
investment grade 
rating

What did the Board review: 16
With SSE’s strategy focused on low-carbon investments,  
the Board is concerned to ensure that the interdependencies 
of climate action are understood and, where appropriate, 
managed carefully. Ensuring a fair transition to net zero for 
working people, consumers and communities is outlined in 
SSE’s Just Transition Strategy, published in 2020. In March 
2023, the Board reviewed progress against that strategy and 
had oversight of the publication of a first-of-a-kind progress 
report. The Board also considered the priorities for action in 
the year ahead, including an enhanced focus on attracting 
former high-carbon workers into SSE.

Section 172 and stakeholder factors
•  Embedding stakeholder dialogue. SSE’s principles  
for a just transition to net zero are underpinned by a 
commitment to high quality multi-stakeholder dialogue. 
SSE’s Board was represented at an event in London in  
April 2023 to launch the report, ‘Just transition: measuring 
progress’ which provided an opportunity to bring together 
stakeholders including employees, trade union partners, 
suppliers, investors, and NGOs, amongst many others. 
•  Understanding stakeholder views. Employees and 

their trade union representatives are concerned that SSE 
delivers opportunities for the existing workforce as it 
continues to transition away from high carbon activity. 
Investors are keen to be able to track SSE’s progress and 
hold it to account. Environmental NGOs want to be certain 
there is no watering down of climate commitments, and 
human rights advocates are focused on protecting the 
rights of working people in SSE’s supply chains. 

Next steps and future opportunities
•  Supporting people and communities. In the year 

ahead, SSE will further develop interventions to attract and 
support former high carbon workers, particularly those 
from the oil and gas industry. The transition to smart 
electricity grids at a local level, provides opportunities to 
deliver benefits to consumers and actions will be taken to 
ensure the benefits reach as wide a population as possible.

•  Reporting on progress. Achieving, and balancing the 
multitude of social expectations in the transition to net 
zero will be supported by maximum transparency. In 
addition to continuous stakeholder engagement, SSE  
has committed to provide a biannual dedicated Just 
Transition Report, alongside its usual annual disclosures.

Link to 2030 Goals

Link to NZAP Plus
•  Capital expenditure 
and investment

•  Net installed  

renewable capacity

•  Net networks RAV
•  Net low-carbon  
flexible capacity

What did the Board review: 17
Progress towards net zero requires constructive dialogue 
with policy makers. In May 2023, the Board reviewed  
‘From Ambition to Action: A Delivery Plan for Cleaner, 
Homegrown Energy’; a resource to help frame political 
engagement over the course of the year as political parties 
develop their own manifestos ahead of an upcoming 
General Election. In doing so, it considered the policies 
which SSE advocates should be adopted, to deliver 
investment in clean energy infrastructure and achieve 
cross-party ambitions on decarbonisation, energy security 
and the green economy. All of which are aligned to and 
consistent with SSE’s NZAP Plus and 2030 Goals.

Section 172 and stakeholder factors
•  Championing progress. With political attention  

turning towards a likely General Election in 2024 political 
stakeholders will be increasingly focused on setting out 
the policy platform which they will present to the 
electorate. These will ultimately come together in the 
party manifestos which are published prior to the election. 

•  Supporting net zero policy. All political parties have 
made significant commitments to decarbonise the 
power sector; increase deployment of renewables; and 
boost investment in homegrown energy infrastructure. 

•  Stakeholder-led advocacy. The SSE manifesto is 

tailored to the priorities of our stakeholders and is designed 
to set out tangible policies which could be adopted to help 
the parties achieve their publicly stated-targets. 

•  Maintaining neutrality. As with all of SSE’s 

engagement, the document will be politically neutral 
and applicable across the parties; focusing on areas 
where there is broad social consensus on the direction 
of travel for the energy sector. 

Next steps and future opportunities
•  Framework for progressive engagement. SSE’s 

Ambition to Action document will form the basis of policy 
engagement from its launch in May 2023, through to the 
General Election. Bi-lateral, party neutral engagement 
with key stakeholders will be conducted throughout a 
programme of events including at Party Conferences. 
•  Setting a long-term framework. SSE will periodically 

refresh Ambition to Action to ensure that it has longevity 
and relevance over this period; including adding public 
polling data to demonstrate levels of support amongst 
the electorate for the positions included. 

Link to 2030 Goals

Link to NZAP Plus
•  Capital expenditure  

and investment

•  Net installed  

renewable capacity

•  Net networks RAV
•  Net low-carbon  
flexible capacity

SSE plc  Annual Report 2023

129

Financial StatementsStrategic ReportDirectors’ Report 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Governing SSE for long-term success

Supporting work on long-term strategic direction, Board agendas have focused on matters to 
ensure effective performance and governance of SSE. These topics are diverse and draw on the 
Board’s Schedule of Reserved Matters, SSE’s culture and values, and the operating context.

Governance

Risk and internal control 

People and culture

Role of the Board
To promote responsible leadership based  
on transparency and a dynamic approach  
to corporate governance.

Role of the Board
To set the approach to risk management 
and oversee an effective system of  
internal controls. 

Role of the Board
To understand employee views and set the 
cultural tone underpinning a fair workplace 
and ethical business practice.

Shareholder communications 
•  Approved the contents of 2022/23 

Risks, viability and internal controls 
•  Reviewed and approved the 

Supporting employees
•  Challenged the approach to  

Strategy and performance

Role of the Board
To set conditions for the delivery of 
strategy and creation of stakeholder value, 
and oversee SSE’s response to the external 
environment.

Business Unit performance and operating 
context 
•  Monitored large capital project progress 
and operational performance through 
standing updates from the Executive 
Directors at every meeting and Business 
Unit Leadership Team presentations 
across the year.

•  Assessed the impact of energy market 
volatility on SSE’s portfolio through 
monthly updates on price movements, 
endorsing EMRC recommendations in 
relation to hedging and internal 
governance to manage commodity  
and credit requirements and exposures. 

•  Followed developments in the policy 
and political landscape, advocating 
unwavering focus on net zero and the 
transition pathway through constructive 
stakeholder engagement, receiving 
standing feedback from the Executive 
Directors and Corporate Affairs teams 
on business-led activities. Including, 
amongst other matters, consideration  
of the Energy Generator Levy as it was 
being developed.

•  Noted measures being taken to  

address the affordability agenda for 
domestic customers in Ireland centred 
on progressive options to support the 
most vulnerable and help with delivering 
sustainable solutions, including the 
return of profits to customers. For more 
detail see page 107 . 

•  Monitored business compliance 

performance in line with applicable 
legislative and regulatory frameworks 
and received updates on relevant 
inquiries. 

Setting and reviewing strategy 
More on pages 125 to 129 

Safety, health and environment (SHE)
•  Maintained strong focus on performance 
through review of SHE metrics and targets 
– across a broad range of measures –  
at the start of every Board meeting.
•  Continues to oversee the response  

to the fatality at Viking wind farm with 
support from the SSHEAC.

•  Received updates on SHE strategy  
and plans aligned to Business Unit 
specific risks including the hazards of  
a significant rise in contractor hours 
across large capital projects and actions 
to drive SSE’s safety culture. 

•  Considered mental health and wellbeing 
support for those impacted by the fatality 
at Viking wind farm; for service advisors 
delivering SSE’s customer cost of living 
response; and for all employees against 
the challenging economic backdrop. 

Sustainability 
•  Endorsed work to address agreed 

sustainability priorities and the progressive 
evolution of SSE’s reporting on material 
environmental, social and governance 
(ESG) issues, including work to meet TCFD 
recommendations on scenario analysis 
and initiating a double materiality review. 

•  Approved actions for 2022/23 with a 
focus on: engaging in the debate on 
proportionate standardisation of 
sustainability disclosure; pioneering just 
transition work; and embedding tailored 
sustainability assessments and action 
plans within each large capital project. 
•  Considered risk mitigations to address the 
zero-tolerance policy for human rights 
abuse in operations and supply chains; 
approving updates to SSE’s Human Rights 
and Modern Slavery Statement.

•  Re-affirmed the governance pathways 
for ESG topics which form the basis of 
external benchmarks and indices, and 
SSE’s year-on-year ratings performance.

•  Supported continued participation in 
the global conversation on collective 
climate action at COP27 in Egypt in 
which senior leadership participated. 

SSHEAC Report 
More on pages 162 to 165 

130

SSE plc  Annual Report 2023

Financial management

Role of the Board
To assess financial performance and set the 
parameters which define SSE’s financial and 
investment strategy. 

Financial performance 
•  Assessed financial performance and  

the impact of unusually volatile market 
conditions on a wider than normal range 
of potential financial outcomes.

•  Monitored variances against budget,  

and reviewed the latest financial forecast 
against analyst consensus and market 
guidance, approving updated EPS 
guidance as required.

•  Approved and recommended half and 
full-year dividends of 29.0p and 67.7p. 

Capital investment 
•  Tracked capital expenditure through 

monthly financial updates and the NZAP 
dashboard, reviewing project spend, 
emerging risks and opportunities.
•  Monitored the economic backdrop – 
characterised by financial market 
volatility and inflation – reviewing and 
updating accepted project returns at 
regular intervals to ensure a prudent 
approach to investment appraisal.

Financial planning and funding 
•  Approved the 2023/24 budget which 
reflected strategic progress and job 
creation under the NZAP, including 
more certainty in SSE Networks 
business plans and delivery of new 
capacity in the form of Keadby 2 and 
on- and off-shore wind projects. 

•  Reviewed the long-term financial model 
following updates to assumptions and 
outputs, in line with strategic progress 
and changes in SSE’s external operating 
context, including more certainty  
about the need for electricity networks 
investment, the impact of inflation,  
and long-term energy price forecasts.

•  Reviewed funding requirements as 
overseen by the Audit Committee, 
considering maturing debt, financial 
headroom and market conditions to 
ensure good liquidity, a strong balance 
sheet and capacity for future growth. 
•  Considered the annual ratings review 
process and an enduring investment 
grade credit rating.

•  Confirmed the governance of SSE’s 

pension schemes with a specific update 
covering the contingency planning in 
place to reduce any potential impact  
of gilt-driven volatility. 

trading statements, Half-year Results, 
the Annual Report and Accounts, and 
supporting regulatory announcements; 
considering feedback from the Audit 
Committee on significant judgements, 
the fair, balanced and understandable 
assessment, and the going concern  
basis of preparation. 

•  Approved the notice and business of the 
Annual General Meeting 2023 including 
the continued say on climate through 
SSE’s Net Zero Transition Report,  
and endorsed plans for shareholder 
participation through pre-meeting 
engagement and a continued hybrid 
meeting format. 

Board and Board Committees
•  Monitored Nomination Committee  

work on Board composition, succession 
planning and wider capability; approving 
the appointment of Maarten Wetselaar 
from 1 September 2023, updates to 
Board Committee membership, and  
the succession plans for the Finance 
Director and Company Secretary.

•  Re-affirmed SSE’s Board Inclusion and 
Diversity Policy and noted external 
developments and views in relation  
to actions and progress – from the  
FTSE Women Leaders Review, the 
Parker Review and investors – reviewing 
SSE’s position in conjunction with the 
Nomination Committee and Group HR.
•  Reviewed the findings and actions from 
the Board performance evaluation.
•  Monitored and approved SSE’s conflicts 

of interest register, confirming the 
continued independence of each 
non-Executive Director.

External developments
•  Reviewed current and future governance 
and reporting developments, considering 
FRC thematic reviews; the Government’s 
response to its consultation on corporate 
governance and audit reform; live 
workstreams relating to sustainability, 
climate, and transition plan reporting; 
and reporting against the FCA’s inclusion 
and diversity Listing Rule.

methodology and findings of the  
Group Principal Risk review and 
emerging risk assessment supporting 
SSE’s Risk Appetite Statement and  
other risk disclosures. 

•  Confirmed the output of the assessment 
which forms the basis of SSE’s Viability 
Statement. 

•  Confirmed the ongoing effectiveness  
of SSE’s System of Internal Control.

•  Endorsed SSE’s data privacy programme 
as a contributor to the sustainability 
agenda, reviewing GDPR metrics, 
milestones and international 
implementation.

•  Complementing the work of the Audit 
Committee, evaluated cyber risk and 
information security, spanning: the threat 
environment and notable external attacks 
in line with geo-political tensions, the 
maturity of SSE’s controls and capabilities 
to detect and respond, the effectiveness 
of training in ongoing assurance, and key 
risks and plans to support NZAP growth.

Risk-informed decision making 
More on pages 68 to 77 

System of Internal Controlaaa a 
More on page 159 

addressing recognised cost of living 
issues to ensure solutions were targeting 
those most affected; overseeing an 
interim salary increase and an amplified 
communications programme 
highlighting existing benefits to  
assist with financial wellbeing.

•  Discussed the strategy surrounding 
post-pandemic working practices 
including locational flexibility to match 
employees’ needs and offering hybrid 
working practices where possible; 
stressing the importance of employee 
consultation on lessons learned and 
maintaining engagement with SSE’s 
culture especially for new recruits. 

Doing the right thing 
•  Conducted a biannual review of the 

performance of SSE’s whistleblowing 
arrangements considering employee 
confidence in the process, 
benchmarking of performance and 
post-Covid 19 trends, the origin of 
cases, and the ease at which reports  
can be made alongside protections  
for those that speak-up; effectiveness 
was confirmed alongside a dynamic 
continuous improvement programme. 

Empowering the employee voice  
and Focusing on culture 
More on pages 134 to 138 

Climate change 

Role of the Board
To ensure decisions are sustainable  
in the long-term and the approach to 
climate change is addressed through 
work on strategy, operations and risk.

Supporting Board work
SSE’s purpose, vision and strategy are 
fully aligned with net zero. The physical 
and transitional risks, and opportunities 
associated with climate change, are 
therefore not a singular agenda item. 
They are embedded across all areas  
of Board work with long-term 
considerations couched in the  
possible pathways to net zero. 

This includes assessment of policy 
frameworks; the operation of energy 
markets; the impact of climate change 
on weather; the role of innovation and 
technology within SSE’s asset base; 
changes to customer behaviour; and 
investor views of SSE’s business model 
and growth. 

In turn, the framework set by the Board 
based on its view of climate-related 
issues, includes strategic targets, 
business goals, the approved budget, 
net zero consistent investment criteria, 
risk management parameters including 
SSE’s Risk Appetite, and SSE’s approach 
to stakeholder engagement. 

SSE plc  Annual Report 2023

131

Financial StatementsStrategic ReportDirectors’ ReportUnderstanding shareholder views

Gathering views
The Board engages with a range of equity 
and debt investors to help inform strategic 
decision making, communicate SSE’s 
sustainable business plans, and report  
on environmental, social and governance 
(ESG) and financial performance. 

Engagement by the executive team is  
led by the Chief Executive and Finance 
Director, with participation from the Chief 
Commercial Officer and other members  
of the Group Executive Committee, 
focusing on operations, and financial and 
sustainability performance in executing 
SSE’s strategy. Engagement by the Chair 
leads on corporate governance, strategy 
development, people and wide-ranging 
ESG matters. 

Open and regular dialogue remains  
the foundation to the Board’s approach, 
with managed communication channels  
in place for all to use (see page 345 ). 
Notwithstanding, the Board, executive 
management and the Investor Relations 
team proactively engage with investors 
through an annual programme of activity; 
and ongoing communication with analysts, 
proxy advisors, ESG ratings agencies and 
financial ratings agencies helps improve 
disclosure and allows stakeholders to  
better assess SSE’s performance.

Institutional investors
Collectively, in 2022/23, the Board  
engaged directly with institutional investors 
representing over 45% of issued share 
capital. The programme of engagement – 
which encompassed 182 one-to-one 
sessions with investors – was mainly 
focused across three periods of roadshows: 
immediately following the preliminary 
Full-year Results announcement; in 
advance of the Annual General Meeting; 
and immediately following the Half-year 
Results announcement.

Members of the Executive Team met 
physically with investors in the United 
Kingdom, France, Germany, Switzerland, 
and Australia during the year, and virtually 
met with investors from other locations 
such as North America and Asia. This 
complemented a number of physical  
and virtual investor events which covered 
specific focus areas as set out below  
and opposite. The Chair also continued 
proactive and open dialogue with investors 
on priorities and views of corporate 
governance, meeting physically with many 
of SSE’s largest shareholders in advance  
of the Annual General Meeting.

Supplementing one-to-one engagement, 
the Executive Directors attended 15 industry 
conferences, mainly physical, and held 29, 
mainly virtual, group meetings which were 
attended by a number of shareholders and 
prospective investors.

Retail shareholders
To allow management of an individual’s 
shareholding, SSE’s recently refreshed 
investor website houses all regulatory news 
announcements and published financial 
and non-financial reports. The Investor 
Relations team and the Company 
Secretariat, with support from SSE’s 
Registrar, engage directly with retail 
shareholders in response to private 
shareholding queries. 

Annual General Meeting (AGM)
The Board encourages shareholders to 
participate in the AGM – through casting 
votes and raising questions on the business 
of the meeting. A hybrid meeting format 
allows full remote participation for those 
who cannot attend in person, and answers 
to questions and the results of the meeting 
are published on sse.com  as soon as 
practicable after the event. In 2022, all 
resolutions were passed with in excess  
of 81.90% votes cast in favour. 

Debt investors 
Engagement with solicited credit ratings 
agencies, being Standard & Poors’ and 
Moody’s, takes place throughout the 
course of the year, with increased dialogue 
ahead of the annual ratings review process 
and in line with Company related news 
flows. Regular dialogue is also maintained 
between key relationship banks and debt 
investors with SSE’s Treasury team and the 
Finance Director.

Engagement in action
Shareholders and debt providers

Showcasing SSE’s Transmission 
and Renewables businesses 

In September 2022, an in-person event was 
hosted by the Finance Director in Inverness, 
for sell-side analysts and large institutional 
shareholders to delve deeper into SSE’s 
Transmission and Renewables businesses. 
Each area was discussed on separate days 
and sessions facilitated by presentations 
from the senior managers leading on 
strategic execution within the respective 
Business Units. 

These materials, and supporting 
discussions which were made available  
on sse.com  shortly after the event, 
demonstrated the value of each business’s 

assets and the available investment 
opportunities. To provide additional 
context, site visits to Blackhillock HVDC 
converter station, Glendoe hydroelectric 
scheme and Stronelairg wind farm formed 
part of the agenda.

The event was met with highly positive 
feedback, with attendees confirming the 
presentations were educational; the 
exposure to wider senior management 
demonstrated their expertise; and the  
site visits brought the scale and quality  
of assets to life.

Engagement in action
Shareholders and debt providers

Continued dialogue on climate 

Following the publication of SSE’s Net Zero 
Transition Plan, and in support of the first 
annual shareholder vote on its Net Zero 
Transition Report (proposed at the 2022 
AGM), the Chair hosted a climate-focused 
investor event with SSE’s Chief Commercial 
Officer and Chief Sustainability Officer in 
June 2022. This online event set out SSE’s 
progress in relation to its agreed climate 
targets – covering climate-related 
strategies, plans and performance –  
as well as touching on SSE’s work on  
the just transition. 

This engagement was set against the 
backdrop of how SSE strives to balance 
social, environmental and economic 
impacts whilst enhancing value for 
stakeholders. To allow questions and 
feedback on SSE’s approach a Q&A session 
followed the presentations. Following the 
session, stakeholders confirmed improved 
understanding of SSE’s decarbonisation 
plans and Just Transition Strategy; and  
the resolution to receive SSE’s Net Zero 
Transition Report received 98.9% of votes 
cast in favour at the AGM.

Sharing and interpreting 
feedback
The Board receives monthly updates on 
investor and financial market sentiment, 
providing insight into recent share price 
movements; a briefing on recent sell-side 
analyst commentary; and key monthly 
movements in the share register. This is 
covered through a combination of written 
reports and verbal feedback from meetings 
which have taken place. 

The feedback provided by shareholders 
during and after Full-year and Half-year 
Results Roadshows is communicated 
directly to the full Board in a biannual 
shareholder feedback paper including 
updates from SSE’s brokers. The Board, 
through the SSHEAC, receives a full annual 
review of SSE’s performance in investor-led 
ESG reviews and ratings in addition to, 
through the Finance Director, updates on 
credit ratings agency reviews. Key matters 

Shareholder engagement activity 2022/23

46

raised by shareholders during the period, 
which were considered across Board 
deliberations are set out on page 29 . 

34

34

14

   Number of 
shareholder 
meetings

21

20

6

6

14

8

8

APR 22 MAY 22

JUN 22

JUL 22

AUG 22

SEP 22

OCT 22  NOV 22 

DEC 22

JAN 23

FEB 23

MAR 23

Full-year  
2021/22 
results

AGM 
governance

Half-year 
2022/23 
results

132

SSE plc  Annual Report 2023

SSE plc  Annual Report 2023

133

Financial StatementsStrategic ReportDirectors’ ReportThe scale at which virtual sessions can  
be offered amplifies understanding of 
employee views and material issues. 

Engagement 
highlights

Sites visited 

32

Board-led virtual engagement 
sessions 

13

Non-Executive Director for 
Employee Engagement 
sessions 

13

Total employee attendance at 
Board calls 

23,835

Largest audience size 

3,781

All-employee survey 
engagement score 2022/23 

84%

Empowering the employee voice

How the Board engages

The two-way dialogue between the  
Board and employees is facilitated by a 
combination of engagement methods. 
These are set out in full below and include 
face-to-face discussions at meetings, site 
visits, and attendance at employee events. 
With 2022/23 being the first year in which 
in-person engagements could fully resume, 
the Board-employee programme travelled 
to 32 sites encompassing all of SSE’s 
Business Units and a number of corporate 
functions. 

Virtual engagement platforms, which 
evolved during the pandemic, have 
remained a key part of the engagement 
strategy providing simultaneous access to  
a diverse audience of roles and locations. 

The adoption of a diverse range of listening 
channels continues to support the principle 
that everyone in SSE should have a voice  
and is consistent with employee feedback 
surrounding the benefit of multiple platforms 
through which to raise areas of interest or 
concern. In turn, it supports the Board in 
gathering a fair and representative view of 
the issues which are important to employees 
and builds an appreciation of how these may 
differ by geography, business area, role, and 
individual circumstances.

Board listening approach

Engagement audience and purpose

All-employees
•  Offers Board 

perspectives which can 
otherwise be missed 
from business-led 
communications.

•  Provides the Board with 
insight of employee 
opinion on life at SSE 
and key areas of interest 
or concern.

People leaders
•  Provides the opportunity 
to replay key messages 
which the Board has 
heard through listening 
channels. 

•  Supports and challenges 
management actions  
in response. 

Senior leadership
•  Creates a platform for 
two-way interaction 
between the Board  
and senior leaders who 
lead SSE’s teams. 
•  Allows the Board to  

offer views and personal 
external perspectives.

Engagement format and value created

Director-employee 
sessions
Provides employees  
with access to the Board 
with direct two-way 
interaction supporting 
detailed discussion of 
specific topics.

Leadership and business 
roadshows and 
conferences
Provides an opportunity to 
exchange views on SSE’s 
strategy and both Group-
wide and business-specific 
priorities, supporting wider 
engagement and awareness 
including the contribution 
and impact made by 
employees. 

Focus groups
Allows interaction across 
diverse geographies  
and cross-sections of 
employees, and being 
smaller in size, provides  
the opportunity to seek out 
added context surrounding 
employee sentiment 
through true conversation. 
The impact can be fast and 
influence decisions which 
may affect employees.

All-employee surveys
Exists as a long-standing 
tool with a mature strategy 
that attracts a strong 
response rate. The results 
are viewed as representative 
of the majority of employee 
voices and shape the 
cultural agenda, ensuring 
that employee sentiment  
is considered in all key 
decision making.

Site visits 
Allows non-Executive 
Directors to travel  
across SSE and feel and 
understand employees’ 
experience of the 
operational environment. 
These visits can be followed 
by informal roundtables  
to allow deeper two-way 
dialogue on matters of 
importance.

Digital channels and 
written communications
Reinforces matters of 
importance and embeds 
the tone through the 
Board’s written reflections. 
This can include 
observations and takeaways 
from other engagement 
activities to allow a  
wider reach.

Q&A with Lady Elish Angiolini
What are your reflections on the value  
of direct Board-employee engagement  
in SSE?
Engagement is very valuable to the Board 
as it builds trust, collaboration and aligns 
the Board and employee approach. I can 
see how the Board seeks diverse feedback 
from employees delivering on strategy,  
and it’s essential that direct engagement 
continues as a core activity. 

Where do you see opportunities  
for 2023/24? 
I’ve been able to speak with many 
colleagues across SSE and have been 
impressed with the dedicated team  
spirit and commitment to SSE’s purpose.  
A willingness to share views has given  
me a good understanding of employee 
experiences in SSE and I look forward  
to exploring priorities in conversations  
to come.

Since joining the Board in 2021,  
what insight have you gained into  
the employee experience in SSE? 
This is a period of record growth and we 
must continue investing in face-to-face 
and virtual engagements to understand 
how employees and SSE’s culture are 
responding. We should also build on 
relationships with employee-led groups  
like the ‘Belonging in SSE’ communities, 
who are strong advocates of the  
employee voice. 

What skills and perspective would  
you like to bring to conversations  
in the year? 
I have an inquisitive nature and like to  
listen to all views to encourage honest and 
frank discussion, which will help highlight 
areas for me to bring to the Board. I’ve  
also been involved with organisations 
undergoing intense periods of change  
and this will support my understanding  
of employee sentiment.

Engagement in action
Employees 

Engaging on net zero

The AGM virtual Q&A session was open 
to all employees and attended by more 
than 3,500 people from across Great 
Britain and Ireland. Directors addressed 
queries on a wide range of issues and of 
the attendees who provided feedback 
on the event, 90% said they valued 
hearing from the Board and 85% found 
the session helped them to connect 
their roles to the Group’s net zero-
aligned strategy.

The successful delivery of SSE’s strategy 
is dependent on employees feeling 
engaged with the Group’s purpose.  
A key objective over 2022/23 was 
therefore connecting people’s roles  
with net zero and feeling engaged with 
senior leaders. Full Board attendance  
at the Annual General Meeting (AGM) 
2022 was seen as an opportunity to 
deliver this. 

The event was used for both in-person 
and virtual interaction, with members  
of the Board taking part in a roundtable 
discussion with colleagues from a  
range of businesses, geographies and 
demographics, alongside leads from  
the ‘Belonging in SSE’ communities.  
The employee group sought advice, 
opinions and feedback on topics 
including flexible working patterns,  
the challenges faced by neuro-diverse 
colleagues, mental health awareness 
and career progression. 

Non-Executive Director for 
Employee Engagement
The Nomination Committee oversees  
the recommended appointment of the 
Non-Executive Director for Employee 
Engagement, which Lady Elish Angiolini 
assumed from 1 April 2023 in a handover 
from Dame Sue Bruce. In considering the 
successor to the role, the Nomination 
Committee noted Elish’s rich experience  
in assimilating and interpreting views and 
translating findings into a required course 
of action. These skills support the core 
purpose of the employee-Board link and 
the desire to operate in an empathetic and 
thoughtful way.

The creation of the role remains a natural 
and progressive step in the evolution of 
SSE’s employee voice strategy, providing  
an enhanced and more interactive 
understanding of employee sentiment. 

Each year, the programme of work for  
the Non-Executive Director for Employee 
Engagement is structured and supported  
in collaboration with SSE’s Head of 
Employee Engagement. The success  
of the role is measured in action, whereby 
the employee voice is consistently 
represented in meetings attended by the 
Non-Executive Director for Employee 
Engagement, allowing the views and 
opinions of colleagues to feature and 
contribute to discussions and decisions 
being made. 

134

SSE plc  Annual Report 2023

SSE plc  Annual Report 2023

135

Financial StatementsStrategic ReportDirectors’ ReportEmpowering the employee voice continued

Focusing on culture

Board response to employee views 

Discussions with employees have been broad ranging in 2022/23 and cognisant of the energy crisis, net zero, cost of living and employee 
well-being. Through the full suite of listening and engagement channels, the below confirms how the Board has responded to material 
issues raised by employees across the year. These are set out under key themes which are checked through SSE’s all-employee survey to 
ensure they are reflective of employee priorities and to assess progress and improvement. 

Key themes

Active Board engagement

Inclusion and diversity 

Why the Board engaged
The Board champions SSE’s 
inclusion and diversity approach, 
and seeks insight surrounding  
the effectiveness of plans and 
initiatives in order to continually 
further progress.

•  Melanie Smith hosted an all-employee Q&A during Race Equality Week and encouraged the 
sharing of diversity information, to support actions that focus on making SSE more inclusive. 

•  The Chair and Non-Executive Director for Employee Engagement participated in a session 

with the ‘Belonging in SSE’ community leads, and heard views on lived experiences, 
challenges, aspirations and priorities for the Board. Key takeaways were shared more widely 
using internal communications and would continue to inform Board policy development. 
•  The Board sponsored events including Perthshire Pride which was attended by employees,  

the Chief Commercial Officer and the Non-Executive Director for Employee Engagement; and 
the Finance Director participated in the ‘It Takes All Kinds of Minds’ international conference 
which was aligned with Neurodiversity Focus Week across SSE internal channels. 

Strategy, net zero and 
climate change 

Why the Board engaged
The Board acts in response to 
all-employee survey and call 
feedback, which cited a want  
to engage further with senior 
leaders on SSE’s strategy and  
the drive to net zero. 

Digital strategy 

Why the Board engaged
The Board understands the 
development in the digital space  
is a key area and seeks views on 
challenges, opportunities, progress 
and making employees part  
of digital initiatives and change. 

Great place to work and 
ways of working

Why the Board engaged
The Board seeks views of employee 
needs in order to drive culture and 
meet expectations surrounding 
working practices and wider 
support; areas which continue to 
evolve post-pandemic and in the 
current cost of living context. 

•  Tony Cocker and Melanie Smith were involved in Leadership Roadshows and SSE’s Leadership 
Conference with the Executive Directors, to cover topics including strategy, execution and 
growth, people and wellbeing. 

•  The Board oversaw activities to embed SSE’s Just Transition Strategy, with an externally-
available video featuring key stakeholders and just transition themes, launched internally 
through an all-employee virtual session. 

•  The Chief Executive and Helen Mahy visited the Arklow Bank wind farm phase 2 development 
site and project team, with key takeaways being environmental and stakeholder consultation, 
and community engagement. 

•  Over 800 SSE leaders joined the Chief Executive, the Chair and Debbie Crosbie for a call 

exploring the Leadership Blueprint and their pivotal role in delivering SSE’s strategy and Net 
Zero Acceleration Programme.

•  Melanie Smith spent time with the Digital Team on strategic progress, with views shared with 
the Board thereafter, around skills to keep pace with developments in energy technology.
•  An all-employee call hosted by the Chief Executive shared progress towards SSE’s digital 

ambitions and provided a forum for employee questions and views.

•  A virtual meeting between the Non-Executive Director for Employee Engagement and  

the Information Security and Privacy Group discussed cyber security priorities for SSE and 
employees, and led to Dame Sue Bruce sponsoring the Cyber Security Month which brought 
additional focus to this area. 

•  The Chief Commercial Officer held an all-employee session to explore engagement survey 
results and covered well-being, reward and recognition, strategy and communication of key 
messages, reaching an audience of over 3,000 employees.

•  Prompted by an employee request, a session in Glasgow with the Non-Executive Director  

for Employee Engagement explored the post-pandemic return to the office, with employees 
sharing experiences and views on hybrid working. 

•  The Non-Executive Director for Employee Engagement and Lady Elish Angiolini attended  

a welcome event to meet SSE’s newest intake of graduates which considered career 
development and navigation. 

•  A session was held with representatives from Business Energy and the Non-Executive Director 
for Employee Engagement, to discuss all-employee survey results and actions to address 
focus areas identified through the survey. 

136

SSE plc  Annual Report 2023

A healthy corporate culture is one in which SSE has a purpose, values and strategy that are 
respected by its stakeholders, and an operating environment that is inclusive, diverse, supportive 
and engaging; that encourages employees to make a positive difference for stakeholders; in 
which values guide responsible decisions and actions; and in which attitudes and behaviours 
are consistent with high standards of conduct and doing the right thing.

Aligning with purpose,  
vision and strategy 
Company culture has internal and external 
influence, guiding interactions within SSE 
and directing decisions with stakeholder 
impact. This context is reflected within  
the above Board-approved definition of a 
healthy corporate culture, which supports 
purpose, vision, strategy and long-term 
success, by setting a baseline against which 
cultural guidance can be developed and 
cultural indicators tested.

Setting the tone 
A healthy corporate culture is a shared 
deliverable, which starts with the Board 
setting the correct tone. This is supported 
through approval of SSE’s values, and their 
translation into accepted attitudes and 
behaviours within SSE’s Group Policies and 
an employee guide ‘Doing the Right Thing; 
SSE’s guide to good business ethics’, all of 
which are supported by mandatory training 
for everyone in SSE. 

Leading by example is through the Board’s 
own conduct and communication to 

employees of key Board activity. Senior 
leaders across SSE have the same 
responsibility to lead, embed and oversee 
cultural standards.

Culture is embedded at Board-level by:
•  SSE’s Governance Framework and 
practices (see pages 122 to 124 ).
•  Board decision-making (see pages 125 

to 131 ).

•  People matters, appointments and 

succession planning (see Nomination 
Committee Report ).

•  SSE’s risk, controls and compliance 

approach (see Audit Committee and 
EMRC Reports and page 68 ).

•  Focus on safety, sustainability, health 
and the environment (see SSHEAC 
Report ).

•  Attitudes towards reward and 

remuneration (see Remuneration 
Committee Report ). 

Monitoring and measuring 
The Board uses multiple sources to assess 
the strength of culture and understand how 
it manifests across employee sentiment, 

observed behaviours and trends. These can 
be described as a combination of the below 
reported metrics, standing reports and 
listening channels.
•  Feedback from Board-employee 

engagement and Non-Executive Director 
for Employee Engagement insights. 

•  Employee survey results.
•  Twice yearly Cultural Dashboard review.
•  Monthly people updates from the Chief 
Executive covering key developments 
and employee sentiment. 

•  Monthly compliance reporting from  

the Finance Director. 

•  Monthly safety and wellbeing data. 
•  Whistleblowing performance reports. 

The Cultural Dashboard (see page 138 ) 
remains a health check, comprising data 
from Group HR and Group Compliance.  
A key section aligns employee survey data 
with people metrics and KPIs under cultural 
strands. This allows the Board to consider 
where there are deviations between what  
is being heard and underlying behaviours. 
During 2022/23, the Board retaining 
oversight of ongoing culture-related 
workstreams through its wider agenda.

Engagement in action
Employees

Understanding operational culture 

Over 2022/23 the Board have visited a 
wide range of locations and business 
areas, providing direct access to 
operations and ensuring front-line 
employees could share their experiences 
with the Board. These visits further 
enhanced understanding of the cultural 
tone and sentiment across Business Units. 

Renewables. Visits by the Chair,  
John Bason, Dame Angela Strank and 
Tony Cocker covered Coire Glas site 
investigation works, Stronelairg wind 
farm, and Foyers and Glendoe power 
stations over a two-day period, gaining 
insight into the challenges and progress 
in current and future renewables 
operations from employees. The Chair 
visited Dogger Bank wind farm HVDC 

station and engaged with partner and 
contractor representatives on project 
scope, approach and progress, and as 
part of his induction John Bason visited 
Montrose harbour, the site associated 
with the Seagreen offshore wind farm, to 
gain a deeper insight into the industry. 

Thermal. Helen Mahy visited the  
Thermal engineering hub in Leeds to 
meet and discuss areas important to the 
Team including inclusion and diversity, 
development and mentoring, the results 
of the all-employee survey and technical 
developments including Carbon Capture 
and Storage. 

Networks. In advance of a Board 
meeting, engagement took place with 
employees working on flexible energy trials 
at the innovation project, Local Energy 
Oxfordshire (LEO). Insight was gathered 
surrounding the technical, commercial, 
social and regulatory challenges and the 
potential for a community-based approach 
to local flexibility. 

Energy Customer Solutions. Lady Elish 
Angiolini visited the team in Belfast to learn 
more about improvements to the customer 
experience and compliance, and heard 
examples of the challenges experienced  
by customers in vulnerable circumstances 
and how colleagues support each other 
when dealing with hardship and difficult 
customer scenarios. 

SSE plc  Annual Report 2023

137

Financial StatementsStrategic ReportDirectors’ ReportFocusing on culture continued

Defining Board responsibilities 

Measuring culture through our dashboard 

Our culture is shaped and determined by the way we…

Through the Board Charter, the Board approves the clear division of responsibilities between the Chair and Chief Executive and sets  
out what is expected of the non-Executive Directors, recognising the defined roles of Senior Independent Director and Non-Executive 
Director for Employee Engagement. The below confirms the split of executive and non-Executive accountabilities which support the 
integrity of the Board’s operations.

Attract and  
retain people

Work 
together

Look after  
each other

See  
ourselves

Make  
decisions

Manage 
performance

Lead from  
the top

Executive

Non-Executive

Reflected in employee sentiment surrounding the core themes and actions SSE is taking in each area...

Employee 
engagement 

Inclusion  

Safety  

Our  
strategy 

Doing the  
right thing 

84% ▲

85% ▲

93% ▲

83% ▼

85% ▲

My  
manager 

76% 

Senior  
leaders 

66% ▲

Life at SSE

My Team

Wellbeing

73% 
Supported by key people metrics and KPIs…

76% ▲

85% 

▲ ▼ 

 Movement relative to internal 2021 trend benchmark.

10.5% ▲ 
Employee 
turnover.

4,401 ▲ 
vacancies 
filled. 

83% 
 of 
employees able 
to work flexibly.

8 ▲  
‘Belonging  
in SSE’ 
communities 
with over 2,000 
active members. 

255 ▲ 
Safe Days. 

6.9 ▲ 
Sick days  
per head. 

Just over 1 in 5 
SSE colleagues 
have made the 
transition from 
high to low- 
carbon roles*. 

95.5% ▲ 
Certification 
across mandatory 
eLearning 
courses. 

1,992 
Leaders engaged 
with the 
Leadership 
Blueprint Plans*.

50 ▲ 
employee 
contacts on 
Speak Up 
platforms. 

58 ▲  
Board-led 
employee 
engagements, 
including 
13 Non-Executive 
Director for 
Employee 
Engagement 
sessions.

▲ ▼ 

 Movement relative to 2021/22. 

Continually supported by cultural action plans and Board support in 2022/23…

In response to 
employee views 
and engagement, 
oversaw 
enhanced Family 
Leave entitlement 
for pregnancy 
loss, fertility 
treatment and 
partner’s leave. 

Amplified direct 
engagement  
with employees 
on the topic  
of inclusion  
and diversity  
(see page 136 ).

SSHEAC safety 
and wellbeing site 
visits continue  
to be conducted 
(see page 165 ). 

Reviewed  
safety, health  
and wellbeing 
performance at 
the start of every 
Board meeting.

Received  
updates on the 
formation of a 
new Contractor 
Safety Team. 

Oversees 
ongoing delivery 
of the Net Zero 
Acceleration 
Programme  
and 2030 Goals 
(see pages 125  
to 129 ).

Directly 
supported 
employee 
communications 
on strategy  
(see page 136 ).

Continued focus 
on front line 
communications 
(see page 137 ).

Reviewed SSE’s 
whistleblowing 
arrangements 
and performance  
(see page 131 ).

Board support  
for SSE’s cyber 
security month. 

Direct Board 
engagement  
with leaders to 
provide feedback 
and direction  
(see page 136 ). 

Board’s approach 
to understanding 
and assessing 
strength of 
culture (see  
page 137 ). 

Continues  
to sponsor  
a leadership 
review which 
confirmed  
a strong, 
collaborative 
organisational 
environment with 
trust and support.

Board presence 
across SSE’s full 
engagement 
approach  
(see pages 134 to 
136 ).

Provided 
continued 
oversight of 
critical skills 
investment, 
performance 
initiatives and 
development  
of employee 
proposition  
(see pages 146  
to 147 ). 

Oversight of top 
leaver reasons; 
SSE’s employer 
brand; and 
activity which 
communicates 
SSE’s proposition 
to external 
candidates.

* New measure.

See also culture on the Board agenda on page 28 .
Embedding a healthy business culture on page 59 .

138

SSE plc  Annual Report 2023

Chief Executive
•  Proposing and directing the delivery of Board-agreed strategy 

through leadership of the Group Executive Committee.
•  Ensuring SSE’s decisions and actions have long-term focus, 
through management, implementation and progression of 
sustainability interventions, which support strategy and address 
material impacts including climate change. 

•  Communicating and providing feedback on the implementation 
and impact of Board-agreed policies on behaviours and culture, 
ensuring SSE operates in line with its values. 

Chair
•  Leading the effective operation and governance of the Board.
•  Ensuring decision-making has long-term focus, and SSE’s 
approach to sustainability, including climate change, is 
addressed through strategic, operational and risk considerations.

•  Setting agendas to support balanced decision-making. 
•  Demonstrating objective judgement and applying sufficient 

challenge to proposals.

•  Ensuring effective Board relations and a culture that supports 

constructive debate.

•  Assuming responsibility for the overall performance of SSE’s 
Business Units and leading the functions of: HR; Corporate 
Affairs, Regulation and Strategy; and Sustainability.

•  Engaging with major shareholders and key stakeholders to 
ensure the Board understands and considers their views. 
•  Overseeing the annual Board evaluation and identifying 

•  Engaging with SSE’s six key stakeholder groups and leading  

required actions.

on related activity at EU, International and UK level.

•  Setting the cultural tone and leading initiatives to assess culture.

Finance Director
•  Deputising for the Chief Executive.
•  Proposing policy and actions to support sound financial 

management and leading on M&A transactions. 

•  Leading the functions of: Finance; Procurement and Logistics; 
Group Risk and Audit; IT and Cyber Security; Investor Relations 
and Company Secretarial; and the General Counsel areas of 
responsibility.

•  Overseeing relationships with the investment community.
•  Engaging with SSE’s six key stakeholder groups and leading  

on related activity in Scotland.

Senior Independent Director1
•  Providing a sounding board for the Chair.
•  Leading the Chair’s performance evaluation.
•  Serving as an intermediary to other Directors when necessary.
•  Being available to all stakeholders if they have concerns 

requiring resolution.

Independent non-Executive Directors
•  Challenging and assisting in the development of strategy.
•  Reviewing and measuring the performance of management.
•  Providing independent insight and support based on relevant 

experience.

Chief Commercial Officer
•  Supporting the work of the Chief Executive and Finance 

Director.

•  Leading SSE Renewables, SSE Thermal, Energy Portfolio 

Management, Energy Customer Solutions and SSE Enterprise  
at Board level.

•  Reviewing financial information and ensuring the System of 

Internal Control and Risk Management Framework are effective.
•  Reviewing succession plans for the Board and senior leadership.
•  Monitoring actions to support inclusion and diversity.
•  Engaging with key stakeholders and reporting to the Board  

on perspectives.

•  Driving growth and commercial market risk activities for  
all of SSE’s non-networks businesses at Group level.

•  Setting executive remuneration policy.
•  Serving on, or chairing, various Committees of the Board.

•  Leading executive relations with trade unions. 
•  Engaging with SSE’s six key stakeholder groups and leading  

on related activity in Ireland and Northern Ireland.

Company Secretary

•  Safeguarding compliance with Board procedures and providing 

support to the Chair.

•  Ensuring the Board has high quality information, adequate time 

and appropriate resources.

•  Advising the Board on corporate governance developments.
•  Considering Board effectiveness in conjunction with the Chair.
•  Facilitating the Directors’ induction programmes and assisting 

with professional development.

•  Providing advice, services and support to all Directors when 

required.

Non-Executive Director for Employee Engagement 1
•  Providing an employee voice in the Boardroom.
•  Developing, implementing and reporting on employee 

engagement initiatives. 

•  Representing the Board and its decision-making in discussions 

with employees. 

•  Engaging with officers of trade unions and internal trade unions 

representatives on strategic issues affecting the workforce.

1  The responsibilities of Senior Independent Director and Non-Executive 
Director for Employee Engagement apply in addition to those of non-
Executive Director.

SSE plc  Annual Report 2023

139

Financial StatementsStrategic ReportDirectors’ Report 
 
 
Assessing Board performance

Annual Board evaluation

The Board monitors and improves 
performance by reflecting on the 
continuing effectiveness of its activities,  
the quality of its decisions and by 
considering the individual and collective 
contribution made by each Board member. 
This is assessed annually through the  
Board evaluation process. 

The 2022/23 Board and Board Committee 
evaluations were facilitated by Lintstock  
Ltd (Lintstock). This followed Lintstock 
conducting the 2021/22 external Board  
and Board Committee performance 
reviews, with their services re-engaged  
for a further two years to provide efficient 
and consistent oversight of the actions  
and themes identified. 

The methodology of the 2022/23 follow-
up reviews were aligned with that of an 
internal evaluation and structured to allow 
identification of new focus areas. Besides 
the provision of the Board and Board 
Committee evaluation work, there was no 
other contractual connection between SSE 
or the individual Directors and Lintstock. 

Progress against 2021/22 evaluation findings

Opportunities for refinement

Update on actions

Optimising oversight  
of strategic execution 

The Board reviewed proposals for monitoring progress on strategic execution and agreed updates  
to further optimise Board oversight. These centred on the preparation and presentation of certain 
strategic reports, including the NZAP dashboard, which has been reviewed in the year.

Alignment on  
people matters

Leveraging  
external voices

A revised framework for constructive challenge and monitoring of people matters is in place, with  
it agreed to enhance Board knowledge of SSE’s leadership teams through increased face-to-face 
engagement. Details of work on talent, and inclusion and diversity, is on pages 134 to 136 .

The findings supported the view that the management team was highly expert and proficient in  
the suite of technical matters which fall under its remit. There was an opportunity for the Board  
to complement this, through the use of third-party or external expertise on particular topics. 
Accordingly, Board deep dives have been conducted and several external speakers engaged to 
provide a diverse perspective on certain subjects (see page 125 ).

Stage 1 
Re-engaging 
Lintstock 

Stage 2
Design of  
the evaluation

Stage 3 
Review  
methodology

Stage 4 
Findings  
and actions

Following a selection 
process, and in compliance 
with the UK Corporate 
Governance Code, 
Lintstock were engaged  
to perform an external 
review of the Board and  
its Committees in 2021/22. 
After seeking the opinion  
of the Board, the Chair  
with assistance from the 
Company Secretary and 
Director of Investor 
Relations, re-engaged 
Lintstock to facilitate  
the Board evaluations in 
2022/23 and 2023/24, as it 
was deemed efficient and 
appropriate in the cycle of 
continuous improvement. 

Considering the findings  
of the 2021/22 external 
Board performance review, 
it was agreed the review  
of the Board and its 
Committees in 2022/23  
be conducted by Lintstock 
in the same format as an 
internal evaluation. This 
centred on the use of a 
detailed questionnaire,  
to be completed by  
the Board, Committee 
members, and secretaries. 

The questionnaire was 
issued, and to achieve a 
comprehensive suite of 
feedback, questions were 
structured around agreed 
topics, comprising: 
•  Board dynamics; 
•  Board composition; 
•  Board support; 
•  management and focus 

of meetings; 

•  stakeholder oversight;
•  strategic oversight; 
•  risk management and 
internal control; and 
•  succession planning  
and people oversight.

Based on the information 
and views garnered from 
the review responses, 
Lintstock produced  
the Board and Board 
Committee evaluation 
reports for review. The 
finalised report of findings 
was provided to the Board 
and actions agreed.

2022/23 Board evaluation process

Board composition 

2022/23 Board evaluation findings
The findings of the Board evaluation  
were positive, with progress thought to 
have been achieved across a number  
of evaluation areas. Areas which scored 
well, relative to an external benchmark, 
included: the clarity of strategic purpose; 
the relationship between the non-
Executive Directors and Chief Executive; 
oversight of strategic implementation; 

the contribution to the development of 
strategy; and Board support through the 
Company Secretary and training. 

The findings further affirmed strong Board 
composition, with discussions cognisant of 
the attributes which should be considered  
in future appointments, alongside how 
these should be balanced and prioritised 
within succession plans. 

Whilst the findings were positive and 
confirmed the Board to be operating 
effectively, there remained as with all 
balanced process, opportunities for 
improvement and refinement. 

Opportunities for refinement

Commentary and actions

Enhancing contact with  
SSE’s culture, senior teams, 
Business Units, and strategic 
context

It was acknowledged ongoing activities were enhancing the Board’s appreciation of these areas, 
notwithstanding, increased structure and planning would maximise the impact of this work. 
Actions agreed by the Board:
•  A Board planner for visits and existing pre-Board meeting sessions has been circulated to ensure 

Continued consideration  
of people issues

these be utilised to good effect. 

•  A biannual review of competitor strategies is to take place and continue on an ongoing basis. 
•  Deep dives will be arranged on specific topics such as ESG, technology and influences on 

long-term energy prices. 

The Board was supportive of progress in this area, noting that positive results would take time to  
be visible within the organisation. As such, there were a number of practices the Board wished to 
continue and develop further. 
Actions agreed by the Board:
•  To maintain a focus on diversity progress, targets and reporting will continue as a biannual item at 

the Nomination Committee (see pages 148 to 149 ).

•  To facilitate Board oversight and provide support on capacity to deliver strategy and growth, the 

Nomination Committee should continue to consider activities to build capability (see page 146 ).

•  There should be a continued focus on succession at an Executive Director and senior leadership 
level. In fulfilment of this, the Board will attend talent dinners biannually; succession plan updates 
will continue at the Nomination Committee; and in line with standing practice non-Executive 
Directors can attend management conferences and talent invited to present at Board meetings. 

The Board identified ongoing management of Board succession, and ensuring a smooth transition in 
roles, as priority areas of focus, given a number of changes to Board membership. The findings also 
supported the view it would be beneficial for greater geographic representation across its composition. 
Actions agreed by the Board:
• 

In light of the above, in 2022/23, the succession plan for Finance Director was approved, and a 
non-Executive Director search was undertaken which saw the appointment of Maarten Wetselaar 
(see pages 144 to 145 ).

Board Committees
The evaluation of Board Committee 
performance found that each Committee 
remained effective in providing Board 
support. Specific findings and the 
agreement of actions was overseen by 
each Committee Chair, with consideration 
of the overall findings for the Board. 

Progress will continue to be monitored  
by each Committee, with details set out in 
the Reports across pages 142 to 187 . 

Individual Director performance
Individual Director performance and 
contribution was assessed through 
one-to-one meetings with the Chair. 
These sessions allowed reflection on 
personal development and discussion of 
matters relevant to Boardroom culture and 
process. The findings, in combination with 

individual skills (see page 115 ), the  
time commitment, and independence 
assessments (see pages 143 and 146 ) 
confirmed that each Director continues  
to contribute positively. 

Chair performance 
The performance of the Chair was 
evaluated by the Senior Independent 
Director, based on: feedback gathered  
by an external facilitator; a thorough 
discussion with non-Executive and 
Executive Directors; and individual input 
from non-Executive and Executive 
Directors and selected senior managers.

The output of this performance review 
confirmed that Sir John Manzoni continues 
to be a effective and energetic Chair. He 
leads ambitious and constructive challenge, 
and appropriate support of the Executive 

Directors. He has a high degree of visibility 
and availability, is inclusive, and always 
looking to hear views while putting his  
own experience to appropriate use.  
He leads and conducts the Board well,  
both in the formal Board meetings and 
through regular interactions outside the 
Boardroom. He engages actively with 
colleagues at all levels and has continued 
to engage constructively with investors on 
strategy, governance, and ESG.

The priority focus areas for the Chair in  
the coming year, were agreed and aligned 
with those identified through the evaluation 
process for the Board as a whole. It was 
confirmed that he devoted sufficient time  
to the role, and in all respects met the 
requirements of the Code.

140

SSE plc  Annual Report 2023

SSE plc  Annual Report 2023

141

Financial StatementsStrategic ReportDirectors’ Report 
Nomination Committee Report

Role of the Committee
The Nomination Committee provides 
dedicated focus to the following 
people-led matters.

• 

•  Board leadership. Identifies  
the skills, knowledge and 
experience required for the 
effective leadership and long-term 
success of SSE, managing the 
balance of competencies through 
succession planning, knowledge 
development and recruitment. 
•  Board Committees. Monitors the 
size, structure and composition  
of the Board’s Committees to 
ensure the appropriate Board 
support now, and going forward.

•  Talent pipeline. Monitors the 
senior leadership pipeline and 
initiatives to develop internal 
capability, engaging in leadership 
programmes and updates on 
external recruitment.

Inclusion and diversity. Under  
the Board’s Policy, considers the 
perspectives and attributes across 
the Board and senior leadership, 
confirming ambitions and work to 
drive progress, reviewing overall 
support for Group-wide inclusion 
and diversity strategy. 

The Committee’s Terms of Reference 
are available on sse.com . 

Key activities in 2022/23
•  Reviewed Board composition. 
•  Recommended the succession 

plan for both the Finance Director 
and Company Secretary. 

•  Recommended the appointment 
of a new non-Executive Director. 
•  Assessed inclusion and diversity 

performance.

Dear Shareholder,
The execution of orderly succession  
plans to support the strength of the Board 
has been a significant Committee focus, 
and underpinned by assessment of the 
Board’s skills, knowledge, and tenure, in  
the context of SSE’s long-term growth and 
operating environment. The skills matrix  
on page 115  confirms the attributes we 
identify as key in the Board’s leadership role.

The external evaluation in 2021/22, cited an 
opportunity to monitor Board membership 
as SSE progressed its Net Zero Acceleration 
Programme, and this was explored in the 
candidate specification for a new non-
Executive Director. We are delighted the 
resultant search sees Maarten Wetselaar 
join the Board on 1 September 2023. 
Maarten’s appointment enhances existing 
international and renewables infrastructure 
capabilities, and brings a global outlook 
and career of energy leadership expertise 
to the Board. He will become a member of 
the Nomination, Audit, and Energy Markets 
Risk Committees upon appointment.

The Board has continued to benefit from 
the long-standing experience of the 
Executive Directors, and regularly reviews 
the internal pipeline and external talent  
pool to confirm optionality for any change. 
In 2022/23, we progressed the succession 
plan for the Finance Director, Gregor 
Alexander, with external support from  
Korn Ferry. This was a robust process,  

142

SSE plc  Annual Report 2023

with defined parameters, and from a 
shortlist comprising both internal and 
external candidates, Barry O’Regan, Finance 
Director, SSE Renewables, was identified as 
the strongest fit for the role. This objective 
outcome confirms the strength of internal 
talent development, and we will focus on  
an effective transition for 1 December 2023. 
Gregor has been instrumental in shaping 
SSE’s investment case and delivering our 
financial objectives over his 21 years in post, 
and we look forward to working with Barry 
in his role as Chief Financial Officer on the 
opportunities that lie ahead. More on the 
above processes and detail of how diversity 
was considered in Board recruitment during 
the year is on pages 144 to 145 . 

In another change, Sally Fairbairn, our 
Company Secretary and Director of 
Investor Relations also signalled her 
intention to retire, which was supported  
by the recommendation in May 2023 that 
Liz Tanner become General Counsel and 
Company Secretary from 1 August 2023.

We thanked Dame Sue Bruce for her 
dedication, as she stepped down after just 
over nine years’ service on 31 March 2023. 
And on 20 July 2023, we will see Peter Lynas 
complete his final term as a non-Executive 
Director. A number of changes in Board 
roles, set out in the 2022 Annual Report  
and on page 146 , take place as a result. 
Melanie Smith is now Remuneration 
Committee Chair and Lady Elish Angiolini 

Membership and attendance
The membership of the Committee 
comprises the non-Executive Directors  
and the Chair of the Board, who is also 
Chair of the Committee. The Company 
Secretary is Secretary, and where 
appropriate, the Executive Directors are 
invited to attend meetings. Biographical 
details of the Committee members can  
be found on pages 116 to 120 . The 
Committee met eight times in 2022/23 
with attendance on page 123 .

Board leadership
Composition and succession
The composition of the Board is informed  
by plans for orderly succession across Board 
and Committee roles. This is supported by 
regular assessment of the skills, experience 
and diversity the Board needs, in line with 
strategy and changes in SSE’s operating 
context. The backdrop to these discussions 
comprises the full breadth of Board work  
set out across the Directors’ Report, and the 
elements of Board composition and diversity 
set out on page 115 . 

Resulting from the above, and in line with 
work to support SSE’s Net Zero Programme, 
an independent non-Executive Director 
recruitment process was initiated in the  
year. Following a robust search, this saw the 
recommendation that Maarten Wetselaar 
join the Board from 1 September 2023. 

This was followed in April 2023, with the 
announcement that Gregor Alexander 
would be stepping down from the Board 
on 1 December 2023, at which time he  
will have served as Finance Director for  
21 years. In support of a comprehensive 
process, internal succession plans and the 
results of an external search, were subject 
to interview and selection with support 
from an independent recruitment firm.  
The resultant recommendation, which  
was approved by the Board, will see Barry 
O’Regan, current Finance Director, SSE 
Renewables, become Chief Financial 
Officer on 1 December 2023. 

Details of the work which supported each  
of the above appointments is set out on 
pages 144 to 145 . 

As reported in 2021/22, John Bason joined 
the Board as Audit Committee Chair 
designate on 1 June 2022. At which time  
he became a member of the Nomination 
Committee and Audit Committee. 

Following their respective nine year terms, 
Peter Lynas steps down from the Board on 
20 July 2023 and Dame Sue Bruce stepped 
down on 31 March 2023. The succession 
plan for their key Board roles is confirmed  
on page 146 .

Sally Fairbairn, Company Secretary and 
Director of Investor Relations will also step 
down from the role following notification 
of her retirement. The Committee 
subsequently recommended the split of  
her responsibilities, with Liz Tanner, SSE’s 
current General Counsel also to become 
Company Secretary in support of this 
change. This transition will take effect from 
1 August 2023. The position of Director of 
Investor Relations will become a separate 
role within the Investor Relations Team.

Time commitment 
The expected time commitment of the Chair 
and non-Executive Directors is agreed and 
set out in writing in a Letter of Appointment. 
This is issued following confirmation of an 
individual’s capacity to take on the role and 
involves an assessment of existing external 
commitments and demands on time.  
Any changes, such as additional external 
appointments which could impair the ability 
to meet the above, can only be accepted 
following approval of the Board. The 
acceptance of an external appointment by 
an Executive Director also remains subject  
to prior Board consent. Approved changes 
across 2022/23 are set out on page 117 . 

Committee evaluation

The annual review of Committee performance was facilitated by Lintstock (see pages 140 to 141 ) and the outputs considered by 
the full Committee. This confirmed the Committee’s continued effective operation and agreement of actions for 2023/24.

Evaluation confirmed

•  A robust process supports the review of Board composition and capabilities and has resulted 

in effective succession planning across non-Executive roles. 

•  Work on senior leadership pipelines with Group HR has strengthened and enabled deeper 

discussion surrounding talent and capability.

•  A clear rhythm of work has been established to review the impact of inclusion and diversity 

strategy at all levels, creating a platform to drive progress.

Actions for 2023/24

•  Board composition. Focus should be maintained on the collective and individual skills of  

the Board, in the context of tenure and SSE’s long-term growth, with support for transitions 
in membership.

•  Executive succession and talent pipeline. Positive challenge should continue surrounding 
the depth and breadth of succession plans for senior leadership, alongside work on internal 
and external talent pools.
Inclusion and diversity. The amplification of the inclusion and diversity agenda should  
be supported; assessing progress and identifying where targeted action is needed to  
deliver change. 

• 

SSE plc  Annual Report 2023

143

Non-Executive Director for Employee 
Engagement. Both Melanie and Lady Elish 
bring their own expertise to these positions.

In our annual review of Board Committee 
membership, and in advance of the change 
in Audit Committee Chair, we agreed  
John Bason would join the Remuneration 
Committee from May 2023, retaining the 
practice that the Audit Committee Chair 
provide a consistent view of Group 
performance across relevant Board forums.

Inclusion and diversity remains a core  
area of work, framed by the Board Inclusion 
and Diversity Policy and the internal 
ambitions which represent a commitment 
to progress. The diversity of the Board is on 
page 115 , with membership comprising 
42% women and one Director from an 
ethnic minority background. This will 
remain the position after the changes 
described above. Across membership, 
difference is enhanced through diverse 
perspectives and backgrounds and we  
seek to ensure this extends to Board 
Committees and Chair roles. Per the FCA’s 
Listing Rule, we explain the positions of 
Chair, Senior Independent Director, Chief 
Executive and Finance Director are held by 
men. This will continue to be considered 
within our agenda, with regard for our 
policy and stakeholder views.

Discussions with the Executive Directors and 
Group HR considers inclusion and diversity 
action below-Board level. Within senior 
management women’s representation is 
34.1% and we continue to work towards a 
target of 40% for 2025. An area of focus will 
be agreeing a supplementary ambition for 
ethnicity across this senior population. More 
on inclusion and diversity can be found on 
pages 148 to 149  and in the Inclusion and 
Diversity Report on sse.com .

Sir John Manzoni 
Chair of the Nomination Committee
23 May 2023

Financial StatementsStrategic ReportDirectors’ ReportNomination Committee Report continued

Board recruitment  
and succession process

Stage 1 
Confirm  
objective of 
the process 
and role 
specification. 

Stage 2 
Engage  
an external 
recruitment  
firm and set out 
process. 

Stage 3
Assess  
how the 
specification 
can be met 
through  
a longlist.

Stage 4 
Review  
technical  
and cultural  
fit to agree  
a shortlist. 

Stage 5 
Identify the 
preferred 
candidate to 
recommend  
to the Board. 

Embedding inclusivity
SSE’s Board Inclusion and Diversity Policy sets out actions to promote 
diverse appointments and inclusive recruitment processes. This includes 
using gender neutral language to ensure role specifications are accessible  
to a wide range of candidates and engaging those who are signatories to  
the enhanced voluntary code of conduct for executive search firms. As SSE 
champions a culture which embraces difference, organisational fit remains  
a key parameter in additional to technical capability. More on inclusion and 
diversity, and the Board’s policy can be found on pages 148 to 149 . 

External search firms 
Russell Reynolds supported the search for a new non-Executive Director and 
has no further connection with SSE or its Directors. Korn Ferry provided its 
executive search services, within the Finance Director succession work, 
independent of other leadership development and below-Board reward 
consultancy support for which it is engaged by SSE. 

Independent 
non-Executive 
Director 
appointment

Key search criteria
•  Large capital projects.
•  Operations, 

development,  
or construction  
of renewable energy.
International business 
and M&A.

• 

•  Engagement with  
capital markets.

Finance Director 
succession 

Key search criteria
•  Strong financial, listed 
company and investor 
credentials.
•  Experience of 

organisational scale  
and complexity. 

•  Demonstrable capital 
investment and M&A 
expertise.

•  Proficiency in managing 

debt and funding 
strategies.

Diversity of  
key board roles

For details of SSE’s 
disclosure against  
Listing Rule 9.8.6(9)  
please see page 149 .

External search diversity 

29%

of profiles 
gender 
diverse

12%

of profiles 
ethnically 
diverse

15

nationalities 
represented

Supporting overall Board diversity
Maarten Wetselaar brings distinct and additive international energy leadership and 
related perspectives to the Board. Both from his current role as Chief Executive of 
CEPSA, the Spanish multinational oil, gas, and diversified energy company, and 26 years 
at Shell, where he played a pivotal role in establishing its renewables business activity. 
His breadth and depth of experience across conventional and new energy projects 
enhance existing Board knowledge and will reinforce positive challenge. In addition, 
expertise across business growth and portfolio transformation, and working knowledge 
across capital and commodity markets, remain key to SSE’s growth and strategy. 

Stage 1 To enhance 
existing Board 
capabilities across 
growth in new  
markets and emerging 
international options,  
an objective search for  
a new non-Executive 
Director was agreed  
by the Committee.

Stage 2 Russell Reynolds 
was engaged to support 
the process and 
identified search 
categories, aligned  
to the key criteria, to 
allow consideration of 
different backgrounds 
and leadership models. 
This comprised direct 
and indirect expertise 
across the energy value 
chain to foster diversity 
of candidate profiles.

Stage 3 Maintaining as 
broad a brief as possible, 
the Committee created  
a longlist for discussion. 
An agreed sub-
Committee worked  
with the search firm to 
support engagement 
and considerations in 
respect of interest, 
bandwidth, and conflicts 
for this pool.

Stage 4 A shortlist of 
candidates was engaged 
to meet with each 
member of the sub-
Committee, and an 
update provided to  
the full Committee to 
provide comments on 
progress. The preferred 
candidate was then 
invited to meet with two 
Executive Directors. 

Stage 5  
A recommendation  
was made to appoint 
Maarten Wetselaar  
to the Board and 
Nomination, Audit,  
and Energy Markets  
Risk Committees from 
1 September 2023. This 
followed confirmation  
of independence and 
capacity to take on  
the role.

External search diversity 

47%

of profiles 
gender 
diverse

7%

of profiles 
ethnically 
diverse

6

nationalities 
represented

Supporting overall Board diversity
The appointment of Barry O’Regan represents internal succession, as he moves from 
the role of Finance Director, SSE Renewables in which he also has responsibilty for 
corporate finance across the SSE Group. Following rigorous assessment, he was 
confirmed to bring the individual and technical attributes required of Chief Financial 
Officer and deemed a highly capable successor possessing substantive financial and 
energy sector experience from a 20-year career. He brings his own strengths to the 
financial leadership and growth of SSE, having been integral to the reshaping of the 
Group and overseeing many of SSE’s large capital investments, in addition to leading 
teams and working across financial control, corporate finance and M&A, treasury, 
reporting and operational finance. 

Stage 1 The Committee 
initiated work to assess 
and develop existing 
succession plans for the 
role of Finance Director. 
This was led by a 
non-Executive sub-
Committee, with 
involvement from the 
Chief Executive and 
Director of HR. 

Stage 2 Korn Ferry was 
appointed to initiate  
a prospective scan of 
external pools against  
an agreed role 
specification. Different 
search streams were 
engaged to support 
identification of a depth 
and breadth of profiles 
and allow prioritisation 
of the key search criteria.

Stage 3 A longlist was 
compiled, and potential 
candidate fit measured 
against the key criteria. 
Existing internal 
succession plans were 
graded in the same  
way and presented to 
the sub-Committee 
alongside this work.  
At the request of the 
sub-Committee, Korn 
Ferry engaged with 
interested candidates.

Stage 4 The Chief 
Executive and Director 
of HR, refined a shortlist 
of internal and external 
options for sub-
Committee discussion. 
Each member of  
the sub-Committee  
met high-potential 
candidates, with the 
Chief Commercial 
Officer engaged in the 
final stages. All non-
Executive Directors were 
invited to meet with the 
sub-Committee’s 
preferred candidate.

Stage 5 It was 
recommended to the 
Board to enact the 
succession plan for 
Finance Director in line 
with confirmation of 
Gregor Alexander’s 
intention to retire. This 
recommended that Barry 
O’Regan be appointed 
Chief Financial Officer 
from 1 December 2023, 
with a phased transfer of 
responsibility for IT and 
General Counsel teams 
to the Chief Executive, 
and for Procurement to 
the Chief Commercial 
Officer. 

144

SSE plc  Annual Report 2023

SSE plc  Annual Report 2023

145

Financial StatementsStrategic ReportDirectors’ ReportNomination Committee Report continued

Director re-appointment
All non-Executive Directors undertake a 
fixed term of three years subject to annual 
re-election by shareholders. The fixed  
term can be extended, and consistent with 
best practice, does not exceed nine years 
subject to defined circumstances as 
identified by the Committee. 

Extensions recommended in the period 
were a second three-year term for Dame 
Angela Strank, and a time-limited extension, 
from 1 July 2023 to the conclusion of the 
AGM on 20 July 2023, in the tenure of Peter 
Lynas. The latter was to facilitate an orderly 
handover in the role of Audit Committee 
Chair. In line with standing practice, each 
decision was supported by the continuing 
independence, experience, and contribution 
that each Director brings to both Board and 
Committee work. 

Conflicts of interest and independence
Each Director has a duty to disclose  
any actual or potential conflict of  
interest situations, as defined by law, for 
consideration and approval if appropriate by 
the Board. This requirement is supported by 
an annual authorisation process, in which 
the Committee reviews SSE’s Conflicts of 
Interest Register, and seeks confirmation 
from each Director of any changes or 
updates to their position. 

This process informs the simultaneous 
assessment of a non-Executive Director’s 
independence, as following the absence  
of any conflict, the Committee reflects 
upon the outcome of each individual 
Director’s performance evaluation (see 
page 141 ) and the circumstances set 
out in the Code which could compromise 
an individual’s position.

Following review in 2022/23, and to the 
exclusion of the interested Director in each 
case, the Committee recommended, and 
Board confirmed: updates to the Conflicts 
of Interest Register; the continuing 
independence and objective judgement  
of each non-Executive Director; and the 
overall independence of the Board in line 
with the recommendations of the Code.

Additional safeguards to support Director 
independence continue through:
•  Meetings between the Chair and the 
non-Executive Directors, individually 
and collectively, without the Executive 
Directors present.

•  Separate and clearly defined roles for 

the Chair, as head of the Board, and the 
Chief Executive, as head of executive 
management (see page 139 ). This 
division of responsibility is supported  
by a degree of contact outside of  
Board meetings to ensure an effective 
ongoing dialogue and channel for  
the timely escalation of external or 
internal developments.

Director induction 

All Directors receive a comprehensive 
induction programme. This is tailored 
through discussion with the Chair 
and the Company Secretary and 
considers existing expertise and  
any prospective Board or Board 
Committee roles. 

The agreed plan for John Bason 
comprised a balance of knowledge-
based sessions with internal 
functions and external advisors,  
in addition to site visits across 
locations to provide exposure  
to SSE’s businesses and working 
environments. Delivery has been  
in phases with information material 
to the non-Executive Director role 
provided in the early stages. 

An induction programme for Maarten 
Wetselaar and Barry O’Regan will be 
agreed upon joining the Board.

John Bason induction programme

Areas covered

Sessions by

SSE’s purpose, strategy, operating 
context, and business model 

Financial performance and  
strategy, funding, assurance,  
and investment community 

Energy sector and trends, SSE’s energy 
portfolio and long-term energy markets

Chief Executive 
Group Strategy 
MD of each Business Unit

Finance Director 
Senior Finance leaders
External Auditor
Investor Relations
SSE’s Brokers

Chief Commercial Officer 

Net zero transition, sustainability,  
and stakeholder engagement

Chief Sustainability Officer
Group Corporate Affairs

Safety, health and the environment,  
and SSE’s people and culture

Corporate governance and  
Board operations 

Legal and regulatory views of the external 
environment and SSE’s risk profile

Director of HR 
Group Safety, Health and 
Environment Manager

Company Secretary and  
Director of Investor Relations

General Counsel 
SSE’s Legal Advisors
Director of Regulation
Group Chief Information Officer

Knowledge and training
Any Director can request further information 
to support their individual duties or 
collective Board role. The arrangements are 
overseen by the Company Secretary and 
can be internally or externally facilitated, 
with sessions typically originating from 
technical Board discussions, an identified 
training opportunity, or area of general 
interest relating to SSE. Outside of monthly 
agenda time, the Board schedule included 
nine strategic deep dives in 2022/23 in 
addition to several external speaker sessions 
– which were often structured to precede 
Board discussion at meetings. Further details 
of the topics covered are on page 125 . 

Through SSE’s mandatory training 
programme, all Directors are requested  
to refresh their understanding of current 
obligations and recent developments in 
areas pertinent to their role. These modules 
address, among other matters: Directors’ 
Duties; competition law; anti-money 
laundering and financial sanctions; data 
protection; and inclusion and diversity.  
In 2022/23, a cyber security session was 
offered to all Board members covering  
the threat landscape; cyber awareness  
and defence; and actions to support SSE’s 
security culture. 

To remain abreast of, and connected to, 
broader societal trends, expectations and 
issues, the Directors are encouraged to 
participate in seminars and events hosted 
by external organisations. Discussion  
with peers, other sectors, and individuals  
in different professional and personal 
situations, is viewed as an opportunity  
to develop broader perspectives and 
insights, which can translate into different 
thinking styles and new debate within 
Board discussions. 

Board Committees and key roles
Board Committee composition and the 
appointment of key Board roles is designed 
around the following principles: to ensure 
alignment between skills and specific 
Committee responsibilities; to prevent 
undue reliance on the capacity of any 
Director; and to comply with recognised 
guidance including the Code. Annually,  
the Board considers the composition of  
its Committees to assess the allocation  
of skills and how the diversity of the  
Board is carried through, by extension,  
to its supporting forums. At 23 May  
2023, each Committee has at least  
40% female membership across non-
Executive positions. 

Changes can be recommended to support 
succession plans, in line with new Board 
appointments, or in response to the annual 
review described above. In 2022/23, the 
Board approved the following membership 
recommendations. 

On investing in broader talent and capability, 
updates are provided on critical skills 
investment and performance improvement, 
which are centred on an agreed set of 
leadership capabilities and competencies 
required for SSE’s long-term growth. 

In the context of SSE’s Net Zero 
Acceleration Programme, emphasis has 
been placed on commercial expertise, 
project delivery, digital, data, and the 
international context, with these endorsed 
as key development areas for structured 
training interventions. The Committee has 
also had input from external partners on 
how talent is benchmarking externally, and 
on a specific focused initiative to encourage 
more gender diversity into senior leadership 
talent pipelines.

The Committee also continued to receive 
updates on the progress of the Leadership 
Development Review which has been 
providing leadership teams with feedback 
about how they align with SSE’s Leadership 
Blueprint and Enterprise Leadership Model. 
In providing Board-level support to the 
Leadership Blueprint, Debbie Crosbie 
participated in a virtual session with leaders, 
to explore the refreshed framework and 
behaviours which define leadership within 
SSE’s culture. 

To provide direct exposure to the talent 
pool and allow reciprocal sharing of 
experiences, members of the Committee 
engage in core talent programmes,  
with the diversity across training cohorts 
monitored to encourage and progress 
difference. Additional engagement  
with future leaders is facilitated through 
presentations at meetings, business-led 
sessions, and attendance at conferences. 
The open two-way dialogue between the 
Directors and all levels of the organisation 
is a key tool for observing and informally 
coaching emerging talent. 

The previously agreed succession plan, for 
the Board roles held by Dame Sue Bruce, 
saw Melanie Smith assume the role of 
Remuneration Committee Chair, and Lady 
Elish Angiolini become SSE’s non-Executive 
Director for Employee Engagement, both 
with effect from 1 April 2023. The views  
of the Committee which led to the above 
recommendations are set out on page 149 
of the Annual Report 2022 . 

Supporting his appointment as Audit 
Committee Chair designate, John Bason 
takes on the role of Audit Committee Chair 
on 21 July 2023. This follows Peter Lynas 
stepping down from the Board on 20 July 
2023. John also joins the Remuneration 
Committee in advance of this date on 
22 May 2023. 

Talent capability and 
development 
Succession for senior leadership roles,  
and strategy to support talent development 
by building capability for the future, is 
overseen by the Committee with support 
from Group HR, with formal updates 
considered at least twice a year. 

On succession, at least annually, the 
Committee reviews the existing internal 
pipeline of candidates for immediate and 
medium- to longer-term movement into 
key leadership and functional roles. This  
is subject to routine challenge to ensure 
understanding of the breadth of internal 
potential and experience represented by 
external talent pools. 

In 2022/23 the Committee received updates 
on Board, Group Executive Committee  
and Business Unit Executive Committee 
succession options, which included a review 
of timing of readiness, and consideration of 
new talent and succession capability that 
had been recruited into SSE. The Committee 
also received updates on the targeted 
development activity that is taking place 
across the population, and engaged in  
a number of discussions with external 
providers to understand the impact of  
these key initiatives.

146

SSE plc  Annual Report 2023

SSE plc  Annual Report 2023

147

Financial StatementsStrategic ReportDirectors’ ReportNomination Committee Report continued

Senior leadership ambitions 
Below Board-level, the Committee 
provides specific focus to the diversity  
of SSE’s senior leadership and pipelines, 
including the recommendations of external 
initiatives and shareholder views. To identify 
the levers for progress, close work has 
continued with the Executive Directors  
and Group HR to develop clear action  
plans which are underpinned by stretching 
ambitions. More detail on these ambitions 
and progress can be found on page 60 .

Consistent with next steps agreed through 
2021/22 external Board evaluation, and a 
commitment to providing counsel on SSE’s 
approach, the Nomination Committee has 
conducted biannual reviews of diversity 
strategy and scorecards, covering:
•  accelerating progress across ambitions; 
•  empowering inclusive leadership  
and fluency across inclusion and 
diversity topics; 

•  assessing the effectiveness and 

continuous improvement of existing 
processes; and 

•  actively listening to the employee voice. 

With strong support for the enhanced  
and increased frequency of contact with 
the executive teams, actions were reset 
through the 2022/23 Board evaluation  
for further work across the coming year. 

Following the recommendation of the 
Parker Review for FTSE 350 companies to 
set targets for ethnic minority representation 
across senior management teams. Focus 
will be provided to improving diversity data 
disclosure to allow a credible target to be 
set. This will be reported on in the Annual 
Report 2023.

Board engagement on inclusion  
and diversity
In addition to desktop work, Committee 
members have proactively engaged with 
SSE’s employee-led ’Belonging in SSE’ 
communities and responded to requests for 
Board-level views on inclusion and diversity 
issues. More detail on these activities can be 
found on pages 134 to 136 .

Inclusion and diversity
SSE’s Group-wide inclusion and  
diversity strategy is explained across  
pages 60 to 62  and in SSE’s Inclusion  
and Diversity Report 2023  available on 
sse.com . 

Role of the Committee 
The role of the Nomination Committee  
in relation to inclusion and diversity starts 
with an assessment of difference across  
the composition of the Board and its 
Committees. At senior leadership-level,  
it sets expectations to nurture an inclusive 
culture so that diversity is embraced; 
confirming inclusion and diversity plans 
and ambitions and seeking assurance 
surrounding progress. This is enabled 
through work with Group HR to review  
the impact of initiatives which are in place. 
The Committee monitors decisions across 
the above areas with cognisance for the 
Group-wide approach. 

Board policy
The Board operates under a standalone 
inclusion and diversity policy which can  
be found on sse.com . Its objective is to 
set a Board-led culture which is inclusive  
to all views, perspectives and experiences, 
and which fosters diversity as a norm. 
Across Board membership, the policy  
drives balance and alignment with SSE’s 
purpose, strategy and values, through 
agreed principles and targets which reflect  
the measures the Board will take when 
considering its membership and that of its 
Committees. The Nomination Committee 
reviews this policy, including targets and 
progress, at least annually, with diversity 
permeating all areas of Committee work.

In setting principles and targets, the 
Nomination Committee, and Board, 
acknowledge the external expectations  
of stakeholders and the opportunities  
to drive change through succession 
planning. The FTSE Women Leaders 
Review and Parker Review are reflected 
within Board ambitions. 

An overarching priority for the Nomination 
Committee is that succession plans remain 
refreshed, and provide options to support  
an orderly transition should a Board vacancy 
arise in the short-, medium- and long-term. 
These succession plans were mobilised in 
the year to support the handover in role of 
Finance Director.

More on SSE’s Board Inclusion and Diversity 
Policy is set out opposite. 

Board inclusion  
and diversity
Board Policy

How the policy links to strategy
People are at the heart of the 
transformational change needed  
to achieve net zero, and SSE believes 
innovative solutions to climate  
change require diverse perspectives, 
different experiences, and new skills. 
The principles of equality, fairness, 
inclusion and diversity must be at  
the heart of everything it does.

Policy principles
• 

Identify Board and Committee  
needs and the balance of diversity 
characteristics.  
See page 143 .

•  Adopt a formal and inclusive Board 

recruitment process.

•  Engage firms who are signatories  
to the enhanced code of conduct 
and discuss ambitions for diverse 
candidate lists.

•  Recruit on an objective and  

shared understanding of merit.  
See page 144 to 145 .

•  Nurture an inclusive Board and 

Committee culture. 

•  Oversee work to develop a diverse 

talent pipeline.

•  Be aware of stakeholder 

expectations and challenge targets 
in wider strategy.  
See pages 137, 147 and 148 .

Policy targets
•  An ultimate goal of enduring gender 
parity, whereby the Board commits 
to female representation of not less 
than 40%, with the aim to maintain 
as close to 50% male and female 
representation as possible on a 
rolling basis.

  Target met. 42% women on the 

Board at 23 May 2023. 42.8% rolling 
three-year female representation at 
31 March 2023.

•  Consider female representation 
across the roles of Chair, Senior 
Independent Director, Chief 
Executive and Finance Director.

See explanation opposite.

•  The Board should have at least  
one Director from an ethnic  
minority background.

  Target met. 1 ethnic minority 
represented across Board 
membership.

Explanation against LR 9.8.6(9)
As at the Company’s chosen reference 
date, 31 March 2023, and in line with FCA 
Listing Rule 9.8.6(9), SSE confirms it has 
met the targets for at least 40% female 
membership on the Board and for one 
Director to be from an ethnic minority 
background. It has not met the target  
for one of the positions of Chair, Senior 
Independent Director, Chief Executive or 
Finance Director to be held by a woman. 
The reasons for this are set out below. 

Executive Directors
The roles of Chief Executive and Finance 
Director have been held by Alistair 
Phillips-Davies and Gregor Alexander for 9 
and 20 years respectively. These positions 
support the long-term strategic delivery  
of the SSE Group and remain subject to 
considered succession planning to ensure 
this strength of leadership continues. 

The announcement in April 2023, that 
Barry O’Regan would succeed Gregor 
Alexander in the role of Chief Financial 
Officer from December 2023, was the 
result of a rigorous external process  
and objective assessment of internal 

succession plans. Assisted by purposeful 
design, diversity was considered at each 
stage and details of the recommendation 
made by the Nomination Committee is set 
out on page 145 . The overriding priority 
across all Board appointments remains 
identification of the strongest candidate 
for the role, based on clear search criteria 
and the need for an orderly transition. 

Further detail of the challenge applied  
by the Nomination Committee on the 
continued development of a diverse 
internal pipeline, and the work to oversee 
external benchmarking to ensure SSE has 
the diversity and capabilities needed for 
future growth, is set out on page 147 . 

Chair and Senior Independent Director 
SSE’s Chair, Sir John Manzoni, has held  
the position since April 2021 following 
appointment to the Board in September 
2020. This resulted from a robust and 
inclusive appointment process and  
details of how diversity was challenged  
at each stage can be found in the  
Annual Report 2021 .

SSE’s Senior Independent Director,  
Tony Cocker, has held the position since 
October 2020 following appointment  
to the Board in May 2018. Tony was 
appointed in line with the internal 
succession plan for the role and  
continues to effectively support the  
Board and Chair in this position.

Full details of the skills and attributes 
which support each of the above 
appointments can be found in the 
individual Director biographies set  
out on pages 116 to 120 . 

Work continues to ensure that gender  
and ethnicity, alongside broader diversity 
characteristics are present across the 
Board and targeted action would be taken 
should the overall diversity of membership 
be deemed insufficient at any time.

In support of transparent disclosure, SSE 
will continue to report on its progress in 
the Annual Report in advance of the FTSE 
Women Leaders target date of December 
2025, and welcomes feedback and 
engagement from shareholders and  
wider stakeholders on this topic.

Data under LR 9.8.6(10)
In line with LR 9.8.6(10), as at the reference date of 31 March 2023, the composition of the Board and Executive Management was  
as follows.

Gender (sex)

Man

Woman

Ethnic background

Number  
of Board 
members

Percentage  
of the Board

Number of  
senior positions on the Board  
(CEO, CFO, SID and Chair)

Number  
in Executive  
Management1

Percentage  
of Executive 
Management1

7

6

54%

46%

4

0

8

3

73%

27%

Number  
of Board  
members

Percentage  
of the Board

Number of  
senior positions on the Board  
(CEO, CFO, SID and Chair)

Number  
in Executive  
Management1

Percentage  
of Executive 
Management1

White British or other White
(including minority-white groups)

Mixed/Multiple Ethnic Groups

Asian/Asian British

Black/African/Caribbean/Black British

Other ethnic group,  
including Arab

Not specified/ prefer not to say

12

92%

–

–

–

1

–

–

–

–

8%

–

4

–

–

–

–

–

11

100%

–

–

–

–

–

1  Per the definition within the Listing Rules, executive management within SSE is the Group Executive Committee including the Company Secretary.

Gender is captured as sex for all employees at the onboarding stage and held on the Company’s secure people data system,  
Harmony. SSE has 100% completion of sex data and that is what is used when reporting the gender diversity of the Board and 
executive management. Recognising that for some, gender identity can differ from that assigned at birth, all employees are offered  
the opportunity to volunteer their gender identity directly within Harmony, or by completing a diversity data form that is electronically 
uploaded onto the system. Ethnicity data is also provided voluntarily and can be offered in the same was as gender identity. SSE has 
100% voluntary completion of ethnicity data at Board and executive management level. All diversity data reporting is done securely 
and in a way that protects anonymity so that no one person can be identifiable. All information is strictly confidential in accordance 
with SSE’s Privacy Notice in line with the UK and ROI General Data Protection Regulations (UK GDPR and GDPR 2018 and DPA 2018). 

148

SSE plc  Annual Report 2023

SSE plc  Annual Report 2023

149

Financial StatementsStrategic ReportDirectors’ Report 
Audit Committee Report

Role of the Committee
Financial reporting
•  Review the integrity of the interim 
and annual Financial Statements.

•  Review the appropriateness of 

accounting policies and practices.

•  Review the significant financial 
judgements and estimates 
considered in relation to the 
Financial Statements, including 
how each was addressed.

•  Review the content of the Annual 
Report and Accounts and advise 
the Board on whether taken as  
a whole, it is fair, balanced and 
understandable.

External audit
•  Review and monitor the objectivity 
and independence of the External 
Auditor, and oversee the policy  
on the provision of Non-Audit 
Services. 

•  Review and monitor the 

effectiveness of the external  
audit process and the ongoing 
relationship with the External 
Auditor.

•  Review and make 

recommendations to the  
Board on the tendering of the 
external audit contract, and the 
appointment, remuneration  
and terms of engagement  
of the External Auditor.

Internal audit
•  Review and approve the  

Internal Audit Plan and monitor  
its implementation.

•  Review and monitor the 

effectiveness of the Internal Audit 
function, including the adequacy of 
the overall Internal Audit resource. 

Internal control and risk 
management
•  Review and monitor the 

effectiveness of the management 
of risk and overall System of 
Internal Control.

•  Review the framework and analysis 
to support both the Going Concern 
and the long-term Viability 
Statement.

The Committee’s Terms of Reference 
were reviewed during the year, and are 
available on sse.com . 

Key activities in 2022/23
The key areas of focus in the year 
included:
•  Ensuring the business performance 

is fairly presented in financial 
reporting.

•  Assessing the output of an external 
quality assessment of the Internal 
Audit function carried out by PwC.
•  Overseeing the project to enhance 
the internal control framework for 
financial reporting.

•  Orderly transition of Audit 

Committee Chair.

•  Consideration of accounting for 

new matters in the year including 
the Energy Bill Relief Scheme and 
the Electricity Generator Levy.

Dear Shareholder,
On behalf of the Board, I am pleased  
to present the Audit Committee Report 
which is intended to provide shareholders 
with an understanding of the work we  
have done to provide assurance on the 
integrity of the Annual Report and Financial 
Statements for the year ended 31 March 
2023, together with the effectiveness of  
the Group’s risk management and internal 
controls framework in a year of exceptional 
market volatility.

The process which the Group adopted in 
relation to identification and quantification 
of its climate-related risks and opportunities, 
together with the governance processes 
established to oversee and approve the 
associated reporting, were considered  
by the Audit Committee. The approach 
adopted this year builds on the strong 

150

SSE plc  Annual Report 2023

foundations that were established last  
year and I am pleased to report that SSE  
is now fully compliant with the TCFD 
recommendations and recommended 
disclosures. SSE believes there is an 
opportunity to further enhance its 
reporting in this area and will actively  
seek feedback from shareholders and 
stakeholders on best practice.

During the year, the Committee  
engaged PwC to carry out a detailed 
External Quality Assessment (EQA) of the 
Internal Audit function. The findings and 
key recommendations were presented to 
the Committee in February 2023. Overall, 
the Internal Audit function was found to be 
well established and highly valued across 
the organisation. A summary of the scope, 

Committee membership
The composition of the Committee is 
compliant with the Code and currently 
comprises five independent non-Executive 
Directors as Committee members. Peter 
Lynas has chaired the Committee since 
2014 and is considered by the Board  
to have recent and relevant financial 
experience. He was Group Finance Director 
of BAE Systems plc until 31 March 2020  
and is a Fellow of the Chartered Association 
of Certified Accountants. Peter Lynas will 
stand down after the AGM on 20 July 2023 
and John Bason, who joined the Board on 
1 June 2022, and became a member of the 
Audit Committee on appointment will take 
over the role as Chair. John Bason was 
Group Finance Director of Associated 
British Foods plc until 28 April 2023 and  
is a member of the Institute of Chartered 
Accountants in England and Wales. Both 
John Bason and Debbie Crosbie are also 
considered by the Board to have recent and 
relevant financial experience. The Board 
considers that the Audit Committee as a 
whole has competence relevant to the 
sector, with two members having had 
significant executive roles in the energy 
sector, and all members possessing an 
appropriate level of experience in corporate 
financial matters. Biographical details of the 
Audit Committee members can be found on 
pages 116 to 120  and details of meeting 
attendance are set out on page 123 . 

Gregor Alexander, who joined SSE at its 
inception in 1998 and has been Finance 
Director since 2002, will step down from  
the Board on 1 December 2023. Following a 
competitive recruitment process supported 
by an external executive search firm, Barry 
O’Regan will be appointed as Chief Financial 
Officer and as an Executive Director of SSE 
plc with effect from 1 December 2023. 

Barry trained as a chartered accountant 
with PwC in Dublin before joining Airtricity 
in 2005, and subsequently the SSE Group  
in 2008. With nearly 20 years’ experience 
working in the energy sector, Barry has  
a wealth of knowledge across financial 
control, corporate finance and M&A, 
treasury, reporting and operational finance. 
He is currently Finance Director of SSE 
Renewables as well as having responsibility 
for corporate finance across the whole  
of SSE.

Meetings 
The Committee has a structured forward-
looking planner to reflect the Group’s 
annual financial reporting cycle. The 
planner informs the business considered  
at each meeting and is regularly reviewed 
and updated to reflect areas identified for 
additional focus. Much of the work of the 
Committee is necessarily targeted around 

the key areas of financial reporting, external 
audit, internal audit, internal control and 
risk management. The practice of effective 
governance and quality reporting underpin 
all aspects of the work of the Committee. 
The Committee met on four occasions 
during the year and has met once since  
the end of the financial year. Before each 
meeting, the Committee Chair meets with 
the Finance Director and External Auditor 
to ensure there is a shared understanding 
of the key issues to be discussed. Committee 
meetings are held in advance of Board 
meetings to facilitate an effective and 
timely reporting process. The Committee 
Chair provides a report to the Board 
following each meeting. 

Meetings are routinely attended by: the 
Chair of the Board; the Finance Director; 
the Director of Group Risk and Audit; 
Partners from the External Auditor; and  
the Deputy Company Secretary (who  
is Secretary to the Committee). Senior 
finance and business managers are invited 
to attend certain meetings to enable the 
Committee to gain a deeper level of  
insight on particular items of business. The 
Committee meets with the External Auditor 
privately at least twice each year in line with 
the financial reporting calendar and also 
with the Director of Group Risk and Audit. 

Annual financial reporting cycle

e r

b

Septe m

N

o

v

e

m

b

e

r

External
audit 
planning

Half-year 
Results

Audit 
Committee

Full-year 
Results

M

a

y

External 
Audit 
control 
testing

F e b ruary

These engagements provide an additional 
opportunity for open dialogue and feedback 
without management being present.

In addition to the scheduled meetings,  
the Committee Chair meets separately  
with the Finance Director, Director of 
Group Risk and Audit, External Auditor  
and Committee Secretary to ensure the 
work of the Committee is focused on key 
and emerging issues. 

Committee evaluation

The actions identified from the 2021/22 evaluation relating to Audit Committee 
Chair transition and developing the approach to risk management have made good 
progress in the year, and will continue to feature on the Committee agenda in the 
year ahead. The annual review of Committee performance in 2022/23 was facilitated 
by Lintstock (see pages 140 to 141 ), with the output considered and follow-up 
actions agreed by the Committee. The evaluation confirmed the effective operation 
of the Committee, and the Board endorsed the view that the Audit Committee 
continued to effectively discharge its responsibilities. 

Evaluation 
confirmed

•  Meetings were well managed and effectively chaired.
•  The relationships between the Audit Committee and the Finance 
Director, Director of Risk and Audit and other members of senior 
management were open and honest and benefitted from a high 
degree of constructive challenge.

•  The key accounting judgements were given an appropriate 

degree of focus and challenge.

Actions to 
progress 
during 
2023/24

•  Support to the new Audit Committee Chair.
•  Arrange briefings to gain an external perspective on how  
other organisations are dealing with matters such as risk  
and audit reform.

•  Focus in further developing the approach to risk management 

and integrated assurance, underpinned by the Audit and 
Assurance Policy.

•  Continue to oversee the project to enhance the internal controls 
over financial reporting, including the developments to enhance 
the level of automation, process and standards.

approach and key findings are covered  
in more detail in the report that follows.
The Committee continued to receive 
regular updates on the status of the BEIS 
consultation on ‘Restoring Trust in Audit  
and Corporate Governance’. Whilst  
there remains areas of uncertainty in the 
measures to be implemented, SSE has 
made significant progress in developing  
the internal control framework for financial 
reporting. At each Committee meeting,  
an update on progress is provided by the 
project team covering legislative and 
regulatory developments, progress on 
implementation and validation of Finance 
and IT controls, and the change programme 
to support the organisation adopt the new 
framework from 1 April 2024. These regular 
briefings allow the Committee to ensure 
that necessary preparations are being 
considered and progressed in line with  
or ahead of regulatory change.

On 16 December 2022, I received a  
letter from the FRC following their review 
of the SSE’s 2022 Annual Report and 
Accounts. The FRC stated that there were 
‘no questions or queries’ in relation to those 
Annual Report and Accounts1. The FRC did 
highlight certain matters which SSE were 
invited to consider in relation to preparation 
of the 2023 Annual Report and Accounts, 
and these matters have been dealt within 
our approach to disclosure this year.

After 9 years as Audit Committee Chair,  
I will be standing down following the AGM 
in 2023. Over the last year, I have worked 
with my successor, John Bason, to ensure  
a smooth and orderly transition. I hope  
you find this report informative and take 
assurance from the work undertaken by  
the Committee during the year.

Peter Lynas 
Chair of the Audit Committee
23 May 2023

1 

In line with FRC requirements, the letter provides no assurance that the Annual Report and Accounts are 
correct in all material respects. The FRC’s role is not to verify the information provided but to consider 
compliance with reporting requirements.

SSE plc  Annual Report 2023

151

Financial StatementsStrategic ReportDirectors’ ReportAudit Committee Report continued

Focus of Audit Committee business over the year

Actions

Outcomes

September November

February May

Financial Reporting 

Reviewed the financial statements prepared  
for the half and full year, and challenged 
management on the appropriateness of the 
accounting in relation to the significant financial 
judgements, estimates, exceptional items and 
basis of preparation as a going concern. Received 
a report from the External Auditor covering the 
accounting, financial control and audit issues 
identified during the half-year review and 
full-year audit.

Assessed the appropriateness and presentation 
of APMs to enable comparability with other 
companies.

Reviewed a report on the Group’s tax position 
covering adjusted underlying tax rate, areas  
of potential tax exposure and provisioning  
and Fair Tax Mark accreditation.

Reviewed and challenged the scenarios aligned 
to the Group Principal risks to stress test the 
viability assessment proposed by management 
and reasons why a four-year assessment period 
was appropriate.

Reviewed the impact of climate change  
on disclosure, including the assurance 
arrangements relating to the TCFD and  
other ESG-related disclosures. 

Reviewed whether the company’s position  
and prospects as presented in the 31 March 
2023 annual report and financial statements 
were considered to be a fair, balanced and 
understandable assessment of the company’s 
position and prospects.

External Audit

The Committee challenged management  
on a number of its judgements and sought 
detailed explanations including the opinion  
of the External Auditor. The Committee made  
a recommendation to the Board in support of 
approving the financial statements, the going 
concern statement, and letter of representation 
issued to the External Auditor.

The Committee concurred with management’s 
approach that the APMs as defined were 
appropriate and enabled comparability with  
other companies.

The Committee supported judgements around 
the Energy Bill Relief Scheme and recognition of 
the Electricity Generator Levy. The Committee 
were satisfied with the enhanced disclosures 
made in support of the Fair Tax Mark accreditation. 

The Committee were satisfied that the viability 
assessment process was robust and that the 
length of the period was appropriate, and 
adequately disclosed.

The Committee reviewed the impact of the 
accelerated NZAP programme on financial risks, 
judgements and disclosures. The Committee 
challenged the consistency in key assumptions 
and concluded that the impact of climate change 
had been adequately addressed, and that the 
assurance processes supporting the narrative 
reporting for TCFD and other ESG-related 
disclosures were satisfactory. 

The Committee sought confirmation that the  
Fair, Balanced and Understandable assurance 
framework had been adhered to and made  
an affirmative recommendation to the Board.

Reviewed and challenged the proposed  
external audit strategy for 2022/23, including  
the audit approach, significant risks and areas  
of audit focus, scope and level of materiality. 

The Committee monitored progress made by  
the external audit team against the agreed plan, 
and approved refinements to the audit strategy  
in line with business developments.

Reviewed the effectiveness of the External 
Auditor to ensure the independence, objectivity, 
quality, rigour and challenge of the audit  
process is maintained.

Reviewed the non-audit services and related 
fees provided by the external auditor for 
2022/23 and the policy on non-audit services 
provided by the auditor for 2022/23.

Negotiated and agreed the statutory audit fee 
for 2022/23.

Reviewed the findings from the External 
Auditor’s controls report.

The Committee concluded that the external 
auditor and audit process was effective and a 
recommendation was made to the Board on the 
reappointment of EY as the auditor for the year 
ending 31 March 2024 at the forthcoming AGM.

The Committee approved the non-audit  
services and related fees provided by the  
External Auditor for 2022/23 and made a 
recommendation to the Board to adopt an 
updated Non-Audit Services Policy to address  
the application of pre-concurrence on non-audit 
services as required by the International Ethics 
Standards Board for Accountants.

The Committee approved the fee for the 2022/23 
audit, including an adjustment to reflect changes 
to the scope arising from developments in the year.

The Committee challenged management  
to resolve non-material issues relating to the 
internal controls. The Committee concluded that 
the overall control environment was effective.

•

•

•

•

•

•

•

•

Cross 
reference

Pages 
154 to 
156 

Pages 
194 to 
201 

Pages 
237 to 
239 

•

•

•

•

•

•

•

•

•

• Page 71 


•

•

•

•

•

•

Pages 
42 to 
45 

Pages 
154 
and 
191 

Page 
156 

Page 
156 

Page 
157 

Page 
157 

Page 
156 

Outcomes

September November

February May

Cross 
reference

Actions

Internal Audit

Received updates on the work undertaken  
by Internal Audit, including audit resource, 
progress with the 2022/23 Internal Audit  
Plan, significant findings and audit actions.

Reviewed and challenged the integrated 
assurance planning approach and the Internal 
Audit Plan for 2023/24, in addition to the areas 
of focus included in the rolling three-year 
Internal Audit Plan.

Reviewed and challenged the output of the 
external quality assessment of the Internal Audit 
function which had been delivered by PwC. 

Internal control and risk management

Received an update on the work undertaken  
by Group Compliance, including resource  
and progress with the compliance review 
programme and resulting actions. 

Received an update on the status of audit 
reform, including progress with the project  
to further strengthen and embed the financial 
control framework.

The Committee monitored the implementation 
of the 2022/23 Internal Audit Plan and confirmed 
they were satisfied with progress. The Committee 
reviewed findings and audit actions and 
challenged management to ensure remedial 
actions were delivered in a timely manner.

The Committee approved the Internal Audit Plan 
for 2023/24 and the rolling three-year Internal 
Audit Plan focus areas.

The Committee confirmed the effectiveness  
of the Internal Audit function.

The Committee monitored the implementation 
of the 2022/23 Compliance Programme and 
confirmed they were satisfied with progress and 
that findings and actions were being closed-out 
by management in a timely manner.

The Committee reviewed progress against the 
project plan at each meeting, and were satisfied 
that the necessary preparations were being 
progressed in line with or ahead of regulatory 
change.

Received an update on Cyber Risk and 
Information Security covering both  
Information and Operational Technology.

The Committee monitored progress in maturing 
the level of cyber security across the organisation 
and provided feedback to the Board.

Received a report on the qualifying companies 
in the Group required to publish reports on  
their payment practices, policies and payments.

The Committee challenged management on 
compliance with the Prompt Payment Code  
and sought assurance that further improvement 
plans were in place.

Reviewed Treasury operations, including  
the funding plan, liquidity, going concern, 
hedging and credit ratings.

In line with the authority delegated by the  
Board, the Committee approved a range of 
funding and treasury related transactions.

Received an update on the programme to 
enhance the approach to risk management.

The Committee approved the work-plan to 
implement an expanded risk management 
framework across the organisation.

Received an update on the governance 
arrangements to oversee the risk relating  
to anti-financial crime including fraud, bribery 
and corruption.

The Committee monitored the implementation 
and integration of the anti-financial crime 
governance arrangements against the expanded 
international foot-print.

Reviewed the effectiveness of the System of 
Internal Control, including risk management.

The Committee reviewed and challenged 
management on the assurance frameworks  
to assess the effectiveness of the System of 
Internal Control. The Committee made a 
recommendation to the Board that the System  
of Internal Control continued to be effective.

•

•

•

•

•

•

•

•

•

Governance

Reviewed the approach to all the governance 
related activity carried out during the year to 
support the work of the Committee, including 
the forward plans of agenda items and areas  
of focus for 2022/23.

Reviewed the Committee Terms of Reference.

The Committee were satisfied with the scope  
and coverage of the governance related activity 
relevant to the work of the Committee and 
approved the forward plan of Agenda items.

•

•

The Committee made a recommendation to  
the Board to re-approve the Terms of Reference.

Reviewed the content of the 2022/23 Audit 
Committee Report and Principal Risk related 
disclosures.

The Committee approved the 2022/23 Audit 
Committee and Principal Risk related disclosures 
for inclusion in the 2023 Annual Report.

Reviewed a report on the disclosure of 
information to the External Auditor.

The Committee were satisfied that the disclosure 
arrangements were appropriate.

•

•

•

•

•

•

•

•

•

•

Page 
158 

•

•

•

•

Page 
158 

Page 
159 

Page 
137 

Pages 
150 
and 
158 

–

–

Pages 
89 to 
92 

Page  
68 

-

•

Page 
158 

Page 
151 

Page 
150 

Pages 
150 to 
159 

Page 
190 

•

•

152

SSE plc  Annual Report 2023

SSE plc  Annual Report 2023

153

Financial StatementsStrategic ReportDirectors’ ReportFair, balanced and 
understandable  
assurance framework
The assurance framework used in  
the preparation of the 2023 Annual 
Report and Accounts to assist the 
Directors in the discharge of their 
requirement to state that, taken  
as a whole, it is fair, balanced  
and understandable and provides  
the information necessary for 
shareholders to assess the 
Company’s performance, business 
model and strategy is as follows:

•  a verification process dealing  

with the factual content;
•  comprehensive reviews 

undertaken independently  
by senior management to 
consider messaging and balance;

•  comprehensive reviews 

undertaken by the Company’s 
Brokers to ensure consistency  
and balance;

•  reporting by the External Auditor 
of any material inconsistencies; 
and

•  comprehensive review by  

the Directors and the senior 
management team during the 
drafting process to ensure that  
the key messages being followed 
in the annual report were aligned 
with the company’s performance 
and strategy and that the narrative 
sections of the annual report  
were consistent with the  
financial statements.

The Committee and Board received 
confirmation from management that 
the assurance framework had been 
adhered to for the preparation of  
the 2023 Annual Report.

Audit Committee Report continued

Financial reporting
The Annual Report and Accounts seek  
to provide the information necessary to 
enable an assessment of SSE’s position and 
performance, business model and strategy. 
The Finance team worked closely with the 
External Auditor to ensure SSE provides the 
required level of disclosure, including the 
appropriateness of alternative performance 
measures (APMs) and their consistency with 
IFRS financial information. In preparing the 
Financial Statements for 2023 there are 
several areas requiring the exercise of 
judgement or a high degree of estimation. 
This section outlines the significant areas  
of judgement that have been considered by 
the Committee – through discussion and 
detailed reporting by both management 
and the External Auditor – to ensure 
appropriate rigour has been applied. Other 
key accounting judgements and areas  
of estimation uncertainty applied in the 
preparation of the Financial Statements for 
2023 are provided in notes 4.2 and 4.3 .

The Independent Auditor’s Report on  
pages 326 to 336  sets out the audit 
approach to Key Audit Matters. In addition, 
EY drew other audit matters to the attention 
of the Audit Committee. These areas of 
audit focus include: customer debtor 
recoverability; going concern; accounting 
for Renewables‘ acquisition of the Siemens 
Gamesa platform and the Thermal 
acquisition of a 50% stake in Triton Power; 
recoverability of Ovo loan note; goodwill 
valuation for Renewables acquisitions in 
Europe and Japan; Seagreen Contract for 
Difference; Generation own use volume 
breach; change in Renewables cash 
generating units; taxation judgements; 
exceptional items and APMs; accounting 
for the sale of a 25% stake in SSEN 
Transmission; climate considerations; and 
decommissioning provisions. In addition, 
the current volatility in the energy sector 
has led to a number of new matters that 
require consideration by management,  
and through the audit, including: Electricity 
Generator Levy (EGL); and the accounting 
for Government Support Schemes.

Significant financial judgements  
and estimates
In the process of applying the Group’s 
accounting policies, management 
necessarily makes judgements and 
estimates that have a significant effect  
on the amounts recognised in the  
Financial Statements. Throughout the  
year, management presents its up-to-date 
view of the key accounting issues and its 
resulting judgements to the Committee. 

In consultation with the External Auditor, 
the Committee reviewed the significant 
financial judgement areas and identified 

154

SSE plc  Annual Report 2023

five specific areas for 2022/23. The 
accounting for the Group’s disposal 
programme, which was completed in  
the prior financial year, was no longer 
considered by the Committee to be a 
significant financial judgement. 

The Group’s most significant financial 
judgement areas, some of which are  
also areas of estimation uncertainty,  
are explained on page 155 . For each  
of these areas the Committee considered  
the key facts and judgements outlined by 
management, and requested the External 
Auditor to provide a professional view on 
whether the judgements were appropriate. 
The Committee specifically discussed with 
the External Auditor how management’s 
judgement and assertions were challenged 
and how professional scepticism was 
demonstrated during their audit of  
these areas. This also included the 
adequacy of the disclosures within  
the Financial Statements.

In the year ahead, the Committee will 
continue to respond to energy market 
reform and will consider any new and 
emerging judgements and estimates.

Going Concern and  
Viability Statement
The Committee reviewed the information  
to support the assessment and disclosure  
of the Going Concern Statement prior to 
Board approval (see A6.3  Accompanying 
Information to the Financial Statements). 
Given the cash surplus of £0.9bn at 31 March 
2023; the committed borrowing facilities of 
£3.5bn maintained by the Group with £3.4bn 
of these facilities undrawn at 31 March 2023; 
the current commercial paper market 
conditions, with £0.9bn outstanding at 
31 March 2023; and the assumption the 
Group will be able to refinance maturing 
debt, the Directors have concluded that both 
the Group and SSE plc as Parent Company 
have sufficient headroom to continue as a 
going concern. In coming to this conclusion, 
the Directors have considered sensitivities  
on future cashflow projections. In the very 
unlikely event of not being able to access  
the revolving credit facility or otherwise 
refinance as may be required, the Group’s 
options include deferring uncommitted 
capex, delaying or deferring dividend 
payments and implementing further cost 
reductions. The Financial Statements are 
therefore prepared on a going concern basis.

The Committee agreed the parameters  
and reviewed the supporting report for the 
Board’s assessment of the prospects of the 
Company which is covered in the Viability 
Statement on page 71 . 

Significant financial judgements and  
estimates for the year ended 31 March 2023

Retirement benefit obligations (Estimation uncertainty) 

The assumptions in relation to the cost of providing post-retirement 
benefits during the period are based on the Group’s best estimates  
and are set after consultation with qualified actuaries. While these 
assumptions are believed to be appropriate, a change in these 
assumptions would impact the level of the retirement benefit obligation 
recorded and the cost to the Group of administering the schemes.

How those were addressed by the Audit Committee

The assets and liabilities of the Group’s defined benefit retirement schemes 
are regularly reviewed. Advice is taken from independent actuaries on the 
IAS 19R valuation of the schemes. The Committee was updated on the 
schemes’ valuation and considered the findings of the External Auditor  
in relation to the scheme’s key assumptions relative to market practice. 
Following this review, the Committee supported the judgements made. 
Further details of the calculation basis and key assumptions used, the 
resulting movements in obligations and the sensitivity of key assumptions 
to the obligation is disclosed at note 23 .

Impairment testing and valuation of certain non-current assets (Financial judgement and estimation uncertainty)

The Group reviews the carrying amounts of its goodwill, other 
intangible assets and specific property, plant, equipment and 
investment assets to determine whether any impairment or reversal  
of impairment of the carrying value of those assets requires to be 
recorded. As well as its goodwill balances, the specific assets under 
review in the year ended 31 March 2023 are intangible development 
assets and specific property, plant and equipment assets related to  
gas storage and thermal power generation. In addition, the Group 
performed an impairment review over the carrying value of its equity 
investments in Neos Networks Limited and Triton Power Holdings 
Limited. In conducting its reviews, the Group makes judgements and 
estimates in considering both the level of cash generating unit (CGU)  
at which common assets such as goodwill are assessed against, as well 
as the estimates and assumptions behind the calculation of recoverable 
amount of the respective assets or CGUs. Changes to the estimates 
and assumptions arising from factors such as regulation and legislation 
changes (including the Electricity Generator Levy and climate change 
related regulation), power, gas, carbon and other commodity prices, 
volatility of gas prices, plant running regimes and load factors, discount 
rates and other inputs could impact the assessed recoverable value  
of assets and CGUs and consequently impact the Group’s income 
statement and balance sheet.

An annual valuation/impairment exercise is carried out, and the basis and 
outcome of this review is presented to the Committee by management 
and includes a description of the assumptions applied in deriving the 
recoverable values. The Committee reviewed and challenged the 
assumptions and projections presented in the management paper and 
considered the detailed reporting from, and findings by, the External 
Auditor. Further detail of the calculation basis and key assumptions used 
in the impairment review, the resulting impairment charges and reversals, 
and the sensitivity of this assessment to key assumptions is disclosed at 
note 15 . Detail on the accounting policies applied is included in the 
Accompanying Information section A1 . Following this review, the 
Committee supported the recommendation to recognise impairment 
reversals in the financial year of £63.5m in relation to gas storage assets 
and the Great Island CCGT. During the year the Group acquired a  
50% stake in Triton Power and due to significant movements in short 
term-power prices recognised a bargain purchase gain in its Interim 
Reporting to 30 September 2022. During the second half of the year, 
the Group had realised a significant proportion of the short term benefit, 
which resulted in an impairment in the second half of the financial  
year. Over the whole year the Group recorded net impairment and 
remeasurement of operating derivatives (net of tax) of £21.1m. In 
addition, the Committee considered the significant judgement and 
related disclosure, and supported the recommendation to recognise 
impairments of £37.9m in relation to its retailed interest in Neos 
Networks Limited. 

Revenue recognition – customers unbilled supply of energy (Financial judgement and estimation uncertainty)

Revenue from energy supply activities undertaken by the Business 
Energy and Airtricity businesses includes an estimate of the value  
of electricity or gas supplied to customers between the date of the  
last meter reading and the year end. This estimation comprises both 
billed revenue (disclosed as trade receivables) and unbilled revenue 
(disclosed as accrued income) and is calculated based on applying  
the tariffs and contract rates applicable to customers against estimated 
customer consumption and taking account of various factors including 
usage patterns, weather trends and externally notified aggregated 
volumes supplied to customers from national settlements bodies. 
During the year both of the Group’s Supply businesses have 
administered government backed customer support schemes, where 
the Group provides discounts to customers based on estimated usage 
and recovers amounts from government based on actual customer 
usage. The administration of these support schemes has increased the 
complexity and level of estimation uncertainty of the Group’s unbilled 
calculations. The most material support scheme administered by the 
Group in the year was the Energy Bills Relief Scheme (‘EBRS’) within  
the GB Business Energy business (which is recorded as other income). 
The accounting policy for customer support schemes and the balances 
claimed from government is explained at A1.2 . A change in the 
assumptions underpinning the calculation would have an impact  
on the amount of other income recognised in any given period.

This estimation is subject to a process which compares calculated 
unbilled volumes to a theoretical ‘perfect billing’ benchmark measure of 
unbilled volumes (in GWh and millions of therms) derived from historical 
weather-adjusted consumption patterns and aggregated metering data 
used in industry reconciliation processes. Furthermore, actual meter 
readings and billings continue to be compared to unbilled estimates 
between the balance sheet date and the finalisation of the Financial 
Statements. The estimation of the government receivable included 
within the Group’s unbilled revenue accrual is based on claimed and 
unclaimed values based on the same customer consumption detail  
and derived from consideration of tariffs applied to customers, metered 
and estimated volumes and other factors. The EBRS claims submitted by 
SSE will be audited by the Department of Energy Security and Net Zero 
and are subject to volumetric risk as estimated consumption data is 
replaced by actual metered data over the 14 month electricity industry 
reconciliation period. The value of outstanding EBRS claims included 
within the Group’s unbilled accrual at 31 March 2023 was £253m,  
which includes a risk provision of £15.1m related to amounts where the 
Group has provided the discount to the customer but has assessed that  
it will be unable to recover the amount from the government during the 
open claim window. Given the non-routine process, the number and  
the extent of differing inputs and the requirement of management to 
apply judgement noted above, the estimated revenue is considered a 
significant estimate made by management in preparing the financial 
statements. A change in the assumptions underpinning the unbilled 
calculation would have an impact on the amount of revenue recognised 
in any given period. The Committee reviewed the practical process 
issues and assumptions applied in determining the estimation 
uncertainty and considered the findings of the External Auditor. 
Following this review, the Committee considered the significant 
judgement and related disclosure, and supported the estimate for  
revenue recognition from energy supply activities. Further details of  
the sensitivity associated with this judgement is disclosed at note 18 .

SSE plc  Annual Report 2023

155

Financial StatementsStrategic ReportDirectors’ ReportAudit Committee Report continued

Significant financial judgements and  
estimates for the year ended 31 March 2023

How those were addressed by the Audit Committee

Impact of climate change and transition to net zero (Financial judgement and estimation uncertainty)

Climate change, the transition to net zero and the Task Force on 
Climate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD) have been considered  
in the preparation of these financial statements. The Group has a 
clearly articulated Net Zero Acceleration Plus Programme set out on 
pages 16 to 17  to lead in the UK’s transition to net zero and aligns  
its investment plans and business activities to that strategy. These plans 
are supported by the Group’s Green Bond framework under which the 
fifth green bond was issued in July 2022 (see note 21 ). The proceeds 
of the fifth green bond were allocated to fund Renewables’ wind 
projects. The impact of future climate change regulation could have  
a material impact on the currently reported amounts of the Group’s 
assets and liabilities. In preparing these financial statements, the 
following climate change related risks have been considered:
•  Valuation of property, plant and equipment, and impairment 

assessment of goodwill;

•  Valuations of decommissioning provisions;
•  Defined Benefit scheme assets; and
•  Going concern and viability statement.

Climate change continues to be a key focus. The Committee  
reviewed and challenged the implications of climate and the Net Zero 
Acceleration Plus Programme for significant accounting judgements  
and ensured that the disclosures were reflective. The process which  
the Group adopted in relation to identification and quantification of its 
climate-related risks and opportunities is explained at pages 36 to 51  
along with the governance processes established to oversee and 
approve the associated reporting. The Audit Committee reviewed the 
approach adopted by the TCFD Steering Group in relation to this matter 
and was also briefed by the External Auditor on the audit requirements 
associated with the adoption of the TCFD including the need for 
consistency of disclosure throughout the Annual Report and the 
technical basis for those disclosures. Following presentation of the 
proposed disclosures and the report of the External Auditor on SSE’s 
approach, the Committee approved the basis of reporting and the 
related financial judgement disclosures included throughout the 
financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2023. Further details of 
the sensitivity associated with this judgement is disclosed at note 4.1 .

Valuation of other receivables (Financial judgement and estimation uncertainty)

The Group holds a £100m loan note due from Ovo Energy Limited 
following the disposal of SSE Energy Services on 15 January 2020. The 
loan is repayable in full by 31 December 2029, carries interest at 13.25% 
and is presented cumulative of accrued interest payments, discounted 
at 13.25%. At 31 March 2023, the carrying value (net of expected credit 
loss provision of £1.5m (2022: £1.8m) is £149.5m (2022: £131.0m). The 
Group has assessed recoverability of the loan note receivable and has 
recognised a provision for expected credit loss in accordance with the 
requirements of IFRS 9. Due to previous energy supplier failures and 
recent market volatility, the Group’s assessment of the recoverability  
of the loan note is considered a significant financial judgement.

The Committee considered the steps applied by management in making 
its assessment of the significant financial judgements associated with the 
Ovo loan note. Management has assessed the recoverability of the loan 
based on publicly available and recent financial information, including 
Government support schemes and discussions with Ovo Energy Limited 
management. The External Auditor explained the work carried out to 
corroborate and challenge the position taken by management. While  
the carrying value is considered to be appropriate, changes in economic 
conditions could lead to a change in the expected credit loss incurred by 
the Group in future periods.

External audit 
External Auditor
Following a competitive tender process,  
EY were appointed by shareholders as  
SSE’s External Auditor for the financial  
year commencing 1 April 2019. EY were 
re-appointed by shareholders at the 2022 
AGM and have continued to serve as SSE’s 
External Auditor. Hywel Ball is the Senior 
Advisory Partner and Annie Graham is the 
Lead Audit Partner with responsibility for 
signing the SSE plc Audit Opinion on behalf 
of EY. Annie Graham leads the engagement 
team and has been in post since EY were 
appointed and will be required to rotate 
after five years. 

EY presented the strategy and scope of the 
audit for 2022/23 at the Committee meeting 
held in September 2022, highlighting key 
areas of audit focus (included within the 
Auditor’s Report on pages 326 to 336 ).  
EY reported against their audit scope at 
subsequent Committee meetings, providing 
an opportunity for the Committee to 
monitor progress and raise questions,  
and challenge both EY and management.  
EY shared an independent perspective on 
certain aspects of the Group’s financial 
control and IT systems arising from its work, 
and reported findings to the Committee in 
February 2023.

• 

• 

• 

156

SSE plc  Annual Report 2023

During the course of the year, EY shared 
insights and feedback with management, 
and held debriefs to refine the planned 
audit approach for the financial year ended 
31 March 2023.

External Auditor and audit  
process effectiveness
An important part of the Committee’s  
work consists of overseeing the Group’s 
relationship with the External Auditor to 
ensure the independence, quality, rigour 
and challenge of the external audit process 
is maintained. The Committee reviews the 
effectiveness of the audit throughout the 
year taking into account:
• 

the detailed audit strategy for the year 
and coverage of the highlighted risks, 
scope, and level of fees for the audit;
the quality, knowledge and expertise  
of the engagement team;
insight around the key accounting and 
audit judgements and the competence 
with which the External Auditor has 
applied constructive challenge and 
professional scepticism in dealing  
with management; and
the outcome of the review of 
effectiveness of the External Auditor  
and audit process discussed on  
page 157 .

Independence and objectivity 
In addition to the annual review of 
effectiveness, the Committee considered 
the independence and objectivity of the 
External Auditor through: a combination of 
assurances provided by the External Auditor 
on the safeguards in place to maintain 
independence; oversight of the Non-Audit 
Services Policy and fees paid; and oversight 
of SSE’s policy on employing former 
auditors. The External Auditor confirmed 
that all its partners and staff complied with 
their ethics and independence policies  
and procedures including that none of its 
employees working on the audit hold any 
shares in SSE plc.

External Auditor fees 
The Committee considered the audit fee 
proposal for the year to 31 March 2023 at 
its meeting in September 2022. The factors 
driving the increase in the level of fees over 
the last three years were discussed with the 
External Auditor. The impact of increasing 
regulatory requirements, changes in the 
business and composition of the Group 
and the level of complexity requiring an 
increased proportion of specialist resource 
were amongst some of the factors taken 
into consideration by the Committee when 
agreeing fair commercial arrangements 
with the External Auditor. Audit fees in the 
current year include scope changes and 

Effectiveness of External Audit

Feedback to inform the review of the effectiveness of External Audit

External Auditor
Assurance from the 
External Auditor 
covering independence 
(relationships, services 
and related threats  
and safeguards) and 
the matters raised  
in the FRC’s Annual 
Quality Review 
inspection reports  
and remedial actions 
taken (if any).

Management
Assess output from 
a survey of those 
subject to the external 
audit process.

Assurance on the 
disclosure process  
for the provision  
of information to  
the auditors.

Audit Process
Assess delivery of 
the audit strategy  
and Independent 
Auditors’ Report.

Assess output from 
survey of Audit 
Partners on the 
external audit process.

Assurance on the 
operation of audit 
quality process at 
audit firm.

Audit Committee
Assess output  
from annual Audit 
Committee evaluation.

Assess output from 
survey of Audit 
Committee members, 
regular attendees  
and Group Finance.

Outcome
Following consideration of all elements of the audit effectiveness review process, in addition to taking account of the 
engagement and communication between the Audit Committee, management and External Auditor, the Committee 
confirmed it was satisfied that the external audit process provided by EY had been delivered effectively. The Committee 
concluded that EY had demonstrated a depth of knowledge, as well as an appreciation of complex issues, whilst providing 
constructive, independent and objective challenge to management. The Committee requested that debrief sessions be 
held between the External Auditor and the finance management teams across the organisation to consider any areas to 
enhance the audit process control environment going forward.

External Auditor Fees

1
2
/
0
2
0
2

2
2
/
1
2
0
2

3
2
/
2
2
0
2

£2.5m

£0.2m

£2.7m

£3.8m

£0.1m

£3.9m

£3.9m

£0.1m

£4.0m

  Audit and Audit-Related Services 

  Non-Audit Services

overruns of £0.4m related to the prior  
year audit. Assurance and Tax service fees 
incurred in the year were £0.5m (2022: 
£0.5m). Non-Audit Services amounted to 
£0.1m and principally related to regulatory 
accounts and returns required by Ofgem 
and comfort letters in connection with 
funding and debt issuance. The Committee 
was satisfied that the work was best 
handled by the External Auditor because  
of its knowledge of the Group and the 
services provided did not give rise to threats 
to independence. All Non-Audit Services 
were approved in accordance with the 
Non-Audit Services Policy and adhere  
to the FRC Ethical Standard. Fees paid to  
EY during the year are made in note 6   
to the Financial Statements. 

Non-Audit Services Policy
The Committee oversees the Non-Audit 
Services Policy which governs the process 
for approving certain Non-Audit Services 
provided by the External Auditor. The Policy 
was updated by the Committee during  
the year to ensure that it remained fit for 
purpose and aligned to the application  
of pre-concurrence on non-audit services 
as required by the International Ethics 
Standards Board for Accountants. In 
addition, SSE is required to cap the level of 
non-audit fees paid to its External Auditor 
at 70% of the average audit fees paid in the 
previous three consecutive financial years. 

Services provided by the External Auditor 
are split into two categories for the 
purposes of approval:
•  Audit-Related Services. These services 
are largely carried out by members of 
the audit engagement team. The work 
involved is closely related to the work 
performed in the audit and the threats 
to auditor independence are ‘clearly 
insignificant’. Such engagements are 
routinely pre-approved by the Audit 
Committee as part of their approval  
of the total annual audit fee. Before 
engaging in any other work of this  
type, approval is required from the  
Audit Committee.

•  Non-Audit Services. These are services 
other than ‘Audit-Related Services’  
for which the External Auditor is an 
appropriate provider. The threats to 
independence arising from such 
services are not necessarily ‘clearly 
insignificant’ and the Committee and 
External Auditor must consider the 
threats to independence and whether 
any safeguards should be applied. In  
the absence of any apparent threat to 
auditor independence, approval for the 
provision of any Non-Audit Service must 
be obtained from the Audit Committee.

SSE plc  Annual Report 2023

157

Financial StatementsStrategic ReportDirectors’ ReportAudit Committee Report continued

Re-appointment of the External Auditor
The external audit contract will be put out  
to tender at least every 10 years and will be 
conducted by no later than 2029 in line with 
prevailing best practice. The Committee 
confirms ongoing compliance with the 
Statutory Audit Services for Large Companies 
Market Investigation (Mandatory Use of 
Competitive Tender Processes and Audit 
Committee Responsibilities) Order 2014. 

The Committee concluded that it is satisfied 
with the objectivity and independence of the 
External Auditor, and that the effectiveness 
of the external audit process delivered by 
EY was robust. The Committee proposed 
to the Board that it seeks shareholder 
approval for the re-appointment of EY as 
the External Auditor for the financial year 
ending 31 March 2024.

Internal audit
Role of Internal Audit
Internal Audit plays an important role in 
helping the organisation deliver its vision 
and objectives by providing independent 
and objective assurance to management, 
the Committee and Board on the 
effectiveness of SSE’s risk management 
activities, internal controls and corporate 
governance framework. Internal Audit, led 
by the Director of Group Risk and Audit, 
reports to the Committee and functionally 
to the Finance Director. The purpose, scope 
and authority of Internal Audit is defined 
within its charter which is approved 
annually by the Committee. 

In fulfilling its role, Internal Audit seeks  
to add value by encouraging continual 
improvement in the effectiveness of 
business planning, operations and systems, 
promoting wherever possible enhancements 
to internal control processes, and seeking 
to embed ‘best practice’ throughout the 
SSE Group. 

At each Committee meeting, an update  
on Internal Audit is provided covering  
an overview of the work undertaken in  
the period, actions arising from audits 
conducted, the tracking of remedial 
actions, and progress against the Internal 
Audit Plan. The Committee routinely meets 
independently with the Director of Group 
Risk and Audit to discuss the results of the 
audits performed and any additional insights 
obtained on the risk management and 
control environment across the organisation.

Internal Audit Plan
The Internal Audit Plan is structured to  
align with SSE’s operating model, risk 
profile, control environment and assurance 
arrangements. The Internal Audit Plan  
is split between a one-year plan and a 
three-year strategy setting out the broader 
areas of Internal Audit focus, together with 
the vision and resource for the function. 
External providers may be engaged to 
support delivery of the Internal Audit  
plan where specific skills and expertise 
require to be co-sourced. An integrated 
assurance mapping and planning process  
is undertaken to ensure that Internal  
Audit work is appropriately aligned to,  
and coordinated with, the activities of  
other relevant assurance providers across  
the Group. 

Internal Audit effectiveness
The Committee keeps under review  
and assesses the independence and 
effectiveness of Internal Audit. This year, 
the Committee engaged PwC to carry  
out a detailed External Quality Assessment 
(EQA) of the Internal Audit function. The 
process, approach and recommendations 
were presented and discussed by the 
Committee at its meeting in February  
2023, and an overview is set out below. 

Internal control and  
risk management
Internal control
The Board has delegated to the Committee 
responsibility for reviewing the effectiveness 
of SSE’s System of Internal Control. This 
covers all material controls including 
financial, operational and compliance 
controls, in addition to the financial 
reporting process. Internal control and  
risk management in relation to SSE’s energy 
market related exposures are overseen  
by the Energy Markets Risk Committee  
and further information can be found on 
pages 160 to 161 .

During the year, the Committee received  
an update at each meeting from the project 
team established to assess and strengthen 
the financial reporting control environment 
in anticipation or ahead of regulatory reform 
in the UK. In addition, the Committee 
received a presentation from KPMG with  
a status update on their engagement to 
support the project. The timing of the 
implementation legislation remains unclear, 
however, management has continued to 
monitor regulatory developments and 
provide regular updates to the Committee.

To assist the Committee’s review of the 
System of Internal Control, the different 
elements are evaluated by relevant key 
stakeholders. These evaluations are then 
holistically assessed by the Finance Director 
and a letter is provided to the Committee 
summarising the work conducted in the  
year to improve the control environment and 
making a recommendation on the overall 
effectiveness of the System of Internal 
Control. In addition, when undertaking the 
review of the effectiveness of the System of 
Internal Control, the Committee considers 
the assurance evaluations undertaken 
annually by the Managing Directors of  
each of SSE’s seven Business Units. These 
assurance evaluations consider each 
framework of the system of internal control 
from a Business Unit perspective and include 
any planned improvements to enhance 
controls. These improvements are tracked, 
with updates reported to the executive-level 
Group Risk Committee on a regular basis.

Risk management
The Group’s Risk Management Framework 
is designed to manage rather than eliminate 
the risk of failure to achieve business 
objectives. It can only therefore provide 
reasonable and not absolute assurance 
against material misstatement or loss.

In addition to the ongoing review of 
emerging risks, the Board carried out a 
robust assessment of the Principal Risks 
facing the Group, being those that have  
the potential to threaten its business model, 
future performance, solvency or liquidity. 
Further details of the Group Principal Risks 
are set out on pages 68 to 77  and also in 
the Group Risk Report.

Internal control and risk  
management effectiveness
Following the Committee’s review and 
recommendation, the Board agreed that 
SSE’s System of Internal Control (including 
risk management) continues to be 
effective. This was in accordance with the 
requirements of the FRC Guidance on Risk 
Management, Internal Control and related 
Financial and Business Reporting. The 
Board also confirms that no significant 
failings or weaknesses have been identified 
during the financial year. Processes are in 
place to ensure that necessary action is 
taken, and progress is monitored where 
areas for improvement are identified.

Effectiveness of Internal Audit

Process
Assessed against:
•  The Chartered Institute of Internal 
Auditors’ (CIIA) Code of Ethics and 
International Standards for the 
Professional Practice of Internal 
Auditing, including the Internal 
Audit Code issued in January 2020;

•  PwC’s Five Principles of Internal 
Audit Excellence Framework; and
•  A benchmark peer group of 8-10 
relevant Internal Audit functions.

Approach
Work included:
• 

Interviews with 16 key 
stakeholders, including: Audit 
Committee Chair; non-Executive 
Directors; Executive Directors; and 
Managing Directors across the 
business divisions;

•  Meetings with five Internal Audit 

team members;

•  Review of survey sent to all 

members of the Internal Audit 
Team;

•  Review of Internal Audit’s structure 
and remit, audit approach and 
resource; and

•  Review of Internal Audit 

Recommendations
Findings included:
•  Develop the approach and 

methodology to derive more  
data driven analysis and insights;

•  Enhance executive and Audit 

Committee reporting to provide 
more insight;

•  Continue to develop the approach 
to innovation through areas such 
as digital capability and adopting 
agile delivery methods;

•  Develop further the strategic 

resourcing model to accommodate 
SSE’s international footprint as well 
as leveraging internal and external 
co-sourcing; and

documentation over the preceding 
12 months across the areas of 
planning, auditing and reporting.

•  Enhancing the approach to 
monitoring and driving 
performance and productivity. 

Outcome
Overall, the Internal Audit function was found to be well established and valued across the organisation. The Committee 
recognised the progress made during the year and confirmed it was satisfied with the overall performance and effectiveness of 
the Internal Audit function. The findings identified by the EQA will be taken forward and progress reviewed by the Committee.

System of Internal Control

The elements that make up the System of Internal Control are: 

•  Governance Framework. Designed to 
ensure focus on the key components  
of high quality and effective decision 
making – clarity, accountability, 
transparency and efficiency. For further 
details please see page 122  of the 
Directors’ Report. 

•  Strategic Framework. This includes 
SSE’s Purpose, Strategy, Goals and 
Values, as well as the focus of its business 
model and forms the basis for all activity 
within the Risk Management Framework. 

For further details please see pages 8 to 
23  of the Strategic Report. 

•  Risk Management Framework. This 

framework supports each Business Unit 
in managing its risks and helps to ensure 
that the Board can meet its obligations. 
The framework is underpinned by the 
fundamental principle that everyone at 
SSE is responsible for the management 
of risk.

•  Assurance Framework. An integrated 
programme of audit and assurance 

activity that is independent of the day- 
to-day operations of the Business Units 
and corporate functions. It is made up of 
Internal Audit, Group Compliance, Large 
Capital Projects Services and Group 
Safety, Health and Environment

•  Standards and Quality Framework.  
Sets out the expected standards and 
guidelines to be followed in the delivery 
of the Group’s core purpose.

Governance 
Framework

Strategic 
Framework

Risk Management  
Framework

Assurance 
Framework

Standards and  
Quality  Framework

Board and  
Board Committees

Group Executive 
Committee and  
Executive sub-
Committees

Business Unit Executive 
Committees and 
Corporate Support 
Functions

Group Risk Management 
and Internal Control Policy

Review of the  
Effectiveness of the  
System of  
Internal Control

External Audit 

Internal Audit

Group Policies

Principal Risk  
Self-Assessment

 Risk Appetite Statement

 Viability Assessment

 Key Risk Indicators

Group Compliance

Group Safety, Health  
and Environment

Large Capital  
Projects Services

Governance 
Manuals

Strategic  
Objectives

Financial 
Objective

Sustainability  
Goals

Business Unit Principal Risk 
Self-Assessment

Assurance Evaluation

 Risk Blueprint

Business 
Assurance

Business Unit, Policies, 
Procedures, Processes  
and Systems

158

SSE plc  Annual Report 2023

SSE plc  Annual Report 2023

159

Financial StatementsStrategic ReportDirectors’ ReportEnergy Markets Risk Committee Report

Role of the Committee
The Committee oversees SSE’s 
energy markets risk exposures by:

• 

•  Monitoring and supervising  
SSE’s hedging approach; 

•  Assessing any potential emerging 
energy market issues and risks; 
and

•  Reviewing SSE’s internal control 

and risk management in this area.

In doing so, it assists the Board  
in the effective discharge of its 
responsibilities in relation to risk 
management and internal control  
in this area.

The Committee’s Terms of Reference 
are available on sse.com . 

Key activities in 2022/23
•  Oversaw arrangements and 

recommended actions in relation 
to SSE’s approach to managing 
portfolio exposures during a year 
of high prices and significant 
market volatility.

•  Reviewed and recommended 

changes to the risk and controls 
monitoring metrics, ensuring 
continued effective oversight of 
operational effectiveness against 
the backdrop of high prices and 
significant market volatility. 

Dear Shareholder,
I am pleased to introduce the Energy 
Markets Risk Committee (EMRC) Report  
for 31 March 2023. This report details  
the role we play throughout the year  
to oversee SSE’s energy markets risk 
exposures and ensure an effective system 
of risk management controls and related 
processes relevant to energy market risks. 

We have continued to play a key role in 
overseeing the governance arrangements  
in relation to SSE’s approach to managing 
portfolio exposures during a year of high 
prices and significant market volatility. At 
each meeting, we examine and discuss 
reports of these exposures, consider any 
proposals from the Executive Team, and 
recommend any changes to SSE’s hedging 
approach to the Board as required. In 
addition, the EMRC reviews and endorses 
the hedging approach statement which is 
updated for material changes and published 
as part of SSE’s interim and preliminary 
results statements.  SSE’s latest hedging 
approach statement (as at 31 March 2023)  
is also set out on page 86  of this Annual 
Report. The EMRC will continue to monitor 
and oversee these exposures and, should 
circumstances lead to any change in 
approach being required, these will  
be fully discussed, challenged, and 
appropriately reported.

As a committee, we believe that SSE has 
been served well by its prudent approach  
to hedging and has continued to manage 
successfully the changing credit and 
collateral requirements. To this end, we also 
reviewed the governance controls and risk 

160

SSE plc  Annual Report 2023

metrics overseen by us to ensure they 
remained appropriate in the current climate, 
and recommended to the Board changes  
to ensure operational effectiveness and  
that the correct oversight and reporting  
are in place. 

The EMRC is assisted in its role by the 
following two Group-level committees: 
•  Group Energy Markets Exposure 

Committee which meets monthly  
and provides a forum for SSE’s senior 
management to discuss and consider 
energy market risks and exposures. 

•  For the Customers Business Unit, 

Demand Management Committee (DMC) 
which meets monthly. The DMC was 
originally created to monitor the impact 
of the coronavirus pandemic on the 
Business Unit’s demand profile but 
continues in operation to monitor 
demand in relation to market volatility.

The minutes of these committees are 
provided to the EMRC for review and 
comment.

In line with standing practice, the annual 
Board evaluation is an assessment of our 
performance as a committee. I am pleased 
this concluded that we operate effectively 
and that the Board takes assurance from the 
quality of our work. Furthermore, the EMRC 
members are seen to bring a wide range 
and depth of recent and relevant experience 
across various industries, which will be 
bolstered further by Maarten Wetselaar, 
who will join the EMRC on 1 September 
2023, with extensive knowledge from his 
career in the energy industry.

During 2023/24, as SSE continues to  
grow internationally, the EMRC will remain 
focused on providing effective oversight  
in relation to the Group energy markets  
risk exposures. We will also focus on the 
impact, management, and mitigation of 
relevant macroeconomic and geopolitical 
events. This will include:
• 

the continued impact of the prolonged 
conflict between Ukraine and Russia  
on energy markets;

•  commodity prices and volatility and 

inflationary pressures; and 

•  changes to regulatory requirements.

I would like to thank the members  
of the Committee for their continued 
commitment throughout the year, the  
open discussions that take place at our 
meetings, and the contribution they  
all provide in support of our work.

Tony Cocker
Chair of the EMRC
23 May 2023

Committee membership  
and attendance
Four non-Executive Directors and  
two Executive Directors make up the 
composition of the EMRC. Full details  
of membership and meeting attendance 
are set out on page 123 . The Chief 
Executive and the Managing Director  
of Energy Portfolio Management also 
routinely attend meetings, with an Assistant 
Company Secretary acting as Secretary to 
the EMRC. To assist the EMRC in carrying 
out its responsibilities, relevant senior 
managers can be invited to attend to 
present certain items of business and 
provide additional levels of insight. 

The EMRC membership is approved by the 
Board following recommendation of the 
Nomination Committee. No changes were 
made to the EMRC membership during 
the year. Maarten Wetselaar, who joins  
the Board on 1 September 2023, will join 
the EMRC. Maarten’s experience from his 
career in the energy industry will further 
ensure that the EMRC has the sufficient 
skills and expertise to discharge its duties. 

The composition of the EMRC further 
facilitates the sharing of relevant 
experience held by the non-Executive 
Directors. As EMRC Chair, Tony Cocker 
brings extensive knowledge from his career 
in the energy industry. Debbie Crosbie, 
Melanie Smith and Sir John Manzoni, 

SSE approach to hedging

SSE has an established approach to 
hedging through which it generally  
seeks to reduce its broad exposure to 
commodity price variation in relation  
to electricity generation and supply at 
least 12 months in advance of delivery.  
As market conditions change, SSE may 
be required to vary its hedging approach 
to take account of any resultant new or 

additional exposures. SSE will continue  
to provide a summary of its current 
hedging approach, including details  
of any changes in the period, within its 
Half and Full-year Results Statements. 
Details of SSE’s latest hedging approach 
and hedging position are set out on  
page 86 .

provide invaluable insights and a wealth  
of knowledge from various senior roles in 
the private and public sectors. Biographical 
information of the EMRC members’ 
backgrounds and experience is contained 
on pages 116 to 120 .

Committee evaluation
The EMRC performance was assessed as 
part of the annual Board evaluation (see 
pages 140 to 141 ). The results of the 
evaluation indicated that the EMRC is 
operating effectively, and that it continues  
to provide an appropriate level of challenge 
and oversight of the areas within its remit.  
No specific actions were identified.

Meetings and focus areas  
in 2022/23
The EMRC held four meetings during the 
year and reported to the Board on its work 
following each meeting. Each meeting 

agenda is informed by a forward plan of 
business, which is designed to ensure that 
the EMRC carries out its responsibilities in 
line with its Terms of Reference. In addition, 
outside the cycle of scheduled meetings,  
the EMRC Chair meets with the Chief 
Commercial Officer, Managing Director  
of Energy Portfolio Management,  
and the Committee Secretary to ensure  
that key and emerging issues are brought  
to the EMRC’s attention as appropriate.

The EMRC will continue to develop and 
regularly review the Committee’s forward 
plan of business to accommodate any 
emerging issues and risks to the Group 
concerning energy markets.

The table below sets out details of the key 
focus areas and actions taken by the EMRC 
in the year.

Key EMRC focus areas in 2022/23
Areas of focus

Actions taken

Overseeing SSE’s  
hedging approach 

•  As part of a quarterly report on Energy Markets Risk, monitored:

 – hedging arrangements;
 – risk control metrics;
 – Energy Portfolio Management’s counterparty credit risk exposures; and
 – the liquidity of energy markets.

Energy Markets  
Risks

Internal Control  
and Risk  
Management  
relating to Energy 
Market Exposures

•  Reviewed and endorsed the hedging approach and position on 31 March 2023 included in the Full-year 

Results Statement and Annual Report 2023.

•  Received reports throughout the year on emerging energy market issues and risks (for example in relation  

to volatile gas markets due to the ongoing conflict between Russia and Ukraine) and recommended relevant 
matters to the Board on changes to risk management arrangements in line with SSE’s hedging approach.

•  Considered a report on key energy market risks, risk appetites and risk management controls and governance.
•  Received reports on reviews of GB and ROI energy markets.
•  Received a report on SSE’s Trading Approach in relation to the UK Emissions Trading Scheme.
•  Received reports throughout the year on SSE’s strategy to support entry to international markets for the asset 

businesses by providing route to market and optimisation services.

•  Considered a report on the key risks and controls arising from operations within Energy Portfolio Management.
•  Reviewed the Energy Portfolio Management MD Letter of Assurance.
•  Received an in-depth review of risk control metrics provided internally.
•  Received quarterly reports from Internal Audit and details of resulting action plans related to the Energy 

Portfolio Management business. 

•  Reviewed minutes from the Group-level Demand Management Committee which provided updates on 

activities as a result of alterations to customer demand profile due to market volatility.

•  Reviewed minutes from the Group-level Energy Markets Risk Committee which provides executive level 

oversight of SSE’s energy market exposures and their associated management.

Governance  
and other

•  Considered the output of the EMRC performance evaluation.
•  Approved the narrative of the 2023 EMRC Report.
•  Regularly reviewed the forward business planner.

SSE plc  Annual Report 2023

161

Financial StatementsStrategic ReportDirectors’ ReportSafety, Sustainability, Health and Environment 
Advisory Committee Report

Role of the Committee
•  Supports and advises the Board  
on matters relating to safety, 
sustainability, health and the 
environment.

•  Provides a leadership forum  

for non-Executive Directors to  
work with senior management and 
shape policy, targets and strategy 
to improve safety, sustainability, 
health, and environmental 
performance.

•  Reviews the effectiveness of  

SSE’s strategy, initiatives, training 
and targets in relation to safety, 
sustainability, health, and the 
environment.

•  Reviews the implementation  

of SSE’s Group Policies relating  
to safety, sustainability, health  
and wellbeing, the environment, 
and climate change.
•  Monitors the resource,  

competence and commitment  
in the management of safety, 
sustainability, health, and 
environmental issues to ensure 
continuous improvement.

•  Maintains access to a range of both 
internal and external stakeholder 
perspectives to better achieve the 
creation of shared value for society.

•  Supports SSE’s commitment to 

being a sustainable company that 
makes a positive contribution to the 
communities in which it operates.
•  Actively ensures the maintenance 
of a healthy corporate culture in 
respect of safety, sustainability, 
health and environmental matters 
based on a combination of values, 
attitudes and behaviours.

The Committee’s Terms of Reference 
are available on sse.com . 

Key activities in 2022/23
•  Considered safety performance 

and targets

•  Enhanced oversight of employee 

wellbeing initiatives

•  Continued visits across sites
•  Reviewed an ESG gap analysis  
and materiality assessment 

Dear Shareholder
I am pleased to present the Safety, 
Sustainability, Health and Environment 
Advisory Committee (SSHEAC) Report  
for 2022/23; a difficult year which saw the 
very sad fatality of one of our contractor’s 
employees at Viking wind farm. This 
incident made us re-think, re-energise and 
be more determined than ever to deliver  
on our Safety Family approach with robust 
support for our employees.

This report explains the work of the 
SSHEAC during the year, alongside the 
progress that has been made in relation  
to safety, sustainability, health and 
wellbeing, and the environment. A more 
in-depth review of these areas, can be 
found on pages 34 to 67  and in SSE’s 
Sustainability Report 2023  which is 
available on sse.com .

Our Safety Family is an important and 
distinctive part of SSE’s culture. Through 
continuous development, we are looking  
to strike the balance between adding more 
energy to SSE’s approach whilst reinforcing 
our existing Safety Family language  
and principles for our employees and 

contractors. Our commitment – that we all 
get home safe – is the top priority for us.

The Committee has reviewed continued 
efforts to enhance employees’ health and 
wellbeing in the year. A focus has been 
targeting areas in which we can make a 
difference and ensuring it is easy for people 
to access the help they need. In addition  
to the employee benefits already offered, 
last autumn saw the launch of SSE’s Health 
Hub and ‘We Care’ for employees, which 
offer fast access to different health and 
wellbeing services. Whilst we have made 
great progress in this area in the last few 
years, there remain areas we would like to 
continue to develop.

We recognise that SSE is part of the  
natural world and want to support the 
conservation, restoration and sustainable 
use of the world’s land and water 
resources; and promote the integration  
of amenity, ecosystem and biodiversity 
improvement into business activities.  
As noted in the report that follows, SSE’s 
Business Units signed up to achieve no  
net loss in biodiversity by 2023 and net gain 
in biodiversity by 2025 on onshore large 

162

SSE plc  Annual Report 2023

capital projects. We maintain focus on 
developing SSE’s Environment Strategy, 
strengthening our local SHE communities 
and sharing SSE’s 2022+ SHE vision ‘making 
it easier to do the right thing’.

Following on from last year, SSE’s 
Sustainability Team presented two 
significant pieces of work: an ESG gap 
analysis and a materiality assessment. The 
ESG gap analysis supported identification 
of where improvements can and should  
be made, not only in ESG disclosures,  
but in practices and performance as well. 
The in-depth materiality assessment 
reconfirmed the most salient sustainability 
issues to both the Company and its 
stakeholders, identifying areas of 
opportunity to develop. 

An increased number of Committee site 
visits were conducted in 2022/23, supporting 
oversight of SSE’s safety culture in operation. 
Positive impressions were reported back to 
the SSHEAC alongside opportunities to 
enhance working environments.

On behalf of the SSHEAC, I would like to 
thank all employees and those that work 
with SSE for their sustained effort, hard 
work and commitment. I hope you find  
the report a useful explanation of our work 
and of SHE performance during the year.

Helen Mahy CBE 
Chair of the SSHEAC 
23 May 2023

Membership
The membership of the SSHEAC comprises 
four non-Executive Directors; the Chair of 
the Board; the Chief Commercial Officer; 
the Chief Sustainability Officer; the 
Managing Director, SSEN Distribution; the 
Managing Director, SSE Distributed Energy; 
and the Safety, Health and Environment 
Director. An Assistant Company Secretary is 
Secretary to the Committee and the Chief 
Executive routinely attends meetings. The 
Committee invites operational managers 
and specialists to attend certain meetings 
to gain a deeper level of insight on 
particular items of business. Biographical 
details of the non-Executive members can 
be found on pages 116 to 120 . 

Meetings and focus in 2022/23
The SSHEAC met five times in 2022/23  
and details of non-Executive meeting 
attendance are set out on page 123 . 

One meeting provided specific 
consideration to an ESG gap analysis to 
allow identification of additional areas  
of focus (see page 165 ). With this being  
a new piece of work for the Committee,  
Sir John Manzoni received a separate 
briefing outside of the meeting, due to 
being unable to attend the short-notice 
session because of a prior commitment.

Working closely with the Group Safety, 
Health and Environment Committee which 
reports to the Group Executive Committee, 
the SSHEAC has an annual work plan to 
review SHE performance at Group-level 
and in each of SSE’s seven business areas. 
The Committee considers a wide range of 
SHE performance and governance issues as 
it shapes SSE’s SHE strategy. This year it has 
had a specific focus on contractor safety 
and health and wellbeing, recognising  
the performance challenges of contract 
partners and the need to take care of 
colleagues’ health and wellbeing in 
challenging times.

Other matters which the SSHEAC focused 
on were: 
•  SHE engagement and culture
•  SHE risks
•  Fatigue management 
•  Climate adaptation and resilience
•  ESG performance
•  Sign-off of the plan for SSE’s 
Sustainability Report 2023 . 

SHE strategy 
The SSHEAC reviewed the safety, health 
and wellbeing, and environmental 
strategies, priorities and plans for 2023/24, 
underpinned by the SHE Risk Matrix and 
SHE Assurance Plan. It is recognised that 
the work being undertaken by contractors, 
on SSE’s large capital projects can 
represent a higher-risk environment than 

Committee evaluation

The actions identified from the evaluation of the SSHEAC in 2021/22 as reported on 
last year were monitored through to completion. 

The annual review of Committee performance was facilitated by Lintstock (see  
pages 140 to 141 ) and the outputs considered by the full Committee. This saw 
confirmation by the Board of the Committee’s continued effective operation and 
agreement by the Committee of a number of actions for progression across 2023/24.

Evaluation 
themes

•  Good coverage of the key aspects of safety, sustainability and 
environmental issues. Continue to define SSE’s Environment 
Strategy and monitor environmental performance.

•  Good recognition of the steps taken to improve SSE’s Health offer 

to colleagues.

•  The SSHEAC’s contribution has supported and encouraged the 

ambition and direction taken on safety, sustainability, health and 
environmental matters.

Actions for 
2023/24

•  Safety. Communication with contractors is a top priority.
•  Meetings. Lengthen meetings and continue to undertake deep 

dives on specific topics.

•  Environment. Continue to define SSE’s Environment Strategy and 

monitor environmental performance. Continue to promote 
interactions with 3rd parties NGOs and regulators.

•  Sustainability. Teachings on specific sustainability topics.

normal operations. For this reason, SSE is 
focusing on building strong relationships 
with contract partners to align behind a 
common goal to get everyone home safe. 

figure for 2020/21 has been restated to 
align with the current definition of a Safe 
Day within SSE and the removal of Minor 
Environmental Incidents from the measure. 

SSE’s SHE Team also looked at SSE’s business 
continuity and crisis management approach 
and set out a strategy for operational 
resilience and an accompanying three-year 
plan. Across 2022/23, organised campaigns 
supported SHE strategy implementation and 
communication, with a digital enablement 
project helping to develop more insights into 
SHE performance reporting. 

Maintaining SSE’s Safety Family approach  
in the face of growth, new joiners and an 
increased contractor workload is high 
priority, and efforts to reinforce existing 
Safety Family language and update the 
tools already in place will remain key. 

SHE performance
Safety
The SSHEAC oversees safety performance 
using a number of different measures. 
SSE uses the concept of ‘Safe Days’ to 
monitor and track its safety progress and 
performance. On a ‘Safe Day’, for SSE or 
contractors, there are no minor, serious,  
or major safety incidents; serious or major 
environmental incidents; or any incident 
with high potential for harm to people or 
the environment. 255 Safe Days were 
achieved during 2022/23, compared to  
276 in the previous year. The comparative 

In addition to Safe Days, SSE continues  
to measure safety performance using  
the rolling Total Recordable Injury Rate  
(TRIR) for employees and contractors.  
This measure is used for benchmarking and 
trend analysis, and in 2022/23, it increased to 
0.19 per 100,000 hours worked, compared 
to 0.17 in the previous year. This increase 
reflects a significant surge in investment  
and construction, and the associated rise  
in contractor hours worked. There will be  
a separate target TRIR for 2023/24 for SSE  
of 0.11, and contractors of 0.31, which, 
considering the increased activities and 
workload within all Business Units, will  
be a challenging task, but is believed to  
be achievable.

To enhance the safety of colleagues, 
immersive training programmes are  
being established at various locations in  
the UK. This involves deep immersion in  
an interactive environment that simulates 
real-world scenarios. The programme will 
be tailored to SSE’s needs and attempts  
to change employees’ perspective when 
working onsite. This will equip new  
starters as well as other colleagues  
with tools to support the overall goal  
of getting home safe.

SSE plc  Annual Report 2023

163

Financial StatementsStrategic ReportDirectors’ ReportWhat would make it easier for 
people to do the right thing?
Covid-19 has presented some real 
challenges for SSE’s sites. At the time  
of this visit, some controls at Peterhead 
were still in place to protect the control 
room operators from Covid-19, such as 
all visitors to the control room wearing 
masks. The site induction was also 
completed online to ensure the process 
was efficient and safe. 

Safety, Sustainability, Health and Environment Advisory Committee Report continued

Contractor safety
With the very sad news of the  
fatality of one of SSE’s contractor’s 
employees, and contractor incidents 
and contractor TRIR being higher than 
SSE’s, the Committee discussed how 
SSE can provide more rigour and 
support, especially as the level of  
SSE’s delivery through contract 
partners will increase.

SSE has formed a new central 
Contractor Safety Team supported by 
dedicated Contractor SHE Managers 
and Assurance Auditors to improve 
contractor safety performance. In 
SSE’s plan for the next financial year, 
key actions have been captured in  
the following three categories: 1. 
Collaborate – how SSE aligns all 
parties to deliver; 2. Support – how to 
provide direct support; and 3. Check 
– conduct a comprehensive audit 
across all businesses and directly  
with contract partners to identify and 
address any issues systematically.

SSE has been working to continually 
improve SHE Specification for 
contractors and provide guidance  
for project management teams. In 
addition to the Contractor Safety 
Community, local SHE Communities 
are embedded across all SSE Business 
Units and the Committee saw good 
examples of their work on different 
sites during visits.

Health and wellbeing
The SSHEAC has encouraged and endorsed 
a significant focus on health and wellbeing 
across SSE over 2022/23. The Committee 
reviewed employee absence data and trends 
to ensure that common reasons for absence 
and wellbeing in the workplace were 
considered and understood. Following this, 
a new Health Hub was developed to allow 
easy access to employee support services.  
A new feature of the Health Hub was the 
launch of the ’We Care’ health app. Through 
this free of charge service, employees and 
their immediate families can access 24/7  
GP consultations and other health related 
advice. A programme in partnership with the 
British Heart Foundation on cardiovascular 
assessments was also introduced and will 
continue into 2023/24.

In addition, in response to employee 
listening, a series of webinars has also 
broached sensitive subjects such as suicide, 
menopause and more, setting the wellbeing 
objectives and values to build a strategy  
that adapts to business needs. Initiatives to 
support employees’ physical and mental 
health continue to be provided through 
Nuffield, SSE’s Employee Assistance 
Programme and Thrive.

Environment
SSE’s Environment Strategy is underpinned 
by an ethos of compliance. It provides a 
pathway to engage internal and external 
stakeholders by holding SSE accountable 
for performance against targets and 
indicators as a measurement of success. 
Following a review of the environmental 
vision, a set of targets were agreed for 
2022/23. Further details of these targets 
and performance against them in the  
year can be found in SSE’s Sustainability 
Report 2023  and on pages 53 to 55 . 

The operational focus of SSE’s Environmental 
Strategy is across three priority pillars:  
1. Environmental Management and 
Governance; 2. Responsible Consumption 
and Production; and 3. Natural Environment. 

In 2022/23, the total number of 
environmental incidents as a result of SSE’s 
activities totaled 109 compared to 84 the 
previous year, the majority of which were 
minor. SSE’s 2021/22 total environmental 
incident measure has been restated, 
attributed to: enhanced governance  
checks that have increased the accuracy of 
reporting; and implementing a new SEARS 
system which has helped in improving the 
visibility of incidents and ensuring their 
correct categorisation. This improved 
reporting has also supported enhanced 
oversight of environmental performance. 

Following relatively stable performance 
over the past three years, there was a  
slight increase in serious environmental 
incidents in 2022/23, increasing to 31 from 
24 the previous year. Of these incidents  
SSE saw an increase in the number of 
silt-related issues associated with the scale 
up of construction activities, offset by a 
reduction in the number and scale of fluid 
filled cable leaks of its assets. In order to 
address these issues and take into account 
the increased project activity, SSE has put  
in place deep dives in four areas: silt, fluid 
filled cables, SF6 and waste.

The number of environmental permit 
breaches increased to nine in 2022/23  
from seven the previous year, the majority 
of which were self-reported to the relevant 
environmental agencies. All incidents were 
dealt with quickly when identified.

Engagement in action
Suppliers, contractors and partners 

Partnering for safety and wellbeing

SSE’s current growth phase, and the 
resulting increase in contractor hours 
worked, has sharpened focus on keeping 
the employees of our partners safe. 

An example of this in action is an initiative 
within SSE Thermal to introduce on-site 
paramedics on large capital projects.

In partnership with SSE’s principal 
contractors, it was decided paramedics 
should not just treat injuries but should 
also put a strong emphasis on prevention 
and awareness when it comes to safety, 
health and wellbeing. 

By creating a positive safety culture, they 
are responsible for tasks such as setting 
up medical facilities, treatment and 

wellness rooms, offering defibrillator and 
CPR training, administering medication 
and providing mental first aid services.
This approach has already been put  
into action treating potential incidents 
across sites. A recent survey of SSE 
Thermal colleagues showed that  
on-site paramedics were one of the top 
three factors helping to create a positive 
Safety, Health and Environment culture 
on location.

Engagement in action
Employees 

Visit to Peterhead

Mark Patterson, the Safety, Health and 
Environment Director, and Helen Mahy, 
Chair of the SSHEAC, visited Peterhead 
Power Station in September 2022 to gain 
insight into SSE’s Safety Family language 
in action. Below is a summary of the 
takeaways from the visit.

If it’s not safe, we don’t do it
The station’s team demonstrated 
openess, a deep sense of trust, and  
were supportive of each other and the 
environment. Safety was embedded 
across plant processes and Safety Family 
language was evident across discussions.

We take pride in our work  
and our environment
The overall impression was that the 
station team are making good strides 
towards building a positive SHE culture 
and ensuring an engaged team.

We take care of ourselves  
and each other
Overall housekeeping and station 
planning, control and permit work  
was positive and well ordered. 
Communication between operational 
teams, including apprentices, was  
strong and responsive. 

We plan, scan and adapt 
There was a clear focus on building 
capability and skills across the existing 
team and getting the station in a position 
to support any future developments.  
It was positive to see new employees 
joining the station from other industries 
such as oil and gas. 

Sustainability and ESG focus
Significant progress was made across the 
most material areas of sustainability in 
2022/23, with the SSHEAC reviewing SSE’s 
performance in key investor environment, 
social and governance (ESG) ratings, and 
the results of an ESG gap analysis of SSE’s 
performance in two key ratings, approving 
areas for development and improvement in 
the next financial year. The Committee also 
approved the undertaking of a sustainability 
materiality assessment, with the objective 
of confirming the ESG issues most material 
to SSE. The focus areas from the materiality 
assessment and the ESG gap analysis align 
with the UN Sustainable Development 
Goals that SSE has previously identified  
as being material, and around which it  
has based its sustainability approach. The 
recommendations from the two exercises 
informed next steps, for example, at a 
multi-stakeholder event in April 2023,  
a first-of-a-kind, disclosure report was 
published and designed to establish a 
framework for measuring and disclosing 
progress against SSE’s 20 Just Transition 
Principles to SSE’s stakeholders.

In terms of SSE’s approach to the disclosure 
of its sustainability impacts, the aim is  
to bring about continuous improvement 
in both the quality and quantity of 
information disclosed. The objective for  
the Sustainability Report 2023  is to 
provide clarity around SSE’s most material 
sustainability issues, including those which 
represent key areas of opportunity for the 
business, reinforcing SSE’s sustainability 

hierarchy. SSE will use the Sustainability 
Report 2023  to communicate enhanced 
disclosures recommended by our materiality 
assessment and ESG gap analysis.

More information can be found on  
pages 34 to 67  and in the Sustainability 
Report  which is available at sse.com/
sustainability .

Site visits 
The SSHEAC completes an annual 
programme of site visits with the main 
objective of providing support to, and 
engaging with, colleagues working on 
different sites. Physical visits resumed in 
2022/23, with Committee members looking 
at different sites in late summer and early 
autumn. Locations visited included Reading, 
Slough, Peterhead, Ridgeway (Oxford), 
Perth Training School, Chalvey, Canal Street 
in Willesden, SSE’s joint venture Activ8, 
Leanamore wind farm, Galway wind park 
and Tarbert power station. 

The feedback from visits was encouraging 
with teams working hard to have positive 
impacts on the environment and local 
communities and ensuring that a thorough 
safety briefing is in place. A report of the 
visit to Peterhead is provided above. 

A structured approach to site visits ensures 
that feedback is collected and acted upon. 
This is facilitated by a dedicated feedback 
template which is completed following 
each site visit. The site visits agreed for 
2023/24 will be reported on next year. 

164

SSE plc  Annual Report 2023

SSE plc  Annual Report 2023

165

Financial StatementsStrategic ReportDirectors’ ReportRemuneration Committee Report

Role of the Committee
•  Determines and agrees SSE’s 
broad policy for executive 
remuneration and reviews the 
ongoing appropriateness and 
relevance of the policy.
•  Ensures remuneration is 

appropriate, enhances personal 
performance and rewards 
individual contributions towards 
the success of SSE.

•  Ensures directors’ remuneration 

policy is transparent, takes 
account of SSE’s risk appetite and 
aligns to SSE’s long-term goals.
•  Designs and determines measures 

and targets for variable pay 
including LTIPs for Executives  
and approves payouts.

•  Determines policy and scope of 
pension arrangements, service 
agreements, share ownership  
and share retention policies, 
termination payments and 
compensation commitments.
•  Gives due regard to relevant legal 

requirements and corporate 
governance guidelines.

•  Reports on executive 

remuneration through the 
Directors’ Remuneration Report 
and puts forward for shareholder 
approval annually at the AGM.

The Terms of Reference for  
the Committee are available  
on sse.com 

Dear Shareholder,
This is my first annual statement as Chair of 
SSE’s Remuneration Committee, of which I 
have been a member since January 2020. 
On behalf of the Board, my thanks go to 
Dame Sue Bruce for her extraordinary 
contribution both as a member of the 
Committee from December 2017 and  
as its Chair from May 2018. 

The Directors’ Remuneration Report sets 
out the detail and rationale for Directors’ 
remuneration and covers: 
•  Linking remuneration to strategy
•  Delivery and performance
 – 2022/23 AIP outcomes
 – Vesting of 2020 PSP award
 – Wider workforce pay
 – Salary changes
•  Changes to the Board
•  Pension arrangements

Linking remuneration to strategy 
The current Directors’ Remuneration Policy 
was approved at the July 2022 Annual 
General Meeting with over 91% support. 
Sue Bruce led an extensive consultation 
exercise with our largest shareholders and 
the Remuneration Committee is extremely 
grateful for their support. The policy is built 
on a set of enduring core reward principles: 

1.  Sustainability: reinforcing SSE’s 

commitment to being a responsible 
employer.

2.  Simplicity: maximising transparency  
and avoiding unnecessary complexity.

3.  Stewardship: encouraging and fairly 

rewarding good decision-making for  
the long term. 

166

SSE plc  Annual Report 2023

4.  Stakeholders: reflecting SSE’s strategic 
goal of creating value for shareholders 
and society.

Our approach to pay is designed to support 
SSE’s purpose to provide energy needed 
today while building a better world of 
energy for tomorrow. The performance 
measures and targets on which the Annual 
Incentive Plan (AIP) and the longer-term 
performance share awards are directly 
linked to execution of SSE’s strategy – the 
Net Zero Acceleration Programme (NZAP). 

Sustainability is at the heart of SSE’s strategy. 
Progress is measured by science-based 
business goals for 2030 that align with four 
specific UN Sustainable Development 
Goals. Progress against these goals,  
which are detailed on page 183 , was 
linked last year to the vesting of awards 
made under the Performance Share Plan 
(PSP). Shareholders also approved new 
‘strategic’ measures which assesses 
progress towards the successful delivery  
of the NZAP. This means that 30% of the 
shares awarded under the new PSP are 
linked to sustainability, either directly 
through sustainability measures or through 
strategic measures by virtue of SSE’s  
NZAP. The in-year focus on sustainability 
continues through measures which have a 
weighting of 40% within the 2023/24 AIP, 
with 10% assessed against sustainability 
indices and 30% relating to operational 
performance linked to the NZAP.

Our remuneration policy is structured  
to ensure that we have enough flexibility  
to attract world-class talent. This is 
particularly important as SSE is increasingly 
exposed to new markets and technologies.

Delivery and performance 
Our operating model and portfolio remain 
highly complementary and balanced.  
Our efficient operation of flexible thermal 
generation and gas storage assets (see 
page 78 ) contributed in a large part, to 
strong 2022/23 financial performance. We 
have historically tolerated weaker thermal 
returns given our long-term belief that the 
underlying value of thermal flexibility would 
be key to transitioning to net zero. That 
value was accentuated by the extreme 
levels of market volatility we saw this year. 

Strategic delivery in the year was strong, 
with critical milestones delivered in  
SSE’s flagship large capital projects  
(see page 18 ). In light of 2022/23 
performance, our financial strength and  
the available opportunity set, we have 
upgraded our plans and growth targets  
to the NZAP Plus, details on page 16 . 

2022/23 AIP outcomes
The AIP is determined against a broad  
range of financial, operational, personal  
and sustainability performance targets 
collectively designed to reflect financial  
and non-financial business performance 
each year. The measures were reviewed  
last year to support the delivery of the NZAP 
and longer-term goals. Changes included 
strengthening the cashflow measure, the 
introduction of operational measures and 
the addition of new sustainability metrics. 

Performance in the year has been strong. 
Financial measures exceeded target levels, 
and good progress has been made in 
respect of operational performance related 
to the NZAP. Performance against external 
sustainability indices, a new measure for 
2022/23, has also been strong with upper 
quintile ranking achieved across all indices. 
A summary of the detailed AIP scorecard is 
shown on pages 172 to 173 .

Each year, the Committee considers 
whether there are appropriate reasons to 
apply discretion to the AIP outturn. The 
Committee was deeply saddened by  
the death of Liam Macdonald, a young 
contractor working on Shetland, in June 

2022. As a result, it used discretion to 
reduce the outturn of the AIP.

The outturn for the 2022/23 AIP is 88%  
of the maximum following the use of 
downward discretion.

Vesting of 2020 PSP award 
The PSP awards granted in June 2020 are 
due to vest following the 2022/23 financial 
year, subject to financial, operational, and 
value-creation performance conditions 
measured over the three-year performance 
period ending 31 March 2023.

The Remuneration Committee objectively 
assessed the vesting outcome against  
the performance measures and targets. 
This resulted in an outturn of 76% of the 
maximum award. The Committee then 
reviewed the quality of the overall 
performance and the number of shares 
awarded in 2020 in comparison with the 
number of shares awarded in 2019 and  
in 2018. The number of shares under  
award in 2020 was 85% of the number of 
shares awarded in 2019. The Remuneration 
Committee was satisfied that the Executive 
Directors have not benefited merely as a 
result of share price volatility. It agreed that 
the vesting outcome for these awards was 
appropriate and no discretion was required. 
More details on the performance measures, 
the targets, and the performance outturns 
are set out on page 174 .

Wider workforce pay
In setting pay policy and agreeing  
pay outcomes for Executive Directors,  
the Committee is mindful of the pay 
arrangements of the wider workforce. 
Throughout the year, a number of initiatives 
were introduced as part of SSE’s improved 
Employee Value Proposition including the 
introduction of a new skills-based pay 
system involving considerable investment, 
increases to salary ranges and car 
allowances, enhancements to ‘family 
friendly’ policies and the introduction  
of additional health benefits.

In recognition of SSE’s 2021/22 performance 
employees below senior management  
level were offered a £500 one-off payment 
in May 2022. Later in response to the 
worsening cost of living crisis part of the 
annual salary increase was paid early in 
October 2022 to help people through  
the winter with the balance of CPI paid at 
yearend. Further details on the Employee 
Value Proposition and support offered to 
employees in response to the cost of living 
crisis can be found in the case study on  
page 179 . 

Salary changes
In reviewing the base salaries of Executive 
Directors, the Committee considered  
SSE’s strong performance and shareholder 
returns, and NZAP progress. We also 
considered the increases granted to the 

wider employee population which were 
linked to CPI expected to be in the region 
of 8%.

SSE’s market capitalisation is in the FTSE 
20-50 upper quartile (excluding financial 
services). SSE total pay potential is below 
the median for this benchmark set. SSE’s 
market capitalisation is within the range  
of the median of the FTSE 50 (excluding 
financial services) and total pay potential 
compared to this group is in the lower 
quartile. As SSE scales and becomes  
more international, the Committee will 
increasingly keep a watching brief on pay 
trends and pay levels across the FTSE 50. 

The Committee decided that the increase 
for each of the Executive Directors from 
1 April 2023 should be 5% of salary.

Changes to the Board
Gregor Alexander – SSE announced  
on 21 April 2023 that Gregor Alexander, 
who has served as Finance Director since 
2002, would step down from the Board  
on 1 December 2023 and retire from SSE  
at the end of March 2024. Gregor will 
continue in his current positions as Chair of 
SSE Transmission’s Board and as a Director 
on the Board of Neos Networks Limited, 
SSE’s joint venture with Infracapital 
Partners. The Remuneration Committee 
without hesitation exercised its discretion 
to treat Gregor Alexander as a ‘good leaver’ 
in respect of his retirement, taking in to 
account his long and distinguished service. 
He will continue to be paid in the usual way 
until he steps down from the Board. He will 
be eligible for a time pro-rated bonus in 
respect of his service in the financial year 
2023/24. One third of his bonus will be 
deferred into shares in the usual way. He 
will not receive an award in 2023 under  
the PSP. His outstanding share awards 
under the PSP will be time pro-rated to 
reflect the elapsed time between the start 
of the performance period and the date of 
cessation of employment, and the awards 
will vest in accordance with the usual 
timetable. He will be required to retain  
a shareholding for at least two years 
following the date of cessation of 
employment in accordance with the 
Directors’ Remuneration Policy.

Barry O’Regan – It was announced on 
21 April 2023 that Barry would take up the 
appointment of Chief Financial Officer 
from 1 December 2023. Barry will join the 
Board on the same date. As his home base 
will remain in Ireland, he will be paid a Euro 
base salary of the equivalent of £600,000  
a year. It is planned that the base salary  
will increase by 8.3% to the equivalent of 
£650,000 with effect from 1 April 2024 and 
to the Euro equivalent of £700,000 (an 
increase of 7.7% of salary) with effect from 
1 April 2025. The Committee believes that 
the planned phased increases set out are 
appropriate to achieve a competitive total 

pay position and will be subject to review  
at each point to ensure they reflect Barry’s 
development in the role. His maximum 
bonus under the AIP will be 130% of salary 
and his annual award under the PSP will be 
225% of salary. It is expected that an award 
will be made under the PSP on 1 April 2024. 
He will be required over time to build up a 
shareholding to the value of 225% of salary 
and to retain this holding for two years  
after he leaves employment with SSE. His 
existing incentive arrangements, including 
in-flight share awards, will continue to run 
on their original terms.

Pension arrangements
The Directors’ Remuneration Policy is clear 
that any individual appointed to the Board 
will receive pension arrangements which 
are aligned, in terms of annual percentage 
contribution, to those of the majority of  
SSE employees.

During the year, the Committee considered 
the pension allowance of 15% of salary 
payable to the Chief Commercial Officer, 
Martin Pibworth, with effect from 1 January 
2023 in the light of the UK Corporate 
Governance Code, the views of many 
investors and representative bodies  
on the alignment of executive pension 
arrangements with those for all employees. 
It has made no further changes to Martin’s 
pension allowance of 15%, which is in  
line with the average employer cost for 
employees with similar service.

As Chief Financial Officer, Barry O’Regan 
will receive a cash allowance in lieu of 
contribution to his pension equivalent  
to 12% of salary aligned to the policy for 
new appointments and the contribution for 
the majority of employees in the UK and 
Ireland irrespective of length of service.

The defined benefit arrangements for the 
Chief Executive and the Finance Director 
reflect their long service with the business 
and, in terms of the benefits provided, are 
in line with the arrangements for other 
employees recruited at the same time. 

Summary
The Remuneration Committee plans to 
continue to apply SSE’s core principles of 
transparency of decision-making and clarity 
of reporting and to be fully cognisant of the 
perspectives of SSE’s stakeholder groups. I 
very much welcome any comments on the 
2022 Directors’ Remuneration Report or on 
any remuneration matters. I can be reached 
via Sally Fairbairn at sally.fairbairn@sse.com.

Melanie Smith CBE
Chair of the Remuneration Committee
23 May 2023

SSE plc  Annual Report 2023

167

Financial StatementsStrategic ReportDirectors’ ReportRemuneration at a glance

Directors’ Remuneration Policy in 2023/24
The illustration below shows how SSE intends to operate its Directors’ Remuneration Policy in 2023/24. 

Incentive Plan Performance in 2022/23

Element

Max

2023/24

2024/25

2025/26

2026/27

2027/28

2028/29

Annual Incentive Plan

Performance Share Plan

Share ownership requirement

Base Salary

Benefits

Pension

Short-term Incentive

Long-term Incentive

Set with 
reference to  
pay increases 
for the wider 
employee base 

Market 
competitive

Salary paid

Benefits paid

Final salary and 
top up/pension 
allowance

Pension 
accrual/ 
allowance paid1

Fixed pay

Salary

Benefits

Pension

Variable  
pay –  
at risk

Annual 
Incentive Plan 
(AIP)

Performance 
Share Plan (PSP)

Additional 
governance

Share 
ownership 
requirement

Recovery and 
withholding

CEO 150%  
of salary.  
FD and CCO 
130% of salary 
67% cash/33% 
deferred shares

CEO 250%  
of salary.  
FD and CCO 
225% of salary 
2-year holding 
period

250% of salary 
for CEO and 
225% of salary 
for FD and CCO

All incentives

Performance 
period 

AIP cash paid

AIP deferred 
share awards 
granted

Vesting period

Awards vest

PSP awards 
granted

Performance/vesting  
period

PSP awards 
vest

Holding period Holding  

period ends

Malus and clawback: material misstatement or restatement of accounts; misconduct which results in  
a materially adverse financial effect; serious reputational damage including material environmental or 
safety issue, or material operational or business failing; factual error in calculating payment/vesting; 
serious misconduct; corporate failure; material risk failure; material detriment to stakeholders or to 
company’s market reputation; unreasonable failure to protect stakeholders’ interests

Post-
employment

Career shares 
(up to 2022)

The holding requirement for career shares is until two years after cessation of employment. From 
2022, PSP awards and deferred bonus shares will all count towards the two-year post cessation policy.

1  The Finance Director ceases to accrue further pension at age 60 in April 2023 and will receive no cash allowance in lieu.

Strategic performance
Executive Directors’ remuneration is strongly linked to strategic performance. Some of SSE’s strategic performance measures are 
detailed below, with an indication of how they link to remuneration. SSE has delivered against its dividend target and performed well 
against a range of financial and non-financial measures. Full details of SSE’s financial and non-financial KPIs can be seen on pages 24 
and 25 .

Adjusted Earnings Per Share 

Cashflow (net debt/EBITDA) 

Dividend Per Share 

166.0p

AIP and PSP
(2021/22 – 94.8p)

2.7

AIP
(2021/22 – 4.3)

96.7p

PSP
(2021/22 – 85.7p)

Total Shareholder Return 
(FTSE 100)

Total Shareholder Return 
(MSCI)

Total Recordable 
Injury Rate 

Rank 24

of 95 PSP
(2021/22 – Rank 13 of 95)

Rank 7

0.19

of 24 PSP
(2021/22 – Rank 6 of 23)

per 100,000 hours worked AIP
(2021/22 – 0.17)

100%

88%

100%

76%

30%

30%

20%

20%

30%

24%

10%

9%

10%

10%

20%

20%

20%

19%

20%

20%

20%

20%

10%

7%

Cashﬂow

Personal Operational

Sustainability

Total 
(% of 
maximum1)

TSR v 
FTSE100

TSR v 
MSCI

EPS 
growth

DPS 
growth

Customer

Total 
(% of 
maximum)

Adjusted 
EPS

   Maximum
   Actual

1  The overall total for AIP at 88% includes the Remuneration Committee’s use of downward discretion. See page 174 . 

How pay links to the wider workforce at SSE

Executive Directors
(3 employees)

Group Executive 
Committee 
(8 employees)

Senior Management
(120 employees)

Wider workforce
(12,000 employees)

A range of voluntary 
benefits in line with 
the wider workforce 
plus contractual  
car and private 
medical benefits.

Base salary is 
typically set  
with reference  
to the market, 
performance and 
wider workforce 
considerations.

Annual increases are 
typically in line with 
or less than those for 
the wider employee 
population.

A range of voluntary 
benefits are available 
to all employees, such 
as a cycle to work 
scheme, a holiday 
purchase scheme, 
health benefits, and 
enhanced maternity, 
paternity and 
adoption leave.

Base salary levels  
are subject to 
negotiation with 
recognised trade 
unions and/or are  
set in line with 
market requirements.

Annual increases  
are either subject  
to negotiation  
or individual 
performance. 

The above applies to employees across the UK and ROI where practically possible.

All employees  
are members of a 
defined contribution 
pension scheme,  
or one of our legacy 
defined benefit 
pension schemes, 
unless they have 
opted out. 

The arrangements 
are diverse and  
the employer cost 
typically ranges from 
4.5% to 32.5% of 
salary when both 
defined contribution 
and defined benefit 
schemes are taken 
into account.

Annual Incentive  
Plan linked directly  
to business 
performance –  
50% financial,  
50% non-financial. 
33% of the total  
award is deferred  
into shares for  
three years.

Annual Incentive  
Plan considering 
performance of the 
Group (directly linked 
to the above), the 
business area and  
the individual. 25%  
of the total award is 
deferred as shares  
for three years.

All personal contract 
employees will 
participate in the 
Annual Incentive  
Plan (as above).  
100% of the award  
is paid in cash.

The Performance 
Share Plan is a  
share award with 
performance  
linked to strategic 
performance 
measures.

The Leadership  
Share Plan is also 
linked to strategic 
performance 
measures over the 
longer-term and 
those with direct 
impact on strategic 
output are eligible.

All employees may 
participate in the 
Share Incentive  
Plan (SSE matches 
three shares for  
every three bought)  
and the Sharesave 
(SAYE) plan.

168

SSE plc  Annual Report 2023

SSE plc  Annual Report 2023

169

Financial StatementsStrategic ReportDirectors’ ReportAnnual report on remuneration

1. Single total figure of remuneration (audited)
The table below shows the single total figure of remuneration for each Executive Director for the financial year ending 31 March 2023 
relative to the previous year.

Fixed Pay

Base Salary1
Benefits2
Pension3

Total Fixed Pay

Variable Pay

AIP4
PSP5

Total Variable Pay

Total

Alistair Phillips-Davies

Gregor Alexander

Martin Pibworth

Total6

2022/23 
£000s

2021/22
£000s

2022/23 
£000s

2021/22
£000s

2022/23 
£000s

2021/22
£000s

2022/23 
£000s

2021/22
£000s

952 
27 
367 

1,346 

1,256 
2,025 

3,281 

4,627 

924 
26 
413 

1,363 

1,150 
2,142 

3,292 

4,655 

736 
24 
260 

1,020 

841 
1,369 

2,210 

3,230 

714 
23 
303 

1,040 

771 
1,449 

2,220 

3,260 

655 
18 
127 

800 

750 
1,025 

1,775 

2,575 

636 
18 
159 

813 

678 
1,084 

1,762 

2,343 
69 
754 

3,166 

2,847 
4,419 

7,266 

2,274 
67 
875 

3,216 

2,599 
4,675 

7,274 

2,575 

10,432 

10,490 

1  SSE offers all employees a range of voluntary benefits some of which operate under a salary sacrifice arrangement. The salaries shown above are reported before 

any such adjustments are made. 

2  Benefits relate to company car, Share Incentive Plan company contributions and medical benefits. These benefits are non-pensionable. 
3  The pension values for Alistair Phillips-Davies and Gregor Alexander represent the increase in capital value of pension accrued over one-year times a multiple  

of 20 (net of CPI and Directors’ contributions) in line with statutory reporting requirements. 
4  The AIP figures above show the value of the award including the portion deferred as shares. 
5  The PSP figures for 2021/22 have been readjusted in line with statutory reporting requirements, following last year’s report to show the actual value upon vesting. 

The estimated value shown in the table for 2022/23 is based on the average share price in the three months to 31 March 2023 of £17.26, as required by the 
reporting regulations. The value generated through share price appreciation is £849,657 (full details shown on page 175 ). The award remains subject to service 
until May 2023 and so the prior year comparative will be restated in next year’s report to show the actual value on vesting, as is required by the regulations. 

6  Directors have not received any other items in the nature of remuneration other than as disclosed in the table.

Rationale for 2022/23 single total figure of remuneration
There has been very little year-on-year change in the single total figure of remuneration with just a 0.5% reduction. For the Executive 
Directors, total remuneration has either stayed the same or reduced by up to 0.9%. There have however, been changes in the individual 
elements of pay. Executive Directors received a base salary increase lower than the wider workforce and AIP outcomes were increased 
following a year of strong financial, operational and strategic performance. The single total figures reflect the Committee’s decision to 
exercise discretion in relation to the AIP outturn. PSP outcomes also increased however, share price appreciation reduced from 52% in  
2022 to 24% over the three years to the end of March 2023. 

Values for pensions have all reduced during the year. Martin Pibworth’s pension allowance was subject to a phased reduction to bring it 
in to line with the wider employee population from 1 January 2023. Alistair Phillips-Davies and Gregor Alexander participate in defined 
benefit pension arrangements and there has been a reduction in the pension service cost which is a function of the valuation regulations 
rather than any change in approach.

The Remuneration Committee is satisfied that the single total figure of remuneration for each Executive Director is appropriate.

Base salary
In line with the average base salary increase for the wider employee population, Executive Directors’ salaries were increased on 1 April 
2022 by 3% from £923,924 to £951,642 for the Chief Executive, from £714,117 to £735,541 for the Finance Director and from £636,300  
to £655,389 for the Chief Commercial Officer. 

Benefits
Benefits are provided at an appropriate level taking into account market practice at similarly sized companies and the level of benefits 
provided for other employees in the Company. Core benefits include car allowance, private medical insurance and health screening.  
The Executive Directors also participate in the Company’s all-employee share schemes on the same terms as other employees.

Pension
The Chief Executive and Finance Director are members of the Southern Electric Pension Scheme and the Scottish Hydro Electric Pension 
Scheme respectively, and their plan membership predates their Board appointments. They participate in the same defined benefit pension 
arrangements that were available to all employees recruited at that time. The schemes were closed in 1999 and the service costs are 32.5% 
of salary. These are both funded final salary pension schemes and the terms of these schemes apply equally to all members. The Executive 
Directors’ service contracts provide for a possible maximum pension of two thirds final salary from the age of 60. 

In relation to Executive Directors who are subject to the scheme-specific salary cap (which mirrors the provisions of the previous HMRC cap 
arrangements) the Company provides top-up (unfunded) arrangements which are designed to provide an equivalent pension on retirement 
from the age of 60 to that which they would have earned had they not been subject to the salary cap. From 1 April 2017 pensionable 
earnings increases were capped at RPI +1%. These are legacy arrangements and will not be used for any new external appointments.

170

SSE plc  Annual Report 2023

The Chief Executive and Finance Director, in common with all other employees who joined at the same time (26 and 32 years ago 
respectively), have the following pension provisions relating to leaving the Company:
• 
• 

for retirement through ill-health an unreduced pension based on service to expected retirement is paid; 
in the event of any reorganisation or redundancy an unreduced accrued pension is paid to a member who is aged 50 or above,  
with at least five years’ service or, for a member who has not yet reached that age, it will be payable with effect from 50; 

•  and from the age of 55, a scheme member is entitled to leave the Company and receive a pension, reduced for early payment,  

unless the Company gives consent and funds this pension on an unreduced basis.

Dependent on the circumstances surrounding the departure of the Executive Director and financial health of the Company at the time, 
the Committee’s policy is to give consideration to a cash commutation of the unfunded unapproved retirement benefit (UURB) pension 
at the time of leaving. Any cash commutation will limit SSE’s liability, taking into account valuations provided by independent actuarial 
advisors, and will be calculated on what was judged to be a cost neutral basis to SSE.

The Finance Director will stop accruing pension under the scheme with effect from his 60th birthday in April 2023.

The Chief Commercial Officer, who has been with SSE since 1998, was already in receipt of a pension allowance of 30% of salary prior to  
his appointment as an Executive Director. While the arrangement was consistent with the approach used for all other members who have 
elected to receive a cash allowance in lieu of accruing future pension benefits, the Committee agreed that his future pension arrangements 
would be aligned with the level of contributions available to the wider workforce at 15% of salary on a phased basis over five years. Following 
confirmation of his expanded role from 1 November 2020, it was agreed that the phased reduction would be accelerated by two years. From 
1 January 2023, his pension allowance has been in line with the employer contribution for the majority of SSE’s employees, taking into 
account length of service, at 15% of salary.

The table below details pension accrued for each of the Executive Directors as at 31 March 2023 and 2022.

Alistair Phillips-Davies
Gregor Alexander
Martin Pibworth1

Accrued 
pension as at 
31 March 2023
£000s 

Accrued  
pension as at 
31 March 2022
£000s

549
490
0

513
461
0

1  Martin Pibworth received an allowance in lieu of a pension contribution of 20% of salary between 1 April and 31 December 2022, and 15% from 1 January 2023.

Annual Incentive Plan and Performance Share Plan 
In setting targets and assessing performance, the Committee followed the process below for both the AIP and PSP:

1.   Set performance 
measures aligned 
with strategy

2.   Set stretching 

3.   Assess performance 

4.   Take account of 

5.   Apply discretion  

performance targets

against targets

wider environment 
and stakeholders

if required

2022/23 Annual Incentive Plan
1. Set performance measures aligned with strategy
AIP requires broad performance across financial metrics (Adjusted EPS and Cashflow) and strategic metrics (Personal, Operational and 
Sustainability). The performance measures and their weightings are shown below.

Financial 
(50%)

Adjusted 
EPS
(30%)

Cashflow
(20%)

Personal 
(10%)

Individual 
Objectives
(10%)

Operational 
(30%)

Sustainability
(10%)

People

Renewables

Distribution

Transmission

Thermal

Customer

Other Growth & Transactions

Moody’s

Sustainalytics

S&P Global

2. Set stretching performance targets
The financial performance targets were set at the start of the financial year taking into account internal financial plans, external consensus 
where it exists and the expected impact of identified opportunities and threats to the business in the context of wider economic conditions. 
The performance target range is set on a realistic basis but requires true outperformance for Executive Directors to achieve the maximum. 
The Remuneration Committee has a history of setting challenging targets, evidenced by the average AIP payout of 60% since 2013/14 as 
shown on page 178 .

The Committee had originally intended to use four ESG ratings agencies as the basis for assessing performance in relation to Sustainability 
(as set out in the 2022 Annual Report). However, the provision of detailed comparative data for the MSCI ESG rating was not possible in 
2022/23, and therefore, average performance over three indices rather than four has been used. SSE’s performance against the MSCI ESG 
rating was in the upper quintile and as such, the Committee is satisfied that this issue has not made a material difference to the outturn of 
this performance measure. 

SSE plc  Annual Report 2023

171

Financial StatementsStrategic ReportDirectors’ Report 
Annual report on remuneration continued

3. Assess performance against targets
The table below shows how performance measures are linked to strategy and how performance was ultimately delivered.

AIP

Adjusted EPS

Cashflow 

Personal

Operational

Sustainability

Total

Link to strategy

Simple 
Stewardship 
Stakeholders

Simple 
Sustainable 
Stakeholders

Simple 
Sustainable 
Stewardship 
Stakeholders

Simple 
Sustainable 
Stewardship 
Stakeholders

Simple 
Sustainable 
Stewardship 
Stakeholders

Performance measure

Rationale

Weighting

Threshold

Max

Outcome

Performance

Outturn (% of max 
incentive)

Underlying 
measure of 
financial 
performance and 
strategic KPIs

Net debt/EBITDA  To reflect those 
activities which  
go beyond the 
responsibilities  
of the role

Operational goals 
relating to people, 
the businesses  
and other growth 
and transactions

Three external 
ratings agencies – 
Moody’s, 
Sustainalytics,  
and S&P Global

30%

114p

132p

166.0p

100%

30%

20%

5.0

4.5

2.7

100%

20%

10%

30%

See scoring 
framework below

See scoring 
framework below

10%

Median

Upper quintile

See next section

90%

9%

79%

24%

100%

10%

93%

The Personal and Operational goals will be assessed using the scoring framework as follows:

Score

Illustrative performance assessment

Illustrative outturn as % of maximum1

1

2

3

4

5

Below threshold

Threshold performance

Majority of goals at target

Substantial majority of goals at or above target

All goals at or above target

Zero

20%

40%

70%

100%

1  The Remuneration Committee can decide to award an outturn between levels if warranted.

The tables below and on the following pages provide detail on each of the non-financial measures and the assessment of performance 
against each one.

High-level 
measure

Personal  
10%

Detailed measure Factors to be assessed

Summary performance

Culture and the SSESET, 
Financial, People Development, 
Succession, Stakeholder 
Management, Strategy  
and Growth.

Chief 
Executive

Finance 
Director

Chief 
Commercial 
Officer

Overall, a strong year of performance. 
Financial performance exceeded targets. 
Delivered an updated and enhanced NZAP 
Plus strategy. Successful disposal of a 25% 
stake in the SSEN Transmission business. 
Acquisition of Triton Power and a Southern 
European onshore development platform 
from SGRE. Pipeline progress in solar and 
battery. Key appointments made during the 
year. Seagreen has faced some challenges 
and increased contractor hours have had  
an impact on safety.

Assessment 
(score 1-5)

Outcome 
(% of max)

4+

4+

4+

90%

90%

90%

High-level 
measure

Operations
30%

Detailed measure Factors to be assessed

Summary performance

People

Health and Safety performance 
as measured by Total Recordable 
Injury Ratio (TRIR); recruitment 
plans and inclusion and diversity 
as measured by time to hire, 
filling of vacancies and the 
percentage increase in gender 
diversity across SSE.

TRIR increased at 0.19 driven by contractor 
safety performance. Gender Pay Gap 
decreased. Female leadership increased. 
4,400 vacancies filled (1,300 more than  
in 2021/22). Time to hire remains steady at  
48 days. Simplified Board I&D scorecard 
introduced. Progress has been made  
across all diversity groups.

Assessment 
(score 1-5)

Outcome 
(% of max)

4+

83%

Renewables 

Cost per MW hour, plant 
availability, progress on 
renewables pipeline.

Distribution

Progress against ED2 business 
plan; incentive income against 
agreed target.

Transmission Contract awards achieved 

against agreed plan; delivery of 
outputs and approval of projects 
that maintain a trajectory of RAV 
greater than £6bn by 2026.

Production down by c.15% on plan due to 
weather. Plant availability at highest levels 
across onshore sites and improvements 
across offshore. 4GW of secured pipeline 
added. Total pipeline is now >20GW. 2nd  
in the balancing market.

Good progress against ED2 business plan. 
SHEPD and SEPD both performing well 
following change activity. SSEN Distribution 
the most improved DNO of the year. Some 
good performance against incentive measures.

All T2 outputs are on track to be met.  
Delivery of outputs are expected to 
outperform despite challenging market 
conditions. Trajectory of RAV expected  
to be >£6bn.

3+

65%

3+

65%

4+

90%

Thermal 

Balancing market performance.

Rank 1 generator in the balancing market.

5

100%

Customer 

Finish above median in the 
Citizen’s Advice non-domestic 
supplier league table. 

Ranking in Citizen’s Advice league around 
upper quartile performance level. Airtricity 
ranked 3rd out of 7 in annual CX survey but 
showed largest year-on-year improvement.

Other  
Growth and 
Transactions

Progress building pipeline across 
business areas including solar, 
storage, hydrogen, and other 
priority business development 
areas; progress made on financial 
sell down of T&D businesses.

Solar and battery pipeline increased to  
2GW+ incl 22 long-term/greenfield projects 
up to 500MW each. Progress in Distributed 
Energy. Delivery of first EV hub in Glasgow. 
Transmission stake sale complete. Decision  
to retain 100% of Distribution at this time. 

3+

65%

4+

85%

Total 

79%

High-level 
measure

Sustainability
10%

Detailed measure Factors taken into account in index scoring

Moody’s ESG 
rating 
(formerly V.E.)

Environment; Human Resources; Human Rights; Community Involvement; 
Business Behaviour; Corporate Governance. 
Peer group: Electric & Gas Utilities

Sustainalytics 
sustainability 
index

Carbon – own operations; Emissions, Effluents and Waste; Resource Use; 
Land Use and Biodiversity; Business Ethics; Corporate Governance; 
Product Governance; Community Relations; Human Capital; Occupational 
Health and Safety.
Peer group: Electric Utilities

Assessment

Upper quintile 
(Sep 2022)

Upper quintile
(Nov 2022)

S&P Global 
sustainability 
index

27 different categories which cover all of the above and also additional 
issues such as Policy Influence, Information and Cyber Security, Talent 
Attraction and Retention, Stakeholder Engagement, and Climate Strategy.
Peer group: ELC Electric Utilities

Upper quintile
(Oct 2022)

Outcome 
(% of max)

Average performance across three assessments

85th percentile 
(upper quintile)

100%

172

SSE plc  Annual Report 2023

SSE plc  Annual Report 2023

173

Financial StatementsStrategic ReportDirectors’ ReportAnnual report on remuneration continued

4. Take account of wider environment
The Remuneration Committee believes that the range of measures used in the AIP ensures that performance is assessed using a balanced 
approach, without undue focus on a single metric which could be achieved at the expense of wider initiatives. AIP outturns for the wider 
employee population were also taken into account by the Committee.

5. Apply discretion if required 
Consideration is given to performance outcomes in light of SSE’s performance in the round and against our pay principles. The Committee 
is clear that no matter their role, getting everyone who works for SSE home safe at the end of each day remains our priority. That focus is all 
the keener following the tragic death of Liam Macdonald, a young contractor working on Shetland, in June 2022. More information on this 
including SSE’s wider safety performance and response to this tragedy can be found on page 162  onwards.

While safety performance is measured in the formulaic assessment of AIP, the Committee also considered the extent to which a 
discretionary adjustment should be applied. After careful consideration, the Committee decided to reduce the award outturn to 88%. 
The discount is greater than the impact of reducing to zero any bonus under the people (and safety) element of the AIP.

AIP earned for each of the Executive Directors is shown in the table below. The total award is made up of 67% cash and 33% which is 
deferred into shares and vests after three years.

Alistair Phillips-Davies
Gregor Alexander
Martin Pibworth 

1  Both the cash and deferred element are subject to clawback provisions.

Maximum
(% of salary)

150%
130%
130%

AIP earned1

1,256,167
841,459
749,765

AIP cash

AIP deferred

841,632
563,777
502,343

414,535
277,681
247,422

2020 – 2023 Performance Share Plan
1. Set performance measures aligned with strategy
PSP performance measures are designed to encourage sustainable value creation, consistent with effective stewardship, encouraging 
good decision-making for the long term. The measures and their weightings are shown below:

Value Creation 
(40%)

Financial 
(40%)

Total Shareholder Return
relative to FTSE 100  
(20%)

Total Shareholder Return
relative to MSCI Europe Index 
(20%)

Adjusted EPS growth 
(20%)

DPS growth
(20%)

Operational 
(20%)

Customer: 
Distribution 
(10%)

Customer: 
Business  
Energy  
(10%)

2. Set stretching performance targets
The performance target ranges for PSP are set each year to ensure they are stretching and represent value creation for shareholders.

3. Assess performance against targets
The vesting of shares under the PSP is subject to the performance measures and targets shown in the table below which also details the 
actual outturn for the 2020 PSP award vesting this year.

Performance measure

PSP

TSR v FTSE 100

TSR v MSCI Europe EPS growth

DPS growth

Customer 
(Distribution)

Customer (Business 
Energy)

Total

Link to strategy

Rationale

Weighting

Threshold

Max

Outcome

Simple 
Stewardship 
Stakeholders

Relative  
measure of 
performance

Simple 
Stewardship 
Stakeholders

Relative  
measure of 
performance

Simple 
Stewardship 
Stakeholders

Underlying 
measure of 
financial 
performance

Simple 
Sustainable 
Stakeholders

Simple 
Stewardship 
Stakeholders

Simple  
Stewardship 
Stakeholders

Return on 
investment 
through 
payment of 
dividends

Meeting 
customers 
needs is at 
core of our 
business

Meeting 
customers 
needs is at core 
of our business

20%

20%

20%

50th percentile 50th percentile RPI

20%

RPI

10%

10%

Median ranking Median ranking

75th percentile 75th percentile RPI +10%

RPI +5%

Rank 24 of 95 
(above 75th 
percentile)

Rank 7 of 24 
(just below  
75th percentile)

In excess of  
RPI + 10%

RPI

Rank 1

Below  
median

Rank 1

Average rank 
4 of 16

Performance

Outturn (% of max)

100%

20%

94%

19%

100%

20%

50%

10%

0

0

68%

7%

76%

4. Take account of the wider environment
SSE’s TSR has performed at the maximum level relative to the FTSE 100 and just below upper quartile against the MSCI European Utilities 
Index, and performance in relation to Business Energy customer service ranking is also above median. EPS growth over the performance 
period has exceeded the level for maximum vesting. SSE’s dividend commitment has been met over the three-year period and therefore, 
threshold performance at RPI has been achieved.

While the PSP applies to Executive Directors only, the Committee is mindful of the outturns of the long-term incentive arrangement, the 
Leadership Share Plan (LSP), which applies to senior managers. 

5. Apply discretion if required
The Committee believes that the formulaic outcome is a fair reflection of wider performance over this three-year period, in particular the 
value created for shareholders and taking account of shareholders’ interests. 

The Committee reviewed the quality of the overall performance and the number of shares awarded in 2020 in comparison with the number 
of shares awarded in 2019 and in 2018. The number of shares under award in 2020 was 85% of the number of shares awarded in 2019. The 
Remuneration Committee was satisfied that the Executive Directors have not benefited merely as a result of share price volatility. 

The table below shows the maximum number of shares available, the dividends accrued over the three-year performance period,  
the total number of shares vesting based on the performance outturn, the estimated value of these shares, and the value of any share 
price appreciation.

Alistair Phillips-Davies
Gregor Alexander
Martin Pibworth 

Awards available 
(% of salary)

Awards available 
(number of 
shares)

200%
175%
175%

131,244
88,761
66,430

Additional 
awards in 
respect of 
accrued 
dividends

23,143
15,651
11,712

Total number of 
shares vesting

Estimated value 
of awards 
vesting1

117,334
79,353
59,388

£2,024,952
£1,369,476
£1,024,917

Share price 
appreciation2

£389,315
£263,294
£197,049

1  The estimated value of the awards vesting has been calculated on the same basis as the PSP value in the single figure table on page 170 .
2  The share price at grant was £13.94 and £17.26 on vesting.

Other remuneration disclosures
Fees paid to the Chair and the other non-Executive Directors during 2022/23 were as follows:

Non-Executive Directors

Elish Angiolini1
John Bason2
Sue Bruce3
Tony Cocker
Debbie Crosbie4
Peter Lynas
Helen Mahy
John Manzoni
Melanie Smith
Angela Strank
Total

1  Elish Angiolini joined the Board as a non-Executive Director on 1 September 2021.
2  John Bason joined the Board as a non-Executive Director on 1 June 2022.
3  Sue Bruce stepped down from the Board on 31 March 2023.
4  Debbie Crosbie joined the Board as a non-Executive Director on 1 September 2021.

Fees £000s

2022/23

2021/22

75
62
104
109
75
94
90
412
75
75
1,171

42
0
101
105
42
91
87
400
73
73
1,014

174

SSE plc  Annual Report 2023

SSE plc  Annual Report 2023

175

Financial StatementsStrategic ReportDirectors’ ReportAnnual report on remuneration continued

Share interests and share awards (audited) 
Directors’ share interests

Directors’ Long-term Incentive Plan interests
The table below details the Executive Directors’ Long-term Incentive Plan interests.

The table below shows the share interests of the Executive and non-Executive Directors at 31 March 2023.

Director

Shareholding 
requirement as a % of 
salary (Actual/% met)1

Shares owned 
outright at 
31 March 2023

Number of shares

Number of options

Interests in 
shares, awarded 
without 
performance 
conditions at 
31 March 2023 
(DBS Awards)

Interests in 
shares, awarded 
subject to 
performance 
conditions at 
31 March 2023 
(PSP Awards)

Interests in share 
options, 
awarded without 
performance 
conditions at 
31 March 2023

Interests in share 
options, 
awarded subject 
to performance 
conditions at 
31 March 2023

Gregor Alexander

717% (225%-met)

292,815

40,798

265,550

130

Elish Angiolini

John Bason

Sue Bruce

Tony Cocker

Debbie Crosbie

Peter Lynas

Helen Mahy

John Manzoni

Alistair Phillips-Davies 680% (250%-met)

Martin Pibworth

357% (225%-met)

Melanie Smith

Angela Strank

2,000

0

2,484

5,000

2,000

5,000

3,310

2,519

359,184

130,006

2,174

2,152

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

60,906

33,263

388,782

223,955

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

0

2,338

–

–

-

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

Shares owned 
outright at 
31 March 2022

248,434

2,000

–

2,484

5,000

2,000

5,000

3,310

2,437

293,747

97,525

2,100

1,669

1  The Shareholding requirement is 250% of base salary for the Chief Executive and 225% for other Executive Directors. It is expected that non-Executive Directors 

should build up a minimum shareholding of 2,000 shares. The share price at 31/03/2023 (£18.03) was used to calculate shareholding.

Directors’ Long-term Incentive Plan interests
Deferred Bonus awards granted in 2022 and PSP awards granted in 2022
The tables below shows the Deferred Bonus awards and PSP awards granted to Executive Directors in 2022.

Deferred Bonus awards granted 2022

Recipient

Gregor Alexander
Alistair Phillips-Davies
Martin Pibworth

PSP awards granted 2023

Recipient

Gregor Alexander

Date of Grant

Shares Granted

Market Value on 
date of award

22/07/2022
22/07/2022
22/07/2022

14,472
21,604
12,739

£17.2750
£17.2750
£17.2750

Face Value

£250,004
£373,209
£220,066

£843,279

Date of Grant

Shares Granted

Market Value on 
date of award

Face Value

22/07/2022

94,192

£17.2750

£1,627,167

£1,627,167

Alistair Phillips-Davies

22/07/2022

135,407

£17.2750

£2,339,156

Share Plan

Date of Award

Normal Exercise 
Period (or Vesting 
Date)

No. of Shares 
under award 
as at 1 April 
2022

Option 
Exercise 
Price

Additional 
shares 
awarded 
during the year

No. of shares 
lapsed during 
the year incl. 
dividend 
shares

No. of shares 
realised during 
the year incl. 
dividend 
shares

No. of Shares 
under award at 
31 March 2023

Gregor 
Alexander

DBP 20162
DBP 20162
DBP 20162
DBP 20162
PSP1
PSP1
PSP1
PSP1
Sharesave

28/06/2019 28/06/2022
26/06/2020 26/06/2023
06/07/2021 06/07/2024
22/07/2022 22/07/2025
28/06/2019 28/06/2022
26/06/2020 26/06/2023
06/07/2021 06/07/2024
22/07/2022 22/07/2025
24/11/2022
12/07/2019
01/10/23 

Nil Grant
12,494
13,832

103,991
88,761
82,597

1,837

901p

Sharesave

21/07/2020

– 31/03/24

130

1,107p

Alistair 
Phillips-Davies

Martin 
Pibworth

DBP 20162
DBP 20162
DBP 20162
DBP 20162
PSP1
PSP1
PSP1
PSP1
Sharesave

DBP 20162
DBP 20162
DBP 20162
DBP 20162
PSP1
PSP1
PSP1
PSP1
Sharesave

28/06/2019 28/06/2022
26/06/2020 26/06/2023
06/07/2021 06/07/2024
22/07/2022 22/07/2025
28/06/2019 28/06/2022
26/06/2020 26/06/2023
06/07/2021 06/07/2024
22/07/2022 22/07/2025
26/01/2023
12/07/2019

28/06/2019 28/06/2022
26/06/2020 26/06/2023
06/07/2021 06/07/2024
22/07/2022 22/07/2025
28/06/2019 28/06/2022
26/06/2020 26/06/2023
06/07/2021 06/07/2024
22/07/2022 22/07/2025
24/11/2022
12/07/2019
01/10/24 

Nil Grant
18,652
20,650

153,763
131,244
122,131

1,997

901p

Nil Grant
9,350
11,174

77,828
66,430
73,597

04

42,500

82,4934

1,837

04

62,842

121,9774

1,997

04

31,808

61,7384

14,4723

94,1923

21,6043

135,4073

12,7393

83,9283

998

901p

998

Sharesave

12/07/2019

– 31/03/25

1,664

901p

01/10/25 

Sharesave

13/07/2022

– 31/03/26

1,335p

674

12,494
13,832
14,472

88,761
82,597
94,192

130

0
18,652
20,650
21,604

131,244
122,131
135,407

9,350
11,174
12,739

66,430
73,597
83,928

1,664

674

Shares which are released under the DBP (Deferred Bonus Plan) 2016 and PSP Awards attract additional shares in respect of the notional reinvestment of dividends. 
In addition to the shares released under these schemes, as indicated in the table above, the following shares were realised arising from such notional reinvestment of 
dividends. Note no awards under the DBP 2016 granted to the Executive Directors in the 2019 award year: 

Gregor Alexander received 13,860 shares, Alistair Phillips-Davies received 20,495 shares and Martin Pibworth received 10,372 shares.

1  The current performance conditions applicable to awards under the PSP are described on page 183 . The 2018 awards under the PSP vested at 66%.
2  25% of annual bonus payable to Executive Directors and senior managers is satisfied as a conditional award of shares under the DBP 2016. Vesting of shares under 
the DBP 2016 is dependent on continued service over a three-year period. In view of the linkage to annual bonus. Note no awards under the DBP 2016 granted to 
the Executive Directors in the 2019 award year.

3  The market value of a share on the date on which these awards were made was 1,72750p.
4  The market value of a share on the date on which these awards were realised was 1,72750p.

Martin Pibworth

22/07/2022

83,928

£17.2750

£1,449,856

£1,449,856

£2,339,156

The closing market price of shares at 31 March 2023 was 1,803p and the range for the year was 1,428p to 1,920p. Awards granted during the year were granted under 
the PSP. The aggregate amount of gains made by the Directors on the exercise of share options and realisation of awards during the year was £4,715,794 (2022 - 
£2,506,172).

176

SSE plc  Annual Report 2023

SSE plc  Annual Report 2023

177

Financial StatementsStrategic ReportDirectors’ ReportAnnual report on remuneration continued

2. Historical remuneration disclosures
Change in Chief Executive total remuneration
The graph below shows SSE TSR performance over the last ten years relative to FTSE 100 performance.

 SSE

  FTSE 100

The table below shows the Chief Executive’s annual remuneration over the same period.

Directors

2022/23 (Alistair Phillips-Davies)

2021/22 (Alistair Phillips-Davies)

2020/21 (Alistair Phillips-Davies)

2019/20 (Alistair Phillips-Davies)

2018/19 (Alistair Phillips-Davies)

2017/18 (Alistair Phillips-Davies)

2016/17 (Alistair Phillips-Davies)

2015/16 (Alistair Phillips-Davies)

2014/15 (Alistair Phillips-Davies)

2013/14 (Alistair Phillips-Davies and Ian Marchant)4

Single total 
figure of 
remuneration1 
(£’000)

4,627

4,655

3,045 

2,418

1,639

2,693

2,917

1,696

2,311

2,546

Annual variable 
element award2
(% of maximum)

Long-term 
incentive 
vesting3 (% of 

maximum) Application of discretion

76 Downward discretion applied to AIP

66

28 Downward discretion applied to AIP

27

26 Downward discretion applied to AIP

30

46 Downward discretion applied to AIP

0

0

22

88

83

69

59

0

78

72

54

64

63

1  The single total figure of remuneration is calculated on the same basis as the ‘single total figure of remuneration’ table on page 170 .
2  The annual variable element award (AIP) is the figure shown on page 174  and reflected in the ‘single total figure of remuneration table’ on page 170 .
3  The long-term incentive (PSP) vesting is the figure shown on page 175 , and reflected in the ‘single total figure of remuneration table’ on page 170 .
4  For 2013/14, an aggregate number has been applied by combining pro-rata values for each Chief Executive based upon their time in role.

Alignment of Directors’ Remuneration Policy with pay across the wider employee population
In setting Executive Directors’ pay, a number of factors are taken into account including importantly, relativity to the wider workforce.  
For a number of years, a Chief Executive pay ratio was disclosed voluntarily. In 2018/19, the methodology was revised to meet the new 
reporting requirements. The methodology used is a hybrid approach combining Gender Pay Gap (GPG) data (see page 61 ) with 
additional elements of pay which are important components of SSE employees’ pay such as overtime, employer’s contribution to  
pension and excluding salary sacrifice arrangements. This is believed to allow the most appropriate and consistent comparison.

As shown in the table on the following page, the pay ratio has changed from 102:1 at median in 2021/22 to 97:1 in 2022/23 even though 
the Chief Executive’s remuneration has remained broadly unchanged. This is because employee remuneration at median has increased  
by almost 10% which can be attributed to a number of initiatives relating to wider employee pay during the year. A skills based pay system 
was introduced during 2021/22 for around 6,000 employees below senior management level, representing a significant investment in 
employee pay. In addition, over the course of the year steps have been taken to enhance employee terms and conditions through an 
improved Employee Value Proposition (EVP), and in response to the cost of living crisis. Further details can be found in the case study on 
the following page. Some of these initiatives will not impact on employee remuneration until next year’s reporting on the CEO pay ratio.

Year

Calculation 
Methodology

Total Remuneration

Ratio

Total Remuneration

Ratio

Total Remuneration

25th percentile

Median

75th percentile

2022/23 C
C
2021/22
C
2020/21
2019/20
C
2018/19  C

£34,881
£33,046
£32,268
£29,234
£28,611

133:1
136:1
93:1
83:1
57:1

£47,864
£43,793
£42,295
£40,908
£39,010

97:1
102:1
71:1
59:1
41:1

£65,199
£61,195
£59,454
£54,863
£54,066

Total employee earnings 
(m)1

Ratio

71:1
73:1
51:1
44:1
30:1

£543.5
£591.0
£543.1
£510.0
£495.3

1  The reduction in total employee earnings in 2022/23 is due to a reduction in the number of employees at the snapshot date used for capturing this data.

SSE is committed to being a responsible employer, and the remuneration policy is designed with fairness in mind – fairness to Executive 
Directors in recognition of the extent of their responsibilities and fairness relative to the rest of the SSE team. More information on SSE’s 
commitment to decent work and economic growth can be found within the Sustainability Report  which includes information on our 
ambition to be a global leader for the just transition to net zero, with a guarantee of fair work and commitment to paying fair tax and sharing 
economic value. 

Over the course of the year, the Remuneration Committee has had the opportunity to review the remuneration arrangements for the 
wider employee population. The impact of the cost of living crisis on employees was a key focus in the year and the Committee was 
given the opportunity to input on employee cost of living support and SSE’s overall Employee Value Proposition. 

Engagement in action
Employees

SSE’s Employee Value Proposition and response  
to the cost of living crisis

An internal working group was set up  
to tackle the challenge of improving  
SSE’s Employee Value Proposition (EVP), 
making it fit-for-purpose to support  
the growth, attraction and retention 
challenges we face on our NZAP journey. 
As the year unfolded and the cost of living 
crisis took hold, the scope of the group 
expanded to also cover additional 
support for employees in light of this.

EVP is wide-ranging and covers areas 
such as terms and conditions, culture, 
policies and employee communication. 
Some of the activity carried out during 
the year has included:
•  Salary ranges were increased by  
12% for grades covering around  
5,500 employees. 
In response to high levels of inflation 
and the cost of living crisis, an interim 
advance of the annual pay award of up 
to 5% was paid in October 2022. The 
remaining balance of year 3 of the pay 
deal was payable from 1 April 2023 
and is expected to be in the region  
of 8% of salary.

• 

•  Annual Incentive Plan (AIP) was 
extended to include the lowest  
graded personal contract employees.
•  Payment of a £500 ‘thank you’ award 
was made to all employees below 

senior management level in 
recognition of strong business 
performance.

development, attended by 7,600 
employees with over 1,000 questions 
submitted.

•  Car cash allowances were reviewed 

•  A comprehensive benefits review was 

and subsequently increased.

•  Electric vehicle business mileage rates 
were improved beyond HMRC levels 
to cushion varying fuel rates during 
the cost of living crisis.
Improvements were made to family 
friendly policies, including:
 – Introduction of Partner’s Leave –  

• 

carried out by an independent 3rd party 
and gaps were identified with a plan for 
implementation in 2023 and beyond.
•  Agreement was made to introduce  
an Employee Recognition Platform.
•  Enhanced default pension award for 
those in the Defined Contribution 
scheme was agreed. 

an additional 7 weeks’ paid leave for 
partners on top of Paternity Leave.

 – Introduction of up to 2 weeks’  
full pay for pregnancy loss or 
fertility treatment.

 – Enhancement to the statutory 

allowance of 2 days’ unpaid leave 
for partners to attend antenatal and 
adoption appointments, to paid 
leave and extended to fostering 
appointments.

 – Extension to our Gradual Return 

from Maternity and Adoption Leave 
to other types of leave for new 
parents for continuous leave of  
3 months or more.

•  Launch of ‘My SSE Week’ – a week of 
daily live Teams sessions showcasing 
existing benefits with themes around 
cost of living, wellbeing and career 

178

SSE plc  Annual Report 2023

SSE plc  Annual Report 2023

179

Financial StatementsStrategic ReportDirectors’ ReportMarch 202380100120140160180200220240260280TSR (rebased to 100)March 2013March 2014March 2015March 2017March 2016March 2018March 2021March 2022March 2020March 2019 
Annual report on remuneration continued

Annual percentage change in remuneration of the Directors
Each year, when the Remuneration Committee is considering salary increases, incentive outcomes and benefits for Executive Directors, 
it is mindful of the treatment of the wider workforce. The table below shows how Executive and non-Executive Directors’ changes in 
remuneration compares to that of the wider workforce. 

Director1

Non-Executive Directors
Sue Bruce
Tony Cocker2
Peter Lynas
Helen Mahy
John Manzoni
Melanie Smith 
Angela Strank

Executive Directors
Alistair Phillips-Davies
Gregor Alexander
Martin Pibworth

All employees

2020/21 v 2019/20

2021/22 v 2020/21

2022/23 v 2021/22

Base 
salary/fee

Benefits

Bonus

Base 
salary/fee

Benefits

Bonus

Base 
salary/fee

Benefits

Bonus

2%
13%
2%
2%

3%

3%
3%
11%

6%

1%
11%
1%
1%

1%

1%
1
11%

6%

3%
3%
3%
3%
3%
3%
3%

3%
3%
3%

3%
6%
1%

22%

16%

9%
9%
11%

6%

4%
5%
0%

3%

21%
22%
32%

51%

0
0
6%

8%

20%
22%
30%

10%

1  Elish Angiolini, Debbi Crosbie and Jason Bason are excluded from this table as they have not been in post for a full two years to make a viable comparison. 
2  Tony Cocker became the Senior Independent Director in October 2020 which accounts for the larger changes across the first two periods shown.

Relative importance of the spend on pay
The table below indicates how the earnings of Executive Directors compare with SSE’s other financial dispersals. For every £1 spent on 
Executive Directors’ earnings by SSE in 2022/23, £48 was paid in tax, £74 was spent on employee costs and £270 was spent on capital and 
investment expenditure. In addition, £92 was made in dividend payments to shareholders for every £1 spent on Executive Directors’ earnings. 

Executive Directors’ earnings 1 
Dividends to shareholders
Adjusted investment, capital and 
acquisition expenditure
Total UK taxes paid (profits, property, 
environment and employment taxes) 2
Staff costs 3

2017/18 
£m

5.3
926.1

2018/19
£m

3.6
973.0

2019/20
£m

5.1
948.5

2020/21
£m

6.8
836.4

2021/22
£m

10.4
862.3

2022/23 
£m

10.4
955.8

1,503.0

1,422.9

1,371.9

912.0

2,067.8

2,803.3

484.1
665.6

403.7
653.5

421.6
684.7

379.0
700.4

335.3
688.7

501.7
771.8

1  Calculated on the same basis as the ‘single total figure of remuneration’ table on page 170 . 
Includes corporation tax, employers’ National Insurance contributions and business rates.
2 
3  Staff costs for all employees, as per note 8.1 of the accounts, excluding Executive Directors. 

3. Governance
External appointments
Executive Directors are able to accept a non-Executive appointment outside SSE with the consent of the Board, as such appointments 
can enhance their experience and value to SSE. Any fees received are retained by the Director. Gregor Alexander was a non-Executive 
Director of Stagecoach Group plc during 2022 and received £61,000 in fees. Alistair Phillips-Davies joined the Board of Anglian Water 
Services Ltd as a non-Executive Director in November 2022 with an annual fee of £55,000.

Payments for loss of office and payments to past Directors
There were no payments for loss of office or to former Directors during the year.

Advice to the Remuneration Committee
The Chief Executive, the Director of Human Resources and Head of Reward advised the Committee on certain remuneration matters  
for the Executive Directors and senior executives although they were not present for any discussions related to their own remuneration.

The Director of Human Resources and Head of Reward advised on HR strategy and the application of HR policies across the wider 
organisation.

FIT Remuneration Consultants LLP (FIT) provided a range of information to the Committee which included market data drawn from 
published surveys, governance developments and their application to SSE, advice on remuneration disclosures and regulations and 
comparator group pay. FIT received fees of £76,391 in relation to their work for the Committee, calculated on a time and materials basis. 
FIT are founding members of, and adhere to, the Remuneration Consultants’ Group Code of Conduct. The Code defines the roles of 
consultants, including the requirement to have due regard to the organisation’s strategy, financial situation, pay philosophy, the Board’s 
statutory duties and the views of investors and other stakeholders. The Committee reviews the advisers’ performance annually to 
determine that it is satisfied with the quality, relevance, objectivity and independence of advice being provided. FIT provides no other 
services and has no other connection to SSE or individual Directors.

Freshfields LLP also provided advice on legal matters, such as share plan rules, during the year.

Evaluation
The annual review of Committee performance was facilitated by Lintstock (see pages 140 to 141 ) and the outputs considered by the 
full Committee. This confirmed the Committee’s continued effective operation and agreement of actions for 2023/24. 

Shareholder voting in 2022
On 21 July 2022, shareholders approved the Directors’ Remuneration Policy and the Annual Remuneration Report for the year ended 
31 March 2022. The results of the resolutions are shown below. 

Annual report on remuneration – shareholding voting in 2022

Directors’ Remuneration Policy – shareholder voting in 2022

   For – 97.42%
   Against – 2.58%

Total votes cast: 678,690,885
Votes withheld: 7,337,070

   For – 91.43%
   Against – 8.57%

Total votes cast: 678,277,304
Votes withheld: 7,750,651

Remuneration Committee
The Terms of Reference for the Committee were reviewed during 2022/23 and are available on SSE’s website (sse.com ). In summary, 
the Committee determines and agrees with the Board, SSE’s framework and policy for executive remuneration including setting 
remuneration for all Executive Directors, the Company Chair, the Group Executive Committee and Company Secretary. No material 
changes were made to the Terms of Reference during the year.

The members of the Committee and the meetings attended are set out on page 123 . The following agenda items were considered:

Meeting date 

Agenda items

May 2022

Market and governance update, shareholder consultation, Annual Incentive Plan, Performance Share Plan, Leadership 
Share Plan, below-Board pay, 2022 Directors’ Remuneration Report, share-plan leaver’s analysis, Remuneration 
Committee advisor’s performance, 2022-24 Remuneration Committee plan. 

November 
2022

Market and governance update, AIP and PSP mid-year performance update, below-Board pay, Executive Director 
pensions, 2022-24 Remuneration Committee plan.

March 2023 Market and governance update, AIP and PSP performance update, Executive Directors’ salaries and the Chair’s fee, 

below-Board pay, 2023 Directors’ Remuneration Report, Remuneration Committee Terms of Reference review, 2022-24 
Remuneration Committee plan, Remuneration Committee evaluation.

180

SSE plc  Annual Report 2023

SSE plc  Annual Report 2023

181

Financial StatementsStrategic ReportDirectors’ ReportAnnual report on remuneration continued

4. Implementation of the Directors’ Remuneration Policy for 2023/24
The table below sets out how the Remuneration Committee intends to operate the Remuneration Policy for the year ending 31 March 2024
.
Element of pay

Implementation for 2022/23

Comment

Base salary

Salaries will be increased by 5% with effect from 
1 April 2023, as follows:

The Committee took into account: 
•  Strong performance and progress made on  

Alistair Phillips-Davies  £951,642 to £999,224
£735,541 to £772,318
Gregor Alexander 
£655,389 to £688,158
Martin Pibworth 

Benefits

Pension

No changes proposed.

No changes proposed.

the NZAP

•  TSR for the year
•  Negotiated increase for employees linked to CPI
•  The Committee’s responsibility to stakeholders 
for ensuring total remuneration is competitive 
but not excessive

•  The flow through to other elements of pay
•  The increasingly competitive market for 

executive talent

•  Relativity against FTSE 50 peer group

In line with the wider employee population.

From 1 January 2023, the Chief Commercial 
Officer’s pension is aligned with the majority of 
employees with a similar length of service at 15%.

Annual Incentive Plan 

Performance Share Plan

No changes in quantum.
No changes proposed to performance measures 
which are shown in detail on the following page.

Current measures were revised ahead of the 
2022/23 performance year and are considered 
appropriate.

No changes in quantum.
No changes proposed to performance measures 
which are shown in detail on the following page.

Current measures were revised last year  
in advance of the 2022 PSP grant and are 
considered appropriate.

AIP – the measures for 2023/24
AIP measures for 2023/24 will remain largely unchanged. Adjusted Earnings Per Share and cash flow remain key measures for the AIP. 
Personal and operational targets are set annually and are aligned with the NZAP Plus. These will be disclosed in next year’s Directors’ 
Remuneration Report. 

Performance measure

Adjusted EPS

Cash flow

Personal/Individual1

Operational2

Sustainability

The personal and operational goals will be assessed using a scoring framework as follows:

Score

Illustrative performance assessment

Illustrative outturn as % of maximum1

1
2
3
4
5

Below threshold
Threshold performance
Majority of goals at target
Substantial majority of goals at or above target
All goals at or above target

Zero
20%
40%
70%
100%

1  The Remuneration Committee can decide to award an outturn between levels if warranted.

The measures for awards under the Performance Share Plan for 2023
PSP measures for the 2023 award will remain largely unchanged. Relative Total Shareholder Return (TSR) and EPS account for 50% and 
20% respectively of the total and the new sustainability and strategic measures 30% of the total award as follows:

Performance measure

Weighting

Threshold performance

Maximum performance

Total Shareholder  
Return relative to the 
FTSE 100

Total Shareholder  
Return relative to the 
MSCI European Utilities

Adjusted  
Earnings  
Per Share

20%

30%

20%

50th percentile
(20% outturn)

80th percentile
(100% outturn)

50th percentile
(20% outturn)

80th percentile
(100% outturn)

149p 
(20% outturn)

178p 
(100% outturn)

Strategic

15%

Sustainability

15%

See below

See below

See below

See below

The TSR performance targets were strengthened last year with 20% of that element vesting for median performance (previously 25%) 
and full vesting of that element only achieved at 80th percentile ranking (increased from 75th percentile). 

The growth targets for EPS have been set based on SSE’s plan over the next three years and represents a CAGR between 12% and 17% based 
off FY22 EPS of 94.8p. The top end of the range exceeds the Board’s expectations and is considered stretching. The Committee will assess 
the growth targets for future awards under the PSP to ensure that they remain challenging and linked to the business plan. 

Strategic measures and targets for the 2023 PSP award
The measures and targets for this element are linked to the Remuneration Committee’s assessment of SSE’s performance over the three 
years to 31 March 2025 in the three main areas of the implementation strategy which have been updated this year to reflect the NZAP Plus. 

30%

20%

10%

30%

10%

Strategic area in NZAP

Measures and targets

Weighting

Description

Net debt divided 
by EBITDA.

Underlying 
measure of 
financial 
performance and 
a strategic KPI.

Rewards actions 
which go beyond 
the normal 
responsibilities  
of the role. May  
be individual or 
team based.

Measures and targets  
are set in priority areas 
including people (safety 
and inclusion and 
diversity), renewables, 
distribution, transmission, 
thermal, customers and 
other growth and 
transactions.

SSE’s performance will be 
rated by three external 
ratings agencies –
Moody’s, Sustainalytics 
and S&P Global. 
Performance at the 
median will be deemed 
the threshold and 
performance at the  
upper quintile or above, 
the maximum.

1  Personal goals will take a holistic view of individual performance and will include measures related to safety, compliance, and regulation, stakeholder 

management, team and personal development, strategy and transformation, and financial and operational performance.

2  Examples of the operational goals include: People: Health & Safety performance as measured by Total Recordable Injury Rate (TRIR); recruitment plans and  

inclusion and diversity as measured by time to hire, filling of vacancies and the percentage increase in gender diversity across SSE. Renewables: European projects  
in construction, cost per MW hour, plant availability, progress on renewables pipeline. Distribution: incentives against agreed targets. Transmission: contract awards 
achieved against agreed plan; delivery of outputs and approval of projects that maintain a trajectory of RAV greater than £5.6bn by 2024. Thermal: balancing market 
performance. Customer: finish above median in the Citizen’s Advice non-domestic supplier league table. Other Growth & Transactions: progress building pipeline 
across business areas including solar, storage, hydrogen, and other priority business development areas; progress made on financial sell down of T & D businesses; 
progress review of Large Capital projects reported to the Board.

Renewables

8GW pipeline of net installed capacity potential and 0.5GW of international under construction by FY26.

Networks growth

Transmission and Distribution to exceed the NZAP Plus RAV growth targets of £7 and £6 billion respectively.

Energy businesses

Solar and battery installed capacity to meet 1GW by FY26.

Customer

On course to be a leading ppa player in the market by 2026.

Sustainability measures and targets for the 2023 PSP award

SSE’s UN SDG 2030 Goal

Measure and Targets 

SDG 13 Climate Action: 
Reduce scope 1 carbon intensity by 80% by 2030, compared  
to 2017/18 levels, to 61gCO2e/kWh.
SDG 7 Affordable and Clean Energy: 
Build a renewable energy portfolio that generates at least  
50TWh of renewable electricity a year by 2030.

Scope 1 carbon intensity reduction to 61gCO2e/kWh

Renewables output TWh tracked to 2026/27.
Renewables output TWh by 2030/31.

SDG 9 Industry, Innovation and Infrastructure: 
Enable at least 20GW of renewable generation and facilitate 
around 2 million EVs and 1 million heat pumps on SSEN’s 
electricity networks by 2030.

GW renewable generation capacity connected to SSEN’s electricity 
transmission network by 2026.
Low-carbon technologies connected to SSEN’s local electricity 
distribution networks by 2028.

SDG 8 Decent Work and Economic Growth: 
Be a global leader for the just transition to net zero, with  
a guarantee of fair work and commitment to paying fair tax  
and sharing economic value.

Achieve performance in the top 10% of rankings on average for 
progress on Just Transition, including in the World Benchmarking 
Alliance (WBA) and others as they emerge.

Performance against the strategic and sustainability measures and targets will be assessed using the same scoring framework shown 
above in respect of the personal and operational measures and targets for the AIP.

182

SSE plc  Annual Report 2023

SSE plc  Annual Report 2023

183

Financial StatementsStrategic ReportDirectors’ ReportAnnual report on remuneration continued

Directors’ Remuneration Policy – a summary

Chair’s and non-Executive Directors’ fees
Last year, Sir John Manzoni’s fee was increased by 3%, in line with the wider employee population, to £412,000. For 2023/24, his fee will 
be increased by 5%, in line with Executive Directors, to £432,600.

Non-Executive Directors’ fees were also increased by 3% last year in line with the wider employee population. For 2023/24, it was agreed 
that the base fee will increase by 5% to £78,610. In addition, the Board reflected on the time commitments of the various Committee 
Chairs and agreed to slightly larger increases to these fees. The fees for the Senior Independent Director, Audit Committee Chair and 
Remuneration Committee Chair will increase by 7% to £20,000. The SSHEAC Chair and Energy Markets Risk Committee Chair will 
increase to £17,000, an increase of 14%. 

The non-Executive Director for Employee Engagement’s fee will be brought into alignment with the SSHEAC and Energy Markets Risk 
Committee Chairs as the time commitment is considered to be equivalent, and will increase from £11,223 to £17,000.

Chair and non-Executive Director fee levels for 2023/24 are shown in the table below. Non-Executive Directors receive a base fee plus 
an additional fee for chairing a Committee or for performing the role of Non-Executive Director for Employee Engagement.

Fee

Chair
Base fee
Senior Independent Director
Audit Committee Chair
Remuneration Committee Chair
SSHEAC Chair
Energy Markets Risk Committee Chair
Non-Executive Director for Employee Engagement

2023/24

£432,600
£78,610
£20,000
£20,000
£20,000
£17,000
£17,000
£17,000

Introduction 
SSE’s Directors’ Remuneration Policy (the ‘Policy’) was approved with over 91% of shareholders support at the AGM on 21 July 2022. It is 
intended that the Policy will apply for a period of up to three years and will need to be re-approved at the 2025 AGM at the latest. The full 
Policy is provided in the 2022 Annual Report .

Principles
The Committee believes it is essential that our overall Remuneration Policy is strongly aligned to SSE’s purpose and strategy. It aims to 
ensure this by focusing on our core principles which are: Sustainable, Simple, Stewardship, Stakeholder-focused. In addition, we believe 
that SSE’s Directors’ Remuneration Policy, practice and engagement with employees and shareholders complies fully with the UK 
Corporate Governance Code which encourages a description of how the policy addresses the following:

Simplicity
•  Our pay arrangements include a market standard annual 
incentive and long-term share plan, each of which is  
explained in detail in our Policy. 

•  No complex or artificial structures are required to operate  

the plans.

•  We explain our approach to pay clearly and simply.

Clarity
•  Our Directors’ Remuneration Policy is designed to be 

sustainable and simple and to support and reward diligent and 
effective stewardship that is vital to the delivery of SSE’s core 
purpose of providing energy needed today while building a 
better world of energy for tomorrow, and our strategy of 
creating value for shareholders and all stakeholders. 

•  The Policy updates the previous Policy, with minimal structural 
changes so is already embedded into the business and is well 
understood by participants and shareholders alike. 

•  The Policy clearly sets out the terms under which it can be 
operated including appropriate limits in terms of quantum,  
the measures which can be used and discretions which could 
be applied if appropriate. 

•  Transparency in approach has been a cornerstone of our 
Policy. Detailed disclosure of the relevant performance 
assessments and outcomes is provided for shareholders  
to consider.

Risk
•  Appropriate limits are stipulated in the Policy and within the 

Predictability
•  The possible reward outcomes can be easily quantified,  

respective plan rules. 

and these are reviewed by the Committee. 

•  The Committee also has appropriate discretions to override 
formulaic outturns under the assessment of the variable 
incentive plans. 

•  The graphical illustrations provided in the Policy clearly show 
the potential scenarios of performance and pay outcomes 
which would result.

•  The Committee undertakes an annual risk review of the  

Policy and its operation. Identified risks are considered with 
appropriate mitigation strategies or tolerance levels agreed. 
•  Regular interaction with the Audit Committee and the SSHEA 
Committee ensures relevant risk factors are considered when 
setting or assessing performance targets. 

•  Clawback and malus provisions are in place across all incentive 
plans and the ‘triggers’ have been reviewed and strengthened.

•  Performance is reviewed regularly so there are no surprises 
when performance is assessed at the end of the period.

Proportionality
•  Variable incentive pay outcomes are clearly dependent  

Alignment to culture
•  At the heart of the Policy is a focus on the long-term 

on delivering the strategy. 

sustainability of the business. 

•  Performance is assessed on a broad basis, including a 

•  This reflects the whole business culture which is aligned to 

combination of financial, operational and sustainability which 
ensures there is no undue focus on a single metric which may 
be at the detriment of other stakeholders. 

•  The Committee also has the discretion – which it has  

used – to override formulaic outcomes if they are deemed 
inappropriate in light of the wider performance of the  
Company and considering the experience of stakeholders.

effective stewardship which creates value for all stakeholders. 

•  Our incentive plans and, in particular the approach to 

measuring performance, reflects our values which means 
doing the right thing, promoting fairness at work and paying 
our fair share.

184

SSE plc  Annual Report 2023

SSE plc  Annual Report 2023

185

Financial StatementsStrategic ReportDirectors’ ReportDirectors’ Remuneration Policy – a summary continued

Policy summary 
The Policy is summarised in the table below. There are no changes to the operation of the Policy for 2023/24 aside from changes  
in wording or presentation which are considered to be immaterial.

Performance Share Plan (PSP)

Purpose and link to strategy

Reward Executive Directors for their part in delivering the sustained success of SSE and to ensure that 
their interests are aligned with those of the shareholders.

Base Salary

Purpose and link to strategy

Operation and maximum 
opportunity 

Supports the retention and recruitment of Executive Directors of the calibre required to develop the 
Company’s strategy.

Base salary is normally reviewed annually with changes effective from 1 April. 

Salary increases will normally be capped at the typical level of increases awarded to other employees  
in the Company, although increases may be above this level in certain circumstances.

Performance measures

Broad review of performance is included in the annual review process.

Pension

Purpose and link to strategy

Pension planning is an important part of SSE’s remuneration strategy because it is consistent with the 
long-term goals of the business.

Operation and maximum 
opportunity 

For the Chief Executive and Finance Director, funded final salary and top-up unfunded arrangements up 
to the maximum two-thirds of final salary at age 60. From 1 April 2017, future pensionable pay increases 
are capped at RPI + 1%.

The Chief Commercial Officer receives a pension contribution of 15% of base salary (effective from 
1 January 2023) which reflects the wider employee population taking length of service into account.

For new appointments, employer’s pension contributions are capped at 12% of base salary in line with 
arrangements for SSE employees.

Performance measures

Not applicable.

Benefits

Purpose and link to strategy

To provide a market-competitive level of benefits for Executive Directors.

Operation and maximum 
opportunity 

Core benefits – currently include car allowance, private medical insurance and health screening.

Participation in the Company’s all-employee share plans on the same terms as UK colleagues. 
Relocation assistance if required.

Reimbursement of travel and business-related expenses incurred.

The cost will depend on the cost to the Company of providing individual items and the individual’s 
circumstances and there is no maximum benefit level.

Performance measures

Not applicable.

Annual Incentive Plan (AIP )

Purpose and link to strategy

Reward Executive Directors for achievement of performance targets linked to SSE’s strategy and core 
purpose.

Operation and maximum 
opportunity 

Maximum annual incentive opportunity is 150% of base salary for the Chief Executive and 130% of base 
salary for the Finance Director and Chief Commercial Officer.

The award will normally be delivered:
•  67% in cash; and
•  33% in deferred shares.

Subject to malus and/or claw back provisions.

Performance measures

The annual incentive is normally based on a mix of financial, operational, strategic and stakeholder 
measures reflecting the key values and priorities of the business.

A minimum of 50% of the annual incentive will be based on financial performance.

Operation and maximum 
opportunity 

Maximum value of award is 250% of base salary for the Chief Executive and 225% of base salary for the 
Finance Director and Chief Commercial Officer.

Shares are awarded which normally vest based on performance over a period of three years with an 
additional two-year post-vesting holding period during which time the Executive must retain the 
post-tax number of shares vesting under the award.

Subject to malus and/or claw back provisions.

Performance measures

Awards vest based on relative total shareholder return, financial, operational, strategic, or stakeholder-
based measures.

At least 70% of the award will be based on financial and relative total shareholder return measures. 

Share Ownership Policy

Purpose and link to strategy

Align the interests of Executive Directors with those of shareholders who invest in the Company.

Operation and maximum 
opportunity 

The Chief Executive is expected to maintain a shareholding equivalent to 250% of base salary. The 
Finance Director and Chief Commercial Officer will be expected to maintain a shareholding of 225%  
of base salary. Shareholding should be built up within a reasonable timescale.

Normally built up via shares vesting through the PSP, deferred shares from the AIP and all employee 
share schemes and Executive Directors may also choose to buy shares.

The requirement to retain shares continues after employment and Executive Directors are required  
to hold their in-employment shares for a further two years following cessation of employment.

Performance measures

Not applicable.

Chair and non-Executive Directors’ Fees

Purpose and link to strategy

Reward for undertaking the role and are sufficient to attract and retain individuals with the calibre and 
experience to contribute effectively at Board level.

Operation and maximum 
opportunity 

The aggregate level of non-Executive Director fees shall not exceed the maximum limit set out in the 
Articles of Association.

Fees are reviewed at appropriate intervals against companies of a similar size and complexity. Fees are 
set in a way that is consistent with the wider remuneration policy.

The fee structure may be made up of:
•  a basic Board fee or Chair fee;
•  an additional fee for any committee chairship or membership; and
•  an additional fee for further responsibilities e.g. Senior Independent Director, non-Executive Director 

for Employee Engagement or periods of increased activity.

Reasonable travelling and other expenses for costs incurred in the course of the non-Executive 
Directors undertaking their duties are reimbursed (including any tax due on the expenses).

It is also expected that all non-Executive Directors should build up a minimum of 2,000 shares in the 
Company.

Performance measures

There are no direct performance measures relating to Chair and non-Executive Director fees.

The full Policy also includes further information on: 
•  Performance measures and targets.
•  Committee discretion.
•  Legacy commitments.
•  Directors’ service contracts and non-Executive Directors’ letters 

of appointment.
•  Loss of office policy.

•  Recovery provisions.
•  Recruitment policy.
•  Shareholders’ views.
•  Remuneration engagement across the Group.
• 

Illustration of the Policy.

Melanie Smith CBE
Chair of the Remuneration Committee 
23 May 2023

186

SSE plc  Annual Report 2023

SSE plc  Annual Report 2023

187

Financial StatementsStrategic ReportDirectors’ ReportOther statutory information

The Directors submit their Annual Report and Accounts for SSE plc, together with the consolidated Financial Statements of the SSE 
Group of companies, for the year ended 31 March 2023.

The Strategic Report is set out on pages 1 to 109  and the Directors’ Report, which is also SSE’s corporate governance statement,  
is set out on pages 110 to 191 . The Strategic Report and the Directors’ Report together constitute the management report as  
required under Rule 4.1.8R of the Disclosure Guidance and Transparency Rules.

As permitted by section 414C (11) of Companies Act 2006 the below matters have been disclosed in the Strategic Report: 

An indication of likely future developments in the business of the Company

Particulars of important events affecting the Company since the financial year end

Greenhouse gas emissions

Energy consumption

Energy efficiency action

Employee engagement and involvement

Engagement with suppliers, customers and others in a business relationship with the Company

A summary of the principal risks facing the Company

Information required to be disclosed under Listing Rule 9.8.4R is contained on the pages detailed below.

Statement of amount of interest capitalised by the Group during the financial year

Details of any long-term incentive schemes

Page reference 

pages 1 to 109  

page 275  

page 49  

page 54 

page 54 

pages 28 and 134 to 138  

pages 30, 33 and 56 to 66  

pages 68 to 77  

Page reference 

pages 236 to 237  

pages 168 to 169  

Results and dividends 
The Group’s results and performance highlights for the year are set out on pages 24 to 25 and 78 to 94 . An interim dividend of 29.0 
pence per Ordinary Share was paid on 9 March 2023. The Directors propose a final dividend of 67.7p per Ordinary Share. Subject to 
approval at the AGM 2023, the final dividend will be paid on 21 September 2023 to shareholders on the Register of Members at close  
of business on 28 July 2023.

Board of Directors 
Director appointment and retirement 
The Company’s Directors who served during the financial year ending 31 March 2023 are provided within the attendance table on  
page 123 . The biographies of those individuals who were Directors of the Company on 23 May 2023 are on pages 116 to 120 . 
Details of Board changes are confirmed on page 115 .

The rules governing the appointment and retirement of Directors are set out in the Company’s Articles of Association, the UK Corporate 
Governance Code, the Companies Act 2006 and other related legislation.

Indemnification of Directors and insurance 
The Directors have the benefit of an indemnity provision contained in the Company’s Articles of Association. In addition, the Directors 
have been granted a qualifying third-party indemnity provision which was in force throughout the financial year and remains in force. 
Also, throughout the financial year, the Company purchased and maintained Directors’ and Officers’ liability insurance in respect of  
itself and for its Directors and Officers.

Political donations and expenditure 
SSE operates on a politically neutral basis and does not make any donations to political parties, political organisations, or independent 
election candidates. During the year, no political expenditure was incurred, and no political donations were made by the Group. 

Accounting policies, financial instruments, and risk 
Details of the Group’s accounting policies, together with details of financial instruments and risk, are provided in note 24  to the 
Financial Statements and notes A6 to A8  of the Accompanying Information. 

Research and development 
SSE is involved in a range of innovative projects and programmes which are designed to progressively transform the energy system.  
A number of these projects and programmes are referred to in the Strategic Report in pages 1 to 109 .

Employment of disabled people
SSE has a range of employment policies which clearly detail the standards, processes, expectations and responsibilities of its people and 
the organisation. These policies were in place for the duration of the year, and are designed to ensure that everyone, including those 
with existing or new disabilities and people of all backgrounds, are dealt with in an inclusive and fair way from the recruiting process on 
through their career at SSE. This include access to appropriate training, development opportunities and job progression. Further details 
of this approach can be found on pages 58 to 62 .

Shares 
Share capital 
The Company has a single share class which is divided into Ordinary Shares of 50 pence each. The issued share capital of the Company 
as of 31 March 2023, together with details of any changes during the year, is set out in note 22  to the Financial Statements. As of 
31 March 2023, the issued share capital of the Company consisted of 1,093,938,615 Ordinary Shares. This figure includes 3,602,178 
ordinary shares which are held in treasury (representing 0.33% of the Company’s issued share capital), with these shares voting and 
dividend rights automatically suspended.

The Company was authorised at the AGM 2022 to allot shares or grant rights over shares up to an aggregate nominal amount equal to
£177,945,283 (representing 355,890,566 Ordinary Shares of 50 pence each excluding Treasury Shares), representing one-third of its 
issued share capital. A renewal of this authority will be proposed at the AGM 2023.

The Company was authorised at the AGM 2022 to allot up to an aggregate nominal amount of £26,691,792 (representing 53,383,584) 
Ordinary Shares of 50 pence each and 5% of issued share capital) for cash without first offering them to existing shareholders in proportion 
to their holding. A renewal of this authority will be proposed at the AGM 2023.

Transfer of Ordinary Shares 
There are no restrictions on the transfer of Ordinary Shares in the Company other than certain restrictions which may from time-to-time 
be imposed by law. The Company is not aware of any agreements between shareholders that may result in restrictions on the transfer of 
securities and/or voting rights.

Substantial shareholdings 
At 31 March 2023, the following percentage interests in the Ordinary Share capital of the Company, had been notified under Rule 5 of the 
Disclosure Guidance and Transparency Rules, (‘DTR 5’). The Company is not aware of any changes in the interests disclosed under DTR 5 
between 31 March 2023 and 23 May 2023.

Shareholder 

Date of receipt of 
notification

Voting rights 
attached to 
shares*

Voting rights through 
financial instruments* 

Total of both in % Nature of holding

BlackRock, Inc. 

19 January 2023 60,792,041  5.62% 

15,780,780

1.63% 

7.25% 

Indirect, ADR, Securities 
Lending, CFD 

The Capital Group 
Companies, Inc. 

17 September 
2020

50,981,817  4.90.%  – 

Invesco Limited 

7 May 2014

45,775,918  4.69%  – 

Caisse de dépôt et 
placement du Québec 

7 January 2021

41,492,159  3.98%  – 

– 

– 

– 

4.90% 

Indirect, ADR 

4.69% 

3.98% 

Indirect 

Direct 

Barclays Bank Plc

1 August 2022

35,834,843 3.35% 19,978,657

1.87%

5.22%

JPMorgan Chase & Co.  19 January 2023 54,673,418 5.06% 374,155

0.14%

5.2%

Indirect, ADR, Options, 
Right to Recall (loan and 
collateral)

Indirect, Depository 
Receipt, Physically Settled 
Call Option

* At date of disclosure by relevant entity. 

Authority to purchase shares 
At the AGM 2022, the Company obtained shareholder approval to purchase up to 106,767,170 of its own Ordinary Shares (representing 
10% of its issued share capital) up until the earlier of the conclusion of the AGM 2023 and close of business on 30 September 2023.

There was one active share repurchase programme during the year in light of the SCRIP take-up of the final dividend for the year ended 
31 March 2022 exceeding 25% announced on 28 September 2022. The programme was carried out in accordance with the authority 
granted by shareholders at the Company’s Annual General Meeting on 21 July 2022 (being 106,767,170 shares), the Market Abuse 
Regulation (596/2014) and Chapter 12 of the Listing Rules. The details of the shares repurchased under the programme are set out  
below and can also be found on sse.com . All shares purchased were cancelled.

Share repurchase programme

Scrip take-up

Number of shares  

repurchased

Nominal value of  
shares purchased

Aggregate amount paid

Percentage of called-up share 
capital as at 23 May 2023 
represented by shares 
repurchased

6,904,083

£3,452,041.50

£106,927,042.11

0.63%

During the financial year, and up until 31 March 2023, the Company used 1,856,282 of the treasury shares acquired under the 2016/17 
share repurchase programme to satisfy the requirements of the all-employee Sharesave scheme.

The Directors will, again, seek renewal of their authority to purchase in the market the Company’s own shares at the AGM 2023.

188

SSE plc  Annual Report 2023

SSE plc  Annual Report 2023

189

Financial StatementsStrategic ReportDirectors’ ReportOther statutory information continued

Voting 
Each Ordinary Share of the Company carries one vote at general meetings of the Company. Any Ordinary Shares held in treasury have 
no voting rights.

A shareholder entitled to attend, speak and vote at a general meeting may exercise their right to vote in person or electronically, by proxy, 
or in relation to corporate members, by corporate representatives. To be valid, notification of the appointment of a proxy must be received 
not less than 48 hours before the general meeting at which the person named in the proxy notice proposes to vote. The Directors may in 
their discretion determine that in calculating the 48-hour period, no account be taken of any part of a day which is not a working day.

Employees who participate in the Share Incentive Plan whose shares remain in the schemes’ trust give directions to the trustees to vote 
on their behalf by way of a Form of Direction. SSE also has a Share Plan Account service with Computershare available to employees 
with shares arising from a SAYE option maturity, which are voted through the nominee. 

Annual General Meeting (AGM) 
The AGM of the Company will be held at the Perth Concert Hall, Mill Street, Perth PH1 5HZ on Thursday 20 July 2023 at 12.30pm. 
Shareholders will also be able to attend the meeting electronically via the use of an electronic platform and ask questions and vote in real 
time. Details of the full arrangements for the AGM, resolutions to be proposed, how to vote and ask questions are set out in the Notice of 
Annual General Meeting 2023 which accompanies this report for shareholders receiving hard copy documents, and which is available at 
sse.com  for those who elected to receive documents electronically. 

Articles of Association changes 
The Company’s latest Articles of Association were adopted at the 2021 AGM. Any amendments to the Articles of Association can only be 
made by a special resolution at a general meeting of shareholders.

Change of control 
The Company is party to several agreements that take effect, alter or terminate upon a change of control of the Company following a 
takeover. At 31 March 2023, change of control provisions were included in agreements for committed credit facilities, EIB debt, US Private 
Placements, Senior Bonds and Hybrid instruments. The Company is not aware of any other agreements with change of control provisions 
that are significant in terms of their potential impact to the business.

Disclosure of information to the auditor 
Each of the Directors who held office at the date of approval of this Directors’ Report confirms that, so far as each Director is aware, 
there is no relevant audit information of which the Company’s Auditors are unaware and each Director has taken all the steps that ought 
to have been taken in his or her duty as a Director to make himself or herself aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that 
the Company’s Auditors are aware of that information. 

Related party transactions 
Related party transactions are set out in note A5  of the Accompanying Information. 

Post-balance sheet events
Information relating to post balance sheet events is provided on page 275 . 

The Directors’ Report set out on pages 110 to 191  has been approved by the Board of Directors in accordance with the Companies Act 
2006. 

By order of the Board 

Sally Fairbairn 
Company Secretary, SSE plc
23 May 2023

Statement of Directors’ responsibilities in respect  
of the Annual Report and the Financial Statements

The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and the Group and parent Company Financial Statements in accordance 
with applicable law and regulations.

Company law requires the Directors to prepare Group and parent Company financial statements for each financial year. Under that  
law they are required to prepare the Group financial statements in accordance with UK-adopted international accounting standards 
(‘IFRS’), and have elected to prepare the parent Company financial statements in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted 
Accounting Practice (United Kingdom Accounting Standards and applicable law) including Financial Reporting Standard 101, ‘Reduced 
Disclosure Framework’.

Under company law the Directors must not approve the financial statements unless they are satisfied that they give a true and fair view of 
the state of affairs of the Group and parent Company and of their profit or loss for that period. In preparing each of the Group and parent 
Company financial statements, the Directors are required to:
•  select suitable accounting policies in accordance with IAS 8 Accounting Policies, Changes in Accounting Estimates and Errors and 

then apply them consistently;

•  make judgements and accounting estimates that are reasonable, relevant and reliable;
•  present information, including accounting policies, in a manner that provides relevant, reliable, comparable and understandable 

information;

•  provide additional disclosures when compliance with the specific requirements in IFRSs (and in respect of the parent Company 

financial statements, FRS 101) is insufficient to enable users to understand the impact of particular transactions, other events and 
conditions on the Group and parent Company financial position and financial performance; 
in respect of the Group financial statements, state whether UK-adopted international accounting standards have been followed, 
subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the financial statements;
in respect of the parent Company financial statements, state whether applicable UK Accounting Standards, including FRS 101, have 
been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the financial statements; 

• 

• 

•  assess the Group and parent Company’s ability to continue as a going concern, disclosing, as applicable, matters related to going 

concern; and

•  use the going concern basis of accounting unless they either intend to liquidate the Group or the parent Company, or to cease 

operations, or have no realistic alternative but to do so.

The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain the parent Company’s 
transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the parent Company and enable them to ensure 
that its financial statements comply with the Companies Act 2006. They are responsible for such internal control as they determine is 
necessary to enable the preparation of financial statements that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and 
have general responsibility for taking such steps as are reasonably open to them to safeguard the assets of the Group and to prevent and 
detect fraud and other irregularities.

Under applicable law and regulations, the Directors are also responsible for preparing a Strategic Report, Directors’ Report, Directors’ 
Remuneration Report and Corporate Governance Statement that complies with that law and those regulations.

The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the corporate and financial information included on the Company’s 
website. Legislation in the UK governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other 
jurisdictions.

Responsibility statement of the Directors in respect of the annual financial report
We confirm that to the best of our knowledge:
• 

the financial statements, prepared in accordance with UK-adopted international accounting standards give a true and fair view of the 
assets, liabilities, financial position and profit or loss of the Company and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a 
whole; and
the annual report, including the strategic report, includes a fair review of the development and performance of the business and the 
position of the issuer and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole, together with a description of the principal 
risks and uncertainties that they face.

• 

We consider the annual report and accounts, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information 
necessary for shareholders to assess the Group’s position and performance, business model and strategy.

Alistair Phillips-Davies 
Chief Executive 
23 May 2023

Gregor Alexander
Finance Director

190

SSE plc  Annual Report 2023

SSE plc  Annual Report 2023

191

Financial StatementsStrategic ReportDirectors’ Report 
 
 
Strategic Report

Directors’ Report

Financial Statements

Financial 
Statements

In this section

Alternative Performance Measures  

Consolidated income statement 

Consolidated statement  
of comprehensive income 

Consolidated balance sheet 

Consolidated statement  
of changes in equity 

Consolidated cash flow statement 

Notes to the consolidated  
financial statements 

Accompanying information 

Company balance sheet  

Company statement of changes in equity  

Notes to the Company  
financial statements  

Independent auditor’s report  

Consolidated segmental statement  

Independent auditor’s report to the Consolidated 
Segmental Statement 

Shareholder information  

Glossary 

194

203

204

205

206

208

 209

 276

314

315

316

326

337

343

345

347

192

SSE plc  Annual Report 2023

SSE plc  Annual Report 2023

193

Alternative performance measures

When assessing, discussing and measuring the Group’s financial performance, management refer to measures used for internal 
performance management. These measures are not defined or specified under International Financial Reporting Standards (‘IFRS’)  
and as such are considered to be Alternative Performance Measures (‘APMs’).

By their nature, APMs are not uniformly applied by all preparers including other participants in the Group’s industry. Accordingly, 
APMs used by the Group may not be comparable to other companies within the Group’s industry.

Purpose
APMs are used by management to aid comparison and assess historical performance against internal performance benchmarks and 
across reporting periods. These measures provide an ongoing and consistent basis to assess performance by excluding items that are 
materially non-recurring, uncontrollable or exceptional. These measures can be classified in terms of their key financial characteristics:
•  Profit measures allow management to assess and benchmark underlying business performance during the year. They are primarily 
used by operational management to measure operating profit contribution and are also used by the Board to assess performance 
against business plan. The Group has six profit measures, of which adjusted operating profit and adjusted profit before tax are the 
main focus of management through the financial year and adjusted Earnings Per Share is the main focus of management on an 
annual basis. In order to derive adjusted Earnings Per Share, the Group has defined adjusted operating profit, adjusted net finance 
costs, and adjusted current tax charge as components of the adjusted Earnings Per Share calculation. Adjusted EBITDA is used by 
management as a proxy for cash derived from ordinary operations of the Group.

•  Capital measures allow management to track and assess the progress of the Group’s significant ongoing investment in capital assets 
and projects against their investment cases, including the expected timing of their operational deployment and also to provide a 
measure of progress against the Group’s strategic Net Zero Acceleration Programme Plus objectives. 

•  Debt measures allow management to record and monitor both operating cash generation and the Group’s ongoing financing and 

liquidity position.

Changes to APMs in the year
In the year the Group has refined its profit measures for the treatment of fair value gains arising from an acquisition of a business or a 
joint venture interest, which generates an exceptional opening gain on acquisition. The rationale for including this adjustment to these 
APMs is set out in adjustment number 6.

The following section explains the key APMs applied by the Group and referred to in these statements:

Profit measures

Group APM

Adjusted EBITDA 
(earnings before 
interest, tax, 
depreciation and 
amortisation)

Purpose

Profit 
measure

Adjusted 
Operating Profit

Profit 
measure

Adjusted Profit 
Before Tax

Profit 
measure

Closest equivalent  
IFRS measure

Adjustments to reconcile to primary financial statements

Operating profit

•  Movement on operating and joint venture financing derivatives  

(‘certain re-measurements‘)

•  Exceptional items
•  Adjustments to retained Gas Production decommissioning provision
•  Share of joint ventures and associates’ interest and tax
•  Depreciation and amortisation before exceptional charges (including 

depreciation and amortisation expense on fair value uplifts)

•  Share of joint venture and associates’ depreciation and amortisation
•  Non-controlling share of operating profit
•  Non-controlling share of depreciation and amortisation
•  Release of deferred income

Operating profit

•  Movement on operating and joint venture financing derivatives  

(‘certain re-measurements’)

•  Exceptional items
•  Adjustments to retained Gas Production decommissioning provision
•  Depreciation and amortisation expense on fair value uplifts
•  Share of joint ventures and associates’ interest and tax
•  Non-controlling share of operating profit

Profit before tax

•  Movement on operating and financing derivatives  

(‘certain re-measurements’)

•  Exceptional items
•  Adjustments to retained Gas Production decommissioning provision
•  Non-controlling share of profit before tax
•  Depreciation and amortisation expense on fair value uplifts
• 
•  Share of joint ventures and associates’ tax

Interest on net pension assets/liabilities (IAS 19)

Group APM

Adjusted Net 
Finance Costs

Purpose

Profit 
measure

Closest equivalent  
IFRS measure

Net finance costs

Adjusted Current 
Tax Charge

Profit 
measure

Tax charge

Adjusted Earnings 
Per Share

Profit 
measure

Earnings Per Share

Adjustments to reconcile to primary financial statements

•  Exceptional items
•  Movement on financing derivatives
•  Share of joint ventures and associates’ interest
•  Non-controlling share of financing costs
• 

Interest on net pension assets/liabilities (IAS 19)

•  Share of joint ventures and associates’ tax
•  Non-controlling share of current tax
•  Deferred tax including share of joint ventures, associates and non-

controlling interests

•  Tax on exceptional items and certain re-measurements
•  Reclassification of tax liabilities

•  Exceptional items
•  Adjustments to retained Gas Production decommissioning provision
•  Movements on operating and financing derivatives (‘certain re-

measurements’)

•  Depreciation and amortisation expense on fair value uplifts
• 
•  Deferred tax including share of joint ventures, associates and non-

Interest on net pension assets/liabilities (IAS 19)

controlling interests

Rationale for adjustments to profit measure
1  Movement on operating and financing derivatives (‘certain re-measurements’)
This adjustment can be designated between operating and financing derivatives.

Operating derivatives are contracts where the Group’s Energy Portfolio Management (‘EPM’) function enters into forward commitments 
or options to buy or sell electricity, gas and other commodities to meet the future demand requirements of the Group’s Business Energy 
and SSE Airtricity operating units, to optimise the value of the production from SSE Renewables and Thermal generation assets or  
to conduct other trading subject to the value at risk limits set out by the Energy Markets Risk Committee. Certain of these contracts 
(predominately purchase contracts) are determined to be derivative financial instruments under IFRS 9 and as such are required to  
be recorded at their fair value. Changes in the fair value of those commodity contracts designated as IFRS 9 financial instruments are 
reflected in the income statement (as part of ‘certain re-measurements’). The Group shows the change in the fair value of these forward 
contracts separately as this mark-to-market movement is not relevant to the underlying performance of its operating segments due to 
the volatility that can arise on revaluation. The Group will recognise the underlying value of these contracts as the relevant commodity  
is delivered, which will predominantly be within the subsequent 12 to 24 months. Conversely, commodity contracts that are not financial 
instruments under IFRS 9 (predominately sales contracts) are accounted for as ‘own use’ contracts and are consequently not recorded 
until the commodity is delivered and the contract is settled. Gas inventory purchased by the Group’s Gas Storage business for secondary 
trading opportunities is also held at fair value with gains and losses on re-measurement recognised as part of ‘certain re-measurements’ 
in the income statement. Finally, the mark-to-market valuation movements on the Group’s contracts for difference contracts entered 
into by SSE Renewables that are not designated as government grants and which are measured as Level 3 fair value financial instruments 
are also included within ‘certain re-measurements’. 

Financing derivatives include all fair value and cash flow interest rate hedges, non-hedge accounted (mark-to-market) interest rate 
derivatives, cash flow foreign exchange hedges and non-hedge accounted foreign exchange contracts entered into by the Group to 
manage its banking and liquidity requirements as well as risk management relating to interest rate and foreign exchange exposures. 
Changes in the fair value of those financing derivatives are reflected in the income statement (as part of ‘certain re-measurements”).  
The Group shows the change in the fair value of these forward contracts separately as this mark-to-market movement is not relevant  
to the underlying performance of its operating segments.

The re-measurements arising from operating and financing derivatives, and the tax effects thereof, are disclosed separately to aid 
understanding of the underlying performance of the Group.

2  Exceptional items
Exceptional charges or credits, and the tax effects thereof, are considered unusual by nature or scale and of such significance that 
separate disclosure is required for the underlying performance of the Group to be properly understood. Further explanation for the 
classification of an item as exceptional is included in note 3.2.

3  Adjustments to retained Gas Production decommissioning provision
The Group retains an obligation for 60% of the decommissioning liabilities of its former Gas Production business which was disposed  
in October 2021. The revaluation adjustments relating to these decommissioning liabilities are accounted for through the Group’s 
consolidated income statement and are removed from the Group’s adjusted profit measures as the revaluation of the provision is not 
considered to be part of the Group’s core continuing operations.

194

SSE plc  Annual Report 2023

SSE plc  Annual Report 2023

195

Financial StatementsStrategic ReportDirectors’ ReportAlternative performance measures continued

Rationale for adjustments to profit measure continued
4  Share of joint ventures and associates’ interest and tax
This adjustment can be split between the Group’s share of interest and the Group’s share of tax arising from its investments in equity 
accounted joint ventures and associates. The Group is required to report profit before interest and tax (‘operating profit’) including its 
share of the profit after tax from its equity accounted joint ventures and associates. However, for internal performance management 
purposes and for consistency of treatment, SSE reports its adjusted operating profit measures before its share of the interest and/or  
tax on joint ventures and associates.

5  Share of joint ventures and associates’ depreciation and amortisation
For management purposes, the Group considers EBITDA (earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortisation) based on a 
sum-of-the-parts derived metric which includes a share of the EBITDA from equity accounted investments. While this is not equal  
to adjusted cash generated from operating activities, it is considered useful by management in assessing a proxy for such a measure, 
given the complexity of the Group structure and the range of investment structures utilised. For the purpose of calculating the ‘Net  
Debt to EBITDA’ metric referred at page 89 , ‘adjusted EBITDA’ is further refined to remove the proportion of adjusted EBITDA from 
equity-accounted joint ventures relating to off-balance sheet debt (see note 5.1(v)).

6  Depreciation and amortisation expense on fair value uplifts
The Group’s strategy includes the realisation of value (developer gains) from divestments of stakes in SSE Renewables’ offshore and 
international developments. In addition, for strategic purposes the Group may also decide to bring in equity partners to other businesses 
and assets. Where SSE’s interest in such vehicles changes from full to joint control, and the subsequent arrangement is classified as an 
equity accounted joint venture, SSE may recognise a fair value uplift on the remeasurement of its retained equity investment. Those 
non-cash accounting uplifts will be treated as exceptional gains in the year of the relevant transactions completing. Furthermore, SSE 
may acquire businesses or joint venture interests which are determined to generate an exceptional opening gain on acquisition and 
accordingly will record an accounting fair value uplift to the opening assets acquired. These uplifts create assets or adjustments to assets, 
which are depreciated or amortised over the remaining life of the underlying assets or contracts in those businesses with the charge 
being included in the Group’s depreciation and amortisation expense. The Group’s adjusted operating profit, adjusted profit before  
tax and adjusted Earnings Per Share are adjusted to exclude any additional depreciation, amortisation and impairment expense arising 
from the fair value uplifts given these charges are derived from significant one-off gains, which are treated as exceptional when initially 
recognised.

7  Release of deferred income
The Group deducts the release of deferred income in the year from its adjusted EBITDA metric as it principally relates to customer 
contributions against depreciating assets. As the metric adds back depreciation, the income is also deducted. 

8  Interest on net pension assets/liabilities (IAS 19 ‘Employee Benefits’)
The Group’s interest income relating to defined benefit pension schemes is derived from the net assets of the schemes as valued under 
IAS 19. This will mean that the credit or charge recognised in any given year will be dependent on the impact of actuarial assumptions 
such as inflation and discount rates. The Group excludes these from its adjusted profit measures due to the non-cash nature of these 
charges or credits.

9  Deferred tax
The Group adjusts for deferred tax when arriving at adjusted profit after tax, adjusted Earnings Per Share and its adjusted effective rate of 
tax. Deferred tax arises as a result of differences in accounting and tax bases that give rise to potential future accounting credits or charges. 
As the Group remains committed to its ongoing capital programme, the liabilities associated are not expected to reverse and accordingly 
the Group excludes these from its adjusted profit measures. 

10  Results attributable to non-controlling interest holders
The Group’s structure includes non-wholly owned but controlled subsidiaries which are consolidated within the financial statements of 
the Group under IFRS. The most significant of those is SSEN Transmission, a 25% stake in which was divested on 30 November 2022 (see 
note 12.2 in the financial statements for more details of that transaction). There is no impact to disclosures for prior years but in the current 
year the Group has removed the share of profit attributable to holders of non-controlling equity stakes in such businesses from the point 
when the ownership structure changed (i.e. for SSEN Transmission, with effect from 1 December 2022) from all of its profit measures,  
to report all metrics based on the share of profits items attributable to the ordinary equity holders of the Group. The adjustment has been 
applied consistently to all of the Group’s adjusted profit measures, including removing proportionate non-controlling share of operating 
profit and depreciation and amortisation from the Group’s adjusted EBITDA metric; removing the non-controlling share of operating profit 
from the Group’s adjusted operating profit metric; removing the non-controlling share of net finance costs from the Group’s adjusted net 
finance costs metric; and removing the non-controlling interest share of current tax from the Group’s adjusted current tax metric. 

196

SSE plc  Annual Report 2023

Net finance 

costs

(Loss)/profit 
before 
taxation

Attributable to 
other equity 
holders
(Loss)/profit 

attributable to 
ordinary 
shareholders

Number of 

March 2023 

Continuing 
operations

Operating 

Movement 
on 
derivatives
£m

Exceptional 
items
£m

Reported
£m

Adjustments to 
Gas Production 
decommissioning 
provision
£m 

Depreciation 
on FV uplifts
£m

Joint  
venture 
interest  
and tax
£m

Interest  
on net 
pension 
asset
£m

Deferred 
tax
£m

Share of 
profit 
attributable 
to 
non- 
controlling 
interests
£m

Adjusted
£m

(loss)/profit 

(146.3)

2,514.3

0.6

(50.5)

28.8

213.2

–

(59.3)

(201.9)

(0.2)

–

–

(70.1)

(16.2)

(205.6)

2,312.4

Taxation

110.0

(460.5)

(Loss)/profit 

0.4

34.1

(50.5)

–

28.8

–

143.1

(16.2)

after taxation

(95.6)

1,851.9

34.5

(50.5)

28.8

(62.4)

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

(30.9) 2,529.2

2.1

(345.6)

(28.8) 2,183.6

(143.1)

–

99.6

1.1

(358.8)

–

–

(16.2)

99.6

(27.7) 1,824.8

–

(4.1)

27.7

(38.8)

(158.0)

1,851.9

34.5

(50.5)

28.8

–

(16.2)

95.5

– 1,786.0

shares for EPS

1,075.6

(Losses)/

Earnings Per 
Share 

(14.7)

EBITDA

Adjusted operating profit from 

Adjusted 
operating profit 
from continuing 
operations
£m

Share of joint 
venture and 
associates’ 
depreciation 
and 
amortisation
£m

Release of 
deferred  
income
£m

Depreciation  
on FV uplifts  
£m

Share of 
depreciation, 
impairment and 
amortisation 
before 
exceptional items 
attributable to 
non-controlling 
interests
£m

Depreciation, 
impairment and 
amortisation 
before 
exceptional 
charges
£m

1,075.6

166.0

Adjusted 
EBITDA 
£m

continuing operations

2,529.2

201.1

(13.9)

(28.8)

704.2

(9.7)

3,382.1

March 2022 (restated*)

Continuing operations

Reported
£m

Movement 
on 
derivatives
£m

Exceptional 
items
£m

Adjustments to 
Gas Production 
decommissioning 
provision
£m 

Depreciation 
on FV uplifts
£m

Joint venture 
interest and 
tax
£m

Interest on net 
pension asset
£m

Deferred 
tax
£m

Operating profit 
Net finance costs

3,749.5
(273.2)

(2,097.8)
(21.0)

(301.8)
(3.2)

Profit before 
taxation

Taxation

3,476.3

(2,118.8)

(305.0)

(881.3)

408.0

323.7

18.7

Profit after taxation

2,595.0

(1,710.8)

13.1
–

13.1

–

13.1

20.6
–

20.6

–

20.6

Attributable to 
other equity 
holders

Profit attributable 

to ordinary 
shareholders

(50.7)

–

–

–

–

2,544.3

(1,710.8)

18.7

13.1

20.6

Number of shares 

for EPS

Earnings Per Share 

1,055.0
241.2

147.3
(67.8)

79.5

(79.5)

–

–

–

–
(7.6)

(7.6)

–

(7.6)

–
–

–

122.0

122.0

Adjusted
£m

1,530.9
(372.8)

1,158.1

(107.1)

1,051.0

–

–

(50.7)

(7.6)

122.0

1,000.3

1,055.0
94.8

SSE plc  Annual Report 2023

197

Financial StatementsStrategic ReportDirectors’ Report